{"id": "25815649", "title": "Isolation of dermatophytes (and other fungi) from human nail and skin dust produced by podiatric medical treatments in Australia.", "content": "Isolation of dermatophytes (and other fungi) from human nail and skin dust produced by podiatric medical treatments in Australia. Podiatric physicians routinely use electric drills for the treatment of nail and skin conditions. The grinding process produces human nail and skin dust that is generally vacuumed into bags in the grinding unit. Many of the nails are thought to be mycotic, particularly because they are obtained from patients with symptoms of dermatophyte infections. Currently, there is limited information available on the detection of fungi from nail dust samples. Herein, we attempt to address this situation and outline some of the difficulties that pathology laboratories face in isolating and identifying dermatophytes from nail samples. Fifty nail dust bags from podiatric medical clinics across all of the states and territories of Australia were collected and analyzed. Samples from the bags were inoculated onto primary isolation media. Fungal colonies that grew were then inoculated onto potato dextrose agar for identification using standard morphological (macroscopic and microscopic) features. One hundred fifty-one colonies of dermatophytes were identified from 43 of the 50 samples. In addition 471 nondermatophyte molds were isolated, along with some yeasts and bacteria. The most common dermatophytes isolated were from the Trichophyton mentagrophytes/interdigitale complexes. Trichophyton rubrum, Trichophyton tonsurans, Trichophyton soudanense, and Epidermophyton floccosum were also isolated. An unidentified group of dermatophytes was also present. The three most common genera of nondermatophyte molds were Aspergillus, Penicillium, and Scopulariopsis, all of which have been implicated in onychomycosis and more general disease. The presence of viable fungal pathogens in the dust could potentially pose a health problem to podiatric physicians."}
{"id": "26065322", "title": "An alternative host model of a mixed fungal infection by azole susceptible and resistant Aspergillus spp strains.", "content": "An alternative host model of a mixed fungal infection by azole susceptible and resistant Aspergillus spp strains. Aspergillus fumigatus is the most common mold involved in human infections. However, the number of non-fumigatus species able to cause disease is continuously increasing. Among them, Aspergillus lentulus is reported in hematological and cystic fibrosis patients and in those treated with corticosteroids. A. lentulus differs from A. fumigatus in some clinically relevant aspects such as virulence and antifungal susceptibility, showing high MICs to most antifungals. Previous studies proved that A. lentulus was pathogenic in immunocompromised mice, although the course of the infection was delayed compared to A. fumigatus. These differences could explain why A. lentulus is mostly found in mixed infections with A. fumigatus challenging the diagnosis and treatment. We used the alternative model host Galleria mellonella to compare virulence, host interaction, fungal burden and antifungal response when larvae were infected with A. fumigatus or A. lentulus alone, and with a mixture of both species. A. lentulus was pathogenic in G. mellonella but infected larvae did not respond to therapeutic doses of voriconazole. We were able to simultaneously detect A. fumigatus and A. lentulus by a multiplex Nested Real Time PCR (MN-PCR). Comparative analysis of larvae histological sections showed melanization of both species but presented a different pattern of immune response by haemocytes. Analysis of fungal burden and histology showed that A. lentulus survived in the G. mellonella despite the antifungal treatment in single and mixed infections. We conclude that the simultaneous presence of antifungal susceptible and resistant Aspergillus species would likely complicate the management of these infections."}
{"id": "26047046", "title": "The Role of LOX-1 in Innate Immunity to Aspergillus fumigatus in Corneal Epithelial Cells.", "content": "The Role of LOX-1 in Innate Immunity to Aspergillus fumigatus in Corneal Epithelial Cells. To determine the role of lectin-like oxidized low-density lipoprotein receptor 1 (LOX-1) in corneal epithelial cells exposed to fungus. Thirteen corneas with fungal keratitis composed the experimental group. Ten healthy donor corneas were the control group. Corneal epithelium was scraped and LOX-1 mRNA tested. Immunostaining was used to detect LOX-1 protein. Human corneal epithelial cells (HCECs) were treated with 75% ethanol-killed Aspergillus fumigatus. LOX-1 was detected, and CXCL1, TNF-\u03b1, IL-6, and dectin-1 levels were detected with or without neutralization of LOX-1. Rat fungal keratitis was established and LOX-1 was detected by PCR, immunostaining, and Western blot. Phosphorylated-p38MAPK (p-p38MAPK) protein; CXCL1, TNF-\u03b1, and IL-6 mRNA levels; and myeloperoxidase (MPO) were tested before and after LOX-1 neutralization. LOX-1 was expressed in corneal epithelium. In vitro cellular experiment showed that LOX-1 was detected in normal HCECs, and LOX-1 mRNA increased after stimulation of A. fumigatus and peaked at 8 hours; LOX-1 protein expression increased after stimulation at 24 and 48 hours. Neutralization of LOX-1 decreased expression of CXCL1, TNF-\u03b1, but did not change IL-6 or dectin-1 expression. Aspergillus fumigatus keratitis developed in rats activated p38MAPK and elevated the expression of CXCL1, TNF-\u03b1, and IL-6 through LOX-1. LOX-1 neutralization reduced MPO levels. LOX-1 expressed in normal corneal epithelium and HCECs and A. fumigatus elevated the expression of CXCL1 and TNF-\u03b1 through LOX-1. Rat A. fumigatus keratitis activated p38MAPK and elevated the expression of CXCL1, TNF-\u03b1, and IL-6 through LOX-1."}
{"id": "26036769", "title": "The role of Syk signaling in antifungal innate immunity of human corneal epithelial cells.", "content": "The role of Syk signaling in antifungal innate immunity of human corneal epithelial cells. Fungal keratitis is a kind of intractable and sight-threatening diseases. Spleen-tyrosine kinase (Syk) is a non-receptor tyrosine kinase, which plays an important role in the signaling pathway of the receptors. In the current study, we investigate the expression and function of Syk in human corneal epithelial cells with Aspergillus fumigatus (A. fumigatus) infection. Cultured telomerase-immortalized human corneal epithelial cells (THCEs) were treated with A. fumigatus hyphae with or without treatment of Syk inhibitors. Activation of Syk and the role of Syk in regulating inflammatory cytokines and chemokines expression were evaluated. The mRNA expression was determined by real time PCR, and protein activation was measured by western blotting. Syk protein was detected in THCEs, and its activation was enhanced after treatment of A. fumigatus hyphae. Expression of inflammatory cytokines (IL-1\u03b2 and IL-6) and chemokines (IL-8 and CXCL1) mRNA were significantly increased after stimulation of A. fumigatus hyphae in THCEs. Activation of Syk and expression of IL-1\u03b2, IL-6, IL-8 and CXCL1 by A. fumigatus hyphae were blocked by Syk inhibitors. These findings demonstrate that normal human corneal epithelial cells produce Syk, and Syk activation plays an important role in regulating A. fumigatus hyphae-induced inflammatory responses in THCEs."}
{"id": "26028521", "title": "Identification and enzymatic characterization of an endo-1,3-\u03b2-glucanase from Euglena gracilis.", "content": "Identification and enzymatic characterization of an endo-1,3-\u03b2-glucanase from Euglena gracilis. Euglena produces paramylon as a storage polysaccharide, and is thought to require \u03b2-1,3-glucan degrading enzymes to release and utilize the accumulated carbohydrate. To investigate \u03b2-1,3-glucan degradation in Euglena, endo-1,3-\u03b2-glucanases were partially purified from Euglena gracilis by hydrophobic, gel filtration and anion-exchange chromatography. Tryptic digests and mass-spectrometric analysis identified three proteins in the purified fraction as a member of glycoside hydrolase family (GH) 17 and two members of GH81. These genes were cloned from an Euglena cDNA pool by PCR. EgCel17A fused with a histidine-tag at the carboxy terminus was heterologously produced by Aspergillus oryzae and purified by immobilized metal affinity chromatography. Purified EgCel17A had a molecular weight of about 40kDa by SDS-PAGE, which was identical to that deduced from its amino acid sequence. The enzyme showed hydrolytic activity towards \u03b2-1,3-glucans such as laminarin and paramylon. Maximum activity of laminarin degradation by EgCel17A was attained at pH 4.0-5.5 and 60\u00b0C after 1h incubation or 50\u00b0C after 20h incubation. The enzyme had a Km of 0.21mg/ml and a Vmax of 40.5units/mg protein for laminarin degradation at pH 5.0 and 50\u00b0C. Furthermore, EgCel17A catalyzed a transglycosylation reaction by which reaction products with a higher molecular weight than the supplied substrates were initially generated; however, ultimately the substrates were degraded into glucose, laminaribiose and laminaritriose. EgCel17A effectively produced soluble \u03b2-1,3-glucans from alkaline-treated Euglena freeze-dried powder containing paramylon. Thus, EgCel17 is the first functional endo-1,3-\u03b2-glucanase to be identified from E. gracilis."}
{"id": "26024441", "title": "Defense Responses to Mycotoxin-Producing Fungi Fusarium proliferatum, F. subglutinans, and Aspergillus flavus in Kernels of Susceptible and Resistant Maize Genotypes.", "content": "Defense Responses to Mycotoxin-Producing Fungi Fusarium proliferatum, F. subglutinans, and Aspergillus flavus in Kernels of Susceptible and Resistant Maize Genotypes. Developing kernels of resistant and susceptible maize genotypes were inoculated with Fusarium proliferatum, F. subglutinans, and Aspergillus flavus. Selected defense systems were investigated using real-time reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction to monitor the expression of pathogenesis-related (PR) genes (PR1, PR5, PRm3, PRm6) and genes protective from oxidative stress (peroxidase, catalase, superoxide dismutase and ascorbate peroxidase) at 72 h postinoculation. The study was also extended to the analysis of the ascorbate-glutathione cycle and catalase, superoxide dismutase, and cytosolic and wall peroxidases enzymes. Furthermore, the hydrogen peroxide and malondialdehyde contents were studied to evaluate the oxidation level. Higher gene expression and enzymatic activities were observed in uninoculated kernels of resistant line, conferring a major readiness to the pathogen attack. Moreover expression values of PR genes remained higher in the resistant line after inoculation, demonstrating a potentiated response to the pathogen invasions. In contrast, reactive oxygen species-scavenging genes were strongly induced in the susceptible line only after pathogen inoculation, although their enzymatic activity was higher in the resistant line. Our data provide an important basis for further investigation of defense gene functions in developing kernels in order to improve resistance to fungal pathogens. Maize genotypes with overexpressed resistance traits could be profitably utilized in breeding programs focused on resistance to pathogens and grain safety."}
{"id": "25960612", "title": "Activation of vitamin D regulates response of human bronchial epithelial cells to Aspergillus fumigatus in an autocrine fashion.", "content": "Activation of vitamin D regulates response of human bronchial epithelial cells to Aspergillus fumigatus in an autocrine fashion. Aspergillus fumigatus (A. fumigatus) is one of the most common fungi to cause diseases in humans. Recent evidence has demonstrated that airway epithelial cells play an important role in combating A. fumigatus through inflammatory responses. Human airway epithelial cells have been proven to synthesize the active vitamin D, which plays a key role in regulating inflammation. The present study was conducted to investigate the impact of A. fumigatus infection on the activation of vitamin D and the role of vitamin D activation in A. fumigatus-elicited antifungal immunity in normal human airway epithelial cells. We found that A. fumigatus swollen conidia (SC) induced the expression of 1\u03b1-hydroxylase, the enzyme catalyzing the synthesis of active vitamin D, and vitamin D receptor (VDR) in 16HBE cells and led to increased local generation of active vitamin D. Locally activated vitamin D amplified SC-induced expression of antimicrobial peptides in 16HBE cells but attenuated SC-induced production of cytokines in an autocrine fashion. Furthermore, we identified \u03b2-glucan, the major A. fumigatus cell wall component, as the causative agent for upregulation of 1\u03b1-hydroxylase and VDR in 16HBE cells. Therefore, activation of vitamin D is inducible and provides a bidirectional regulation of the responses to A. fumigatus in 16HBE cells."}
{"id": "25918347", "title": "Idiopathic pneumonia syndrome after hematopoietic cell transplantation: evidence of occult infectious etiologies.", "content": "Idiopathic pneumonia syndrome after hematopoietic cell transplantation: evidence of occult infectious etiologies. Newer diagnostic methods may link more idiopathic pneumonia syndrome (IPS) cases to an infectious agent. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples from 69 hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) recipients with IPS diagnosed between 1992 and 2006 were tested for 28 pathogens (3 bacteria and 25 viruses) by quantitative polymerase chain reaction and for Aspergillus by galactomannan assay. Research BALs from 21 asymptomatic HCT patients served as controls. Among 69 HCT patients with IPS, 39 (56.5%) had a pathogen detected. The most frequent pathogens were human herpesvirus-6 (HHV-6) (N = 20 [29%]) followed by human rhinovirus (HRV), cytomegalovirus (CMV), and Aspergillus (N = 8 [12%] in each). HHV-6 and HRV were rarely detected in controls, whereas CMV and Aspergillus were occasionally detected with low pathogen load. Patients with pathogens had worse day-100 survival than those without (hazard ratio, 1.88; P = .03). Mortality in patients with only pathogens of \"uncertain\" significance in lung was similar to that in patients with pathogens of \"established\" significance. Metagenomic next-generation sequencing did not reveal additional significant pathogens. Our study demonstrated that approximately half of patients with IPS had pathogens detected in BAL, and pathogen detection was associated with increased mortality. Thus, an expanded infection detection panel can significantly increase the diagnostic precision for idiopathic pneumonia."}
{"id": "25917801", "title": "Febrile neutropenia in children treated for malignancy.", "content": "Febrile neutropenia in children treated for malignancy. Febrile neutropenia (FN) in children treated for malignancy is a common and direct sequela of chemotherapy. Episodes of FN can be life-threatening, and demand prompt recognition, assessment and treatment with broad spectrum antibiotics. While in the majority of episodes no causal infection is identified, 10-20% are secondary to a bloodstream infection (BSI). A reduction in episodes of BSI could be achieved through robust infection prevention strategies, such as CVL care bundles. Alongside good antimicrobial stewardship, these strategies could reduce the risk of emergent, multi-drug resistant (MDR) infections. Emerging bacterial pathogens in BSI include Viridans Group Streptococci (VGS) and Enterobacteriaceae such as Klebsiella spp. which are known for their ability to carry MDR genes. There is also increased recognition of the role of invasive fungal infection (IFI) in FN, in particular with Aspergillus spp. Novel diagnostics, including multiplex blood and respiratory polymerase chain reaction assays can identify infections early in FN, facilitating targeted therapy, and reducing unnecessary antimicrobial exposure. Given appropriate, and sensitive rapid diagnostics, potential also exists to safely inform the risk assessment of patients with FN, identifying those at low risk of complication, who could be treated in the out-patient setting. Several clinical decision rules (CDR) have now been developed and validated in defined populations, for the risk assessment of children being treated for cancer. Future research is needed to develop a universal CDR to improve the management of children with FN."}
{"id": "25896772", "title": "Inhibitory effect of eugenol on aflatoxin B1 production in Aspergillus parasiticus by downregulating the expression of major genes in the toxin biosynthetic pathway.", "content": "Inhibitory effect of eugenol on aflatoxin B1 production in Aspergillus parasiticus by downregulating the expression of major genes in the toxin biosynthetic pathway. Aflatoxin contamination of grains and agro-products is a serious food safety issue and a significant economic concern worldwide. In the present study, the effects of eugenol on Aspergillus parasiticus growth and aflatoxin production were studied in relation to the expression of some essential genes involved in aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway. The fungus was cultured in presence of serial two-fold concentrations of eugenol (15.62-500 \u03bcg mL(-1)) for 3 days at 28 \u00b0C. Mycelia dry weight was determined as an index of fungal growth, while aflatoxin production was assessed by high performance liquid chromatography. The expression of aflatoxin biosynthetic genes including ver-1, nor-1, pksA, omtA and aflR were evaluated by real-time PCR. Eugenol strongly inhibited A. parasiticus growth in the range of 19.16-95.83 % in a dose-dependent manner. Aflatoxin B1 production was also inhibited by the compound in the range of 15.07-98.0 %. The expressions of ver-1, nor-1, pksA, omtA and aflR genes were significantly suppressed by eugenol at concentrations of 62.5 and 125 \u03bcg mL(-1). These results indicate that eugenol may be considered as a good candidate to control toxigenic fungal growth and the subsequent contamination of food, feed and agricultural commodities by carcinogenic aflatoxins."}
{"id": "25883525", "title": "Association of Dectin-1 and DC-SIGN gene single nucleotide polymorphisms with fungal keratitis in the northern Han Chinese population.", "content": "Association of Dectin-1 and DC-SIGN gene single nucleotide polymorphisms with fungal keratitis in the northern Han Chinese population. Dendritic cell-associated C-type lectin-1 (Dectin-1) and dendritic cell-specific intercellular adhesion molecule-3-grabbing non-integrin (DC-SIGN) play a crucial role in the early procedure of fungal pathogen defenses. The present study evaluated the associations between Dectin-1 and DC-SIGN gene single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) and susceptibility to fungal keratitis (FK) in the northern Han Chinese population. The polymorphisms of Dectin-1 (rs17206002, rs3901533, rs11053613, and rs3901532) and DC-SIGN (rs4804803, rs2287886, rs735239, and rs735240) for 109 FK patients and 220 matched healthy controls were determined by PCR and DNA direct sequencing assay. Each SNP was consistent with Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium (p>0.05). The frequencies of genotypes and alleles for rs735239 and rs735240 (DC-SIGN) showed statistical differences between patients and control groups (p<0.05). The wild G allele of rs735239 and the wild A allele of rs735240 were significantly higher in patients (p=0.003, OR=1.766, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.207-2.585; p=0.014, OR=1.609, 95% CI 1.100-2.355, respectively). No association with a risk of FK was found for the remaining SNPs (p>0.05) even after ruling out clinical characteristics, such as severity degree and case history. Carriers of the haplotype TC (rs4804803 and rs2287886) had a higher risk of developing fungal keratitis (p=0.007, OR=1.710, 95% CI 1.154-2.534). The distribution of haplotypes AG and GA (rs735239 and rs735240) between the two groups also showed significant differences (p=0.014, p=0.003, respectively). Two SNPs of DC-SIGN (rs735239 and rs735240) are associated with susceptibility to FK in the northern Han Chinese population. The haplotypes of DC-SIGN may be susceptible to the risk of FK, whereas the analysis of Dectin-1 gene polymorphisms showed no significant association with FK risk. Further research with a larger sample is recommended."}
{"id": "25872733", "title": "Molecular characterization of microbial communities in bioaerosols of a coal mine by 454 pyrosequencing and real-time PCR.", "content": "Molecular characterization of microbial communities in bioaerosols of a coal mine by 454 pyrosequencing and real-time PCR. Microbial diversity and abundance in bioaerosols of a coal mine were analyzed based on 454 pyrosequencing and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR). A total of 37,191 high quality sequences were obtained and could be classified into 531, 1730 and 448 operational taxonomic units respectively for archaea, bacteria and fungi at 97% sequence similarity. The Shannon diversity index for archaea, bacteria and fungi was respectively 4.71, 6.29 and 3.86, indicating a high diversity in coal mine bioaerosols. Crenarchaeota, Proteobacteria and Ascomycota were the dominant phyla for archaea, bacteria and fungi, respectively. The concentrations of total archaea, bacteria and fungi were 1.44\u00d710(8), 1.02\u00d710(8) and 9.60\u00d710(4) cells/m3, respectively. Methanotrophs observed in bioaerosols suggested possible methane oxidation in the coal mine. The identified potential pathogens to coal miners, such as Acinetobacter schindleri, Aeromonas cavernicola, Alternaria alternata, Aspergillus penicillioides, Cladosporium cladosporioides, and Penicillium brevicompactum were also observed. This was the first investigation of microbial diversity and abundance in coal mine bioaerosols. The investigation of microbial communities would be favorable in promoting the progress of methane control based on microbial technique and concern on coal miners' health."}
{"id": "25851634", "title": "Potential of polymerase chain reaction and galactomannan for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in patients with febrile neutropenia.", "content": "Potential of polymerase chain reaction and galactomannan for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in patients with febrile neutropenia. The incidence of invasive aspergillosis (IA) has increased over the last years, especially in immuncompromised patients with high mortality rates. Because of difficulties about the diagnosis; serological methods [galactomannan (GM) antigen test] and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) developed in recent years. MycAssay Aspergillus PCR performance in the diagnosis of IA was evaluated and compared with the GM and in-house PCR. This study was conducted with 358 serum samples obtained from 99 patient with febrile neutropenic episodes who were followed in haematology and bone marrow transplantation units. Patients were classified by the European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer/Mycoses Study Group criteria, 18 of them is proven and probable IA. GM antigen test and two different real-time PCR; one of them is fist commercial PCR for IA; Mycassay Aspergillus and the other one is in-house real-time PCR performed. Sensitivity values were Mycassay Aspergillus PCR, in-house PCR, and GM 65.38%, 11.53% and 23.07%, respectively. The high sensitivity obtained from Mycassay Aspergillus PCR and sensitivity is increased by using a combination of diagnostic methods. GM antigen test and real-time PCR could be beneficial for early diagnosis and treatment of IA. For routine usage of PCR as diagnostic assay more studies needed in future."}
{"id": "25851301", "title": "Diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis: recent developments and ongoing challenges.", "content": "Diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis: recent developments and ongoing challenges. Invasive aspergillosis is an infection with high morbidity and mortality that affects mostly immunocompromised individuals. Early identification and targeted treatment of the infection is essential to improve survival of affected patients. The purpose of our review is to highlight the most recent developments in diagnosis and screening for invasive aspergillosis (IA) along with the challenges associated with the development and validation of novel diagnostic approaches. Ovid MEDLINE and The Cochrane library were searched for studies that evaluated serologic, molecular and novel methodologies for the diagnosis of IA. Traditional diagnostic approaches, such as histopathology and culture, are still considered the gold standard but lack sufficient sensitivity. Newer serologic techniques, such as galactomannan (GM) and beta-glucan, have already been incorporated into clinical guidelines, but recent evidence suggests that their performance might be limited in certain clinical settings. Molecular methods, such as the Aspergillus spp. polymerase chain reaction (PCR), have not yet found their place in clinical practice mainly due to lack of standardization. Novel methodologies, such as volatile organic compound detection and lateral flow devices, have recently been developed and promise noninvasive and rapid diagnosis of aspergillosis, while diagnostic algorithms that incorporate both GM and PCR have proven to be effective in early randomized trials as screening methods and can reduce the use of antifungal agents. Diagnosis of IA remains challenging. Novel methodologies and the standardization of GM and PCR might provide more reliable diagnostic tools in the future."}
{"id": "25846441", "title": "[Central nervous system Vasculitis due to infectious diseases].", "content": "[Central nervous system Vasculitis due to infectious diseases]. Varicella zoster virus may cause vasculitis or vasculopathy, and positive polymerase chain reactions for varicella zoster virus deoxyribonucleic acid in the cerebrospinal fluid and/or the intrathecal synthesis of antibodies to the varicella zoster virus suggest these diagnoses. Meningovascular syphilis may involve the middle cerebral artery and basilar artery and may cause a stroke. Aspergillus is vasoinvasive and may cause hemorrhagic infarction by forming an intravascular thrombus."}
{"id": "25840850", "title": "A multiplex PCR method for detection of Aspergillus spp. and Mycobacterium tuberculosis in BAL specimens.", "content": "A multiplex PCR method for detection of Aspergillus spp. and Mycobacterium tuberculosis in BAL specimens. The aim of this study was the detection of Aspergillus species and Mycobacterium tuberculosis together in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) using of multiplex PCR. In this study, from September 2012 until June 2013, 100 bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) specimens were collected from patients suspected of tuberculosis (TB). After the direct and culture test, multiplex PCR were utilized in order to diagnose Aspergillus species and M.\u00a0tuberculosis. Phenol-chloroform manual method was used in order to extract DNA from these microorganisms. Aspergillus specific primers, M.\u00a0tuberculosis designed primers and beta actin primers were used for multiplex PCR. In this study, by multiplex PCR method, Aspergillus species were identified in 12 samples (12%), positive samples in direct and culture test were respectively 11% and 10%. Sensitivity and specificity of this method in comparison to direct test were respectively 100% and 98.8%, also sensitivity and specificity of this method in comparison to culture test were respectively 100% and 97.7%. In this assay, M.\u00a0tuberculosis was identified in 8 samples (8%). Mycobacterium-positive samples in molecular method, direct and culture test were respectively 6%, 5% and 7%. Sensitivity and specificity of PCR method in comparison to direct test were 80% and 97.8% also sensitivity and specificity of this method in comparison to culture test was 71.4% and 98.9%. In the present study, multiplex PCR method had higher sensitivity than direct and culture test in order to identify and detect Aspergillus, also this method had lower sensitivity for identification of M.\u00a0tuberculosis, suggesting that the method of DNA extraction was not suitable."}
{"id": "25836414", "title": "Occurrence of ochratoxin a contamination and detection of ochratoxigenic Aspergillus species in retail samples of dried fruits and nuts.", "content": "Occurrence of ochratoxin a contamination and detection of ochratoxigenic Aspergillus species in retail samples of dried fruits and nuts. Ochratoxin A (OTA) is a mycotoxin produced by several species of Aspergillus and Penicillium and is a potential contaminant of a wide variety of food products. To determine the incidence of OTA contamination in dried fruits and tree nuts, retail packaged and bulk raisins, dates, figs, prunes, almonds, pistachios, and walnuts were collected from small and large supermarkets in seven areas of the United States between 2012 and 2014. Of the 665 samples analyzed, OTA was detected in 48 raisin samples, 4 fig samples, 4 pistachio samples, and 1 date sample. OTA contamination levels ranged from 0.28 to 15.34 ng/g in dried fruits and 1.87 to 890 ng/g in pistachios; two raisin samples and one pistachio sample exceeded the European Union regulatory limit of 10 ng/g. PCR detection of potential OTA-producing Aspergillus species revealed the presence of A. niger, A. welwitschiae, and A. carbonarius in 20, 7, and 7 of the 57 OTA-contaminated samples, respectively. However, OTA-producing A. carbonarius was isolated from only one raisin sample, and no other OTA-producing Aspergillus species were found. These results suggest that raisins are more frequently contaminated with low levels of OTA than are other dried fruits and nuts and that Aspergillus species are the likely source of that contamination."}
{"id": "25796518", "title": "Fungal burden in waste industry: an occupational risk to be solved.", "content": "Fungal burden in waste industry: an occupational risk to be solved. High loads of fungi have been reported in different types of waste management plants. This study intends to assess fungal contamination in one waste-sorting plant before and after cleaning procedures in order to analyze their effectiveness. Air samples of 50 L were collected through an impaction method, while surface samples, taken at the same time, were collected by the swabbing method and subject to further macro- and microscopic observations. In addition, we collected air samples of 250 L using the impinger Coriolis \u03bc air sampler (Bertin Technologies) at 300 L/min airflow rate in order to perform real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) amplification of genes from specific fungal species, namely Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus flavus complexes, as well as Stachybotrys chartarum species. Fungal quantification in the air ranged from 180 to 5,280 CFU m(-3) before cleaning and from 220 to 2,460 CFU m(-3) after cleaning procedures. Surfaces presented results that ranged from 29\u00d710(4) to 109\u00d710(4) CFU m(-2) before cleaning and from 11\u00d710(4) to 89\u00d710(4) CFU m(-2) after cleaning. Statistically significant differences regarding fungal load were not detected between before and after cleaning procedures. Toxigenic strains from A. flavus complex and S. chartarum were not detected by qPCR. Conversely, the A. fumigatus species was successfully detected by qPCR and interestingly it was amplified in two samples where no detection by conventional methods was observed. Overall, these results reveal the inefficacy of the cleaning procedures and that it is important to determine fungal burden in order to carry out risk assessment."}
{"id": "25781896", "title": "Molecular epidemiology and in-vitro antifungal susceptibility of Aspergillus terreus species complex isolates in Delhi, India: evidence of genetic diversity by amplified fragment length polymorphism and microsatellite typing.", "content": "Molecular epidemiology and in-vitro antifungal susceptibility of Aspergillus terreus species complex isolates in Delhi, India: evidence of genetic diversity by amplified fragment length polymorphism and microsatellite typing. Aspergillus terreus is emerging as an etiologic agent of invasive aspergillosis in immunocompromised individuals in several medical centers in the world. Infections due to A. terreus are of concern due to its resistance to amphotericin B, in vivo and in vitro, resulting in poor response to antifungal therapy and high mortality. Herein we examined a large collection of molecularly characterized, geographically diverse A. terreus isolates (n = 140) from clinical and environmental sources in India for the occurrence of cryptic A. terreus species. The population structure of the Indian A. terreus isolates and their association with those outside India was determined using microsatellite based typing (STR) technique and Amplified Fragment Length Polymorphism analysis (AFLP). Additionally, in vitro antifungal susceptibility of A. terreus isolates was determined against 7 antifungals. Sequence analyses of the calmodulin locus identified the recently described cryptic species A. hortai, comprising 1.4% of Aspergillus section Terrei isolates cultured from cases of aspergilloma and probable invasive aspergillosis not reported previously. All the nine markers used for STR typing of A. terreus species complex proved to be highly polymorphic. The presence of high genetic diversity revealing 75 distinct genotypes among 101 Indian A. terreus isolates was similar to the marked heterogeneity noticed in the 47 global A. terreus population exhibiting 38 unique genotypes mainly among isolates from North America and Europe. Also, AFLP analysis showed distinct banding patterns for genotypically diverse A. terreus isolates. Furthermore, no correlation between a particular genotype and amphotericin B susceptibility was observed. Overall, 8% of the A. terreus isolates exhibited low MICs of amphotericin B. All the echinocandins and azoles (voriconazole, posaconazole and isavuconazole) demonstrated high potency against all the isolates. The study emphasizes the need of molecular characterization of A. terreus species complex isolates to better understand the ecology, acquisition and transmission of this species."}
{"id": "25771341", "title": "British Society for Medical Mycology best practice recommendations for the diagnosis of serious fungal diseases.", "content": "British Society for Medical Mycology best practice recommendations for the diagnosis of serious fungal diseases. Invasive fungal diseases are an important cause of morbidity and mortality in a wide range of patients, and early diagnosis and management are a challenge. We therefore did a review of the scientific literature to generate a series of key recommendations for the appropriate use of microbiological, histological, and radiological diagnostic methods for diagnosis of invasive fungal diseases. The recommendations emphasise the role of microscopy in rapid diagnosis and identification of clinically significant isolates to species level, and the need for susceptibility testing of all Aspergillus spp, if treatment is to be given. In this Review, we provide information to improve understanding of the importance of antigen detection for cryptococcal disease and invasive aspergillosis, the use of molecular (PCR) diagnostics for aspergillosis, and the crucial role of antibody detection for chronic and allergic aspergillosis. Furthermore, we consider the importance of histopathology reporting with a panel of special stains, and emphasise the need for urgent (<48 hours) and optimised imaging for patients with suspected invasive fungal infection. All 43 recommendations are auditable and should be used to ensure best diagnostic practice and improved outcomes for patients."}
{"id": "25760080", "title": "Detection of ochratoxin A using molecular beacons and real-time PCR thermal cycler.", "content": "Detection of ochratoxin A using molecular beacons and real-time PCR thermal cycler. We developed a simple and cheap assay for quantitatively detecting ochratoxin A (OTA) in wine. A DNA aptamer available in literature was used as recognition probe in its molecular beacon form, i.e., with a fluorescence-quenching pair at the stem ends. Our aptabeacon could adopt a conformation allowing OTA binding, causing a fluorescence rise due to the increased distance between fluorophore and quencher. We used real-time PCR equipment for capturing the signal. With this assay, under optimized conditions, the entire process can be completed within 1 h. In addition, the proposed system exhibited a good selectivity for OTA against other mycotoxins (ochratoxin B and aflatoxin M1) and limited interference from aflatoxin B1 and patulin. A wide linear detection range (0.2-2000 \u00b5M) was achieved, with LOD = 13 nM, r = 0.9952, and R2 = 0.9904. The aptabeacon was also applied to detect OTA in red wine spiked with the same dilution series. A linear correlation with a LOD = 19 nM, r = 0.9843, and R2 = 0.9708 was observed, with recoveries in the range 63%-105%. Intra- and inter-day assays confirmed its reproducibility. The proposed biosensor, although still being finalized, might significantly facilitate the quantitative detection of OTA in wine samples, thus improving their quality control from a food safety perspective."}
{"id": "25742150", "title": "Detection of Pneumocystis jirovecii and Aspergillus spp. DNa in bronchoalveolar lavage fluids by commercial real-time PCr assays: comparison with conventional diagnostic tests.", "content": "Detection of Pneumocystis jirovecii and Aspergillus spp. DNa in bronchoalveolar lavage fluids by commercial real-time PCr assays: comparison with conventional diagnostic tests. The present study employed two commercial real-time PCR kits, MycAssay\ufffd Pneumocystis (PJ-PCR) and MycAssay\ufffd Aspergillus (ASP-PCR), for the search of fungal DNA on 44 bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluids from patients at risk of invasive fungal disease. Operationally, on the basis of clinical diagnosis and according to the European Organization for Research and Treatment Cancer/Mycoses Study Group (EORTC/MSG) criteria, patients were clustered in 3 groups: a P. jirovecii pneumonia (PCP) group, an invasive aspergillosis (IA) group and a control (CTRL) group, consisting of 8, 10 and 24 patients, respectively. The results were compared to those obtained with conventional diagnostic assays, including BAL culture, galactomannan-ELISA (GM) and immunofluorescence (IF). The PJ-PCR assay returned a sensitivity and specificity of 100% and 94.4%, respectively. The ASP-PCR assay showed a sensitivity and specificity of 80% and 97.1%. When compared to the culture assay, the ASP-PCR showed enhanced sensitivity, and a good level of agreement (kappa = 0.63) was observed between ASP-PCR and GM assays. Overall, our data emphasize the diagnostic usefulness of the two commercial real-time PCR assays, especially in high-risk patients where timing is critical and a low fungal burden may hamper correct and prompt diagnosis by conventional tests."}
{"id": "25741015", "title": "Reduction of aflatoxin production by Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus in interaction with Streptomyces.", "content": "Reduction of aflatoxin production by Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus in interaction with Streptomyces. The aim of this study is to investigate aflatoxin gene expression during Streptomyces-Aspergillus interaction. Aflatoxins are carcinogenic compounds produced mainly by Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus. A previous study has shown that Streptomyces-A. flavus interaction can reduce aflatoxin content in vitro. Here, we first validated this same effect in the interaction with A. parasiticus. Moreover, we showed that growth reduction and aflatoxin content were correlated in A. parasiticus but not in A. flavus. Secondly, we investigated the mechanisms of action by reverse-transcriptase quantitative PCR. As microbial interaction can lead to variations in expression of household genes, the most stable [act1, \u03b2tub (and cox5 for A. parasiticus)] were chosen using geNorm software. To shed light on the mechanisms involved, we studied during the interaction the expression of five genes (aflD, aflM, aflP, aflR and aflS). Overall, the results of aflatoxin gene expression showed that Streptomyces repressed gene expression to a greater level in A. parasiticus than in A. flavus. Expression of aflR and aflS was generally repressed in both Aspergillus species. Expression of aflM was repressed and was correlated with aflatoxin B1 content. The results suggest that aflM expression could be a potential aflatoxin indicator in Streptomyces species interactions. Therefore, we demonstrate that Streptomyces can reduce aflatoxin production by both Aspergillus species and that this effect can be correlated with the repression of aflM expression."}
{"id": "25729999", "title": "LAMP-PCR detection of ochratoxigenic Aspergillus species collected from peanut kernel.", "content": "LAMP-PCR detection of ochratoxigenic Aspergillus species collected from peanut kernel. Over the last decade, ochratoxin A (OTA) has been widely described and is ubiquitous in several agricultural products. Ochratoxins represent the second-most important mycotoxin group after aflatoxins. A total of 34 samples were surveyed from 3 locations, including Mecca, Madina, and Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, during 2012. Fungal contamination frequency was determined for surface-sterilized peanut seeds, which were seeded onto malt extract agar media. Aspergillus niger (35%), Aspergillus ochraceus (30%), and Aspergillus carbonarius (25%) were the most frequently observed Aspergillius species, while Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus phoenicis isolates were only infrequently recovered and in small numbers (10%). OTA production was evaluated on yeast extract sucrose medium, which revealed that 57% of the isolates were A. niger and 60% of A. carbonarius isolates were OTA producers; 100% belonged to A. ochraceus. Only one isolate, morphologically identified as A. carbonarius, and 3 A. niger isolates unstably produced OTA. A polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based identification and detection assay was used to identify A. ochraceus isolates. Using the primer sets OCRA1/OCRA2, 400-base pair PCR fragments were produced only when genomic DNA from A. ochraceus isolates was used. Recently, the loop-mediated isothermal amplification assay using recombinase polymerase amplification chemistry was used for A. carbonarius and A. niger DNA identification. As a non-gel-based technique, the amplification product was directly visualized in the reaction tube after adding calcein for naked-eye examination."}
{"id": "25724252", "title": "Adult living-donor liver transplantation for a recipient with a high preoperative 1,3-beta-D-glucan level and positive test result for Aspergillus antigen.", "content": "Adult living-donor liver transplantation for a recipient with a high preoperative 1,3-beta-D-glucan level and positive test result for Aspergillus antigen. The patient was a 45-year-old man with underlying alcoholic liver cirrhosis. Two years prior, he was repeatedly hospitalized for liver failure symptoms and requested a living-donor liver transplantation (LDLT) because of end-stage cirrhosis. A pretransplantation blood test revealed a high 1,3-beta-d-glucan (BDG) value of 102.0 pg/mL (reference value <20.0 pg/mL) and a high blood Aspergillus antigen (AsAg) value of 1.6 cutoff index (COI; reference value <0.5 COI). Contrast-enhanced thoracoabdominal-pelvic computed tomography (CT) and cranial magnetic resonance imaging revealed no fungal infection. However, latent fungal infection could not be ruled out, hence preoperative antifungal agent treatment was administered. BDG and AsAg levels showed a decreasing trend after treatment initiation. However, normalization did not occur; the BDG and AsAg levels were 25.8 pg/mL and 1.0 COI, respectively. Although the possibility of latent fungal infection was judged low, we prophylactically administered antifungal agents after LDLT. The BDG level consistently increased at 35-39 pg/mL until postoperative day 5 but subsequently normalized. The AsAg level was higher than the limit of detection at 5.0 COI on postoperative day 3 but normalized to 0.2 COI on postoperative day 5 and did not subsequently increase. The postoperative course was uneventful despite bacterial pneumonia and the patient was discharged on postoperative day 35. A histopathologic examination (Grocott methenamine silver staining) and a fungal polymerase chain reaction assay were performed for the resected liver, but the results of both were negative. At 9 postoperative months, the patient was making ambulatory follow-up visits. Currently, the BDG and AsAg values remain normal and clinical progress is favorable. We found no reports of LDLT for a recipient with a high preoperative BDG level and positive test result for AsAg. Thus, we report on such a case with a discussion of the literature on the causes of high preoperative BDG and AsAg values."}
{"id": "25719852", "title": "Molecular diagnostic methods for invasive fungal disease: the horizon draws nearer?", "content": "Molecular diagnostic methods for invasive fungal disease: the horizon draws nearer? Rapid, accurate diagnostic laboratory tests are needed to improve clinical outcomes of invasive fungal disease (IFD). Traditional direct microscopy, culture and histological techniques constitute the 'gold standard' against which newer tests are judged. Molecular diagnostic methods, whether broad-range or fungal-specific, have great potential to enhance sensitivity and speed of IFD diagnosis, but have varying specificities. The use of PCR-based assays, DNA sequencing, and other molecular methods including those incorporating proteomic approaches such as matrix-assisted laser desorption ionisation-time of flight mass spectroscopy (MALDI-TOF MS) have shown promising results. These are used mainly to complement conventional methods since they require standardisation before widespread implementation can be recommended. None are incorporated into diagnostic criteria for defining IFD. Commercial assays may assist standardisation. This review provides an update of molecular-based diagnostic approaches applicable to biological specimens and fungal cultures in microbiology laboratories. We focus on the most common pathogens, Candida and Aspergillus, and the mucormycetes. The position of molecular-based approaches in the detection of azole and echinocandin antifungal resistance is also discussed."}
{"id": "25713980", "title": "Molecular characterization of black Aspergillus species from onion and their potential for ochratoxin A and fumonisin B2 production.", "content": "Molecular characterization of black Aspergillus species from onion and their potential for ochratoxin A and fumonisin B2 production. Onion bulbs can become contaminated with various molds during the storage period, the most important causal agents being black aspergilli (Aspergillus section Nigri). Taxonomic studies have revealed that this group of Aspergillus contains many species that cannot be reliably identified using standard morphological methods. Therefore, it is necessary to define the fungus causing this problem in the onion exactly, especially since some species assigned to section Nigri are well known as ochratoxin and/or fumonisin producers. Sixty fungal isolates belonging to 10 fungal genera were isolated from 40 onion samples originated from the Taif region in Saudi Arabia. Black aspergilli were detected in 37 onion samples. Using primer pairs (awaspec and Cmd6) designed based on partial calmodulin gene sequence data, 37 isolates were identified as A. welwitschiae. The ochratoxin A and fumonisin B2 contents of the onion samples were examined. No ochratoxins were detected in the collected samples, while fumonisin B2 was detected in 37.5% of the onion samples. Eighteen of 37 isolates of Aspergillus welwitschiae were recognized as potential producers for fumonisin B2. Multiplex polymerase chain reactions designed to detect biosynthetic genes of fumonisins confirmed these results."}
{"id": "25705718", "title": "Use of selected essential oils to control aflatoxin contaminated stored cashew and detection of aflatoxin biosynthesis gene.", "content": "Use of selected essential oils to control aflatoxin contaminated stored cashew and detection of aflatoxin biosynthesis gene. Aspergillus spp. associated with cashew from the regions of Riyadh, Dammam, and Abha were isolated and three different culture media were used to qualitatively measure aflatoxin production by Aspergillus via UV light (365 nm), which was expressed as positive or negative. The obtained data showed that six isolates of A. flavus and four isolates of A. parasiticus were positive for aflatoxin production, while all isolates of A. niger were negative. Five commercially essential oils (thyme, garlic, cinnamon, mint, and rosemary) were tested to determine their influence on growth and aflatoxin production in A. flavus and A. parasiticus by performing high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The results showed that the tested essential oils caused highly significant inhibition of fungal growth and aflatoxin production in A. flavus and A. parasiticus. The extent of the inhibition of fungal growth and aflatoxin production was dependent on the type and concentration of essential oils applied. The results indicate that cinnamon and thyme oils show strong antimicrobial potential. PCR was used with four sets of primer pairs for nor-1, omt-1, ver-1, and aflR genes, enclosed in the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway. The interpretation of the results revealed that PCR is a rapid and sensitive method."}
{"id": "25657116", "title": "Characterisation of Alternaria alternata manganese-dependent superoxide dismutase, a cross-reactive allergen homologue to Asp f 6.", "content": "Characterisation of Alternaria alternata manganese-dependent superoxide dismutase, a cross-reactive allergen homologue to Asp f 6. It is well known that Alternaria alternata presents a significant level of allergenic cross-reactivity with several other phylogenetically related and non-related allergenic moulds. To improve the molecular diagnosis, the identification and characterisation of all clinically relevant allergens, including both species-specific and cross-reacting proteins, is required. In this study we report the molecular and immunological characterisation of the A. alternata manganese-dependent superoxide dismutase (Alt a MnSOD) and its cross-reactivity with Asp f 6, a diagnostic marker allergen in allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA). The cDNA coding for Alt a MnSOD sequence was isolated by RACE and PCR. Alt a MnSOD is a protein of 191 amino acids that presented significant homology and potential cross-reactive epitopes with Asp f 6. The recombinant protein was produced in Escherichia coli and the immunoreactivity was evaluated in patient sera. Immunoblotting analyses showed that seven of sixty-one A. alternata-sensitised patient sera and two ABPA patient sera reacted with the recombinant Alt a MnSOD. The native counterpart contained in both A. alternata and Aspergillus fumigatus extracts inhibited IgE binding to the recombinant molecule. The allergen was named Alt a 14 by the official Allergen nomenclature subcommittee. Thus, Alt a 14 is a relevant allergen in A. alternata sensitisation that may be used to improve diagnostic procedures. Evidence of cross-reactivity between Asp f 6 and Alt a 14-recognition by ABPA patient sera suggest the existence of an Alt a 14-mediated mechanism that, similar to Asp f 6, may be related to the pathogenesis of ABPA."}
{"id": "25656408", "title": "Aspergillus species as emerging causative agents of onychomycosis.", "content": "Aspergillus species as emerging causative agents of onychomycosis. Onychomycosis is a common nail infection caused by dermatophytes, non-dermatophyte molds (NDM), and yeasts. Aspergillus species are emerging as increasing causes of toenail onychomycosis. The purpose of this study was species delineation of Aspergillus spp. isolated from patients with onychomycosis. During a period of one year (2012-2013), nail samples were collected from patients clinically suspected of onychomycosis and subjected to microscopic examination and culture. Species identification was performed based on macro- and micro-morphology of colonies. For precise species identification, PCR-amplification and sequencing of the beta-tubulin gene followed by BLAST queries were performed where required. A total of 463/2,292 (20.2%) tested nails were diagnosed with onychomycosis. Among the positive specimens, 154 cases (33.2%) were identified as saprophytic NDM onychomycosis, 135 (29.2%) of which were attributable to Aspergillus. Aspergillus species isolated from the infected nails included Aspergillus flavus (77.3%, n=119), Aspergillus niger (n=4), Aspergillus tubingensis (n=4), Aspergillus terreus (n=3), Aspergillus sydowii (n=2), Aspergillus spp. (n=2), and Aspergillus candidus (n=1). Among the patients diagnosed with onychomycosis due to Aspergillus (average patient age, 47.4 years), 40 had fingernail and 95 toenail involvement. The large toenails were most commonly affected. This study identified a markedly high occurrence of A.\u00a0flavus, and this fungus appears to be an emerging cause of saprophytic onychomycosis in Iran. The study moreover highlights the necessity of differentiating between dermatophytic and non-dermatophytic nail infections for informed decisions on appropriate therapy."}
{"id": "25621617", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus flavus in stored peanuts using real-time PCR and the expression of aflatoxin genes in toxigenic and atoxigenic A. flavus isolates.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus flavus in stored peanuts using real-time PCR and the expression of aflatoxin genes in toxigenic and atoxigenic A. flavus isolates. Aspergillus flavus is the main species from section Flavi responsible for aflatoxin accumulation in stored peanuts. Rapid methods to detect A. flavus could help to prevent aflatoxins from entering the food chain. A real-time polymerase chain reaction (RTi-PCR) assay was standardized for rapid, specific, and sensitive detection of A. flavus in stored peanuts. A. flavus was detected in 53.6% and 50% of peanut samples by RTi-PCR and A. flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus agar culture, respectively, with 95% agreement between them. Twenty-two A. flavus isolates were screened using high-performance liquid chromatography for their capacity to produce aflatoxin AFB1 (B1). B1 was produced by >72% of the isolates. Sixteen isolates produced B1 at concentrations ranging from 1.64 to 109.18\u2009\u03bcg/mL. Four aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway genes (aflD, aflM, aflP, and aflQ) were evaluated using PCR and reverse-transcription PCR in 22 A. flavus isolates from peanut kernels with the aim of rapidly and accurately differentiating toxigenic and atoxigenic isolates. The PCR amplification of genes did not correlate with aflatoxin production capability. The expression of aflD and aflQ was a good marker for differentiating toxigenic from atoxigenic isolates."}
{"id": "25613604", "title": "[Non-modified magnetic beads coupled with multiple real-time PCR for detection and quantification of mycotoxigenic fungi in paprika samples].", "content": "[Non-modified magnetic beads coupled with multiple real-time PCR for detection and quantification of mycotoxigenic fungi in paprika samples]. To establish a method for detecting 3 common toxigenic molds (Aspergillus, Penicillium, and Fusarium) based on non-modified magnetic beads coupled with multiple real-time PCR (NMB-multiple qPCR). The primers and genus-specific probes were designed based on the rDNA sequences to develop a multiple real-time PCR using non-modified magnetic bead to enrichment of fungal spores. The sensitivity, specificity and repeatability of this assay were evaluated. The detection limit of this assay for spiked samples was 10(4) CFU/g, demonstrating a 10-fold greater detection sensitivity of this assay than that of real-time PCR. The NMB-multiple qPCR assay also showed good specificity and reproducibility and yielded comparable results with those by traditional colony counting method for spiked samples (P>0.05). NMB-multiple qPCR assay we established allows rapid and sensitive detection of common mycotoxigenic fungi in paprika."}
{"id": "25612900", "title": "Evaluation of mold exposure in cystic fibrosis patients' dwellings and allergic bronchopulmonary risk.", "content": "Evaluation of mold exposure in cystic fibrosis patients' dwellings and allergic bronchopulmonary risk. Very few studies have been conducted on cystic fibrosis (CF) patients' exposure to the indoor environment and, to our knowledge, there are no studies dealing with the link between specific fungal environmental exposure at home and fungal colonization resulting in allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA). Fungal exposure of CF adult patients with ABPA (n=4) with fungal sensitization (n=7) and with no ABPA (n=5) was assessed in 16 homes by dust sampling with electrostatic dust fall collectors (EDCs). Aspergillus fumigatus was specifically quantified by real-time quantitative polymerase chain reactions (qPCRs), and A. fumigatus DNA concentrations were significantly higher in homes of ABPA patients (p<0.001). Results indicate that indoor fungal contamination could be a factor favoring ABPA and suggest that environmental surveys could help in preventing fungal risk in CF patients."}
{"id": "25603404", "title": "Chronic infections of the small intestine.", "content": "Chronic infections of the small intestine. Chronic infections of the small intestine cause significant morbidity and mortality globally. This review focuses on the recent advances in the field of our understanding of selected intestinal infections. Primary and secondary immunodeficiency increase the susceptibility to many chronic intestinal infections. Endoscopy and intestinal biopsies are central to establishing a diagnosis of these conditions. Tuberculosis (TB) remains a major global health challenge. Emerging therapeutic agents to counteract multidrug-resistant strains have shown clinical efficacy, but concerns regarding mortality remain. PCR-based diagnostic TB tests have the potential to reduce diagnostic delays, but remain to be validated for intestinal infections. Adjunctive diagnostic imaging modalities can differentiate infections from Crohn's disease with increasing accuracy. Whipple's disease remains rare, but there have been substantial advances in our understanding of the causative organism Tropheryma whipplei. Extended treatment with broad-spectrum antibiotics is effective in most cases. The narrow therapeutic window and limited armamentarium for treating invasive filamentous fungal infections contribute to their significant morbidity and high rates of mortality. The speed and accuracy of diagnosing chronic intestinal infections have improved with recent imaging and laboratory methodologies. Significant research opportunities remain for clinicians and scientists to improve the diagnostic accuracy and clinical outcomes of chronic intestinal infections."}
{"id": "25596722", "title": "Immuno-affinity purification of PglPGIP1, a polygalacturonase-inhibitor protein from pearl millet: studies on its inhibition of fungal polygalacturonases and role in resistance against the downy mildew pathogen.", "content": "Immuno-affinity purification of PglPGIP1, a polygalacturonase-inhibitor protein from pearl millet: studies on its inhibition of fungal polygalacturonases and role in resistance against the downy mildew pathogen. Polygalacturonase-inhibitor proteins (PGIPs) are important plant defense proteins which modulate the activity of microbial polygalacturonases (PGs) leading to elicitor accumulation. Very few studies have been carried out towards understanding the role of PGIPs in monocot host defense. Hence, present study was taken up to characterize a native PGIP from pearl millet and understand its role in resistance against downy mildew. A native glycosylated PGIP (PglPGIP1) of ~43 kDa and pI 5.9 was immunopurified from pearl millet. Comparative inhibition studies involving PglPGIP1 and its non-glycosylated form (rPglPGIP1; recombinant pearl millet PGIP produced in Escherichia coli) against two PGs, PG-II isoform from Aspergillus niger (AnPGII) and PG-III isoform from Fusarium moniliforme, showed both PGIPs to inhibit only AnPGII. The protein glycosylation was found to impact only the pH and temperature stability of PGIP, with the native form showing relatively higher stability to pH and temperature changes. Temporal accumulation of both PglPGIP1 protein (western blot and ELISA) and transcripts (real time PCR) in resistant and susceptible pearl millet cultivars showed significant Sclerospora graminicola-induced accumulation only in the incompatible interaction. Further, confocal PGIP immunolocalization results showed a very intense immuno-decoration with highest fluorescent intensities observed at the outer epidermal layer and vascular bundles in resistant cultivar only. This is the first native PGIP isolated from millets and the results indicate a role for PglPGIP1 in host defense. This could further be exploited in devising pearl millet cultivars with better pathogen resistance."}
{"id": "25568431", "title": "Validation of a new Aspergillus real-time PCR assay for direct detection of Aspergillus and azole resistance of Aspergillus fumigatus on bronchoalveolar lavage fluid.", "content": "Validation of a new Aspergillus real-time PCR assay for direct detection of Aspergillus and azole resistance of Aspergillus fumigatus on bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. Azole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus is increasingly reported. Here, we describe the validation of the AsperGenius, a new multiplex real-time PCR assay consisting of two multiplex real-time PCRs, one that identifies the clinically relevant Aspergillus species, and one that detects the TR34, L98H, T289A, and Y121F mutations in CYP51A and differentiates susceptible from resistant A. fumigatus strains. The diagnostic performance of the AsperGenius assay was tested on 37 bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid samples from hematology patients and 40 BAL fluid samples from intensive care unit (ICU) patients using a BAL fluid galactomannan level of \u22651.0 or positive culture as the gold standard for detecting the presence of Aspergillus. In the hematology and ICU groups combined, there were 22 BAL fluid samples from patients with invasive aspergillosis (IA) (2 proven, 9 probable, and 11 nonclassifiable). Nineteen of the 22 BAL fluid samples were positive, according to the gold standard. The optimal cycle threshold value for the presence of Aspergillus was <36. Sixteen of the 19 BAL fluid samples had a positive PCR (2 Aspergillus species and 14 A. fumigatus samples). This resulted in a sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of 88.9%, 89.3%, 72.7%, and 96.2%, respectively, for the hematology group and 80.0%, 93.3%, 80.0%, and 93.3%, respectively, in the ICU group. The CYP51A real-time PCR confirmed 12 wild-type and 2 resistant strains (1 TR34-L98H and 1 TR46-Y121F-T289A mutant). Voriconazole therapy failed for both patients. The AsperGenius multiplex real-time PCR assay allows for sensitive and fast detection of Aspergillus species directly from BAL fluid samples. More importantly, this assay detects and differentiates wild-type from resistant strains, even if BAL fluid cultures remain negative."}
{"id": "25559816", "title": "Bronchoalveolar lavage and lung biopsy in patients with cancer and hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation recipients: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "content": "Bronchoalveolar lavage and lung biopsy in patients with cancer and hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation recipients: a systematic review and meta-analysis. The objective of this study was to describe the diagnostic yield and complication rate of bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and lung biopsy in the evaluation of pulmonary lesions in patients with cancer and recipients of hematopoietic stem-cell transplantation (HSCT). We conducted a systematic literature review and performed electronic searches of Ovid MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials. Studies were included if patients had cancer or were recipients of HSCT, and if they underwent BAL or lung biopsy for the evaluation of pulmonary lesions. Only English language publications were included. In all, 14,148 studies were screened; 72 studies of BAL and 31 of lung biopsy were included. The proportion of procedures leading to any diagnosis was similar by procedure type (0.53 v 0.54; P = .94) but an infectious diagnosis was more common with BAL compared with lung biopsy (0.49 v 0.34; P < .001). Lung biopsy more commonly led to a noninfectious diagnosis (0.43 v 0.07; P < .001) and was more likely to change how the patient was managed (0.48 v 0.31; P = .002) compared with BAL. However, complications were more common with lung biopsy (0.15 v 0.08; P = .006), and procedure-related mortality was four-fold higher for lung biopsy (0.0078) compared with BAL (0.0018). BAL may be the preferred diagnostic modality for the evaluation of potentially infectious pulmonary lesions because of lower complication and mortality rates; thus, choice of procedure depends on clinical suspicion of infection. Guidelines to promote consistency in the approach to the evaluation of lung infiltrates may improve clinical care of patients."}
{"id": "25502530", "title": "Aspergillus citrinoterreus, a new species of section Terrei isolated from samples of patients with nonhematological predisposing conditions.", "content": "Aspergillus citrinoterreus, a new species of section Terrei isolated from samples of patients with nonhematological predisposing conditions. The use of molecular identification techniques has revealed an increasing number of new species within Aspergillus section Terrei. We phenotyped a set of 26 clinical isolates that showed genetic differences from Aspergillus terreus sensu stricto by analyzing sequences from PCR-amplified \u03b2-tubulin and calmodulin genes and the internal transcribed spacer region. Since the isolates were phylogenetically and morphologically different from all of the members of Aspergillus section Terrei, they are described here as a new species, Aspergillus citrinoterreus, so named because it produces a diffusible yellowish pigment in agar. A. citrinoterreus isolates were significantly more susceptible to itraconazole, voriconazole, and posaconazole than A. terreus sensu stricto isolates were; in contrast, the amphotericin B MICs for both species were high. A. citrinoterreus was found in clinical samples from patients with proven or probable invasive aspergillosis and colonized patients, none of whom had hematological malignancies as predisposing conditions. However, they did have other underlying conditions such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cirrhosis, and cancer or had received a solid organ transplants and presented not only with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis but also with mediastinitis. A. citrinoterreus isolates were detected for the first time in 2002. In all cases of invasive aspergillosis, A. citrinoterreus was found to be a copathogen, mostly with A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "25425159", "title": "Conditional inactivation of Aspergillus nidulans\u2005sarA(SAR1) uncovers the morphogenetic potential of regulating endoplasmic reticulum (ER) exit.", "content": "Conditional inactivation of Aspergillus nidulans\u2005sarA(SAR1) uncovers the morphogenetic potential of regulating endoplasmic reticulum (ER) exit. In the genetic model Aspergillus nidulans, hyphal growth is exquisitely dependent on exocytic traffic. Following mutagenic PCR and gene replacement, we characterized thermosensitive mutations in sarA(SAR1) encoding a key regulator of endoplasmic reticulum (ER) exit. Six sarA(ts) alleles permitting relatively normal growth at 30\u00b0C prevented it at 42\u00b0C. This growth phenotype correlated with markedly reduced SarA levels at high temperature, suggesting that these alleles cause temperature-dependent SarA misfolding. sarA8 results in Ser substitution for conserved P-loop Gly27. sarA5 (Trp185Cys) and sarA6 (Ser186Pro) substitutions underscore the importance of the C-terminal \u03b1-helix on SarA(Sar1) function/stability. sarA6 markedly diminishing growth at 37\u00b0C was useful for microscopy experiments in which ER exit was impaired by shifting the incubation temperature. Early and late Golgi cisternae, labeled with the integral membrane syntaxins SedV(Sed5) and TlgB(Tlg2) , respectively, were rapidly dissipated by sarA6. However, whereas SedV(Sed5) was shifted toward the ER, TlgB(Tlg2) relocalized to a haze, underscoring the asymmetry of Golgi organization. This rapid Golgi dissipation that takes place after blocking anterograde COPII traffic is consistent with the cisternal maturation model. Incubation of sarA6 cells at 37\u00b0C led to the formation of apical balloons resembling specialized fungal structures. The formation of these balloons highlights the morphogenetic consequences of impairing ER exit."}
{"id": "25421370", "title": "Efficacy of corn silage inoculants on the fermentation quality under farm conditions and their influence on Aspergillus parasitucus, A. flavus and A. fumigatus determined by q-PCR.", "content": "Efficacy of corn silage inoculants on the fermentation quality under farm conditions and their influence on Aspergillus parasitucus, A. flavus and A. fumigatus determined by q-PCR. Laboratory-scale silos were prepared to evaluate the efficacy of two different lactic acid bacteria (LAB) on the fermentation quality and mycobiota of corn silage. Their influence on Aspergillus species' variability by using the q-PCR technique was studied. Silage inoculated with Lactobacillus rhamnosus RC007 or L. plantarum RC009 were compared with uninoculated silage. Silos were opened after 1, 7, 45, 90 and 120 days after ensiling. At the end of the ensiling period, silos were left open for 7 days to evaluate aerobic stability. Rapid lactic acid production and decline in pH values were seen in the early stages of fermentation in silage inoculated with L. rhamnosus RC007. After aerobic exposure, a significant decline in lactic acid content was observed in untreated and L. plantarum RC009-inoculated silages. Counts for yeasted and toxigenic fungus remained lower, after aerobic exposure, in L. rhamnosus RC007-inoculated silage, in comparison with L. plantarum RC009 and uninoculated silages. Comparing the influence exerted by both BAL, it was observed that L. rhamnosus RC007 was more efficient at inhibiting the three fungal species tested whose DNA concentrations, determined by q-PCR, oscillated near the initial value (pre-ensiling maize). The ability of L. rhamnosus RC007 to produce lactic acid rapidly and the decline in pH values in the early stages of the fermentation along with the reduction of yeast and mycotoxicogenic fungus after aerobic exposure shows its potential as a bio-control inoculant agent in animal feed."}
{"id": "25415407", "title": "Allergic fungal airway disease: pathophysiologic and diagnostic considerations.", "content": "Allergic fungal airway disease: pathophysiologic and diagnostic considerations. Fungal spores are ubiquitously present in indoor and outdoor air. A number can act as aeroallergens in Immunoglobulin E (IgE)-sensitized individuals and some thermotolerant fungi germinate in the lung where they can cause a combined allergic and infective stimulus leading to a number of clinical presentations characterized by evidence of lung damage. We discuss which biomarkers are useful in helping to guide diagnosis, prognosis and treatment of allergic fungal airway disease (AFAD). Diagnostic biomarkers, such as specific IgEs and fungal culture, for AFAD are limited by sensitivity, although this may be improved with novel agents such as specific IgEs to fungal components and quantitative PCR. Total IgE and hypereosinophilia are nonspecific and do not clearly relate to disease activity. High attenuation mucus and proximal bronchiectasis are specific, albeit insensitive markers of AFAD. Biomarkers that predict prognosis and treatment response are yet to be defined. This review summarizes the fungi involved and the current debate regarding the diagnostic criteria to define fungal-associated lung disease. We advocate the phasing out of the term allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis and the use of a more inclusive term such as AFAD, together with a more liberal set of criteria based largely on IgE sensitization to thermotolerant fungi, which identifies those patients at risk of developing lung damage."}
{"id": "25385534", "title": "Non-cultural methods for the diagnosis of invasive fungal disease.", "content": "Non-cultural methods for the diagnosis of invasive fungal disease. Invasive fungal diseases carry a high mortality risk which can be reduced by early treatment. Diagnosing invasive fungal diseases is challenging, because invasive methods for obtaining histological samples are frequently not feasible in thrombocytopenic immunocompromised patients, while fungal cultures have low sensitivity and a long turn-around time. Non-cultural methods are fundamental for a rapid diagnosis of invasive fungal diseases and they include assays based on the detection of fungal antigens (galactomannan, Aspergillus-lateral flow device, [1,3]-\u03b2-D-glucan, mannan), antibodies, such as anti-mannan, and molecular tests. With the exception of some molecular methods for rare fungi, the non-cultural assays are usually applied to the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis, invasive candidiasis and pneumocystosis. The performance of a single test or a combination of tests will be discussed, with particular focus on choosing the most appropriate marker(s) for every specific patient population. Reasons for potential false-positive or false-negative results will be discussed."}
{"id": "25384730", "title": "Detection and discrimination of four Aspergillus section Nigri species by PCR.", "content": "Detection and discrimination of four Aspergillus section Nigri species by PCR. Species of Aspergillus section Nigri are not easily distinguished by traditional morphological techniques, and typically are identified by DNA sequencing methods. We developed four PCR primers to distinguish between Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus welwitschiae, Aspergillus carbonarius and Aspergillus tubingensis, based on species-conserved differences in the calmodulin gene sequence. PCR amplification from total DNA using these primers was species specific; no amplification occurred from nontarget species DNA for each primer pair. Species-specific PCR could distinguish between species in mixed DNA templates, indicating a utility in determining culture uniformity of isolated Aspergillus strains. In addition, with these primer sets, each species could be detected in soil following mixed-species inoculation with Aspergillus spores. This indicates that PCR with these species-specific primers may be useful in determining the distribution of Aspergillus species in environmental samples without the need for species identification from isolated strains, as well as detecting species that may be infrequently isolated by culture-based methods."}
{"id": "25363529", "title": "B lymphocytes regulate airway granulocytic inflammation and cytokine production in a murine model of fungal allergic asthma.", "content": "B lymphocytes regulate airway granulocytic inflammation and cytokine production in a murine model of fungal allergic asthma. Sensitization to fungi often leads to a severe form of asthma that is particularly difficult to manage clinically, resulting in increased morbidity and hospitalizations in these patients. Although B lymphocytes might exacerbate asthma symptoms through the production of IgE, these cells might also be important in the protective response against inhaled fungi. Through cytokine release and T-cell interactions, these lymphocytes might also influence the development and maintenance of airway wall fibrosis. J(H)(-/-) mice lack the JH gene for the heavy chain component of antibodies, which is critical for B-cell function and survival. These animals have facilitated the elucidation of the role of B lymphocytes in a number of immune responses; however, J(H)(-/-) mice have not been used to study fungal allergy. In this study, we examined the role of B lymphocytes using an Aspergillus fumigatus murine fungal aeroallergen model that mimics human airway disease that is triggered by environmental fungal exposure. We compared disease progression in sensitized wild-type BALB/c and J(H)(-/-) mice that were exposed to repeated fungal exposure and found no differences in airway hyperresponsiveness, overall pulmonary inflammation or collagen deposition around the large airways. However, the levels of the Th2-type cytokines IL-4 and IL-13 were significantly attenuated in the airways of J(H)(-/-) mice relative to the BALB/c controls. By contrast, levels of the inflammatory cytokines IL-17A and IL-6 were significantly elevated in the J(H)(-/-) animals, and there was significantly more robust airway eosinophilia and neutrophilia than in control animals. Taken together, these findings demonstrate that B lymphocytes help to regulate granulocytic responses to fungal exposure in the pulmonary compartment."}
{"id": "25349089", "title": "Isolation and expression of enolase gene in Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici.", "content": "Isolation and expression of enolase gene in Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici. Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici is a fungus responsible for the tomato disease known as fusariosis. Enolase, which is the enzyme that catalyzes the reaction of 2-phosphoglycerate to phosphoenolpyruvate, is present during glycolysis. Enolase genes have been isolated from bacteria and fungi, among other organisms. In this research, a large portion of the enolase, eno, gene sequence was isolated from F. oxysporum and compared with those of other microorganisms, revealing a similarity of 51-69 %. We analyzed the copy number of the eno gene and determined that only a single copy is present in F. oxysporum, as in several fungi, such as Candida albicans and Aspergillus oryzae. We also detected the expression of the eno gene by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction during in vitro growth under two growth conditions where glucose was used as the carbon source, and we observed the same eno gene expression levels under both growth conditions."}
{"id": "25344259", "title": "Revision of Aspergillus section Flavipedes: seven new species and proposal of section Jani sect. nov.", "content": "Revision of Aspergillus section Flavipedes: seven new species and proposal of section Jani sect. nov. Aspergillus section Flavipedes contains species found worldwide in soils and rhizospheres, indoor and cave environments, as endophytes, food contaminants and occasionally as human pathogens. They produce many extensively studied bioactive secondary metabolites and biotechnologically relevant enzymes. The taxa were revised based on phylogenetic analysis of sequences from four loci (\u03b2-tubulin, calmodulin, RPB2, ITS rDNA), two PCR fingerprinting methods, micro- and macromorphology and physiology. Section Flavipedes includes three known and seven new species: A. ardalensis, A. frequens, A. luppii, A. mangaliensis, A. movilensis, A. polyporicola and A. spelaeus. The name A. neoflavipes was proposed for Fennellia flavipes a distinct species from its supposed asexual state A. flavipes. Aspergillus iizukae, A. frequens and A. mangaliensis are the most common and widely distributed species, whereas A. flavipes s. str. is rare. A dichotomous key based on the combination of morphology and physiology is provided for all recognized species. Aspergillus section Jani is established to contain A. janus and A. brevijanus, species previously classified as members of sect. Versicolores, Terrei or Flavipedes. This new section is strongly supported by phylogenetic data and morphology. Section Jani species produce three types of conidiophores and conidia, and colonies have green and white sectors making them distinctive. Accessory conidia found in pathogenic A. terreus were found in all members of sects. Flavipedes and Jani. Our data indicated that A. frequens is a clinically relevant and produces accessory conidia during infection."}
{"id": "25336623", "title": "Serum galactomannan versus a combination of galactomannan and polymerase chain reaction-based Aspergillus DNA detection for early therapy of invasive aspergillosis in high-risk hematological patients: a randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Serum galactomannan versus a combination of galactomannan and polymerase chain reaction-based Aspergillus DNA detection for early therapy of invasive aspergillosis in high-risk hematological patients: a randomized controlled trial. The benefit of the combination of serum galactomannan (GM) assay and polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based detection of serum Aspergillus DNA for the early diagnosis and therapy of invasive aspergillosis (IA) in high-risk hematological patients remains unclear. We performed an open-label, controlled, parallel-group randomized trial in 13 Spanish centers. Adult patients with acute myeloid leukemia and myelodysplastic syndrome on induction therapy or allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients were randomized (1:1 ratio) to 1 of 2 arms: \"GM-PCR group\" (the results of serial serum GM and PCR assays were provided to treating physicians) and \"GM group\" (only the results of serum GM were informed). Positivity in either assay prompted thoracic computed tomography scan and initiation of antifungal therapy. No antimold prophylaxis was permitted. Overall, 219 patients underwent randomization (105 in the GM-PCR group and 114 in the GM group). The cumulative incidence of \"proven\" or \"probable\" IA (primary study outcome) was lower in the GM-PCR group (4.2% vs 13.1%; odds ratio, 0.29 [95% confidence interval, .09-.91]). The median interval from the start of monitoring to the diagnosis of IA was lower in the GM-PCR group (13 vs 20 days; P = .022), as well as the use of empirical antifungal therapy (16.7% vs 29.0%; P = .038). Patients in the GM-PCR group had higher proven or probable IA-free survival (P = .027). A combined monitoring strategy based on serum GM and Aspergillus DNA was associated with an earlier diagnosis and a lower incidence of IA in high-risk hematological patients. Clinical Trials Registration.\u2003NCT01742026."}
{"id": "25326091", "title": "Concomitant occurrence of itraconazole-resistant and -susceptible strains of Aspergillus fumigatus in routine cultures.", "content": "Concomitant occurrence of itraconazole-resistant and -susceptible strains of Aspergillus fumigatus in routine cultures. Resistance to triazoles in Aspergillus fumigatus has emerged in several countries and is usually mediated by mutations in the cyp51A gene. We determined the presence of both itraconazole-susceptible and -resistant A. fumigatus in routine cultures isolated from environmental and clinical samples. A total of 50 environmental and 16 clinical A. fumigatus isolates obtained from single colonies were tested for itraconazole susceptibility by Etest. Serial dilution and plating for selected A. fumigatus cultures were performed to separate triazole-susceptible and -resistant phenotypes. Antifungal drug susceptibility of subcultures to itraconazole, posaconazole and voriconazole was determined by the broth microdilution method. Itraconazole resistance was determined by the presence of tandem repeats in the promoter region and other resistance-conferring mutations by PCR and/or direct DNA sequencing of cyp51A. Genotyping was performed with a panel of nine microsatellite loci. PCR amplification of the promoter region identified 1 of 50 environmental and 2 of 16 clinical A. fumigatus isolates as mixed (itraconazole-resistant and -susceptible) cultures, while the remaining isolates yielded patterns that were consistent with their data for susceptibility to itraconazole. Purified subcultures yielded distinct susceptibility profiles, concomitant with genetic determinants of triazole susceptibility/resistance in cyp51A and different microsatellite patterns. Concomitant presence of triazole-susceptible and -resistant strains in single colonies of routine A. fumigatus cultures, obtained from environmental and clinical samples, has been conclusively demonstrated."}
{"id": "25274127", "title": "Method for monitoring deletions in the aflatoxin biosynthesis gene cluster of Aspergillus flavus with multiplex PCR.", "content": "Method for monitoring deletions in the aflatoxin biosynthesis gene cluster of Aspergillus flavus with multiplex PCR. The report presents a rapid, inexpensive and simple method for monitoring indels with influence on aflatoxin biosynthesis within Aspergillus flavus populations. PCR primers were developed for 32 markers spaced approximately every 5\u00a0kb from 20\u00a0kb proximal to the aflatoxin biosynthesis gene cluster to the telomere repeat. This region includes gene clusters required for biosynthesis of aflatoxins and cyclopiazonic acid; the resulting data were named cluster amplification patterns (CAPs). CAP markers are amplified in four multiplex PCRs, greatly reducing the cost and time to monitor indels within this region across populations. The method also provides a practical tool for characterizing intraspecific variability in A.\u00a0flavus not captured with other methods. Aflatoxins, potent naturally-occurring carcinogens, cause significant agricultural problems. The most effective method for preventing contamination of crops with aflatoxins is through use of atoxigenic strains of Aspergillus flavus to alter the population structure of this species and reduce incidences of aflatoxin producers. Cluster amplification pattern (CAP) is a rapid multiplex PCR method for identifying and monitoring indels associated with atoxigenicity in A.\u00a0flavus. Compared to previous techniques, the reported method allows for increased resolution, reduced cost, and greater speed in monitoring the stability of atoxigenic strains, incidences of indel mediated atoxigenicity and the structure of A.\u00a0flavus populations."}
{"id": "25193981", "title": "Elevated levels of the neutrophil chemoattractant pro-platelet basic protein in macrophages from individuals with chronic and allergic aspergillosis.", "content": "Elevated levels of the neutrophil chemoattractant pro-platelet basic protein in macrophages from individuals with chronic and allergic aspergillosis. Aspergillus fumigatus causes chronic cavitary pulmonary aspergillosis (CCPA) and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) in overtly immunocompetent and atopic individuals, respectively. Disease mechanisms are poorly understood but may be related to increased neutrophil presence and activation. Pro-platelet basic protein (PPBP) is a potent neutrophil chemoattractant and activator whose expression is repressed by interleukin 10 (IL-10). PPBP expression by monocyte-derived macrophages from patients with ABPA or CCPA and asthmatic and healthy controls (10 individuals per group) was analyzed using reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction. PPBP and IL-10 protein levels in cell culture supernatants were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Two PPBP single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were genotyped in 638 individuals. The gene was resequenced in 20 individuals. PPBP expression and protein levels were significantly increased in the ABPA (19.7-fold) and CCPA (27.7-fold) groups, compared with the control groups. PPBP SNPs were not associated with disease. IL-10 protein levels were significantly lower in the ABPA and CCPA groups, compared with the healthy group, suggesting that differences in PPBP levels may result from regulatory mechanisms. The results suggest a role for increased PPBP expression in ABPA and CCPA. Repression of PPBP expression may benefit some patients. Increased PPBP expression in ABPA and CCPA may be useful as a future diagnostic tool or possible target for novel therapeutics."}
{"id": "25082186", "title": "Clinical performance of a commercial real-time PCR assay for Aspergillus DNA detection in serum samples from high-risk patients: comparison with a galactomannan enzyme immunoassay.", "content": "Clinical performance of a commercial real-time PCR assay for Aspergillus DNA detection in serum samples from high-risk patients: comparison with a galactomannan enzyme immunoassay. We investigated the clinical performance of a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based commercial platform, the Myconostica MycAssay\u2122 Aspergillus (MAP), for fungal DNA detection in the serum of patients at risk of invasive aspergillosis (IA). Sixty-four hospitalized patients were prospectively enrolled and a total of 71 different episodes were investigated (30 episodes were clinically/microbiologically classified as IA and 41 as control episodes). When MAP was compared to the galactomannan (GM) assay, no significant differences were found in terms of sensitivity (46.7% vs. 50.0%), specificity (97.6% vs. 95.1%), positive predictive value (PPV) (93.3% vs. 88.2%), and negative predictive value (NPV) (71.4% vs. 72.2%). The corresponding areas under the curve (AUC) of the receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were also superimposable. Overall, because of the good agreement between the two assays and considering the high specificity and PPV of the MAP, we suggest the use of this PCR-based platform as a second-level examination for the evaluation of clinically undefined cases where culture or GM have provided positive results."}
{"id": "25040464", "title": "A pleiotropic drug resistance transporter is involved in reduced sensitivity to multiple fungicide classes in Sclerotinia homoeocarpa (F.T. Bennett).", "content": "A pleiotropic drug resistance transporter is involved in reduced sensitivity to multiple fungicide classes in Sclerotinia homoeocarpa (F.T. Bennett). Dollar spot, caused by Sclerotinia homoeocarpa, is a prevalent turfgrass disease, and the fungus exhibits widespread fungicide resistance in North America. In a previous study, an ABC-G transporter, ShatrD, was associated with practical field resistance to demethylation inhibitor (DMI) fungicides. Mining of ABC-G transporters, also known as pleiotropic drug resistance (PDR) transporters, from RNA-Seq data gave an assortment of transcripts, several with high sequence similarity to functionally characterized transporters from Botrytis cinerea, and others with closest blastx hits from Aspergillus and Monilinia. In addition to ShatrD, another PDR transporter showed significant over-expression in replicated RNA-Seq data, and in a collection of field-resistant isolates, as measured by quantitative polymerase chain reaction. These isolates also showed reduced sensitivity to unrelated fungicide classes. Using a yeast complementation system, we sought to test the hypothesis that this PDR transporter effluxes DMI as well as chemically unrelated fungicides. The transporter (ShPDR1) was cloned into the Gal1 expression vector and transformed into a yeast PDR transporter deletion mutant, AD12345678. Complementation assays indicated that ShPDR1 complemented the mutant in the presence of propiconazole (DMI), iprodione (dicarboximide) and boscalid (SDHI, succinate dehydrogenase inhibitor). Our results indicate that the over-expression of ShPDR1 is correlated with practical field resistance to DMI fungicides and reduced sensitivity to dicarboximide and SDHI fungicides. These findings highlight the potential for the eventual development of a multidrug resistance phenotype in this pathogen. In addition, this study presents a pipeline for the discovery and validation of fungicide resistance genes using de\u2009novo next-generation sequencing and molecular biology techniques in an unsequenced plant pathogenic fungus."}
{"id": "24960316", "title": "Isolation, screening, and identification of potential cellulolytic and xylanolytic producers for biodegradation of untreated oil palm trunk and its application in saccharification of lemongrass leaves.", "content": "Isolation, screening, and identification of potential cellulolytic and xylanolytic producers for biodegradation of untreated oil palm trunk and its application in saccharification of lemongrass leaves. This study presents the isolation and screening of fungi with excellent ability to degrade untreated oil palm trunk (OPT) in a solid-state fermentation system (SSF). Qualitative assay of cellulases and xylanase indicates notable secretion of both enzymes by 12 fungal strains from a laboratory collection and 5 strains isolated from a contaminated wooden board. High production of these enzymes was subsequently quantified in OPT in SSF. Aspergillus fumigates SK1 isolated from cow dung gives the highest xylanolytic activity (648.448\u00a0U\u00a0g(-1)), generally high cellulolytic activities (CMCase: 48.006, FPase: 6.860, beta-glucosidase: 16.328\u00a0U\u00a0g(-1)) and moderate lignin peroxidase activity (4.820\u00a0U/g), and highest xylanolytic activity. The xylanase encoding gene of Aspergillus fumigates SK1 was screened using polymerase chain reaction by a pair of degenerate primers. Through multiple alignment of the SK1 strain's xylanase nucleotide sequences with other published xylanases, it was confirmed that the gene belonged to the xylanase glycoside hydrolase family 11 (GH11) with a protein size of 24.49 kD. Saccharification of lemongrass leaves using crude cellulases and xylanase gives the maximum reducing sugars production of 6.84\u00a0g/L with glucose as the major end product and traces of phenylpropanic compounds (vanillic acid, p-coumaric acid, and ferulic acid)."}
{"id": "24833776", "title": "Diagnosis and antimicrobial therapy of lung infiltrates in febrile neutropenic patients (allogeneic SCT excluded): updated guidelines of the Infectious Diseases Working Party (AGIHO) of the German Society of Hematology and Medical Oncology (DGHO).", "content": "Diagnosis and antimicrobial therapy of lung infiltrates in febrile neutropenic patients (allogeneic SCT excluded): updated guidelines of the Infectious Diseases Working Party (AGIHO) of the German Society of Hematology and Medical Oncology (DGHO). Up to 25% of patients with profound neutropenia lasting for >10 days develop lung infiltrates, which frequently do not respond to broad-spectrum antibacterial therapy. While a causative pathogen remains undetected in the majority of cases, Aspergillus spp., Pneumocystis jirovecii, multi-resistant Gram-negative pathogens, mycobacteria or respiratory viruses may be involved. In at-risk patients who have received trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole (TMP/SMX) prophylaxis, filamentous fungal pathogens appear to be predominant, yet commonly not proven at the time of treatment initiation. Pathogens isolated from blood cultures, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) or respiratory secretions are not always relevant for the etiology of pulmonary infiltrates and should therefore be interpreted critically. Laboratory tests for detecting Aspergillus galactomannan, \u03b2-D-glucan or DNA from blood, BAL or tissue samples may facilitate the diagnosis; however, most polymerase chain reaction assays are not yet standardized and validated. Apart from infectious agents, pulmonary side-effects from cytotoxic drugs, radiotherapy or pulmonary involvement by the underlying malignancy should be included into differential diagnosis and eventually be clarified by invasive diagnostic procedures. Pre-emptive treatment with mold-active systemic antifungal agents improves clinical outcome, while other microorganisms are preferably treated only when microbiologically documented. High-dose TMP/SMX is first choice for treatment of Pneumocystis pneumonia, while cytomegalovirus pneumonia is treated primarily with ganciclovir or foscarnet in most patients. In a considerable number of patients, clinical outcome may be favorable despite respiratory failure, so that intensive care should be unrestrictedly provided in patients whose prognosis is not desperate due to other reasons."}
{"id": "23799871", "title": "Utility of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid galactomannan alone or in combination with PCR for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in adult hematology patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis.", "content": "Utility of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid galactomannan alone or in combination with PCR for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in adult hematology patients: a systematic review and meta-analysis. The clinical utility of bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid galactomannan (GM) for the early diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) varies widely across studies mainly due to heterogeneity of the studied populations. We conducted a systematic review and meta-analysis of 16 studies involving 783 adults with hematological malignancies to derive summary estimates of the overall accuracy of BAL-GM for diagnosing IA. Summary estimates of BAL-GM using an optical density (OD) index cutoff value of 1.5 for proven and probable IA were: sensitivity 0.92 (95% CI = 0.48-0.99), specificity 0.98 (95% CI = 0.78-1.00), positive likelihood ratio 53.7 (95% CI = 3.7-771.8), and negative likelihood ratio 0.08 (95% CI = 0.01-0.83). Comparing serum GM and Aspergillus PCR testing on BAL fluid, BAL-GM conferred greater sensitivity, but lower specificity than the serum GM test, and similar specificity as the PCR assay. The use of BAL-GM with serum GM or BAL-PCR tests increased the sensitivity moderately when a positive result was defined by either assay. GM quantification in BAL fluid at an OD index cutoff value of 1.5 has excellent sensitivity and specificity to assist clinical decision-making in confirming or excluding a diagnosis of IA when results are interpreted with clinical findings. Additional research investigating the effects of antifungal agents, optimal timing and processing of BAL sampling are needed to improve the diagnostic accuracy of BAL-GM testing."}
{"id": "25775788", "title": "[Fungal composition in massa medicata fermentata based on culture dependent method and independent PCR-SSCP technique].", "content": "[Fungal composition in massa medicata fermentata based on culture dependent method and independent PCR-SSCP technique]. To analyze the fungal composition in Massa Medicata Fermentata based on culture dependent method and independent PCR-SSCP technique. Fungi were directly isolated from Massa Medicata Fermentata samples. The obtained strains were identified according to morphology and DNA sequence. Meanwhile the total fungal DNA was extracted from Massa Medicata Fermentata samples, the cultural independent PCR-SSCP technique based on \u03b2-tubulin gene were used to identify the mycobiota. According to cultural method, Aspergillus flavus and Rhizopus oryzae were present in Massa Medicata Fermentata samples, while A. flavus and A. niger were present in fried Massa Medicata Fermentata samples. In contrast, 5 species were obtained by PCR-SSCP technique, A. flavus was overlapped with fungal taxa derived from culture dependent method; A. ambiguu and A. s ivoriensis were dominant with relative abundance of 57% and 35% respectively, while the relative abundance of A. flavus was as low as 4%. None species was obtained from fried Massa Medicata Fermentata samples. PCR-SSCP based on \u03b2-tubulin gene could distinguish fungi into species, culture dependent method combined with culture independent method could better understand the fungal composition associated with Massa Medicata Fermentata fermentation."}
{"id": "25518949", "title": "Performances of two different panfungal PCRs to detect mould DNA in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue: what are the limiting factors?", "content": "Performances of two different panfungal PCRs to detect mould DNA in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue: what are the limiting factors? Detection of fungal DNA from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (FFPE) tissue is challenging due to degradation of DNA and presence of PCR inhibitors in these samples. We analyzed FFPE samples of 26 patients by panfungal PCR and compared the results to the composite diagnosis according to the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) criteria. Additionally we analyzed the quality of human and fungal DNA and their level of age-dependent degradation, as well as the existence of PCR inhibition in these tissue samples. We evaluated two 45-cycle panfungal PCR tests that target the internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS2) as well as the ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 (ITS1-2) region. The PCRs were applied to 27 FFPE specimens from 26 patients with proven invasive fungal disease (IFD), and one patient with culture and histologically negative but PCR-positive fungal infection collected at our institution from 2003 to 2010. Quality of DNA in FFPE tissue samples was evaluated using fragments of the beta-globin gene for multiplex PCR, inhibition of PCR amplification was evaluated by spiking of C. krusei DNA to each PCR premix. In 27 FFPE samples the ITS2 PCR targeting the shorter fragment showed a higher detection rate with a sensitivity of 53.8% compared to the ITS1-2 fragment (sensitivity 38%). Significant time-dependent degradation of human DNA in FFPE sample extracts was detected based on partial beta-globin gene amplification which was not in correlation to successful panfungal PCR identification of fungal organisms. The analytical sensitivity of both assays compared with culture was 60 CFU/ml of a Candida krusei reference strain. The performance of the two tests in an Aspergillus proficiency panel of an international external quality assessment programme showed considerable sensitivity. Panfungal diagnostic PCR assays applied on FFPE specimens provide accurate identification of molds in highly degraded tissue samples and correct identification in samples stored up to 7 years despite sensitivity limitations, mainly caused by partial PCR inhibition and DNA degradation by formalin."}
{"id": "25501147", "title": "Molecular characterization of aflatoxigenic and non-aflatoxigenic Aspergillus flavus isolates collected from corn grains.", "content": "Molecular characterization of aflatoxigenic and non-aflatoxigenic Aspergillus flavus isolates collected from corn grains. Twelve species from six fungal genera were found to be associated with corn (Zea mays L.) grain samples collected from three main regions of Saudi Arabia. The average frequencies of the most common genera were Aspergillus (11.4%), Fusarium (9.5%), Penicillium (5.1%), and Alternaria (5.8%). Fifteen isolates of Aspergillus flavus were screened by HPLC for their ability to produce aflatoxins (AF). The percentage of aflatoxigenic A. flavus isolates was 53%. Eight isolates produced AF, at concentrations ranging 0.7-2.9 ppb. Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) molecular markers were used to genetically characterize isolates of A. flavus and to discriminate between the aflatoxigenic and non-aflatoxigenic isolates. RAPD and ISSR analysis revealed a high level of genetic diversity in the A. flavus population, which was useful for genetic characterization. The clustering in the RAPD and ISSR dendrograms obtained was unrelated to geographic origin. The RAPD and ISSR markers could not discriminate between aflatoxigenic and non-aflatoxigenic isolates, but the ISSR primers were somewhat better."}
{"id": "25482742", "title": "Consensus guidelines for the use of empiric and diagnostic-driven antifungal treatment strategies in haematological malignancy, 2014.", "content": "Consensus guidelines for the use of empiric and diagnostic-driven antifungal treatment strategies in haematological malignancy, 2014. Invasive fungal disease (IFD) causes significant morbidity and mortality in patients undergoing allogeneic haemopoietic stem cell transplantation or chemotherapy for haematological malignancy. Much of these adverse outcomes are due to the limited ability of traditional diagnostic tests (i.e. culture and histology) to make an early and accurate diagnosis. As persistent or recurrent fevers of unknown origin (PFUO) in neutropenic patients despite broad-spectrum antibiotics have been associated with the development of IFD, most centres have traditionally administered empiric antifungal therapy (EAFT) to patients with PFUO. However, use of an EAFT strategy has not been shown to have an overall survival benefit and is associated with excessive antifungal therapy use. As a result, the focus has shifted to developing more sensitive and specific diagnostic tests for early and more targeted antifungal treatment. These tests, including the galactomannan enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and Aspergillus polymerase chain reaction (PCR), have enabled the development of diagnostic-driven antifungal treatment (DDAT) strategies, which have been shown to be safe and feasible, reducing antifungal usage. In addition, the development of effective antifungal prophylactic strategies has changed the landscape in terms of the incidence and types of IFD that clinicians have encountered. In this review, we examine the current role of EAFT and provide up-to-date data on the newer diagnostic tests and algorithms available for use in EAFT and DDAT strategies, within the context of patient risk and type of antifungal prophylaxis used."}
{"id": "25482740", "title": "Survey of antifungal prophylaxis and fungal diagnostic tests employed in malignant haematology and haemopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) in Australia and New Zealand.", "content": "Survey of antifungal prophylaxis and fungal diagnostic tests employed in malignant haematology and haemopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) in Australia and New Zealand. This article reports the findings of a survey developed to assess the current use of antifungal prophylaxis among haematology and infectious disease clinicians across Australia and New Zealand, and their alignment with existing consensus guidelines for the use of antifungal agents in the haematology/oncology setting (published 2008). Surveyed clinicians largely followed the current recommendations for prophylaxis in the setting of induction chemotherapy for acute myeloid leukaemia, as well as autologous and low-risk allogeneic haemopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). In keeping with guideline recommendations, posaconazole was the agent used by most centres for high-risk allogeneic HSCT. However, its routine continuation for 75-100 days post-transplantation without de-escalation suggested use beyond those indications described in the 2008 guidelines, namely pre-engraftment neutropenia and graft-versus-host disease. Variations in practice were observed in other settings, such as acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and myelodysplastic syndrome, reflecting the general lack of evidence for antifungal prophylaxis in these patient populations and changing perceptions of risk. With regard to the availability of testing in cases of suspected breakthrough IFD, 40% of centres did not have access to investigative bronchoscopy within 48\u2009h of referral, and results of Aspergillus galactomannan (GM), fungal polymerase chain reaction and therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) were not available within 48\u2009h in 83%, 90% and 85% of centres respectively. The survey's findings will influence the recommendations provided in the updated 2014 consensus guidelines for the use of antifungal agents in the haematology/oncology setting."}
{"id": "25464008", "title": "Tacrolimus (FK506) suppresses TREM-1 expression at an early but not at a late stage in a murine model of fungal keratitis.", "content": "Tacrolimus (FK506) suppresses TREM-1 expression at an early but not at a late stage in a murine model of fungal keratitis. To investigate the efficacy and mechanism of tacrolimus(FK506), which is a novel macrolide immunosuppressant, in inhibiting triggering receptor expressed on myeloid cells-1 (TREM-1) expression in a murine keratitis model induced by Aspergillus fumigatus. TREM-1 was detected in 11 fungus-infected human corneas by quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR). RAW264.7 macrophages were divided into four groups, which received treatment with zymosan (100 \u00b5g/ml), zymosan (100 \u00b5g/ml) + mTREM-1/Fc protein (1 \u00b5g/ml), or zymosan (100 \u00b5g/ml) + FK506 (20 \u00b5M) or negative-control treatment. After this treatment, the expression of TREM-1, interleukin-1\u03b2 (IL-1\u03b2) and tumor necrosis factor \u03b1 (TNF\u03b1) was assayed using qRT-PCR and ELISA. The mouse model of fungal keratitis was created by intrastromal injection with Aspergillus fumigatus, and the mice were divided into 2 groups: group A received vehicle eye drops 4 times each day, and group B received 4 doses of FK506 eye drops each day. Corneal damage was evaluated by clinical scoring and histologic examination,and myeloperoxidase (MPO) protein levels were also detected by ELISA. The expression of TREM-1, IL-1\u03b2 and TNF\u03b1 was then determined at different time points using qRT-PCR and ELISA. TREM-1 expression dramatically increased in the human corneas with fungal keratitis. In contrast, FK506 reduced the expression of TREM-1, IL-1\u03b2 and TNF\u03b1 in RAW264.7 macrophages stimulated with zymosan. In the mouse model, at day 1 post-infection, the corneal score of the FK506-treated group was lower than that of the control, and polymorphonuclear neutrophil (PMN) infiltration was diminished. TREM-1, IL-1\u03b2 and TNF\u03b1 expression was significantly reduced at the same time point. However, the statistically significant differences in cytokine expression, clinical scores and infiltration disappeared at 5 days post-infection. FK506 may inhibit the inflammation induced by fungi and alleviate the severity of corneal damage at an early stage of fungal keratitis by downregulating TREM-1 expression."}
{"id": "25461949", "title": "Identification of cadmium-resistant fungi related to Cd transportation in bermudagrass [Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers].", "content": "Identification of cadmium-resistant fungi related to Cd transportation in bermudagrass [Cynodon dactylon (L.) Pers]. Phytoremediation utilizing plants and microbes has been increasingly adopted as a green technology for cleaning up heavy metal polluted soils. Cd polluted soil and native bermudagrass from Liuyang and Zhuzhou in Hunan province of China were collected to investigate microbial diversity and isolate Cd resistant fungi, and then to determine the effect of Cd resistant fungi on Cd tolerance and transportation of bermudagrass. The functional diversity of microorganisms was evaluated using the BIOLOG Eco method. Cd-resistant fungi strain was isolated and identified as Aspergillus aculeatus based on the ribosomal internal transcribed spacer region sequence analysis. Bermudagrass was exposed to control, Cd only, and Cd plus A. aculeatus (Cd + A. aculeatus) with growth matrix (sawdust/sand = 3/1 in volume). Results indicated that Cd + A. aculeatus treated bermudagrass exhibited a higher photosynthetic activity compared to Cd only treated plants. Inoculation of A. aculeatus resulted in a decrease in stem and leaf Cd concentrations, to a greater extent for Cd-sensitive than for Cd-tolerant genotype. However, inoculation of A. aculeatus increased root Cd concentration under Cd stress conditions, significantly elevated soil pH, and decreased soil water-soluble Cd concentration. These results suggested that A. aculeatus might be potentially applied to improve Cd tolerance and to reduce Cd transportation to shoot of bermudagrass."}
{"id": "25357108", "title": "Quantitative multiplexed detection of common pulmonary fungal pathogens by labeled primer polymerase chain reaction.", "content": "Quantitative multiplexed detection of common pulmonary fungal pathogens by labeled primer polymerase chain reaction. Invasive fungal infections are an important cause of morbidity and mortality among immunocompromised patients. To design and evaluate a multiplexed assay aimed at quantitative detection and differentiation of the 5 molds that are most commonly responsible for pulmonary infections. Using labeled primer polymerase chain reaction chemistry, an assay was designed to target the 5.8S and 28S ribosomal RNA genes of Aspergillus spp, Fusarium spp, Scedosporium spp, and members of the order Mucorales ( Rhizopus oryzae , Rhizopus microsporus, Cunninghamella bertholletiae, Mucor circinelloides, Lichtheimia corymbifera, and Rhizomucor pusillus). This assay was split into 2 multiplexed reactions and was evaluated using both samples seeded with purified nucleic acid from 42 well-characterized clinical fungal isolates and 105 archived samples (47 blood [45%], 42 bronchoalveolar lavage fluid [40%], and 16 tissue [15%]) collected from rabbit models of invasive pulmonary fungal infections. Assay detection sensitivity was less than 25 copies of the target sequence per reaction for Aspergillus spp, 5 copies for Fusarium spp and Scedosporium spp, and 10 copies for the Mucorales. The assay showed quantitative linearity from 5 \u00d7 10(1) to 5 \u00d7 10(5) copies of target sequence per reaction. Sensitivities and specificities for bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, tissue, and blood samples were 0.86 and 0.99, 0.60 and 1.00, and 0.46 and 1.00, respectively. Labeled primer polymerase chain reaction permits rapid, quantitative detection and differentiation of common agents of invasive fungal infection. The assay described herein shows promise for clinical implementation that may have a significant effect on the rapid diagnosis and treatment of patients' severe infections caused by these pulmonary fungal pathogens."}
{"id": "25318762", "title": "The marine-derived fungal metabolite, terrein, inhibits cell proliferation and induces cell cycle arrest in human ovarian cancer cells.", "content": "The marine-derived fungal metabolite, terrein, inhibits cell proliferation and induces cell cycle arrest in human ovarian cancer cells. The difficulties faced in the effective treatment of ovarian cancer are multifactorial, but are mainly associated with relapse and drug resistance. Cancer stem-like cells have been reported to be an important contributor to these hindering factors. In this study, we aimed to investigate the anticancer activities of a bioactive fungal metabolite, namely terrein, against the human epithelial ovarian cancer cell line, SKOV3, primary human ovarian cancer cells and ovarian cancer stem-like cells. Terrein was separated and purified from the fermentation metabolites of the marine sponge-derived fungus, Aspergillus terreus strain PF26. Its anticancer activities against ovarian cancer cells were investigated by cell proliferation assay, cell migration assay, cell apoptosis and cell cycle assays. The ovarian cancer stem-like cells were enriched and cultured in a serum-free in vitro suspension system. Terrein inhibited the proliferation of the ovarian cancer cells by inducing G2/M phase cell cycle arrest. The underlying mechanisms involved the suppression of the expression of LIN28, an important marker gene of stemness in ovarian cancer stem cells. Of note, our study also demonstrated the ability of terrein to inhibit the proliferation of ovarian cancer stem-like cells, in which the expression of LIN28 was also downregulated. Our findings reveal that terrein (produced by fermention) may prove to be a promising drug candidate for the treatment of ovarian cancer by inhibiting the proliferation of cancer stem-like cells."}
{"id": "25261942", "title": "Novel and sensitive qPCR assays for the detection and identification of aspergillosis causing species.", "content": "Novel and sensitive qPCR assays for the detection and identification of aspergillosis causing species. Despite concerted efforts, diagnosis of aspergillosis is still a great challenge to clinical microbiology laboratories. Along with the requirement for high sensitivity and specificity, species-specific identification is important. We developed rapid, sensitive and species-specific qPCR assays using the TaqMan technology for the detection and identification of Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus terreus. The assays were designed to target orthologs of the Streptomyces factor C gene that are only found in a few species of filamentous fungi. Fungi acquired this gene through horizontal gene transfer and divergence of the gene allows identification of species. The assays have potential as a molecular diagnosis tool for the early detection of fungal infection caused by Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus terreus, which merits future diagnostic studies. The assays were sensitive enough to detect a few genomic equivalents in blood samples."}
{"id": "25255025", "title": "Myeloid derived hypoxia inducible factor 1-alpha is required for protection against pulmonary Aspergillus fumigatus infection.", "content": "Myeloid derived hypoxia inducible factor 1-alpha is required for protection against pulmonary Aspergillus fumigatus infection. Hypoxia inducible factor 1\u03b1 (HIF1\u03b1) is the mammalian transcriptional factor that controls metabolism, survival, and innate immunity in response to inflammation and low oxygen. Previous work established that generation of hypoxic microenvironments occurs within the lung during infection with the human fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus. Here we demonstrate that A. fumigatus stabilizes HIF1\u03b1 protein early after pulmonary challenge that is inhibited by treatment of mice with the steroid triamcinolone. Utilizing myeloid deficient HIF1\u03b1 mice, we observed that HIF1\u03b1 is required for survival and fungal clearance early following pulmonary challenge with A. fumigatus. Unlike previously reported research with bacterial pathogens, HIF1\u03b1 deficient neutrophils and macrophages were surprisingly not defective in fungal conidial killing. The increase in susceptibility of the myeloid deficient HIF1\u03b1 mice to A. fumigatus was in part due to decreased early production of the chemokine CXCL1 (KC) and increased neutrophil apoptosis at the site of infection, resulting in decreased neutrophil numbers in the lung. Addition of recombinant CXCL1 restored neutrophil survival and numbers, murine survival, and fungal clearance. These results suggest that there are unique HIF1\u03b1 mediated mechanisms employed by the host for protection and defense against fungal pathogen growth and invasion in the lung. Additionally, this work supports the strategy of exploring HIF1\u03b1 as a therapeutic target in specific immunosuppressed populations with fungal infections."}
{"id": "25253558", "title": "Development of a transformation system for Aspergillus sojae based on the Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated approach.", "content": "Development of a transformation system for Aspergillus sojae based on the Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated approach. Aspergillus sojae has been an important filamentous fungus in Biotechnology due to its use in diverse fermentative processes for the production of various food products. Furthermore, this fungus is a common expression system for the production of enzymes and other metabolites. The availability of molecular genetic tools to explore its biology is thus of big interest. In this study, an Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation (ATMT) system for A. sojae was developed and its applicability evaluated. The donor plasmid named pRM-eGFP was constructed for ATMT of A. sojae. This plasmid contains the ble and egfp genes in its transfer DNA element (T-DNA) to confer phleomycin resistance and express the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) in A. sojae, respectively. Agrobacterium tumefaciens (LBA4404) harboring the donor plasmid and A. sojae (ATCC 20235) were co-cultured under diverse conditions to achieve ATMT. The maximum number of transformed fungi was obtained after three days of co-culturing at 28\u00b0C, and selection with 50 \u03bcg/ml phleomycin. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR), fluorescence microscopy and Western Blot analysis for EGFP expression confirmed successful genomic integration of the T-DNA element in A. sojae. The T-DNA was mitotically stable in approximately 40% of the fungal transformants after four generations of sub-culturing under phleomycin pressure. We successfully established a new ATMT protocol for A. sojae. This transformation system should enable further protein expression studies on this filamentous fungus."}
{"id": "25252646", "title": "Development of a multiple detection technique for fungi by DNA microarray with the simultaneous use of internal transcribed spacer region of ribosomal RNA gene and \u03b2-tubulin gene probes.", "content": "Development of a multiple detection technique for fungi by DNA microarray with the simultaneous use of internal transcribed spacer region of ribosomal RNA gene and \u03b2-tubulin gene probes. We offer the first description of the development of a multiple detection technique for fungi by DNA microarray with the simultaneous use of internal transcribed spacer region (ITS) of ribosomal RNA gene and \u03b2-tubulin gene probes. The assay uses 12 oligonucleotide probes and multiplex amplification to detect fungal species belonging to various sections of Aspergillus, the Eurotium genus, and the Penicillium genus. The specificity of each probe was tested using 231 reference fungal strains, including 79 target and 152 non-target strains in 102 species of 24 genera. We determined the optimum concentration of the primer pairs for multiplex PCR to be 0.5 \u03bcM for the \u03b2-tubulin gene and 0.125 \u03bcM for the ITS region. In the field trial using 76 specimens containing 323 fungi (up to five fungal strains were included in one specimen), the concordance rate between the DNA microarray and the DNA sequencing results was 97.4\uff05 at the species or genus levels."}
{"id": "25251435", "title": "Engineering Aspergillus oryzae A-4 through the chromosomal insertion of foreign cellulase expression cassette to improve conversion of cellulosic biomass into lipids.", "content": "Engineering Aspergillus oryzae A-4 through the chromosomal insertion of foreign cellulase expression cassette to improve conversion of cellulosic biomass into lipids. A genetic modification scheme was designed for Aspergillus oryzae A-4, a natural cellulosic lipids producer, to enhance its lipid production from biomass by putting the spotlight on improving cellulase secretion. Four cellulase genes were separately expressed in A-4 under the control of hlyA promoter, with the help of the successful development of a chromosomal genetic manipulation system. Comparison of cellulase activities of PCR-positive transformants showed that these transformants integrated with celA gene and with celC gene had significantly (p<0.05) higher average FPAase activities than those strains integrated with celB gene and with celD gene. Through the assessment of cellulosic lipids accumulating abilities, celA transformant A2-2 and celC transformant D1-B1 were isolated as promising candidates, which could yield 101%-133% and 35.22%-59.57% higher amount of lipids than the reference strain A-4 (WT) under submerged (SmF) conditions and solid-state (SSF) conditions, respectively. Variability in metabolism associated to the introduction of cellulase gene in A2-2 and D1-B1 was subsequently investigated. It was noted that cellulase expression repressed biomass formation but enhanced lipid accumulation; whereas the inhibitory effect on cell growth would be shielded during cellulosic lipids production owing to the essential role of cellulase in substrate utilization. Different metabolic profiles also existed between A2-2 and D1-B1, which could be attributed to not only different transgene but also biological impacts of different integration. Overall, both simultaneous saccharification and lipid accumulation were enhanced in A2-2 and D1-B1, resulting in efficient conversion of cellulose into lipids. A regulation of cellulase secretion in natural cellulosic lipids producers could be a possible strategy to enhance its lipid production from lignocellulosic biomass."}
{"id": "25242934", "title": "Development of RFLP-PCR method for the identification of medically important Aspergillus species using single restriction enzyme MwoI.", "content": "Development of RFLP-PCR method for the identification of medically important Aspergillus species using single restriction enzyme MwoI. In this study we attempted to modify the PCR-RFLP method using restriction enzyme MwoI for the identification of medically important Aspergillus species. Our subjects included nine standard Aspergillus species and 205 Aspergillus isolates of approved hospital acquired infections and hospital indoor sources. First of all, Aspergillus isolates were identified in the level of species by using morphologic method. A twenty four hours culture was performed for each isolates to harvest Aspergillus mycelia and then genomic DNA was extracted using Phenol-Chloroform method. PCR-RFLP using single restriction enzyme MwoI was performed in ITS regions of rDNA gene. The electrophoresis data were analyzed and compared with those of morphologic identifications. Total of 205 Aspergillus isolates included 153 (75%) environmental and 52 (25%) clinical isolates. A. flavus was the most frequently isolate in our study (55%), followed by A. niger 65(31.7%), A. fumigatus 18(8.7%), A. nidulans and A. parasiticus 2(1% each). MwoI enabled us to discriminate eight medically important Aspergillus species including A. fumigatus, A. niger, A. flavus as the most common isolated species. PCR-RFLP method using the restriction enzyme MwoI is a rapid and reliable test for identification of at least the most medically important Aspergillus species."}
{"id": "25193747", "title": "Characterisation of microbial communities in Chinese liquor fermentation starters Daqu using nested PCR-DGGE.", "content": "Characterisation of microbial communities in Chinese liquor fermentation starters Daqu using nested PCR-DGGE. In this study, characterises of the microbial community structures of three typical Chinese liquor Daqu, as well as different kinds of light flavour Daqu were investigated using nested PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). The results showed that microbial diversity was considerably different, and the microfloral compositions were highly variable among various Daqu. Lactic acid bacteria, which accounted for 30.95 % of all identified bacteria, were dominant in all Daqu samples, whereas Bacillus species were also predominant in the Luzhou (14.8 %) and Langjiu Daqu (18.2 %). Citrobacter and Burkholderia were first identified in light flavour Daqu. Aspergillus was the dominant moulds, and the non-Saccharomyces yeast species, Saccharomycopsis fibuligera, Wallemia sebi, Wallemia muriae, and Pichia subpelliculosa, were the dominant yeasts. Rasamsonia, Galactomyces, Geotrichum and Wallemia were first identified using nested PCR-DGGE. Cluster analysis indicated that the microbial community structures of different Daqu samples exhibited some differences. These may be ascribed to the different peak production temperatures, raw material constituents and microhabitats around the liquor enterprises. The current study provides insights into the microbial community structures of three typical Daqu samples, and may facilitate the development of starter cultures for manufacturing Chinese liquor."}
{"id": "25178919", "title": "Fungal endocarditis: current challenges.", "content": "Fungal endocarditis: current challenges. Whilst it used to affect mostly intravenous drug users and patients who underwent valvular surgery with suboptimal infection control procedures, fungal endocarditis is now mostly observed in patients with severe immunodeficiency (onco-haematology), in association with chronic central venous access and broad-spectrum antibiotic use. The incidence of fungal endocarditis has probably decreased in most developed countries with access to harm-reduction policies (i.e. needle exchange programmes) and with improved infection control procedures during cardiac surgery. Use of specific blood culture bottles for diagnosis of fungal endocarditis has decreased due to optimisation of media and automated culture systems. Meanwhile, the advent of rapid techniques, including fungal antigen detection (galactomannan, mannan/anti-mannan antibodies and \u03b2-1,3-d-glucans) and PCR (e.g. universal fungal PCR targeting 18S rRNA genes), shall improve sensitivity and reduce diagnostics delays, although limited data are available on their use for the diagnosis of fungal endocarditis. New antifungal agents available since the early 2000s may represent dramatic improvement for fungal endocarditis: (i) a new class, the echinocandins, has the potential to improve the management of Candida endocarditis owing to its fungicidal effect on yeasts as well as tolerability of increased dosages; and (ii) improved survival in patients with invasive aspergillosis with voriconazole compared with amphotericin B, and this may apply to Aspergillus sp. endocarditis as well, although its prognosis remains dismal. These achievements may allow selected patients to be cured with prolonged medical treatment alone when surgery is considered too risky."}
{"id": "25162789", "title": "Improving itaconic acid production through genetic engineering of an industrial Aspergillus terreus strain.", "content": "Improving itaconic acid production through genetic engineering of an industrial Aspergillus terreus strain. Itaconic acid, which has been declared to be one of the most promising and flexible building blocks, is currently used as monomer or co-monomer in the polymer industry, and produced commercially by Aspergillus terreus. However, the production level of itaconic acid hasn't been improved in the past 40\u00a0years, and mutagenesis is still the main strategy to improve itaconate productivity. The genetic engineering approach hasn't been applied in industrial A. terreus strains to increase itaconic acid production. In this study, the genes closely related to itaconic acid production, including cadA, mfsA, mttA, ATEG_09969, gpdA, ATEG_01954, acoA, mt-pfkA and citA, were identified and overexpressed in an industrial A. terreus strain respectively. Overexpression of the genes cadA (cis-aconitate decarboxylase) and mfsA (Major Facilitator Superfamily Transporter) enhanced the itaconate production level by 9.4% and 5.1% in shake flasks respectively. Overexpression of other genes showed varied effects on itaconate production. The titers of other organic acids were affected by the introduced genes to different extent. Itaconic acid production could be improved through genetic engineering of the industrially used A. terreus strain. We have identified some important genes such as cadA and mfsA, whose overexpression led to the increased itaconate productivity, and successfully developed a strategy to establish a highly efficient microbial cell factory for itaconate protuction. Our results will provide a guide for further enhancement of the itaconic acid production level through genetic engineering in future."}
{"id": "25155930", "title": "Voriconazole and atazanavir: a CYP2C19-dependent manageable drug-drug interaction.", "content": "Voriconazole and atazanavir: a CYP2C19-dependent manageable drug-drug interaction. To investigate the pharmacokinetics of voriconazole when administered to HIV-positive patients receiving treatment with atazanavir-containing therapies according to CYP2C19 genotype. We describe four HIV-positive patients with pulmonary aspergillosis treated with voriconazole and atazanavir-based regimens (with or without ritonavir). They were managed by assessing their CYP2C19 genotype (CYP2C19*2, rs4244285, G>A, real-time PCR) and therapeutic drug monitoring (HPLC-based validation methods). Voriconazole exposure was variable but Ctrough levels were above 1000 ng/ml in all patients; one CYP2C19 intermediate metabolizer required lower doses of voriconazole (50 mg twice daily) to obtain satisfactory drug concentrations. Atazanavir and ritonavir plasma levels were moderately reduced (area under the curve: -23 and -26%, respectively); raltegravir exposure seemed increased by voriconazole administration (area under the curve: 2.5-fold higher) in a single subject. Coadministration of atazanavir and voriconazole may be feasible in selected HIV-positive patients; therapeutic drug monitoring and CYP2C19 genotyping may optimize exposure of both drugs."}
{"id": "25130774", "title": "Dakin solution alters macrophage viability and function.", "content": "Dakin solution alters macrophage viability and function. Macrophages are important in wound defense and healing. Dakin's solution (DS), buffered sodium hypochlorite, has been used since World War I as a topical antimicrobial for wound care. DS has been shown to be toxic to host cells, but effects on immune cells are not well documented. DS at 0.5%, 0.125%, and ten-fold serial dilutions from 0.25%-0.00025% were evaluated for cellular toxicity on murine macrophages (J774A.1). The effect of DS on macrophage adhesion, phagocytosis, and generation of reactive oxygen species was examined. Macrophage polarization following DS exposure was determined by gene expression using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Concentrations of DS >0.0025% reduced macrophage viability to <5% in exposure times as short as 30\u00a0s. Similarly, phagocytosis of Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Aspergillus flavus were significantly reduced at all tested concentrations by macrophages pretreated with DS. H2O2 production was reduced by 8%-38% following treatment with 0.00025%-0.125% DS. Macrophage adherence was significantly increased with >0.0025% DS after 15\u00a0min of exposure compared with controls. Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction demonstrated that DS exposure resulted in classical macrophage activation, with increased expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase 2, interferon-\u03b3, and interleukin (IL)-1\u03b2. DS at clinically used concentrations (0.025%-0.25%) was detrimental to macrophage survival and function. For optimal clinical use, understanding the impact of DS on macrophages is important as depletion may result in impaired pathogen clearance and delayed healing. These findings indicate that 0.00025% DS is a safe starting dose; however, optimal use of DS requires further validation with in\u00a0vivo models."}
{"id": "25129364", "title": "Retrospective comparison of nucleic acid sequence-based amplification, real-time PCR, and galactomannan test for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Retrospective comparison of nucleic acid sequence-based amplification, real-time PCR, and galactomannan test for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. Invasive aspergillosis is a life-threatening infection in immunocompromised patients, and treating these infections at an early stage is often crucial for a favorable outcome. Early diagnosis, however, remains challenging. We performed a retrospective comparison of three methods: real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR), nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (NASBA), and galactomannan enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (GM-ELISA); these detect circulating Aspergillus DNA, RNA, and galactomannan, respectively. Blood samples from 80 patients at high risk for invasive aspergillosis were tested by each assay. The sensitivity of NASBA, qPCR, and GM-ELISA was 76.47% (95% CI, 58.4-88.6%), 67.65% (95% CI, 49.4-82.0%), and 52.94% (95% CI, 35.4-69.8%), respectively, and the specificity was 80.43% (95% CI, 65.6-90.1%), 89.13% (95% CI, 75.6-95.9%), and 80.43% (95% CI, 65.6-90.1%), respectively. We also evaluated the efficiency of the three tests in various combinations. Perfect specificity (100%; 95% CI, 90.4-100%) and perfect positive predictive value (100%; 95% CI, 77.1-100%) were achieved by combining NASBA and qPCR testing in series. Testing with both NASBA and qPCR in parallel was the most sensitive and had the highest Youden index. Our data support the great potential of NASBA and qPCR, singly or in combination, for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in high-risk populations."}
{"id": "25126831", "title": "Development and evaluation of ITS- and aflP-based LAMP assays for rapid detection of Aspergillus flavus in food samples.", "content": "Development and evaluation of ITS- and aflP-based LAMP assays for rapid detection of Aspergillus flavus in food samples. Aspergillus flavus is a common filamentous fungus that produces aflatoxins and presents a major threat to agriculture and human health. Previous studies focused mainly on the detection of A. flavus or aflatoxin separately. Here, we developed internal transcribed spacer (ITS)- and aflP-based rapid detection of A. flavus in food samples using the loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) method. The ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 rDNA region of A. flavus and the aflatoxin-encoding gene aflP were used as target regions. The detection limits of A. flavus and aflP were 10 fg and 1 pg pure DNA, respectively, which allows aflatoxin-contaminated samples to be differentiated from infected samples and reduces false-negative or false-positive results. For specificity testing, DNA extracted from 7 A. flavus, 5 different Aspergillus spp., and 21 other fungi were used, and our results showed that A. flavus strains are detected by ITS-based detection and aflatoxigenic A. flavus strains are detected by aflP-based detection. Furthermore, the ITS- and aflP-based LAMP assays were used for detection analysis of DNA from food samples artificially and naturally contaminated with A. flavus. Our results showed that the detection rate of A. flavus based on the multi-ITS-based LAMP detection is 100% and that the aflatoxigenic strains in all A. flavus are detected by the aflP-based LAMP assay. The LAMP protocol described in our study represents a rapid and highly specific and sensitive diagnostic method for A. flavus detection, which can be used as a diagnostic tool that simplifies A. flavus monitoring and guarantees the quality and safety of foods."}
{"id": "25122854", "title": "PCR in diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis: a meta-analysis of diagnostic performance.", "content": "PCR in diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis: a meta-analysis of diagnostic performance. Invasive aspergillosis is a difficult-to-diagnose infection with a high mortality rate that affects high-risk groups such as patients with neutropenia and hematologic malignancies. We performed a bivariate meta-analysis of diagnostic data for an Aspergillus sp. PCR assay with blood specimens from high-risk hematology patients. We included all studies involving human subjects that assessed the performance of any PCR assay for invasive aspergillosis in whole blood or serum and that used the European Organization for the treatment of Cancer/Mycoses Study Group criteria as a reference standard. Three investigators independently searched the literature for eligible studies and extracted the data. Out of a total of 37 studies, 25 met strict quality criteria and were included in our evidence synthesis. Twenty-five studies with 2,595 patients were analyzed. The pooled diagnostic performance of whole-blood and serum PCR assays was moderate, with a sensitivity and specificity of 84% (95% confidence interval [CI], 75 to 91%) and 76% (95% CI, 65 to 84%), respectively, suggesting that a positive or negative result is unable, on its own, to confirm or exclude a suspected infection. The performance of a PCR assay of serum was not significantly different from that of whole blood. Notably, at least two positive PCR test results were found to have a specificity of 95% and a sensitivity of 64% for invasive infection, achieving a high positive likelihood ratio of 12.8. Importantly, the European Aspergillus PCR Initiative (EAPCRI) recommendations improved the performance of the PCR even further when at least two positive specimens were used to define PCR positivity. In conclusion, two positive PCR results should be considered highly indicative of an active Aspergillus sp. infection. Use of the EAPCRI recommendations by clinical laboratories can further enhance PCR performance."}
{"id": "25120234", "title": "Sequencing, physical organization and kinetic expression of the patulin biosynthetic gene cluster from Penicillium expansum.", "content": "Sequencing, physical organization and kinetic expression of the patulin biosynthetic gene cluster from Penicillium expansum. Patulin is a polyketide-derived mycotoxin produced by numerous filamentous fungi. Among them, Penicillium expansum is by far the most problematic species. This fungus is a destructive phytopathogen capable of growing on fruit, provoking the blue mold decay of apples and producing significant amounts of patulin. The biosynthetic pathway of this mycotoxin is chemically well-characterized, but its genetic bases remain largely unknown with only few characterized genes in less economic relevant species. The present study consisted of the identification and positional organization of the patulin gene cluster in P. expansum strain NRRL 35695. Several amplification reactions were performed with degenerative primers that were designed based on sequences from the orthologous genes available in other species. An improved genome Walking approach was used in order to sequence the remaining adjacent genes of the cluster. RACE-PCR was also carried out from mRNAs to determine the start and stop codons of the coding sequences. The patulin gene cluster in P. expansum consists of 15 genes in the following order: patH, patG, patF, patE, patD, patC, patB, patA, patM, patN, patO, patL, patI, patJ, and patK. These genes share 60-70% of identity with orthologous genes grouped differently, within a putative patulin cluster described in a non-producing strain of Aspergillus clavatus. The kinetics of patulin cluster genes expression was studied under patulin-permissive conditions (natural apple-based medium) and patulin-restrictive conditions (Eagle's minimal essential medium), and demonstrated a significant association between gene expression and patulin production. In conclusion, the sequence of the patulin cluster in P. expansum constitutes a key step for a better understanding of the mechanisms leading to patulin production in this fungus. It will allow the role of each gene to be elucidated, and help to define strategies to reduce patulin production in apple-based products."}
{"id": "25108222", "title": "Aspergillus fumigatus triggers innate immune response via NOD1 signaling in human corneal epithelial cells.", "content": "Aspergillus fumigatus triggers innate immune response via NOD1 signaling in human corneal epithelial cells. Fungal keratitis is a serious vision-threatening disease caused by fungi after corneal epithelium damage. We have previously shown a role of cell surface TLRs in Aspergillus fumigatus (A.\u00a0fumigatus) keratitis. In the present study we showed that Human telomerase-immortalized corneal epithelial cells (HCECs) exposed to A.\u00a0fumigatus elicited an inflammatory response consisting in increased interleukin-6 (IL-6), IL-8 and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-\u03b1 expression and innate defense molecules hBD2 and LL37 in a time-dependent manner. In this study we further investigated the role of intracellular nucleotide-binding oligomerization domain-containing protein (NOD)-like receptors, NOD1 in innate immune and inflammatory response to A.\u00a0fumigatus. We showed that NOD1 and its downstream signaling molecules RIP2 and NF-\u03baB p65 are expressed in HCECs challenged with either NOD1 specific ligand iE-DAP or A.\u00a0fumigatus. More importantly, NOD1 knockdown attenuated A.\u00a0fumigatus-triggered the expression of NOD1, and downstream signaling effectors RIP2 and NF-\u03baB p65, as well as the secretion of IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-\u03b1, and the production of hBD2 and LL37. In conclusion, our results demonstrated that NOD1 is a prominent factor of innate immune and inflammatory response in HCECs against A.\u00a0fumigatus, suggesting that NOD1 might be a potential novel therapeutic target for the treatment of fungal keratitis."}
{"id": "25088501", "title": "Reconstruction of the original mycoflora in pelleted feed by PCR-SSCP and qPCR.", "content": "Reconstruction of the original mycoflora in pelleted feed by PCR-SSCP and qPCR. Ground feeds for pigs were investigated for fungal contamination before and after pelleting (subsamples in total n\u00a0=\u00a024) by cultural and molecular biological methods. A fungal-specific primer pair ITS1/ITS5.8R was used to amplify fungal DNA; PCR products were processed for the PCR-SSCP method. In the resulting acrylamide gel, more than 85% of DNA bands of ground feeds were preserved after pelleting. Twenty-two DNA bands were sequenced; all represented fungal DNA. The level of fungal DNA in ground feed samples was equivalent to 4.77-5.69\u00a0log10 \u00a0CFU\u00a0g(-1) , calculated by qPCR using a standard curve of Aspergillus flavus. In pelleted feed, the level of fungal DNA was in average \u00b1\u00a00.07\u00a0log10 different from ground feed. Quantified by cultural methods, the fresh ground feeds contained up to 4.51\u00a0log10 \u00a0CFU\u00a0g(-1) culturable fungi, while there was <\u00a02.83\u00a0log10 \u00a0CFU\u00a0g(-1) detected in pelleted feeds. This result shows that, while the process of pelleting reduced the amount of living fungi dramatically, it did not affect the total fungal DNA in feed. Thus, the described methodology was able to reconstruct the fungal microbiota in feeds and reflected a considerable fungal contamination of raw materials such as grains."}
{"id": "25084656", "title": "Rapid detection of aflatoxin producing fungi in food by real-time quantitative loop-mediated isothermal amplification.", "content": "Rapid detection of aflatoxin producing fungi in food by real-time quantitative loop-mediated isothermal amplification. Aflatoxins represent a serious risk for human and animal health. They are mainly produced by Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus but also by Aspergillus nomius. Three species specific turbidimeter based real-time LAMP (loop-mediated isothermal amplification) assays were developed to quantify the three species individually in conidial solutions and to define contamination levels in samples of shelled Brazil nuts, maize, and peanuts. Standard curves relating spore numbers to time to threshold (Tt) values were set up for each of the species. Assays had detection limits of 10, 100 and 100 conidia per reaction of A.\u00a0flavus, A.\u00a0parasiticus, and A.\u00a0nomius, respectively. Analysis of contaminated sample materials revealed that the A.\u00a0nomius specific real-time LAMP assay detected a minimum of 10\u00a0conidia/g in Brazil nuts while assays specific for A.\u00a0flavus and A.\u00a0parasiticus had detection limits of 10(2)\u00a0conidia/g and 10(5)\u00a0conidia/g, respectively in peanut samples as well as 10(4)\u00a0conidia/g and 10(4)\u00a0conidia/g, respectively in samples of maize. The real-time LAMP assays developed here appear to be promising tools for the prediction of potential aflatoxigenic risk at an early stage and in all critical control points of the food and feed production chain."}
{"id": "25076075", "title": "Molecular determination of mixed infections of dermatophytes and nondermatophyte molds in individuals with onychomycosis.", "content": "Molecular determination of mixed infections of dermatophytes and nondermatophyte molds in individuals with onychomycosis. Reports of mixed infections with nondermatophyte molds (NDMs) and dermatophytes in onychomycosis are rare, possibly owing to the inhibition of NDM growth during traditional culture. We sought to determine the prevalence of mixed infections in onychomycosis using molecular identification. Molecular analyses were used to identify infecting organisms directly from at least two serial great toenail samples from each of the 44 patients. Mixed infections were present in 41% of the patients (18 of 44). A single coinfecting NDM was the most common mixed infection and was detected in 34% of patients with onychomycosis (15 of 44), with Fusarium oxysporum present in 14% (6 of 44), Scopulariopsis brevicaulis in 9% (4 of 44), Acremonium spp in 2% (1 of 44), Aspergillus spp in 4.5% (2 of 44), and Scytalidium spp in 4.5% (2 of 44). Mixed infections with two NDMs were found in 7% of patients (3 of 44). Mixed onychomycosis infections may be more prevalent than previously reported."}
{"id": "25072733", "title": "Incidence of Cyp51 A key mutations in Aspergillus fumigatus-a study on primary clinical samples of immunocompromised patients in the period of 1995-2013.", "content": "Incidence of Cyp51 A key mutations in Aspergillus fumigatus-a study on primary clinical samples of immunocompromised patients in the period of 1995-2013. As the incidence of azole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus is rising and the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) in immunocompromised patients is rarely based on positive culture yield, we screened our Aspergillus DNA sample collection for the occurrence of azole resistance mediating cyp51 A key mutations. Using two established, a modified and a novel polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays followed by DNA sequence analysis to detect the most frequent mutations in the A. fumigatus cyp51 A gene conferring azole resistance (TR34 (tandem repeat), L98H and M220 alterations). We analyzed two itraconazole and voriconazole and two multi-azole resistant clinical isolates and screened 181 DNA aliquots derived from clinical samples (blood, bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL), biopsies, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)) of 155 immunocompromised patients of our Aspergillus DNA sample collection, previously tested positive for Aspergillus DNA and collected between 1995 and 2013. Using a novel PCR assay for the detection of the cyp51 A 46 bp tandem repeat (TR46) directly from clinical samples, we found the alteration in a TR46/Y121F/T289A positive clinical isolate. Fifty stored DNA aliquots from clinical samples were TR46 negative. DNA sequence analysis revealed a single L98H mutation in 2010, two times the L98H alteration combined with TR34 in 2011 and 2012 and a so far unknown N90K mutation in 1998. In addition, four clinical isolates were tested positive for the TR34/L98H combination in the year 2012. We consider our assay of epidemiological relevance to detect A. fumigatus azole resistance in culture-negative clinical samples of immunocompromised patients; a prospective study is ongoing."}
{"id": "25072728", "title": "Characterization of fungal communities in house dust samples collected from central Portugal-a preliminary survey.", "content": "Characterization of fungal communities in house dust samples collected from central Portugal-a preliminary survey. House dust is a repository and concentrator of many chemical and biological agents including fungi. Considering that dust acts as a long-term reservoir of airborne fungi and that cumulative exposure is more relevant to potential health problems than single-day or short-term exposure, characterization of fungal communities in dust samples is of paramount importance. In the present study, the fungal composition of Portuguese house dust samples was determined. A total of 28 samples were obtained from vacuum cleaner deposits from households located in central Portugal. DNA was extracted from dust samples and fungal communities were analyzed using a culture-independent polymerase chain reaction (PCR)- denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) approach. Cultural analyses were also performed in order to identify the viable fungi species present in selected samples. Fungal diversity, reported as the number of operational taxonomic units (OTU), varied between 9 and 56 OTU. This analysis of viable fungi showed that Aspergillus was the most abundant genus, followed by Penicillium, Mucor, and Rhizomucor. Trichoderma, Chrysosporium, Fusarium, Rhizopus, and Stachybotrys were found in a limited number of houses. Our results demonstrated that dust is, in fact, home for a diverse and heterogeneous fungal community and that some of the species found are known allergic agents with severe negative impacts on human health."}
{"id": "25072712", "title": "Aspergillus flavus contamination in two Portuguese wastewater treatment plants.", "content": "Aspergillus flavus contamination in two Portuguese wastewater treatment plants. Filamentous fungi from genus Aspergillus were previously detected in wastewater treatment plants (WWTP) as being Aspergillus flavus (A. flavus), an important toxigenic fungus producing aflatoxins. This study aimed to determine occupational exposure adverse effects due to fungal contamination produced by A. flavus complex in two Portuguese WWTP using conventional and molecular methodologies. Air samples from two WWTP were collected at 1 m height through impaction method. Surface samples were collected by swabbing surfaces of the same indoor sites. After counting A. flavus and identification, detection of aflatoxin production was ensured through inoculation of seven inoculates in coconut-milk agar. Plates were examined under long-wave ultraviolet (UV; 365 nm) illumination to search for the presence of fluorescence in the growing colonies. To apply molecular methods, air samples were also collected using the impinger method. Samples were collected and collection liquid was subsequently used for DNA extraction. Molecular identification of A. flavus was achieved by real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using the Rotor-Gene 6000 qPCR detection system (Corbett). Among the Aspergillus genus, the species that were more abundant in air samples from both WWTP were Aspergillus versicolor (38%), Aspergillus candidus (29.1%), and Aspergillus sydowii (12.7%). However, the most commonly species found on surfaces were A. flavus (47.3%), Aspergillus fumigatus (34.4%), and Aspergillus sydowii (10.8%). Aspergillus flavus isolates that were inoculated in coconut agar medium were not identified as toxigenic strains and were not detected by RT-PCR in any of the analyzed samples from both plants. Data in this study indicate the need for monitoring fungal contamination in this setting. Although toxigenic strains were not detected from A. flavus complex, one cannot disregard the eventual presence and potential toxicity of aflatoxins."}
{"id": "25063549", "title": "Rapid and specific detection of section Fumigati and Aspergillus fumigatus in human samples using a new multiplex real-time PCR.", "content": "Rapid and specific detection of section Fumigati and Aspergillus fumigatus in human samples using a new multiplex real-time PCR. Invasive aspergillosis is an opportunistic infection caused primarily by Aspergillus fumigatus. However, other common fungal pathogens belonging to section Fumigati are often misidentified as A. fumigatus. Thus, we have developed a multiplex real-time PCR (qPCR) assay with primers and specific TaqMan probes based on internal transcribed spacer regions or benA gene to discriminate, in less than 3 h, species of section Fumigati and, specifically, A. fumigatus. The multiplex qPCR showed a limit of detection of 20 and 50 fg of DNA for section Fumigati and A. fumigatus, respectively. Moreover, it enabled detection of a single germinated conidia. The inclusion of some PCR facilitators together with the dilution of samples makes it possible to completely avoid PCR inhibitions in all bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples assayed. This technique may be a useful complementary tool in the diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis caused by A. fumigatus using BAL fluid."}
{"id": "25048233", "title": "Type III polyketide synthase is involved in the biosynthesis of protocatechuic acid in Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Type III polyketide synthase is involved in the biosynthesis of protocatechuic acid in Aspergillus niger. Genomic studies have shown that not only plants but also filamentous fungi contain type III polyketide synthases. To study the function of type III polyketide synthase (AnPKSIII) in Aspergillus niger, a deletion strain (delAnPKSIII) and an overexpression strain (oeAnPKSIII) were constructed in A. niger MA169.4, a derivative of the wild-type (WT) A. niger ATCC 9029 that produces large quantities of gluconic acid. Alterations in the metabolites were analyzed by HPLC when the extract of the overexpression strain was compared with extracts of the WT and deletion strains. Protocatechuic acid (PCA; 3,4-dihydroxybenzoic acid, 3.2\u00a0mg/l) was isolated and identified as the main product of AnPKSIII when inductively expressed in A. niger MA169.4. The molecular weight of PCA was 154.1 (m/z 153.1 [M-H](-)), was detected by ESI-MS in the negative ionization mode, and (1)H and (13)C NMR data confirmed its structure."}
{"id": "25043595", "title": "Enhanced bioremediation of soil from Tianjin, China, contaminated with polybrominated diethyl ethers.", "content": "Enhanced bioremediation of soil from Tianjin, China, contaminated with polybrominated diethyl ethers. This work aimed to evaluate the effectiveness of nutrients, H2O2, and tourmaline on the bioremediation of fields where the soil was contaminated with polybrominated diethyl ethers (PBDEs). The results showed that 39.2, 38.3, and 48.1 % of total PBDE removal was observed in microcosms with the addition of nutrients, such as NaNO3, NH4Cl, and NH4NO3, respectively, compared to only 15.2 and 5.8 % of PBDE removal from soil with added Aspergillus niger and control soil, respectively, after 50 days of incubation. In addition, 50.8 and 56.5 % of total PBDE removal were observed in microcosms with 0.5 and 1 \u03bcL H2O2. The addition of tourmaline increased total PBDE removal to 32.4 %. Significant increases in soil enzymatic activity with PBDE degraders and bacterial communities were observed using polymerase chain reaction (PCR)--denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). These observations suggested that the combination of inorganic nutrients with chemical, mineral, and biological treatment could improve the PBDE removal efficiency. However, the combination of H2O2 and biological treatment processes is the most efficient technology. This combination of technologies would not cause adverse effects on the subsequent bioremediation process. Therefore, this work offers a potential alternative for the remediation of soil contaminated with PBDE pollutants."}
{"id": "25036772", "title": "The use of real-time PCR to study Penicillium chrysogenum growth kinetics on solid food at different water activities.", "content": "The use of real-time PCR to study Penicillium chrysogenum growth kinetics on solid food at different water activities. Fungal growth on solid foods can make them unfit for human consumption, but certain specialty foods require fungi to produce their characteristic properties. In either case, a reliable way of measuring biomass is needed to study how various factors (e.g. water activity) affect fungal growth rates on these substrates. Biochemical markers such as chitin, glucosamine or ergosterol have been used to estimate fungal growth, but they cannot distinguish between individual species in mixed culture. In this study, a real-time polymerase chain reaction (rt-PCR) protocol specific for a target fungal species was used to quantify its DNA while growing on solid food. The measured amount of DNA was then related to the biomass present using an experimentally determined DNA-to-biomass ratio. The highly sensitive rt-PCR biomass assay was found to have a wide range, able to quantify the target DNA within a six orders-of-magnitude difference. The method was used to monitor germination and growth of Penicillium chrysogenum spores on a model porous food (cooked wheat flour) at 25\u00b0C and different water activities of 0.973, 0.936, and 0.843. No growth was observed at 0.843, but lag, exponential and stationary phases were identified in the growth curves for the higher water activities. The calculated specific growth rates (\u03bc) during the exponential phase were almost identical, at 0.075/h and 0.076/h for aw=0.973 and 0.936, respectively. The specificity of the method was demonstrated by measuring the biomass of P. chrysogenum while growing together with Aspergillus niger on solid media at aw=0.973."}
{"id": "25031443", "title": "Evaluation of a commercially developed semiautomated PCR-surface-enhanced raman scattering assay for diagnosis of invasive fungal disease.", "content": "Evaluation of a commercially developed semiautomated PCR-surface-enhanced raman scattering assay for diagnosis of invasive fungal disease. Nonculture-based tests are gaining popularity in the diagnosis of invasive fungal disease (IFD), but PCR is excluded from disease-defining criteria because of limited standardization and a lack of commercial assays. Commercial PCR assays may have a standardized methodology while providing quality assurance. The detection of PCR products by a surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS) assay potentially provides superior analytical sensitivity and multiplexing capacity compared to that of real-time PCR. Using this approach, the RenDx Fungiplex assay was developed to detect Candida and Aspergillus. Analytical and clinical evaluations of the assay were undertaken using extraction methods according to European Aspergillus PCR Initiative (EAPCRI) recommendations. A total of 195 previously extracted samples (133 plasma, 49 serum, and 13 whole blood) from 112 patients (29 with proven/probable IFD) were tested. The 95% limit of detection of Candida and Aspergillus was 200 copies per reaction, with an overall reproducibility of 92.1% for detecting 20 input copies per PCR, and 89.8% for the nucleic acid extraction-PCR-SERS process for detecting fungal burdens of <20 genome equivalents per sample. A clinical evaluation showed that assay positivity significantly correlated with IFD (P < 0.0001). The sensitivity of the assay was 82.8% and was similar for both Candida (80.0%) and Aspergillus (85.7%). The specificity was 87.5% and was increased (97.5%) by using a multiple (\u2265 2 samples) PCR-positive threshold. In summary, the RenDx Fungiplex assay is a PCR-SERS assay for diagnosing IFD and demonstrates promising clinical performance on a variety of samples. This was a retrospective clinical evaluation, and performance is likely to be enhanced through a prospective analysis of clinical validity and by determining clinical utility."}
{"id": "25023484", "title": "Performance of MycAssay Aspergillus DNA real-time PCR assay compared with the galactomannan detection assay for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis from serum samples.", "content": "Performance of MycAssay Aspergillus DNA real-time PCR assay compared with the galactomannan detection assay for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis from serum samples. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is a major problem in the immunocompromised population, and its diagnosis is difficult due to the low sensitivity of available tests. Detection of Aspergillus nucleic acid by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in serum samples is a promising diagnostic tool; however, use of multiple \"in-house\" methods precludes standardization. The first commercial PCR assay, MycAssay Aspergillus (Myconostica, Ltd), became available recently, and its performance in the diagnosis of IA was evaluated and compared with the galactomannan (GM) assay. Serum samples obtained from patients with hematological cancer were tested retrospectively with MycAssay Aspergillus PCR. Per-episode and per-test analyses were undertaken with 146 sera from 35 hematological patients. Sixteen patients had proven or probable IA and 19 had possible or no IA. In per-episode analysis, MycAssay Aspergillus had a sensitivity of 43.8% (95% confidence interval [CI], 19.8%-70.1%) and a specificity of 63.2% (95% CI, 38.4%-83.7%) for IA diagnosis. In per-test analyses, MycAssay Aspergillus had a lower specificity than the GM assay (83.3% vs. 93.1%, P = 0.04). The addition of PCR to routine clinical practice would have permitted the diagnosis of one additional probable IA in our cohort. Use of PCR instead of GM assay would have delayed the diagnosis in two cases. Aspergillus DNA detection by PCR with serum specimens using MycAssay showed a lower specificity than the GM assay and was associated with a low sensitivity for IA diagnosis. More studies are needed to determine the exact role of MycAssay in IA diagnosis in patients with hematological malignancy."}
{"id": "25011914", "title": "In vitro induction of apoptosis by isosclerone from marine-derived fungus Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "In vitro induction of apoptosis by isosclerone from marine-derived fungus Aspergillus fumigatus. In the present study, we investigated the apoptotic effects of isosclerone from marine-derived fungi on human breast cancer MCF-7 cells. Treatment with isosclerone exhibited a characteristic feature of apoptosis including significant cytotoxicity and DNA fragmentation in cancer cells. In addition, The apoptosis induction abilities of the isosclerone was studied by analyzing the expression of caspase-3, -8 and -9, Bcl-2 family, NF-\u03ba-B P50, P65, and IKK proteins. Western blot and RT-PCR analysis have indicated that isosclerone induce cancer cells apoptosis through down-regulated Bcl-2 family and up-regulated caspases, and activating the NF-\u03ba-B signaling pathway. Our data demonstrate that isosclerone specifically binds to crystal structure of apoptosis regulator BCL-2 and pseudo-activated procaspase-3 proteins through down-regulated Bcl-2 family and up-regulated caspases, and activating the NF-\u03ba-B signaling pathway. Our proof-of-principle study should have a positive impact on future drug discovery."}
{"id": "25007578", "title": "[Gene cloning, expression of a feruloyl esterase A and purification of its hydrolysis products].", "content": "[Gene cloning, expression of a feruloyl esterase A and purification of its hydrolysis products]. To express feruloyl esterase A from Aspergillus oryzae in Pichia pastoris expression system and study its hydrolysis function, explore the conditions and effects of purification for ferulic acid extracts by macroporos resin. Using the total RNA from A. oryzae CICC 40186 as the template, we amplified coding sequence AorfaeA encoding a mature feruloyl esterase A (AorFaeA) by RT-PCR technique. Then, the coding sequence AorfaeA was successfully expressed in Pichia pastoris GS115 mediated by an expression plasmid pPIC9K. The purified recombinant AorFaeA (reAorFaeA) showed one single band on SDS-PAGE with an apparent molecular weight of 39.0 kDa. The maximum activity of reAorFaeA to methyl ferulate, measured by high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), was 58.35 U/mg. Then, reAorFaeA was used to release ferulic acid from de-starched wheat bran in the presence of xylanase. The purification tests for ferulic acid from the enzymatic hydrolysate were carried out with preselected macroporous resins. The results showed that macroporous resin HPD-300 had much higher adsorption and desorption capacities. Ferulic acid could be quantitatively recovered by 50% of the eluent concentration at a flow speed of 1 mL/min. Under the purification condition, the recovery ratio of ferulic acid was 92%, and the content of ferulic acid was increased from 0.13% in the raw material to 10.55%. This work exploits the breakdown of ferulic acid by recombinant enzymeand provids a good strategy to its \"green production\"."}
{"id": "25006238", "title": "Multi-azole-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus in the environment in Tanzania.", "content": "Multi-azole-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus in the environment in Tanzania. Azole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus isolates has been increasingly reported with variable prevalence worldwide and is challenging the effective management of aspergillosis. Here we report the coexistence of both TR\u2083\u2084/L98H and TR\u2084\u2086/Y121F/T289A resistance mechanisms in azole-resistant A. fumigatus (ARAF) isolates originating from Tanzania, Africa. A total of 30 soil and woody debris samples from the surroundings of Kilimanjaro Christian Medical Centre, Moshi, Tanzania, were processed for detection of ARAF isolates and were investigated for susceptibility to itraconazole, voriconazole, posaconazole and isavuconazole. All ARAF isolates were subjected to a real-time PCR assay for detection of mutations and were genotyped by microsatellite typing. Of the 30 samples, 29 yielded 108 A. fumigatus isolates. Overall, 15 ARAF isolates were obtained, which included 4 ARAF harbouring the TR\u2084\u2086/Y121F/T289A mutation and 11 isolates carrying TR\u2083\u2084/L98H. All four TR\u2084\u2086/Y121F/T289A A. fumigatus isolates showed high MICs of voriconazole (>16 mg/L) and isavuconazole (8 mg/L). In contrast, the 11 TR\u2083\u2084/L98H A. fumigatus isolates were pan-azole resistant. The isolates were cross-resistant to azole fungicides. Notably, 20% of environmental samples harboured ARAF and the TR\u2084\u2086/Y121F/T289A resistance mechanism was found in 5.5% of the soil samples, where it coexisted with TR\u2083\u2084/L98H. The Tanzanian TR\u2084\u2086/Y121F/T289A strains had a genotype identical to Dutch clinical TR\u2084\u2086/Y121F/T289A isolates. The present study reports the isolation of resistant A. fumigatus strains harbouring the TR\u2084\u2086/Y121F/T289A mutation from Africa. Recovery of TR\u2084\u2086/Y121F/T289A from the environment is worrisome and we must strive for effective surveillance of clinical and environmental sources to detect azole resistance in A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "24990760", "title": "[Discrimination of Aspergillus flavus group fungi using phylogenetic tree analysis and multiplex PCR].", "content": "[Discrimination of Aspergillus flavus group fungi using phylogenetic tree analysis and multiplex PCR]. We describe a simple method for discrimination of Aspergillus flavus group fungi, including aflatoxin (AF) producers, by means of molecular-biological analysis of 45 strains of A. flavus. First, 20 strains of A. flavus were compared using phylogenetic tree analysis based on the nucleotide sequences of ITS 1-5.8S-ITS 2 (ITS-1/2) and aflR-aflJ intergenic spacer (aflR/J-IGS). In this analysis, the tested strains were discriminated into 4 groups at the aflR/J-IGS region. Although ITS-1/2 region analysis could not discriminate between A. flavus (AF producers) and A. oryzae/A. flavus (AF nonproducers), aflR/J-IGS region analysis could discriminate between these groups. Moreover, 45 strains of A. flavus were compared by means of both phylogenetic tree analysis based on the aflR/J-IGS region and the conventional aflatoxin production test (culture method). The phylogenetic tree analysis of the tested strains was consistent with the findings of the culture method. In addition, 49 strains of A. flavus and related species (Aspergillus spp.) were tested by multiplex PCR with primers designed on the basis of the phylogenetic tree analysis. These results were consistent with phylogenetic tree analysis based on the aflR/J-IGS region for 41 strains."}
{"id": "24987100", "title": "Comparison of four automated nucleic acid extraction platforms for the recovery of DNA from Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Comparison of four automated nucleic acid extraction platforms for the recovery of DNA from Aspergillus fumigatus. Invasive aspergillosis is a significant cause of morbidity and mortality within at-risk groups. Directed antifungal chemotherapy, guided by effective screening algorithms that incorporate reliable and validated molecular assays, reduces the morbidity associated with empirical administration and allows earlier diagnosis. The efficient extraction of nucleic acid from Aspergillus fumigatus is the main limiting factor for successful Aspergillus PCR from clinical specimens. With the integration of automated extraction platforms, assessment of the suitability of these platforms for specific targets is of paramount importance. In this study, four extraction robots (Applied Biosystems MagMAX, bioM\u00e9rieux easyMAG, Qiagen EZ1 and Roche MagNA Pure LC) were evaluated for their ability to extract clinically significant levels of A. fumigatus from blood. All of the platforms could detect 10(1) c.f.u. ml(-1) from EDTA whole blood, although only the easyMAG, EZ1 and MagNA Pure had 100\u200a% reproducibility at this level. Despite good analytical sensitivity, contamination associated with the easyMAG platform excluded its use for diagnostic Aspergillus PCR. The EZ1 and MagNA Pure platforms demonstrated equivalent high sensitivity and negative predictive values (97.4-100\u200a%), essential for screening assays."}
{"id": "24986679", "title": "Safety evaluation of filamentous fungi isolated from industrial doenjang koji.", "content": "Safety evaluation of filamentous fungi isolated from industrial doenjang koji. A few starters have been developed and used for doenjang fermentation but often without safety evaluation. Filamentous fungi were isolated from industrial doenjang koji, and their potential for mycotoxin production was evaluated. Two fungi were isolated; one was more dominantly present (90%). Both greenish (SNU-G) and whitish (SNU-W) fungi showed 97% and 95% internal transcribed spacer sequence identities to Aspergillus oryzae/flavus, respectively. However, the SmaI digestion pattern of their genomic DNA suggested that both belong to A. oryzae. Moreover, both fungi had morphological characteristics similar to that of A. oryzae. SNU-G and SNU-W did not form sclerotia, which is a typical characteristic of A. oryzae. Therefore, both fungi were identified to be A. oryzae. In aflatoxin gene cluster analysis, both fungi had norB-cypA genes similar to that of A. oryzae. Consistent with this, aflatoxins were not detected in SNU-G and SNU-W using ammonia vapor, TLC, and HPLC analyses. Both fungi seemed to have a whole cyclopiazonic acid (CPA) gene cluster based on PCR of the maoA, dmaT, and pks-nrps genes, which are key genes for CPA biosynthesis. However, CPA was not detected in TLC and HPLC analyses. Therefore, both fungi seem to be safe to use as doenjang koji starters and may be suitable fungal candidates for further development of starters for traditional doenjang fermentation."}
{"id": "24986045", "title": "Multilocus variable-number tandem-repeat analysis of clinical isolates of Aspergillus flavus from Iran reveals the first cases of Aspergillus minisclerotigenes associated with human infection.", "content": "Multilocus variable-number tandem-repeat analysis of clinical isolates of Aspergillus flavus from Iran reveals the first cases of Aspergillus minisclerotigenes associated with human infection. Aspergillus flavus is intensively studied for its role in infecting crop plants and contaminating produce with aflatoxin, but its role as a human pathogen is less well understood. In parts of the Middle East and India, A. flavus surpasses A. fumigatus as a cause of invasive aspergillosis and is a significant cause of cutaneous, sinus, nasal and nail infections. A collection of 45 clinical and 10 environmental A. flavus isolates from Iran were analysed using Variable-Number Tandem-Repeat (VNTR) markers with MICROSAT and goeBURST to determine their genetic diversity and their relatedness to clinical and environmental A. flavus isolates from Australia. Phylogeny was assessed using partial \u03b2-tubulin and calmodulin gene sequencing, and mating type was determined by PCR. Antifungal susceptibility testing was performed on selected isolates using a reference microbroth dilution method. There was considerable diversity in the A. flavus collection, with no segregation on goeBURST networks according to source or geographic location. Three Iranian isolates, two from sinus infections and one from a paranasal infection grouped with Aspergillus minisclerotigenes, and all produced B and G aflatoxin. Phylogenic analysis using partial \u03b2-tubulin and calmodulin sequencing confirmed two of these as A. minisclerotigenes, while the third could not be differentiated from A. flavus and related species within Aspergillus section flavi. Based on epidemiological cut-off values, the A. minisclerotigens and A. flavus isolates tested were susceptible to commonly used antifungal drugs. This is the first report of human infection due to A. minisclerotigenes, and it raises the possiblity that other species within Aspergillus section flavi may also cause clinical disease. Clinical isolates of A. flavus from Iran are not distinct from Australian isolates, indicating local environmental, climatic or host features, rather than fungal features, govern the high incidence of A. flavus infection in this region. The results of this study have important implications for biological control strategies that aim to reduce aflatoxin by the introduction of non-toxigenic strains, as potentially any strain of A. flavus, and closely related species like A. minisclerotigenes, might be capable of human infection."}
{"id": "24982319", "title": "Molecular and nonmolecular diagnostic methods for invasive fungal infections.", "content": "Molecular and nonmolecular diagnostic methods for invasive fungal infections. Invasive fungal infections constitute a serious threat to an ever-growing population of immunocompromised individuals and other individuals at risk. Traditional diagnostic methods, such as histopathology and culture, which are still considered the gold standards, have low sensitivity, which underscores the need for the development of new means of detecting fungal infectious agents. Indeed, novel serologic and molecular techniques have been developed and are currently under clinical evaluation. Tests like the galactomannan antigen test for aspergillosis and the \u03b2-glucan test for invasive Candida spp. and molds, as well as other antigen and antibody tests, for Cryptococcus spp., Pneumocystis spp., and dimorphic fungi, have already been established as important diagnostic approaches and are implemented in routine clinical practice. On the other hand, PCR and other molecular approaches, such as matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization (MALDI) and fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH), have proved promising in clinical trials but still need to undergo standardization before their clinical use can become widespread. The purpose of this review is to highlight the different diagnostic approaches that are currently utilized or under development for invasive fungal infections and to identify their performance characteristics and the challenges associated with their use."}
{"id": "24977681", "title": "Role of bronchoalveolar lavage in the diagnosis of pulmonary infiltrates in immunocompromised patients.", "content": "Role of bronchoalveolar lavage in the diagnosis of pulmonary infiltrates in immunocompromised patients. To describe the role of bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) in the evaluation of pulmonary disease in immunocompromised patients. Recent discoveries in this field are largely in two areas: the array of diagnostic testing performed on BAL fluid and technical details that can enhance the yield from this procedure. Regarding diagnostic testing, the addition of new assays, including Aspergillus galactomannan antigen assay, respiratory viral panels, and Pneumocystis jirovecii PCR, has improved the diagnostic yield of BAL over conventional cultures and stains. To improve the diagnostic yield of the procedure itself, it should be done early in the clinical course, with the BAL in the anatomic area most affected, and with a preprocedural computed tomography of the chest to properly plan the procedure. Bronchoscopic evaluation with BAL can provide important diagnostic information in immunocompromised patients with pulmonary diseases and should be routinely performed when clinically indicated and able to be completed safely."}
{"id": "24973064", "title": "Indigenous bacteria and fungi drive traditional kimoto sake fermentations.", "content": "Indigenous bacteria and fungi drive traditional kimoto sake fermentations. Sake (Japanese rice wine) production is a complex, multistage process in which fermentation is performed by a succession of mixed fungi and bacteria. This study employed high-throughput rRNA marker gene sequencing, quantitative PCR, and terminal restriction fragment length polymorphism to characterize the bacterial and fungal communities of spontaneous sake production from koji to product as well as brewery equipment surfaces. Results demonstrate a dynamic microbial succession, with koji and early moto fermentations dominated by Bacillus, Staphylococcus, and Aspergillus flavus var. oryzae, succeeded by Lactobacillus spp. and Saccharomyces cerevisiae later in the fermentations. The microbiota driving these fermentations were also prevalent in the production environment, illustrating the reservoirs and routes for microbial contact in this traditional food fermentation. Interrogating the microbial consortia of production environments in parallel with food products is a valuable approach for understanding the complete ecology of food production systems and can be applied to any food system, leading to enlightened perspectives for process control and food safety."}
{"id": "24936792", "title": "Enzymatic treatment of specimens before DNA extraction directly influences molecular detection of infectious agents.", "content": "Enzymatic treatment of specimens before DNA extraction directly influences molecular detection of infectious agents. Biological samples, pharmaceuticals or food contain proteins, lipids, polymers, ammoniums and macromolecules that alter the detection of infectious agents by DNA amplification techniques (PCR). Moreover the targeted DNA has to be released from the complex cell walls and the compact nucleoprotein matrixes and cleared from potential inhibitors. The goal of the present work was to assess the efficiency of enzymatic pretreatments on infectious agents to make DNA available for further extraction and amplification. Staphylococcus epidermidis, Streptococcus mitis, Propionibacterium acnes, Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Candida albicans, Aspergillus niger and Fusarium solani were mixed with an internal control virus and treated with: 1) proteinase K; 2) lyticase and 3) lyticase followed by proteinase K. DNAs was manually extracted using the QIAmp DNA Mini kit or the MagNA Pure Compact automate. DNA extraction yields and the inhibitors were assessed with a phocid Herpesvirus. Bacterial detection was performed using TaqMan real-time PCR and yeasts and filamentous Fungi with HRM (real-time PCR followed by high-resolution melting analysis). Viral DNA was released, extracted and detected using manual and automatic methods without pre enzymatic treatments. Either the manual or the automatic DNA extraction systems did not meet the sensitivity expectations if enzymatic treatments were not performed before: lyticase for Fungi and Proteinase K for Bacteria. The addition of lyticase and proteinase K did not improve results. For Fungi the detection after lyticase was higher than for Proteinase K, for which melting analysis did not allow fungal specification. Columns and magnetic beads allowed collecting DNA and separate PCR inhibitors. Detection rates cannot be related to DNA-avidity of beads or to elution but to the lack of proteolysis."}
{"id": "24931137", "title": "Quantity and diversity of environmental microbial exposure and development of asthma: a birth cohort study.", "content": "Quantity and diversity of environmental microbial exposure and development of asthma: a birth cohort study. Early-life exposure to environmental microbial agents may be associated with the development of allergies. The aim of the study was to identify better ways to characterize microbial exposure as a predictor of respiratory symptoms and allergies. A birth cohort of 410 children was followed up until 6\u00a0years of age. Bacterial endotoxin, 3-hydroxy fatty acids, N-acetyl-muramic acid, fungal extracellular polysaccharides (EPS) from Penicillium and Aspergillus spp., \u03b2-D-glucan, ergosterol, and bacterial or fungal quantitative polymerase chain reactions (qPCRs) were analyzed from dust samples collected at 2\u00a0months of age. Asthma, wheezing, cough, and atopic dermatitis were assessed using repeated questionnaires. Specific IgEs were determined at the age of 1 and 6\u00a0years. Only few associations were found between single microbial markers and the studied outcomes. In contrast, a score for the total quantity of microbial exposure, that is, sum of indicators for fungi (ergosterol), Gram-positive (muramic acid) bacteria, and Gram-negative (endotoxin) bacteria, was significantly (inverted-U shape) associated with asthma incidence (P\u00a0<\u00a00.001): the highest risk was found at medium levels (adjusted odds ratio (aOR) 2.24, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 0.87-5.75 for 3rd quintile) and the lowest risk at the highest level (aOR 0.34, 95% CI 0.09-1.36 for 5th quintile). The microbial diversity score, that is, sum of detected qPCRs, was inversely associated with risk of wheezing and was significantly (inverted-U shape) associated with sensitization to inhalant allergens. Score for quantity of microbial exposure predicted asthma better than single microbial markers independently of microbial diversity and amount of dust. Better indicators of total quantity and diversity of microbial exposure are needed in studies on the development of asthma."}
{"id": "24927411", "title": "Novel telomere-anchored PCR approach for studying sexual stage telomeres in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Novel telomere-anchored PCR approach for studying sexual stage telomeres in Aspergillus nidulans. Telomere length varies between germline and somatic cells of the same organism, leading to the hypothesis that telomeres are lengthened during meiosis. However, little is known about the meiotic telomere length in many organisms. In the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans, the telomere lengths in hyphae and asexual spores are invariant. No study using existing techniques has determined the telomere length of the sexual ascospores due to the relatively low abundance of pure meiotic cells in A. nidulans and the small quantity of DNA present. To address this, we developed a simple and sensitive PCR strategy to measure the telomere length of A. nidulans meiotic cells. This novel technique, termed \"telomere-anchored PCR,\" measures the length of the telomere on chromosome II-L using a small fraction of the DNA required for the traditional terminal restriction fragment (TRF) Southern analysis. Using this approach, we determined that the A. nidulans ascospore telomere length is virtually identical to telomeres of other cell types from this organism, approximately 110 bp, indicating that a surprisingly strict telomere length regulation exists in the major cell types of A. nidulans. When the hyphal telomeres were measured in a telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) knockout strain, small decreases in length were readily detected. Thus, this technique can detect telomeres in relatively rare cell types and is particularly sensitive in measuring exceptionally short telomeres. This rapid and inexpensive telomere-anchored PCR method potentially can be utilized in other filamentous fungi and types of organisms."}
{"id": "24915853", "title": "Evaluation of noninvasive methods for the diagnosis of fungal endocarditis.", "content": "Evaluation of noninvasive methods for the diagnosis of fungal endocarditis. Fungal endocarditis (FE) is an uncommon disease with a high risk of morbidity and mortality. Here, we evaluated the different methods for diagnosing this infection. Cardiac valve, vegetation, and embolic materials obtained during surgery were examined for fungal infections by direct smear and culture. At least two blood samples were inoculated at the bedside into BACTEC medium. Galactomannan, mannan Ag enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay were performed with serum samples. Of 25 patients with suspected infective endocarditis (IE), 8 were found to have proven FE according to the direct culture results. The etiologic agents were Aspergillus niger (three cases), A. flavus (two cases), A. fumigatus (one case), and Candida albicans (two cases). Blood culture was positive in only 1 case. The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, and positive and negative likelihood ratios of the results from the galactomannan test were 83.3%, 84.2%, 62.5%, 94.1%, 5.3, and 0.2; these same values, obtained from real-time PCR, were 87.5%, 94.4%, 87.5%, 94.4%, 15.6, and 0.14, respectively. Because mannan antigen was positive in samples from only one patient, we opted not to calculate the sensitivity. However, the specificity value in 23 cases without IE caused by Candida spp. was 100%. Based on our results, both the galactomannan test and real-time PCR can serve as reliable, noninvasive tests for the diagnosis of FE, compared with culture, which is considered to be the gold standard."}
{"id": "24906064", "title": "Occurrence of triazole-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus with TR34/L98H mutations in outdoor and hospital environment in Kuwait.", "content": "Occurrence of triazole-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus with TR34/L98H mutations in outdoor and hospital environment in Kuwait. Invasive aspergillosis due to triazole-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus, a common airborne fungal pathogen, has emerged in some European and Asian countries, likely due to exposure to azole fungicides in the environment. This study determined the occurrence of triazole-resistant A. fumigatus in outdoor and hospital environment in Kuwait, a semi-arid desert country in Arabian Peninsula. Outdoor/indoor air, water and cotton swab samples were cultured on malt extract agar and A. fumigatus colonies were identified by phenotypic and molecular methods. Drug susceptibility of A. fumigatus isolates to itraconazole, posaconazole and voriconazole was carried out by an Etest and a broth microdilution method. Resistance mechanisms involving cyp51A mutations were probed by mixed-format real-time (MF-rt)-PCR assays. Triazole-resistant isolates were typed by nine-locus microsatellite analysis. A multiplex allele-specific (MAS)-PCR assay was developed for detection of L98H mutation in cyp51A. Of 115 A. fumigatus isolates obtained from 362 environmental samples from across Kuwait, 8 isolates were resistant to itraconazole, posaconazole and voriconazole. All itraconazole-resistant isolates contained a 34-bp tandem repeat (TR34) in the promoter region and a L98H mutation at codon 98 (TR34/L98H) in cyp51A. These mutations were absent in all itraconazole-susceptible isolates. MAS-PCR accurately detected L98H mutation in all triazole-resistant isolates. Three microsatellite patterns were observed among resistant isolates with one pattern clustering with Indian clinical and environmental isolates. Triazole-resistant A. fumigatus with TR34/L98H mutations in cyp51A is prevalent in Kuwait. Although triazole-resistant A. fumigatus has not yet been isolated from clinical specimens, its presence in the environment suggests that the possibility of susceptible individuals getting infected with such strains exists and may pose therapeutic challenges in its management."}
{"id": "24893651", "title": "A novel, nested, multiplex, real-time PCR for detection of bacteria and fungi in blood.", "content": "A novel, nested, multiplex, real-time PCR for detection of bacteria and fungi in blood. The study describes the application of the PCR method for the simultaneous detection of DNA of Gram-negative bacteria, Gram-positive bacteria, yeast fungi and filamentous fungi in blood and, thus, a whole range of microbial etiological agents that may cause sepsis. Material for the study was sterile blood inoculated with four species of microorganisms (Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Candida albicans and Aspergillus fumigatus) and blood collected from patients with clinical symptoms of sepsis. The developed method is based on nested-multiplex real-time PCR . Analysis of the obtained data shows that sensitivity of nested-multiplex real-time PCR remained at the level of 10(1) CFU/ml for each of the four studied species of microorganisms and the percentage of positive results of the examined blood samples from the patients was 70% and 19% for the microbiological culture method. The designed primers correctly typed the studied species as belonging to the groups of Gram-positive bacteria, Gram-negative bacteria, yeast fungi, or filamentous fungi. Results obtained by us indicated that the designed PCR methods: (1) allow to detect bacteria in whole blood samples, (2) are much more sensitive than culture method, (3) allow differentiation of the main groups of microorganisms within a few hours."}
{"id": "24887637", "title": "Antifungal activity and identification of Lactobacilli, isolated from traditional dairy product \"katak\".", "content": "Antifungal activity and identification of Lactobacilli, isolated from traditional dairy product \"katak\". Filamentous moulds are the main spoilage microorganisms, responsible for significant economic losses and several healthy risks in human food chain. The lactic acid bacteria (LAB), especially lactobacilli could be a natural antagonist of these dangerous organisms. In Bulgaria, a very limited data exists on the antifungal activity of LAB microbiota of fermented dairy products. In the present study, four active strains were isolated from traditional fermented curd/yogurt-like product \"katak\", produced in Bulgaria from centuries. The new isolates KR3, KR4, KR51 and KR53 were identified by API 50 CH biochemical test and different molecular methods (species-specific PCR, RAPD-PCR and 16S rDNA sequence analysis) as Lactobacillus brevis. According to our knowledge, this is the first data on the molecular characterization of the Lactobacillus microbiota of \"katak\". A broad spectrum of antifungal activity of the four L.\u00a0brevis KR strains against test-cultures representatives of carcinogenic, toxigenic, deteriorative and allergenic fungi from the genera Aspergillus, Fusarium, Penicillium and Trichoderma was estimated. Strains L.\u00a0brevis KR3, KR4 and KR51 completely suppress the growth of Penicillium claviforme, Aspergillus awamori and Aspergillus niger. With regard to Aspergillus flavus and Trichoderma viride, a lower and strain-specific inhibitory activity was observed. The antifungal activity of our new L.\u00a0brevis isolates seems to be a promising advantage of these four strains, suggesting their potential applications in different food technologies as bio-preservative agents against moulds."}
{"id": "24886193", "title": "Genetically shaping morphology of the filamentous fungus Aspergillus glaucus for production of antitumor polyketide aspergiolide A.", "content": "Genetically shaping morphology of the filamentous fungus Aspergillus glaucus for production of antitumor polyketide aspergiolide A. For filamentous fungi, the basic growth unit of hyphae usually makes it sensitive to shear stress which is generated from mechanical force and dynamic fluid in bioreactor, and it severely decreases microbial productions. The conventional strategies against shear-sensitive conundrum in fungal fermentation usually focus on adapting agitation, impeller type and bioreactor configuration, which brings high cost and tough work in industry. This study aims to genetically shape shear resistant morphology of shear-sensitive filamentous fungus Aspergillus glaucus to make it adapt to bioreactor so as to establish an efficient fermentation process. Hyphal morphology shaping by modifying polarized growth genes of A. glaucus was applied to reduce its shear-sensitivity and enhance aspergiolide A production. Degenerate PCR and genome walking were used to obtain polarized growth genes AgkipA and AgteaR, followed by construction of gene-deficient mutants by homologous integration of double crossover. Deletion of both genes caused meandering hyphae, for which, \u0394AgkipA led to small but intense curves comparing with \u0394AgteaR by morphology analysis. The germination of a second germ tube from conidiospore of the mutants became random while colony growth and development almost maintained the same. Morphology of \u0394AgkipA and \u0394AgteaR mutants turned to be compact pellet and loose clump in liquid culture, respectively. The curved hyphae of both mutants showed no remarkably resistant to glass bead grinding comparing with the wild type strain. However, they generated greatly different broth rheology which further caused growth and metabolism variations in bioreactor fermentations. By forming pellets, the \u0394AgkipA mutant created a tank environment with low-viscosity, low shear stress and high dissolved oxygen tension, leading to high production of aspergiolide A (121.7\u2009\u00b1\u20092.3\u00a0mg/L), which was 82.2% higher than the wild type. A new strategy for shaping fungal morphology by modifying polarized growth genes was applied in submerged fermentation in bioreactor. This work provides useful information of shaping fungal morphology for submerged fermentation by genetically modification, which could be valuable for morphology improvement of industrial filamentous fungi."}
{"id": "24885088", "title": "Characterization of Aspergillus species on Brazil nut from the Brazilian Amazonian region and development of a PCR assay for identification at the genus level.", "content": "Characterization of Aspergillus species on Brazil nut from the Brazilian Amazonian region and development of a PCR assay for identification at the genus level. Brazil nut is a protein-rich extractivist tree crop in the Amazon region. Fungal contamination of shells and kernel material frequently includes the presence of aflatoxigenic Aspergillus species from the section Flavi. Aflatoxins are polyketide secondary metabolites, which are hepatotoxic carcinogens in mammals. The objectives of this study were to identify Aspergillus species occurring on Brazil nut grown in different states in the Brazilian Amazon region and develop a specific PCR method for collective identification of member species of the genus Aspergillus. Polyphasic identification of 137 Aspergillus strains isolated from Brazil nut shell material from cooperatives across the Brazilian Amazon states of Acre, Amap\u00e1 and Amazonas revealed five species, with Aspergillus section Flavi species A. nomius and A. flavus the most abundant. PCR primers ASP_GEN_MTSSU_F1 and ASP_GEN_MTSSU_R1 were designed for the genus Aspergillus, targeting a portion of the mitochondrial small subunit ribosomal RNA gene. Primer specificity was validated through both electronic PCR against target gene sequences at Genbank and in PCR reactions against DNA from Aspergillus species and other fungal genera common on Brazil nut. Collective differentiation of the observed section Flavi species A. flavus, A. nomius and A. tamarii from other Aspergillus species was possible on the basis of RFLP polymorphism. Given the abundance of Aspergillus section Flavi species A. nomius and A. flavus observed on Brazil nut, and associated risk of mycotoxin accumulation, simple identification methods for such mycotoxigenic species are of importance for Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point system implementation. The assay for the genus Aspergillus represents progress towards specific PCR identification and detection of mycotoxigenic species."}
{"id": "24879544", "title": "Zn-driven discovery of a hydrothermal vent fungal metabolite clavatustide C, and an experimental study of the anti-cancer mechanism of clavatustide B.", "content": "Zn-driven discovery of a hydrothermal vent fungal metabolite clavatustide C, and an experimental study of the anti-cancer mechanism of clavatustide B. A naturally new cyclopeptide, clavatustide C, was produced as a stress metabolite in response to abiotic stress elicitation by one of the hydrothermal vent fluid components Zn in the cultured mycelia of Aspergillus clavatus C2WU, which were isolated from Xenograpsus testudinatus. X. testudinatus lives at extreme, toxic habitat around the sulphur-rich hydrothermal vents in Taiwan Kueishantao. The known compound clavatustide B was also isolated and purified. This is the first example of a new hydrothermal vent microbial secondary metabolite produced in response to abiotic Zn treatment. The structures were established by spectroscopic means. The regulation of G1-S transition in hepatocellular carcinoma cell lines by clavatustide B was observed in our previous study. The purpose of the present study was to verify these results in other types of cancer cell lines and elucidate the possible molecular mechanism for the anti-cancer activities of clavatustide B. In different human cancer cell lines, including pancreatic cancer (Panc-1), gastric cancer (MGC-803), colorectal cancer (SW-480), retinoblastoma (WERI-Rb-1) and prostate cancer (PC3), clavatustide B efficiently suppressed cell proliferations in a dose-dependent manner. Although different cancer cell lines presented variety in Max effect dose and IC50 dose, all cancer cell lines showed a lower Max effect dose and IC50 dose compared with human fibroblasts (hFB) (p < 0.05). Moreover, significant accumulations in G1 phases and a reduction in S phases (p < 0.05) were observed under clavatustide B treatment. The expression levels of 2622 genes including 39 cell cycle-associated genes in HepG2 cells were significantly altered by the treatment with 15 \u03bcg/mL clavatustide B after 48 h. CCNE2 (cyclin E2) was proved to be the key regulator of clavatustide B-induced G1-S transition blocking in several cancer cell lines by using real-time PCR."}
{"id": "24879349", "title": "Molecular characterization of atoxigenic Aspergillus flavus isolates collected in China.", "content": "Molecular characterization of atoxigenic Aspergillus flavus isolates collected in China. Aspergillus flavus strains were isolated from peanut fields of Liaoning, Shandong, Hubei and Guangdong Provinces in China, and identified through phenotypic and molecular approaches. Of the 323 A. flavus strains isolated, 76 strains did not produce aflatoxins detectable by UPLC. The incidence of atoxigenic A. flavus strains decreased with increase in temperature and increased with increase in latitude in different geographical locations. Amplification of all the aflatoxin genes in the aflatoxin gene cluster in the atoxigenic isolates showed that there were 25 deletion patterns (A-Y), with 22 deletion patterns identified for the first time. Most of the atoxigenic A. flavus isolates with gene deletions (97%) had deletions in at least one of the four genes (aflT, nor-1, aflR, and hypB), indicating that these four genes could be targeted for rapid identification of atoxigenic strains. The atoxigenic isolates with gene deletions, especially the isolates with large deletions, are potential candidates for aflatoxin control."}
{"id": "24870357", "title": "Gene expression profiles of human dendritic cells interacting with Aspergillus fumigatus in a bilayer model of the alveolar epithelium/endothelium interface.", "content": "Gene expression profiles of human dendritic cells interacting with Aspergillus fumigatus in a bilayer model of the alveolar epithelium/endothelium interface. The initial stages of the interaction between the host and Aspergillus fumigatus at the alveolar surface of the human lung are critical in the establishment of aspergillosis. Using an in vitro bilayer model of the alveolus, including both the epithelium (human lung adenocarcinoma epithelial cell line, A549) and endothelium (human pulmonary artery epithelial cells, HPAEC) on transwell membranes, it was possible to closely replicate the in vivo conditions. Two distinct sub-groups of dendritic cells (DC), monocyte-derived DC (moDC) and myeloid DC (mDC), were included in the model to examine immune responses to fungal infection at the alveolar surface. RNA in high quantity and quality was extracted from the cell layers on the transwell membrane to allow gene expression analysis using tailored custom-made microarrays, containing probes for 117 immune-relevant genes. This microarray data indicated minimal induction of immune gene expression in A549 alveolar epithelial cells in response to germ tubes of A. fumigatus. In contrast, the addition of DC to the system greatly increased the number of differentially expressed immune genes. moDC exhibited increased expression of genes including CLEC7A, CD209 and CCL18 in the absence of A. fumigatus compared to mDC. In the presence of A. fumigatus, both DC subgroups exhibited up-regulation of genes identified in previous studies as being associated with the exposure of DC to A. fumigatus and exhibiting chemotactic properties for neutrophils, including CXCL2, CXCL5, CCL20, and IL1B. This model closely approximated the human alveolus allowing for an analysis of the host pathogen interface that complements existing animal models of IA."}
{"id": "24853527", "title": "An evaluation of aflatoxin and cyclopiazonic acid production in Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "An evaluation of aflatoxin and cyclopiazonic acid production in Aspergillus oryzae. To date, edible fungi such as Aspergillus flavus var. oryzae (A. oryzae) has been considered as safe. However, some strains can produce mycotoxins. Thus, the biosynthetic ability to produce mycotoxins should be reevaluated to determine the safety of edible fungi. We analyzed the production of aflatoxins and cyclopiazonic acid (CPA) from edible fungi such as A. oryzae isolated from various Korean foods using multiplex PCR, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). In the multiplex PCR analysis of aflatoxin biosynthetic genes omtB, aflR, ver-1, and omtA, 5 of 19 Aspergillus strains produced all PCR products. Among them, aflatoxin B1 and aflatoxin B2 were detected from only A. flavus KACC 41403 by HPLC. Aflatoxins were not detected from the other four strains that produced all positive PCR bands. Aflatoxin also was not detected from 12 strains that had PCR patterns without aflR or ver-1 and from 2 strains that did not produce any of the expected PCR products. Only the seven A. oryzae strains that produced all of the positive PCR bands including the CPA biosynthetic genes maoA, dmaT, and pks-nrps produced CPA. CPA and aflatoxin production must be evaluated before A. oryzae strains are used for the development of fermented foods."}
{"id": "24835742", "title": "Evaluation of glycosyl hydrolases from thermophilic fungi for their potential in bioconversion of alkali and biologically treated Parthenium hysterophorus weed and rice straw into ethanol.", "content": "Evaluation of glycosyl hydrolases from thermophilic fungi for their potential in bioconversion of alkali and biologically treated Parthenium hysterophorus weed and rice straw into ethanol. The aim of this work was to evaluate glycosyl hydrolases produced by diverse thermophilic fungal strains for saccharification of alkali and biologically (Trametes hirusita/Myrothecium roridum) treated Parthenium hysterophorus and rice straw. The compositional analysis of hydrolysates by HPLC showed distinct profiles of hexose, pentose and oligomeric sugars. Malbranchea cinnamomea was most efficient source of glycosyl hydrolases producing 283.8, 35.9, 129.6, 27,193, 4.66, 7.26(units/gds) of endoglucanase, cellobiohydrolase, \u03b2-glucosidase, xylanase, \u03b1-\u03b1rabinofuranosidase and \u03b2 xylosidase, respectively. The saccharification of alkali and biologically treated carrot grass by culture extract of M. cinnamomea was further enhanced by supplementation of \u03b2-glucosidase produced by Aspergillus sp. mutant \"O\". The resultant hydrolysates containing glucose/xylose were fermented efficiently to ethanol by Saccharomyces cerevisiae owing to presence of xylose isomerase (0.8 units/gds) activity in culture extract of M. cinnamomea resulting in production of 16.5 and 15.0 g/l of ethanol from alkali treated rice straw and carrot grass, respectively."}
{"id": "24818485", "title": "[Increasing activity of a monoamine oxidase by random mutation].", "content": "[Increasing activity of a monoamine oxidase by random mutation]. The monoamine oxidase mutant A-1 (F210V/L213C) from Aspergillus niger showed some catalytic activity on mexiletine. To futher improve its activity, the mutant was subjected to directed evolution with MegaWHOP PCR (Megaprimer PCR of Whole Plasmid) and selection employing a high-throughput agar plate-based colorimetric screen. This approach led to the identification of a mutant ep-1, which specific activity was 189% of that for A-1. The ep-1 also showed significantly improved enantioselectivity, with the E value increased from 101 to 282; its kinetic k(cat)/K(m) value increased from 0.001 51 mmol/(L x s) to 0.002 89 mmol/(L x s), suggesting that catalytic efficiency of ep-1 had been improved. The mutant showed obviously higher specific activities on 7 of all tested 11 amines substrates, and the others were comparable. Sequence analysis revealed that there was a new mutation T162A on ep-1. The molecular dynamics simulation indicated that T162A may affect the secondary structure of the substrate channel and expand the binding pocket."}
{"id": "24809292", "title": "PCR-DGGE analysis of the microbial communities in three different Chinese \"Baiyunbian\" liquor fermentation starters.", "content": "PCR-DGGE analysis of the microbial communities in three different Chinese \"Baiyunbian\" liquor fermentation starters. A systematic investigation was performed on the bacterial, Bacillus, fungal, and yeast communities of the three types of Daqu (mechanically prepared, manually prepared, and mixed prepared) used in Baiyunbian Company by reconditioning PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE). The DGGE results showed that the microbes in the three types of Daqu were mainly thermotolerant and thermophilic microbes, and the most dominant bacterial species were Bacillus and Virgibacillus, followed by Lactobacillus and Trichococcus. Furthermore, the dominant fungi were found to be molds, such as Rasamsonia, Penicillium, Aspergillus, and Monascus, and the dominant yeasts were Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Saccharomycopsis fibuligera, Pichia anomala, and Debaryomyces hansenii. In general, the three types of Daqu showed slight differences in microbial communities, and the Shannon indexes (H') of the manually prepared and mechanically prepared Daqu were similar. The results suggest that mechanically prepared Daqu can replace manually prepared Daqu in liquor production, and this research provides useful information for liquor production and process improvement."}
{"id": "24803392", "title": "Computed tomography guided percutaneous lung biopsies and suspected fungal infections in pediatric cancer patients.", "content": "Computed tomography guided percutaneous lung biopsies and suspected fungal infections in pediatric cancer patients. The spectrum of potential fungal pathogens known to cause invasive pulmonary infections has grown as a result of intensified immunosuppressive therapy and the emergence of antifungal resistance. In a retrospective single center study, we investigated computed tomography guided percutaneous lung biopsies in 16 childhood patients with suspected fungal infections. Microbiological analysis consisted of microscopic examination, culture, and a broad-range fungal polymerase chain reaction for detection of either Aspergillus or Mucorales species. In 14 patients (88%), invasive fungal infection with Aspergillus species including A. terreus, Mucormycetes, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae being the main pathogens was confirmed, including patients with a double infection (19%). In two cases, the most likely diagnosis of primary bronchiolitis obliterans organizing pneumonia was established based on the results of typical histopathologic features, negative culture results, and symptoms resolved after treatment with high-dose cortisone. Diagnosis of invasive fungal pneumonia led to an immediate interruption of antineoplastic treatment in 100%, reduction of antibiotic drugs in 76%, and change of empirical to targeted antifungal therapy in 63%. The safety of lung biopsy was guaranteed by lack of any complications, such as bleeding or pneumothorax. The increased detection of rare fungal infections by computed tomography guided biopsy supports the need for a rapid and precise diagnosis, as most of the fungal pathogens are at least partially resistant to available antifungal therapy and proper treatment is essential for best practice in patient management."}
{"id": "24803238", "title": "Effect of low shear modeled microgravity on phenotypic and central chitin metabolism in the filamentous fungi Aspergillus niger and Penicillium chrysogenum.", "content": "Effect of low shear modeled microgravity on phenotypic and central chitin metabolism in the filamentous fungi Aspergillus niger and Penicillium chrysogenum. Phenotypic and genotypic changes in Aspergillus niger and Penicillium chrysogenum, spore forming filamentous fungi, with respect to central chitin metabolism were studied under low shear modeled microgravity, normal gravity and static conditions. Low shear modeled microgravity (LSMMG) response showed a similar spore germination rate with normal gravity and static conditions. Interestingly, high ratio of multiple germ tube formation of A. niger in LSMMG condition was observed. Confocal laser scanning microscopy images of calcofluor flurophore stained A. niger and P. chrysogenum showed no significant variations between different conditions tested. Transmission electron microscopy images revealed number of mitochondria increased in P. chrysogenum in low shear modeled microgravity condition but no stress related-woronin bodies in fungal hyphae were observed. To gain additional insight into the cell wall integrity under different conditions, transcription level of a key gene involved in cell wall integrity gfaA, encoding the glutamine: fructose-6-phosphate amidotransferase enzyme, was evaluated using qRT-PCR. The transcription level showed no variation among different conditions. Overall, the results collectively indicate that the LSMMG has shown no significant stress on spore germination, mycelial growth, cell wall integrity of potentially pathogenic fungi, A. niger and P. chrysogenum."}
{"id": "24768294", "title": "Clinical utility of Aspergillus galactomannan and PCR in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid for the diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in patients with haematological malignancies.", "content": "Clinical utility of Aspergillus galactomannan and PCR in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid for the diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in patients with haematological malignancies. Interpretation of Aspergillus galactomannan (GM) and PCR results in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid for the diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) in patients with haematological malignancies requires clarification. A total of 116 patients underwent BAL for investigation of new lung infiltrates: 40% were neutropenic, 68% and 36% were receiving mould-active antifungal agents and \u03b2-lactam antibiotics. The diagnosis of proven IPA (n = 3), probable IPA (n = 15), and possible invasive fungal disease (IFD, n = 50) was made without inclusion of GM results. BAL GM (at cut-off of 0.8) had lower diagnostic sensitivity for IPA than PCR (61% versus 78%) but higher specificity (93% versus 79%). Both tests had excellent negative predictive values (85-90%), supporting their utility in excluding IPA. The use of BAL GM and PCR results increased the certainty of Aspergillus aetiology in 7 probable IPA cases where fungal hyphae were detected in respiratory samples by microscopy, and upgraded 24 patients from possible IFD to probable IPA. Use of BAL GM and PCR improves the diagnosis of IPA."}
{"id": "24759426", "title": "Non-aflatoxigenicity of commercial Aspergillus oryzae strains due to genetic defects compared to aflatoxigenic Aspergillus flavus.", "content": "Non-aflatoxigenicity of commercial Aspergillus oryzae strains due to genetic defects compared to aflatoxigenic Aspergillus flavus. Aspergillus oryzae is generally recognized as safe, but it is closely related to A. flavus in morphology and genetic characteristics. In this study, we tested the aflatoxigenicity and genetic analysis of nine commercial A. oryzae strains that were used in Korean soybean fermented products. Cultural and HPLC analyses showed that none of the commercial strains produced detectable amount of aflatoxins. According to the molecular analysis of 17 genes in the aflatoxin (AF) biosynthetic pathway, the commercial strains could be classified into three groups. The group I strains contained all the 17 AF biosynthetic genes tested in this study; the group II strains deleted nine AF biosynthetic genes and possessed eight genes, including aflG, aflI, aflK, aflL, aflM, aflO, aflP, and aflQ; the group III strains only had six AF biosynthetic genes, including aflG, aflI, aflK, aflO, aflP, and aflQ. With the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, the group I A. oryzae strains showed no expression of aflG, aflQ and/or aflM genes, which resulted in the lack of AF-producing ability. Group II and group III strains could not produce AF owing to the deletion of more than half of the AF biosynthetic genes. In addition, the sequence data of polyketide synthase A (pksA) of group I strains of A. oryzae showed that there were three point mutations (two silent mutations and one missense mutation) compared with aflatoxigenic A. flavus used as the positive control in this study."}
{"id": "24742997", "title": "Filamentous fungal diversity and community structure associated with the solid state fermentation of Chinese Maotai-flavor liquor.", "content": "Filamentous fungal diversity and community structure associated with the solid state fermentation of Chinese Maotai-flavor liquor. Maotai-flavor liquor is produced by simultaneous saccharification and fermentation (SSF) process under solid state conditions, including Daqu (starter) making, stacking fermentation and alcohol fermentation stages. Filamentous fungi produce many enzymes to degrade the starch material into fermentable sugar during liquor fermentation. This study investigated the filamentous fungal community associated with liquor making process. Eight and seven different fungal species were identified by using culture-dependent and -independent method (PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, DGGE) analyses, respectively. The traditional enumeration method showed that Daqu provided 7 fungal species for stacking fermentation. The total population of filamentous fungi increased from 3.4 \u00d7 10(3)cfu/g to 1.28 \u00d7 10(4)cfu/g in the first 3 days of stacking fermentation, and then decreased till the end. In alcohol fermentation in pits, the population continuously decreased and few fungal species survived (lower than 1 \u00d7 10(3)cfu/g) after 10 days. Therefore, stacking fermentation is an essential stage for the growth of filamentous fungi. Paecilomyces variotii, Aspergillus oryzae and Aspergillus terreus were detected by both methods, and P. variotii and A. oryzae were the predominant species. Meanwhile, P. variotii possessed the highest glucoamylase (3252 \u00b1 526 U/g) and A. oryzae exhibited the highest \u03b1-amylase (1491 \u00b1 324 U/g) activity among the cultivable fungal species. Furthermore, the variation of starch and reducing sugar content was consistent with the growth of P. variotii and A. oryzae in Zaopei (fermented grains) during stacking fermentation, which implied that the two filamentous fungi played an important role in producing amylase for hydrolyzing the starch."}
{"id": "24742431", "title": "Construction of brewing-wine Aspergillus oryzae pyrG- mutant by pyrG gene deletion and its application in homology transformation.", "content": "Construction of brewing-wine Aspergillus oryzae pyrG- mutant by pyrG gene deletion and its application in homology transformation. pyrG(-) host cells are indispensable for pyrG(-) based transformation system. Isolations of pyrG(-) host cells by random mutations are limited by time-consuming, unclear genetic background and potential interferences of homogenous recombination. The purpose of this study was to construct brewing-wine Aspergillus oryzae pyrG(-) mutant by site-directed mutation of pyrG gene deletion which would be used as a host for further transformation. pMD-pyrGAB, a vector carrying pyrG deletion cassette, was used to construct pyrG(-) mutant of A. oryzae. Three stable pyrG deletion mutants of A. oryzae were isolated by resistant to 5-fluoroorotic acid and confirmed by polymerase chain reaction analysis, indicating that pyrG was completely excised. The \u0394pyrG mutants were applied as pyrG(-) host cells to disrupt xdh gene encoding xylitol dehydrogenase, which involves in xylitol production of A. oryzae. The xdh disruption mutants were efficiently constructed by transforming a pMD-pyrG-xdh disruption plasmid carrying pyrG, and the produced xylitol concentration of the \u0394xdh mutant was three times as much as that of the \u0394pyrG recipient. Site-directed pyrG gene deletion is thus an effective way for the isolation of pyrG(-) host cells, and the established host-vector system could be applied in further functional genomics analysis and molecular breeding of A. oryzae."}
{"id": "24728707", "title": "Characteristics of invasive aspergillosis in neutropenic haematology patients (Sousse, Tunisia).", "content": "Characteristics of invasive aspergillosis in neutropenic haematology patients (Sousse, Tunisia). Although scarce, available data suggest that the epidemiology of invasive aspergillosis (IA) in North Africa differs from northern countries, where more than 80 % is caused by Aspergillus fumigatus. This study aimed at describing the epidemiology of IA in the region of Sousse, Tunisia, and at assessing the usefulness of the available diagnostic tools. For 2 years, clinical and mycological data were prospectively collected from 175 neutropenia episodes of 91 patients hospitalised in the haematology department at the Farhat Hached hospital in Sousse (Tunisia). Screening for galactomannan antigen was positive in 40 % of neutropenia episodes; Aspergillus PCR was positive in 42 % of the tested sera. Nine patients were classified as probable and two as possible IA according to the EORTC/MSG criteria. Twelve patients who prematurely died, had no CT scan and could not be classified. Fifty-six Aspergillus spp. were isolated in 53 (6.5 %) sputa collected from 35 (20 %) patients. The following species were identified with MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry and DNA sequencing: A. niger, 35 %; A. flavus, 38 %; A. tubingensis, 19 %; A. fumigatus, 4 %; A. westerdijkiae, 2 % and A. ochraceus, 2 %. Our findings highlight the epidemiological features of IA in Tunisia, which is characterised by the predominance of Aspergillus spp. from sections Nigri and Flavi."}
{"id": "24726663", "title": "Fungal infection in patients with end-stage liver disease: low frequency or low index of suspicion.", "content": "Fungal infection in patients with end-stage liver disease: low frequency or low index of suspicion. End-stage liver disease (ESLD) is associated with dysregulation of the immune system and increased susceptibility to infections. Although invasive fungal infection (IFI) is a growing public health problem, studies of IFI in ESLD are lacking. The aims of this study were to screen for IFI in ESLD and to assess risk factors and serum interleukin 17 (IL-17) as a marker of the cellular immune response. Both blood and ascitic fluid samples were collected from 46 patients with ESLD for fungal culture and PCR. Serum IL-17 levels were determined. Seven patients had isolated IFI (four had spontaneous fungal peritonitis, two had fungemia, and one had a disseminated fungal infection) and five cases had combined fungal and bacterial infections. Spontaneous fungal peritonitis was attributed to Candida species, while fungemia was caused by Aspergillus species. Patients with IFI had higher serum IL-17 levels and increased mortality compared to patients without IFI. A history of antibiotic use (p = 0.002), higher model for end-stage liver disease (MELD) scores (p = 0.04), and hepatorenal syndrome (p = 0.006) were risk factors for IFI. Patients with ESLD had a low frequency of IFI; however, in patients with these infections, delayed diagnosis and treatment may contribute to a high fatality rate. Thus, clinicians should have a high index of suspicion for this unusual but lethal entity, as prompt detection and appropriate treatment can improve the outcome."}
{"id": "24725382", "title": "Trehalose synthesis in Aspergillus niger: characterization of six homologous genes, all with conserved orthologs in related species.", "content": "Trehalose synthesis in Aspergillus niger: characterization of six homologous genes, all with conserved orthologs in related species. The disaccharide trehalose is a major component of fungal spores and is released upon germination. Moreover, the sugar is well known for is protective functions, e.g. against thermal stress and dehydration. The properties and synthesis of trehalose have been well investigated in the bakers' yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In filamentous fungi, such knowledge is limited, although several gene products have been identified. Using Aspergillus niger as a model fungus, the aim of this study was to provide an overview of all genes involved in trehalose synthesis. This fungus has three potential trehalose-6-phosphate synthase encoding genes, tpsA-C, and three putative trehalose phosphate phosphatase encoding genes, tppA-C, of which two have not previously been identified. Expression of all six genes was confirmed using real-time PCR, and conserved orthologs could be identified in related Aspergilli. Using a two-hybrid approach, there is a strong indication that four of the proteins physically interact, as has previously been shown in S. cerevisiae. When creating null mutants of all the six genes, three of them, \u0394tpsA, \u0394tppA and \u0394tppB, had lower internal trehalose contents. The only mutant with a pronounced morphological difference was \u0394tppA, in which sporulation was severely reduced with abnormal conidiophores. This was also the only mutant with accumulated levels of trehalose-6-phosphate, indicating that the encoded protein is the main phosphatase under normal conditions. Besides \u0394tppA, the most studied deletion mutant in this work was \u0394tppB. This gene encodes a protein conserved in filamentous Ascomycota. The \u0394tppB mutant displayed a low, but not depleted, internal trehalose content, and conidia were more susceptible to thermal stress. A. niger contains at least 6 genes putatively involved in trehalose synthesis. Gene expressions related to germination have been quantified and deletion mutants characterized: Mutants lacking tpsA, tppA or tppB have reduced internal trehalose contents. Furthermore, tppA, under normal conditions, encodes the functional trehalose-6-phosphate-phosphatase."}
{"id": "24719455", "title": "Prevalence, persistence, and phenotypic variation of Aspergillus fumigatus in the outdoor environment in Manchester, UK, over a 2-year period.", "content": "Prevalence, persistence, and phenotypic variation of Aspergillus fumigatus in the outdoor environment in Manchester, UK, over a 2-year period. Aspergillus fumigatus, an opportunistic fungal pathogen that causes invasive aspergillosis in immunosuppressed patients, is considered to be the world's most dangerous mould. It is widely distributed in the environment, and airborne asexual conidia serve as the main mode of transport for pulmonary lung infection. It is important to monitor seasonal airborne conidia levels when assessing the risk of acquiring this infection. In this study, air was sampled for total viable fungal spores and viable A. fumigatus conidia monthly over a 2-year period (2009 and 2010) close to Manchester, UK, city center. Total viable airborne fungal counts varied seasonally, peaking in the summer and autumn for both years and reaching levels of approximately 1100-1400 colony-forming units (CFU)/m(3); counts were strongly positively correlated to mean temperature (R(2) = 0.697). By contrast, A. fumigatus viable airborne counts were not seasonally associated; persistent low levels were between 3 and 20 CFU/m(3) and were not correlated with mean temperature (R(2) = 0.018). A total of 220 isolates of A. fumigatus were recovered on potato dextrose agar (PDA) at 45\u00b0C, and internal transcribed spacer sequencing and restriction digestion of a partial polymerase chain reaction amplicon of the \u03b2-tubulin gene (benA) of 34 randomly selected isolates were used to confirm the isolates as A. fumigatus. When the colony radial growth rates (Kr) were determined, the highest rates were observed on PDA, followed by Vogel's medium supplemented with phosphatidylcholine and Vogel's medium alone. Clinical isolates had a significantly higher mean colony Kr on PDA compared with environmental isolates."}
{"id": "24719446", "title": "Simple, low-cost molecular assays for TR34/L98H mutations in the cyp51A gene for rapid detection of triazole-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus isolates.", "content": "Simple, low-cost molecular assays for TR34/L98H mutations in the cyp51A gene for rapid detection of triazole-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus isolates. Simple, low-cost PCR/PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) assays targeting cyp51A promoter and codon 98 regions were developed for the detection of triazole-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus strains carrying TR34/L98H mutations. The assays were evaluated using 40 itraconazole-susceptible isolates and 35 itraconazole-resistant isolates. The prevalence of TR34/L98H mutations in clinical/environmental A. fumigatus isolates may now be determined easily from resource-poor settings."}
{"id": "24712434", "title": "Biomarkers for invasive aspergillosis: the challenges continue.", "content": "Biomarkers for invasive aspergillosis: the challenges continue. The incidence of invasive aspergillosis (IA), an opportunistic infection in immunocompromised individuals, is rising, but its early diagnosis remains challenging and treatment options are limited. Hence there is an urgent need to improve existing diagnostic procedures as well as develop novel approaches. The clinical usefulness of galactomannan and \u03b2-d-glucan, widely used assays detecting cell-wall antigens of Aspergillus, is unclear and depends on clinicians' awareness of their practical limitations. This leaves room for new methods that utilise genomic, proteomic and metabolomics approaches as well as novel detection procedures, for example point-of-care lateral-flow devices. Each of these strategies has its own limitations and it is likely that a combination of methods will be required to achieve optimal performance for the diagnosis of IA and subsequent appropriate patient management."}
{"id": "24710283", "title": "Biodiversity and ITS-RFLP characterisation of Aspergillus section Nigri isolates in grapes from four traditional grape-producing areas in Greece.", "content": "Biodiversity and ITS-RFLP characterisation of Aspergillus section Nigri isolates in grapes from four traditional grape-producing areas in Greece. A study on the occurrence of Aspergillus section Nigri species on grapes from four traditional grape-producing areas in Greece during the 2011/2012 vintage, and their capability to produce OTA was conducted. One hundred and twenty-eight black aspergilli isolates were characterised at the species level initially by the use of morphological criteria in accordance with appropriate keys, followed by molecular characterisation performed with Polymerase Chain Reaction-Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) of the 5.8 ribosomal RNA gene Internal Transcribed Spacer region (5.8 rRNA ITS). Restriction enzyme digestion of the ITS amplicons using the HhaI, HinfI and RsaI, endonucleases distinguished eleven different patterns of restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP), four for each of the HhaI and RsaI digests and three for HinfI. From a total number of 128 individual isolates, 124 were classified into four Aspergillus species corresponding to A. carbonarius, A. tubingensis, A. japonicus and A. ibericus, and the remaining 4 were classified as members of the A. niger aggregate. A. carbonarius and A. tubingensis being the main representative species were equally counted, with higher geographical representation of the former in southern and the latter in northern regions, respectively. All isolates were tested for their ochratoxigenic potential by use of High Performance Liquid Chromatography (HPLC) and Enzyme Linked Immuno Sorbent Assay (ELISA), resulting in significant interspecies differences in OTA production."}
{"id": "24704188", "title": "Development of cycling probe-based real-time PCR system to detect Fusarium species and Fusarium solani species complex (FSSC).", "content": "Development of cycling probe-based real-time PCR system to detect Fusarium species and Fusarium solani species complex (FSSC). In the present study, we developed a new real-time PCR system based on the cycling probe technology (CPT), which is composed of two single tube real-time PCR assays: the Fusarium genus-specific assay and the Fusarium solani species complex (FSSC)-specific assay with primers targeting the 28s ribosomal RNA gene. The Fusarium genus-specific assay was shown to be highly specific, detecting all reference Fusarium strains with no cross-reaction with other reference fungal strains, such as Aspergillus spp. and human DNA. The FSSC-specific assay also reacted very specifically with FSSC, except for a cross-reaction with Fusarium lunatum. To validate the real-time PCR system, we tested 87 clinical isolates of Fusarium spp. Identification results from the real-time PCR system were found to be 100% concordant with those from DNA sequencing of EF-1\u03b1 gene. The sensitivity testing also demonstrated high sensitivity, enabling detection of one copy of standard DNA with good reproducibility. Furthermore, both assays were shown to be extremely sensitive even when fungal cells were mixed with human cells, detecting 3 germinated conidia spiked in 3mL of human blood. To apply our new real-time PCR system to the molecular diagnosis of fusariosis, we evaluated its efficacy using a mouse model of invasive F. solani infection. Plasma and whole blood samples of infected mice were tested using the real-time PCR system. The sensitivity of the real-time PCR system was found to be 100% (n=4) in plasma samples. In contrast, no amplification signal was detected in whole blood samples. This system could provide a rapid and precise diagnostic tool for early diagnosis, which is necessary for appropriate treatment and improvement of prognosis of disseminated fusariosis."}
{"id": "24699234", "title": "Identification and characterization of the polyketide synthase involved in ochratoxin A biosynthesis in Aspergillus carbonarius.", "content": "Identification and characterization of the polyketide synthase involved in ochratoxin A biosynthesis in Aspergillus carbonarius. Ochratoxin A (OTA) is a potent mycotoxin produced by Aspergillus and Penicillium species and is a common contaminant of a wide variety of food commodities, with Aspergillus carbonarius being the main producer of OTA contamination in grapes and wine. The molecular structure of OTA comprises a dihydroisocoumarin ring linked to phenylalanine and, as shown in different producing fungal species, a polyketide synthase (PKS) is a component of the OTA biosynthetic pathway. Similar to observations in other filamentous ascomycetes, the genome sequence of A. carbonarius contains a large number of genes predicted to encode PKSs. In this work a pks gene identified within the putative OTA cluster of A. carbonarius, designated as AcOTApks, was inactivated and the resulting mutant strain was unable to produce OTA, confirming the role of AcOTApks in this biosynthetic pathway. AcOTApks protein is characteristic of the highly reduced (HR)-PKS family, and also contains a putative methyltransferase domain likely responsible for the addition of the methyl group to the OTA polyketide structure. AcOTApks is different from the ACpks protein that we previously described in A. carbonarius, which showed an expression profile compatible with OTA production. We performed phylogenetic analyses of the \u03b2-ketosynthase and acyl-transferase domains of the OTA PKSs that had been identified and characterized in different OTA producing fungal species. The phylogenetic results were similar for both domains analyzed and showed that OTA PKS of A. carbonarius, Aspergillus niger and Aspergillus ochraceus clustered in a monophyletic group with 100% bootstrap support suggesting a common origin, while the other OTA PKSs analyzed were phylogenetically distant. A quantitative RT-PCR assay monitored AcOTApks expression during fungal growth and concomitant production of OTA by A. carbonarius in synthetic grape medium. A clear correlation between the expression profile of AcOTApks and kinetics of OTA production was observed, with AcOTApks reaching its maximum level of transcription before OTA accumulation in mycelium reached its highest level, confirming the fact that gene transcription always precedes phenotypic production."}
{"id": "24698139", "title": "Azole-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus in the environment of northern Italy, May 2011 to June 2012.", "content": "Azole-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus in the environment of northern Italy, May 2011 to June 2012. In recent years acquired azole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus has been increasingly reported and a dominant mechanism of resistance (TR34/L98H) was found in clinical and environmental isolates. The aim of the present study was to investigate the prevalence of azole resistance in environmental A. fumigatus isolates collected in northern Italy. A. fumigatus grew from 29 of 47 soil samples analysed. Azole-resistant isolates were detected in 13% (6/47) of the soil samples and in 21% (6/29) of the soil samples containing A. fumigatus. High minimal inhibitory concentrations (MIC) of itraconazole (\u226516 mg/L) and posaconazole (\u22650.5 mg/L) were displayed by nine isolates from six different soil samples, namely apple orchard (1 sample), rose pot compost (2 samples), and cucurbit yields (3 samples). Seven isolates had a MIC=2 mg/L of voriconazole. Seven of nine itraconazole and posaconazole resistant isolates harboured the same TR34/L98H mutation of cyp51A. These findings, together with the occurrence of resistant clinical isolates, suggest that azole resistance should be considered in primary patient care."}
{"id": "24691870", "title": "Analyzing the relation between the microbial diversity of DaQu and the turbidity spoilage of traditional Chinese vinegar.", "content": "Analyzing the relation between the microbial diversity of DaQu and the turbidity spoilage of traditional Chinese vinegar. Vinegar is a traditional fermented condiment, and the microbial diversity of DaQu makes the quality of vinegar products. Recently, turbidity spoilage of vinegar sharply tampered with the quality of vinegar. In this study, the relation between the microbial diversity of DaQu and turbidity spoilage of vinegar was analyzed by plating technique, PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The 16S rRNA sequencing and DGGE analysis indicated that Bacillus (Bacillus subtilis, Bacillus amyloliquefaciens, and Bacillus thuringiensis) and Lactobacillus (including Lactobacillus acidipiscis and Lactobacillus pobuzihii) species were the dominant contaminants in vinegar products. Meanwhile, DGGE analysis showed that the dominant bacteria in DaQu belonged to genera Bacillus, Lactobacillus, Pseudomonas, Weissella, Saccharopolyspora, Enterobacter, and Pantoea. However, only two yeast species (Pichia kudriavzevii and Saccharomycopsis fibuligera) and seven mold species including Aspergillus oryzae, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus candidus, Rhizopus microspores, Eurotium herbariorum, Absidia corymbifera, and Eupenicillium javanicum were detected in the DaQu. The population level of fungi was below 5 log CFU/g in DaQu. The chemical and physical properties of vinegar and sediments were also determined. On the basis of a combined microbial diversity-chemical analysis, we demonstrated that turbidity spoilage of vinegar was a result of cooperation among the low population level and abundance of fungal species in DaQu, the suitable climate conditions, and the contaminants in vinegar. This is the first report to analyze the relation between the microbial diversity of DaQu and turbidity spoilage of vinegar."}
{"id": "24680080", "title": "Reliable and simple detection of ochratoxin and fumonisin production in black Aspergillus.", "content": "Reliable and simple detection of ochratoxin and fumonisin production in black Aspergillus. To date, edible fungi such as black Aspergillus (Aspergillus niger aggregates) have been considered as safe. However, it has recently been reported that some strains have a mycotoxin biosynthetic capability, and this capability must be evaluated to determine the safety of edible fungi. In this study, we assessed the ability of mycotoxin production in A. niger aggregates isolated from various Korean foods using multiplex PCR and high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analyses. Multiplex PCR and HPLC analyses of 32 A. niger aggregates showed that ochratoxin and fumonisin were produced only by strains exhibiting positive PCR patterns with ochratoxin and fumonisin biosynthesis genes. However, several strains did not produce mycotoxins, even though they contained mycotoxin biosynthesis genes. Using multiplex PCR pattern and HPLC analyses, we selected Aspergillus strains that do not produce mycotoxins, which will contribute to the development of safer fermented foods."}
{"id": "24680079", "title": "Benzopyrone coumarin leads to an inhibition of ochratoxin biosynthesis in representatives of Aspergillus and Penicillium spp. via a type of feedback response mechanism.", "content": "Benzopyrone coumarin leads to an inhibition of ochratoxin biosynthesis in representatives of Aspergillus and Penicillium spp. via a type of feedback response mechanism. Growth and mycotoxin biosynthesis of the ochratoxin-producing fungal strains Aspergillus carbonarius, Aspergillus steynii, Penicillium verrucosum, and Penicillium nordium were analyzed on standard laboratory growth medium supplemented with different amounts of coumarin, an organic compound of the benzopyrone class. Neither the growth nor the phenotypic morphology of the filamentous fungi analyzed was affected by using coumarin concentrations equivalent to 2.5 to 25 \u03bcg/ml of medium. In contrast, the ochratoxin biosynthesis was strongly inhibited in both strains of the Aspergillus species and nearly completely inhibited in both Penicillium strains at coumarin concentrations above 8.75 \u03bcg/ml. Analyzing the transcriptional activity of the otapksPN polyketide synthase gene in P. nordicum using real-time PCR revealed a strong concentration-dependent decrease in gene expression. Taken together, the data show that ochratoxin biosynthesis in representative strains of the genera Aspergillus and Penicillium could be effectively inhibited by coumarin in a concentration-dependent manner. It could be suggested that the molecular background behind this inhibition is some kind of feedback response mechanism, based on the structural similarity of coumarin to the benzopyrone moiety of the ochratoxin molecule."}
{"id": "24677097", "title": "Improved sanguinarine production via biotic and abiotic elicitations and precursor feeding in cell suspensions of latex-less variety of Papaver somniferum with their gene expression studies and upscaling in bioreactor.", "content": "Improved sanguinarine production via biotic and abiotic elicitations and precursor feeding in cell suspensions of latex-less variety of Papaver somniferum with their gene expression studies and upscaling in bioreactor. Elicitors play an important role in challenging the plant defense system through plant-environment interaction and thus altering the secondary metabolite production. Culture filtrates of four endophytic fungi, namely, Chaetomium globosum, Aspergillus niveoglaucus, Paecilomyces lilacinus, and Trichoderma harzianum were tested on embryogenic cell suspensions of latex-less Papaver somniferum in dose-dependent kinetics. Besides this, abiotic elicitors salicylic acid, hydrogen peroxide, and carbon dioxide were also applied for improved sanguinarine production. Maximum biomass accumulation (growth index (GI)\u2009=\u2009293.50\u2009\u00b1\u200914.82) and sanguinarine production (0.090\u2009\u00b1\u20090.008 % dry wt.) were registered by addition of 3.3 %\u2009v/v T. harzanium culture filtrate. Interestingly, it was further enhanced (GI\u2009=\u2009323.40\u2009\u00b1\u200925.30; 0.105\u2009\u00b1\u20090.008 % dry wt.) when T. harzanium culture filtrate was employed along with 50 \u03bcM shikimate. This was also supported by real-time (RT) (qPCR), where 8-9-fold increase in cheilanthifoline synthase (CFS), stylopine synthase (STS), tetrahydroprotoberberine cis-N-methyltransferase (TNMT), and protopine 6-hydroxylase (P6H) transcripts was observed. Among abiotic elicitors, while hydrogen peroxide and carbon dioxide registered low level of sanguinarine accumulation, maximum sanguinarine content was detected by 250 \u03bcM salicylic acid (0.058\u2009\u00b1\u20090.003 % dry wt.; GI\u2009=\u2009172.75\u2009\u00b1\u200913.40). RT (qPCR) also confirms the downregulation of sanguinarine pathway on CO2 supplementation. Various parameters ranging from agitation speed (70 rpm), impeller type (marine), media volume (2 l), inoculum weight (100 g), and culture duration (9 days) were optimized during upscaling in 5-l stirred tank bioreactor to obtain maximum sanguinarine production (GI\u2009=\u2009434.00; 0.119\u2009\u00b1\u20090.070 % dry wt.). Addition of 3.3 %\u2009v/v T. harzanium culture filtrate and 50-\u03bcM shikimate was done on the 6th day of bioreactor run."}
{"id": "24676241", "title": "[Evaluation of galactomannan antigen and Aspergillus real time PCR for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis].", "content": "[Evaluation of galactomannan antigen and Aspergillus real time PCR for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis]. The aim of the study was to compare the galactomannan antigen (GA) and molecular biology (PCRrt) tests with the culture in the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA). Four hundred and seventy two samples were analyzed: 388 respiratory and 84 serum samples from 271 patients. Culture and GA were evaluated in the respiratory samples and GA in the serum samples. PCR was used when discrepancies were observed among culture and GA tests. The detection of GA in serum was positive in 22 (of 84), 21 had the test positive respiratory sample. Of the 62 sera with negative GA, 45 were also negative respiratory specimens. The culture was positive in 37 of which were positive for GA. Comparing culture with AG, it showed PPV=23%, NPV=100%, S=100% and E=52%. The PCR showed respect to culture: PPV=69%, NPV=89%, S=64% and E=82%. In sera were found in 60% discrepancies between PCRrt and GA. We consider useful the GA detection in serum combined with culture and GA in respiratory samples, for diagnosis of AI. PCR requires further studies for standardization and set breakpoints."}
{"id": "24671798", "title": "Performance of galactomannan, beta-d-glucan, Aspergillus lateral-flow device, conventional culture, and PCR tests with bronchoalveolar lavage fluid for diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis.", "content": "Performance of galactomannan, beta-d-glucan, Aspergillus lateral-flow device, conventional culture, and PCR tests with bronchoalveolar lavage fluid for diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. Galactomannan detection in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid samples (GM test) is currently considered the gold standard test for diagnosing invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA). The limitations, however, are the various turnaround times and availability of testing. We compared the performance of GM testing with that of conventional culture, an Aspergillus lateral-flow-device (LFD) test, a beta-d-glucan (BDG) test, and an Aspergillus PCR assay by using BAL fluid samples from immunocompromised patients. A total of 78 BAL fluid samples from 78 patients at risk for IPA (74 samples from Graz and 4 from Mannheim) collected between December 2012 and May 2013 at two university hospitals in Austria and Germany were included. Three patients had proven IPA, 14 probable IPA, and 17 possible IPA, and 44 patients had no IPA. The diagnostic accuracies of the different methods for probable/proven IPA were evaluated. The diagnostic odds ratios were the highest for the GM, PCR, and LFD tests. The sensitivities for the four methods (except culture) were between 70 and 88%. The combination of the GM (cutoff optical density index [ODI], >1.0) and LFD tests increased the sensitivity to 94%, while the combination of the GM test (>1.0) and PCR resulted in 100% sensitivity (specificity for probable/proven IPA, 95 to 98%). The performance of conventional culture was limited by low sensitivity, while that of the BDG test was limited by low specificity. We evaluated established and novel diagnostic methods for IPA and found that the Aspergillus PCR, LFD, and GM tests were the most useful methods for diagnosing the disease by using BAL fluid samples. In particular, the combination of the GM test and PCR or, if PCR is not available, the LFD test, allows for sensitive and specific diagnosis of IPA."}
{"id": "24661790", "title": "Difficulties with molecular diagnostic tests for mould and yeast infections: where do we stand?", "content": "Difficulties with molecular diagnostic tests for mould and yeast infections: where do we stand? PCR assays have not reached the same level of acceptance for the detection of human fungal pathogens as for other micro-organisms, mainly because the low number of micro-organisms challenges the detection limits of PCR. Therefore, whereas meta-analyses focusing on clinical validation suggest interest in adding PCR results to the diagnostic workup for invasive fungal disease (IFD) along with clinical evaluation, CT scans, classical mycology and antigen detection, no consensual PCR method has emerged. Compared with the end-point format of the 1990s, real-time quantitative PCR is a major breakthrough. This format prevents contamination with previously amplified products, provides the yield of amplification, allows for developing consensus procedures and should therefore be the only format used. An internal control is now mandatory to avoid false-negative results. Primer design strongly impacts on the objectives: pan-fungal primers can provide false-positive results due to environmental fungal DNA contamination; conversely, species-specific primers miss infections caused by untargeted fungi. Unresolved issues include the best specimens to be used; serum is currently preferred to blood because of the ease of the DNA extraction step. Work is in progress to establish standards at least for Aspergillus PCR, and the implementation of quality controls should help centres to improve assays. Eventually, the classical analysis of biomarker performance does not consider the evolving risk factors and changing treatments during IFD, which can lead to variable conclusions. New statistical methods such as event history analysis should be considered."}
{"id": "24657665", "title": "The association between exposure to aflatoxin, mutation in TP53, infection with hepatitis B virus, and occurrence of liver disease in a selected population in Hyderabad, India.", "content": "The association between exposure to aflatoxin, mutation in TP53, infection with hepatitis B virus, and occurrence of liver disease in a selected population in Hyderabad, India. Aflatoxin B1 is a carcinogen produced by Aspergillus flavus and a few related fungi that are often present in many food substances. It interacts synergistically with Hepatitis B or C virus (HBV, HBC) infection, thereby increasing the risk of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). The G to T transversion at the third position of codon 249 (AGG) of the TP53 gene, substituting arginine to serine, is the most common aflatoxin-induced mutation linked to HCC. This study examined mutations in TP53 by PCR-RFLP analysis and by measurement of an aflatoxin-albumin adduct as a biomarker for human exposure of aflatoxin B1 by indirect-competitive ELISA, in samples collected from healthy controls as well as patients with hepatitis in Hyderabad, Andhra Pradesh, India. A total of 238 blood samples were analyzed the presence of the G to T mutation. Eighteen of these samples were from HBV-positive subjects, 112 of these were from subjects who had HBV-induced liver cirrhosis, and 108 samples were taken from subjects without HBV infection or liver cirrhosis (control group). The G to T mutation was detected in 10 samples, 8 of which were from subjects positive to both HBV and aflatoxin-albumin adduct in blood (p=0.07); whilst two were from individuals who were HBV-negative, but positive for the aflatoxin-albumin adduct (p=0.14). The aflatoxin-albumin adduct was detected in 37 of 238 samples, 29 samples were from HBV-positive subjects and eight were from individuals who were positive for both HBV and the TP53 mutation (p=0.07). The concentration of aflatoxin-albumin adduct ranged from 2.5 to 667pg/mg albumin. Despite low incidence of the G to T mutation, its detection in subjects positive to aflatoxin-adducts is indicative of a strong association between the mutation and aflatoxin exposure in India."}
{"id": "24655146", "title": "Assessment of Aspergillus-specific PCR as a screening method for invasive aspergillosis in paediatric cancer patients and allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell recipients with suspected infections.", "content": "Assessment of Aspergillus-specific PCR as a screening method for invasive aspergillosis in paediatric cancer patients and allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell recipients with suspected infections. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) remains difficult to diagnose in immunocompromised patients, because diagnostic EORTC/MSG criteria are often not met. As biomarkers might elucidate the pathogen, we analysed the performance of an Aspergillus PCR assay in blood for diagnosis of IA in immunocompromised paediatric patients with suspected infections. Ninety-five haemato-oncological paediatric patients were included over a period of 3 years, the underlying diseases consisting of acute leukaemia, solid tumours, non-malignant immunocompromising disorders and haematopoietic stem cell transplantation recipients. We retrospectively analysed 253 consecutive episodes of suspected infections. Thirty-eight patients had possible IA, none of the patients fulfilled EORTC/MSG criteria of probable/proven IA. PCR positivity was observed in 97/967 analyses. Sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value of the PCR per episode were 34%, 78%, 31% and 81% using possible IA as endpoint. Taken together, an undirected blood screening by Aspergillus-specific PCR is of little diagnostic value in a heterogenous paediatric patient cohort. Harnessing PCR for diagnosis of IA should thus be focused on blood analyses of more homogenous high-risk patients and/or analyses of bronchoalveolar lavage, tissue or cerebrospinal fluid specimens."}
{"id": "24646755", "title": "Discovery and analysis of an active long terminal repeat-retrotransposable element in Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Discovery and analysis of an active long terminal repeat-retrotransposable element in Aspergillus oryzae. Wild-type Aspergillus oryzae RIB40 contains two copies of the AO090005001597 gene. We previously constructed A. oryzae RIB40 strain, RKuAF8B, with multiple chromosomal deletions, in which the AO090005001597 copy number was found to be increased significantly. Sequence analysis indicated that AO090005001597 is part of a putative 6,000-bp retrotransposable element, flanked by two long terminal repeats (LTRs) of 669 bp, with characteristics of retroviruses and retrotransposons, and thus designated AoLTR (A. oryzae LTR-retrotransposable element). AoLTR comprised putative reverse transcriptase, RNase H, and integrase domains. The deduced amino acid sequence alignment of AoLTR showed 94% overall identity with AFLAV, an A. flavus Tf1/sushi retrotransposon. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR showed that AoLTR gene expression was significantly increased in the RKuAF8B, in accordance with the increased copy number. Inverse PCR indicated that the full-length retrotransposable element was randomly integrated into multiple genomic locations. However, no obvious phenotypic changes were associated with the increased AoLTR gene copy number."}
{"id": "24637772", "title": "Expression, purification, crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction analysis of Aspergillus terreus endo-\u03b2-1,4-glucanase from glycoside hydrolase family 12.", "content": "Expression, purification, crystallization and preliminary X-ray diffraction analysis of Aspergillus terreus endo-\u03b2-1,4-glucanase from glycoside hydrolase family 12. Endoglucanases are important enzymes that are involved in the modification and degradation of cellulose. Filamentous fungi such as Aspergillus terreus are effective biomass degraders in nature owing to their capacity to produce an enzymatic arsenal of glycoside hydrolases, including endoglucanase from glycoside hydrolase family 12 (GH12). The A. terreus GH12 endoglucanase was cloned and overexpressed in A. nidulans, purified and crystallized. A single crystal was obtained from a solution consisting of 2 M ammonium sulfate, 5%(v/v) 2-propanol. X-ray diffraction data were collected to a resolution of 1.85 \u00c5 using synchrotron radiation and a preliminary molecular-replacement solution was obtained in the trigonal space group P3(2)21. The unit-cell parameters were a = b = 103.24, c = 48.96 \u00c5."}
{"id": "24626467", "title": "Oral mycobiome analysis of HIV-infected patients: identification of Pichia as an antagonist of opportunistic fungi.", "content": "Oral mycobiome analysis of HIV-infected patients: identification of Pichia as an antagonist of opportunistic fungi. Oral microbiota contribute to health and disease, and their disruption may influence the course of oral diseases. Here, we used pyrosequencing to characterize the oral bacteriome and mycobiome of 12 HIV-infected patients and matched 12 uninfected controls. The number of bacterial and fungal genera in individuals ranged between 8-14 and 1-9, among uninfected and HIV-infected participants, respectively. The core oral bacteriome (COB) comprised 14 genera, of which 13 were common between the two groups. In contrast, the core oral mycobiome (COM) differed between HIV-infected and uninfected individuals, with Candida being the predominant fungus in both groups. Among Candida species, C. albicans was the most common (58% in uninfected and 83% in HIV-infected participants). Furthermore, 15 and 12 bacteria-fungi pairs were correlated significantly within uninfected and HIV-infected groups, respectively. Increase in Candida colonization was associated with a concomitant decrease in the abundance of Pichia, suggesting antagonism. We found that Pichia spent medium (PSM) inhibited growth of Candida, Aspergillus and Fusarium. Moreover, Pichia cells and PSM inhibited Candida biofilms (P\u200a=\u200a.002 and .02, respectively, compared to untreated controls). The mechanism by which Pichia inhibited Candida involved nutrient limitation, and modulation of growth and virulence factors. Finally, in an experimental murine model of oral candidiasis, we demonstrated that mice treated with PSM exhibited significantly lower infection score (P\u200a=\u200a.011) and fungal burden (P\u200a=\u200a.04) compared to untreated mice. Moreover, tongues of PSM-treated mice had few hyphae and intact epithelium, while vehicle- and nystatin-treated mice exhibited extensive fungal invasion of tissue with epithelial disruption. These results showed that PSM was efficacious against oral candidiasis in vitro and in vivo. The inhibitory activity of PSM was associated with secretory protein/s. Our findings provide the first evidence of interaction among members of the oral mycobiota, and identifies a potential novel antifungal."}
{"id": "24609945", "title": "Mould incidence and mycotoxin contamination in freshly harvested maize kernels originated from India.", "content": "Mould incidence and mycotoxin contamination in freshly harvested maize kernels originated from India. In this study, mould incidence and mycotoxin contamination were determined in freshly harvested maize samples collected from different agroclimatic regions of India. A total of 150 freshly harvested maize samples from major maize-growing areas of India (Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh and Tamilnadu) were collected during winter seasons 2010-2011 and 2011-2012 to determine their toxigenic fungal incidences, and mycotoxins were analyzed and quantified by high-perfomance liquid chromatography. A total of 288 fungal isolates comprising Fusarium, Aspergillus and Penicillium species were tested for aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), ochratoxin A (OTA), trichothecenes (deoxynivalenol (DON) and T-2 toxin) and fumonisin B1 (FB1). Chemotype determination of fungal isolates was carried out by molecular and chemical analysis through polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and high-performance thin layer chromatography respectively. The diversity and distribution of the mycoflora among the studied samples were recorded in terms of frequency, density, importance value index and diversity indices. A total of 288 fungal isolates were recovered from the 150 maize samples, of which 28 were positive for AFB1, 20 for OTA, 58 for FB1, 23 for DON and 11 for T-2 toxin chemotypes by PCR. Species-specific PCR assays were in line with morphological analysis. Toxigenic fungal incidences were found throughout the study region, and most of the toxins under study exceeded the maximum legal limits. The range of observed toxin concentrations were 48-58 \u00b5g AFB1, 76-123 \u00b5g FB1, 38-50 \u00b5g T-2, 72-94 \u00b5g DON and <5 \u00b5g OTA kg\u207b\u00b9 grain sample. Owing to the high incidences of toxigenic moulds and mycotoxins in the study area, there is a need for the creation of mycotoxin awareness among maize farmers of India to control the chronic adverse health effects on humans and livestock due to mycotoxins."}
{"id": "24599078", "title": "Inhibition of aflatoxin synthesis in Aspergillus flavus by three structurally modified lentinans.", "content": "Inhibition of aflatoxin synthesis in Aspergillus flavus by three structurally modified lentinans. The chemical properties of \u03b2-glucans leading to their inhibition on aflatoxin (AF) production by Aspergillus flavus remain unclear. In this study, structurally modified lentinan derivatives were prepared by carboxymethylation, sulfation, and phosphorylation to explore their inhibition activity to AF synthesis. The results demonstrated that inhibitory activity of lentinan decreased at higher or lower concentrations than 200 \u03bcg/mL. Compared with lentinan, the sulphated derivatives only performed a reduced optimal inhibition rate at a higher concentration. The phosphorylated derivatives achieved complete inhibition of AF production at 50 \u03bcg/mL, but the inhibitory activity was attenuated with an increase of concentration. The minimum concentration of carboxymethylated derivatives to completely inhibit AF synthesis was the same as that of the original lentinan, whereas their inhibition activity was not reduced at the increasing concentration. RT-PCR analyses were conducted to understand the effects of lentinan and its carboxymethylated derivatives on the transcription of certain genes associated with AF biosynthesis. The results showed that lentinan delayed the transcription of aflQ, whereas its carboxymethylated derivatives promoted the transcriptions of all the tested genes. Our results revealed that some chemical group features apart from the \u03b2-bond could play the vital role in the prevention of AF formation by polysaccharide, and highlighted the structural modifications which could promote its practicability in the control of aflatoxin contamination."}
{"id": "24588891", "title": "Biosynthetic genes and activity spectrum of antifungal polyynes from Collimonas fungivorans\u2005Ter331.", "content": "Biosynthetic genes and activity spectrum of antifungal polyynes from Collimonas fungivorans\u2005Ter331. The antifungal activity of bacteria from the genus Collimonas has been well documented, but the chemistry and gene functions that underlie this phenotype are still poorly understood. Screening of a random plasposon insertion library of Collimonas fungivorans\u2005Ter331 for loss-of-function mutants revealed the importance of gene cluster K, which is annotated to code for the biosynthesis of a secondary metabolite and which features genes for fatty acid desaturases and polyketide synthases. Mutants in gene cluster K had lost the ability to inhibit hyphal growth of the fungus Aspergillus niger and were no longer able to produce and secrete several metabolites that after extraction and partial purification from wildtype strain Ter331 were shown to share a putative ene-triyne moiety. Some but not all of these metabolites were able to inhibit growth of A.\u2009niger, indicating functional variation within this group of Collimonas-produced polyyne-like 'collimomycins'. Polymerase chain reaction analysis of isolates representing different Collimonas species indicated that the possession of cluster K genes correlated positively with antifungal ability, further strengthening the notion that this cluster is involved in collimomycin production. We discuss our findings in the context of other bacterially produced polyynes and the potential use of collimomycins for the control of harmful fungi."}
{"id": "24584515", "title": "The role of Aspergillus flavus veA in the production of extracellular proteins during growth on starch substrates.", "content": "The role of Aspergillus flavus veA in the production of extracellular proteins during growth on starch substrates. The aflatoxin-producer and opportunistic plant pathogenic, filamentous fungus Aspergillus flavus is responsible for the contamination of corn and other important agricultural commodities. In order to obtain nutrients from the host A. flavus produces a variety of extracellular hydrolytic enzymes. Interestingly, A. flavus amylase and protease activity are dependent on the global regulator veA, a gene known to regulate morphogenesis and secondary metabolism in numerous fungi. Analysis of starch degradation by fungal enzymes secreted into broths of starch- or corn kernel-based media showed a notable accumulation of glucose in samples of the A. flavus control strain while the deletion veA sample accumulated high levels of maltose and maltotriose and only a small amount of glucose. Furthermore, SDS-PAGE and proteomics analysis of culture broths from starch- or corn kernel-based media demonstrated differential production of a number of proteins that included a reduction in the amount of a glucoamylase protein in the veA mutant compared to the control strain, while an alpha-amylase was produced in greater quantities in the veA mutant. Quantitative real-time PCR and western blot analyses using anti-glucoamylase or alpha-amylase antisera supported the proteomics results. Additionally, an overall reduction in protease activity was observed in the veA mutant including production of the alkaline protease, oryzin, compared to the control strain. These findings contribute to our knowledge of mechanisms controlling production of hydrolases and other extracellular proteins during growth of A. flavus on natural starch-based substrates."}
{"id": "24555650", "title": "Fungal contamination in two Portuguese wastewater treatment plants.", "content": "Fungal contamination in two Portuguese wastewater treatment plants. The presence of filamentous fungi was detected in wastewater and air collected at wastewater treatment plants (WWTP) from several European countries. The aim of the present study was to assess fungal contamination in two WWTP operating in Lisbon. In addition, particulate matter (PM) contamination data was analyzed. To apply conventional methods, air samples from the two plants were collected through impaction using an air sampler with a velocity air rate of 140 L/min. Surfaces samples were collected by swabbing the surfaces of the same indoor sites. All collected samples were incubated at 27\u00b0C for 5 to 7 d. After lab processing and incubation of collected samples, quantitative and qualitative results were obtained with identification of the isolated fungal species. For molecular methods, air samples of 250 L were also collected using the impinger method at 300 L/min airflow rate. Samples were collected into 10 ml sterile phosphate-buffered saline with 0.05% Triton X-100, and the collection liquid was subsequently used for DNA extraction. Molecular identification of Aspergillus fumigatus and Stachybotrys chartarum was achieved by real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) using the Rotor-Gene 6000 qPCR Detection System (Corbett). Assessment of PM was also conducted with portable direct-reading equipment (Lighthouse, model 3016 IAQ). Particles concentration measurement was performed at five different sizes: PM0.5, PM1, PM2.5, PM5, and PM10. Sixteen different fungal species were detected in indoor air in a total of 5400 isolates in both plants. Penicillium sp. was the most frequently isolated fungal genus (58.9%), followed by Aspergillus sp. (21.2%) and Acremonium sp. (8.2%), in the total underground area. In a partially underground plant, Penicillium sp. (39.5%) was also the most frequently isolated, also followed by Aspergillus sp. (38.7%) and Acremonium sp. (9.7%). Using RT-PCR, only A. fumigatus was detected in air samples collected, and only from partial underground plant. Stachybotrys chartarum was not detected in any of the samples analyzed. The distribution of particle sizes showed the same tendency in both plants; however, the partially underground plant presented higher levels of contamination, except for PM2.5. Fungal contamination assessment is crucial to evaluating the potential health risks to exposed workers in these settings. In order to achieve an evaluation of potential health risks to exposed workers, it is essential to combine conventional and molecular methods for fungal detection. Protective measures to minimize worker exposure to fungi need to be adopted since wastewater is the predominant internal fungal source in this setting."}
{"id": "24555647", "title": "Assessment of fungal contamination in waste sorting and incineration-case study in Portugal.", "content": "Assessment of fungal contamination in waste sorting and incineration-case study in Portugal. Organic waste is a rich substrate for microbial growth, and because of that, workers from waste industry are at higher risk of exposure to bioaerosols. This study aimed to assess fungal contamination in two plants handling solid waste management. Air samples from the two plants were collected through an impaction method. Surface samples were also collected by swabbing surfaces of the same indoor sites. All collected samples were incubated at 27\u00b0C for 5 to 7 d. After lab processing and incubation of collected samples, quantitative and qualitative results were obtained with identification of the isolated fungal species. Air samples were also subjected to molecular methods by real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT PCR) using an impinger method to measure DNA of Aspergillus flavus complex and Stachybotrys chartarum. Assessment of particulate matter (PM) was also conducted with portable direct-reading equipment. Particles concentration measurement was performed at five different sizes (PM0.5; PM1; PM2.5; PM5; PM10). With respect to the waste sorting plant, three species more frequently isolated in air and surfaces were A. niger (73.9%; 66.1%), A. fumigatus (16%; 13.8%), and A. flavus (8.7%; 14.2%). In the incineration plant, the most prevalent species detected in air samples were Penicillium sp. (62.9%), A. fumigatus (18%), and A. flavus (6%), while the most frequently isolated in surface samples were Penicillium sp. (57.5%), A. fumigatus (22.3%) and A. niger (12.8%). Stachybotrys chartarum and other toxinogenic strains from A. flavus complex were not detected. The most common PM sizes obtained were the PM10 and PM5 (inhalable fraction). Since waste is the main internal fungal source in the analyzed settings, preventive and protective measures need to be maintained to avoid worker exposure to fungi and their metabolites."}
{"id": "24555643", "title": "Fungal contamination assessment in Portuguese elderly care centers.", "content": "Fungal contamination assessment in Portuguese elderly care centers. Individuals spend 80-90% of their day indoors and elderly subjects are likely to spend even a greater amount of time indoors. Thus, indoor air pollutants such as bioaerosols may exert a significant impact on this age group. The aim of this study was to characterize fungal contamination within Portuguese elderly care centers. Fungi were measured using conventional as well as molecular methods in bedrooms, living rooms, canteens, storage areas, and outdoors. Bioaerosols were evaluated before and after the microenvironments' occupancy in order to understand the role played by occupancy in fungal contamination. Fungal load results varied from 32 colony-forming units CFU m(-3) in bedrooms to 228 CFU m(-3) in storage areas. Penicillium sp. was the most frequently isolated (38.1%), followed by Aspergillus sp. (16.3%) and Chrysonilia sp. (4.2%). With respect to Aspergillus genus, three different fungal species in indoor air were detected, with A. candidus (62.5%) the most prevalent. On surfaces, 40 different fungal species were isolated and the most frequent was Penicillium sp. (22.2%), followed by Aspergillus sp. (17.3%). Real-time polymerase chain reaction did not detect the presence of A. fumigatus complex. Species from Penicillium and Aspergillus genera were the most abundant in air and surfaces. The species A. fumigatus was present in 12.5% of all indoor microenvironments assessed. The living room was the indoor microenvironment with lowest fungal concentration and the storage area was highest."}
{"id": "24550444", "title": "IL-1 receptor blockade restores autophagy and reduces inflammation in chronic granulomatous disease in mice and in humans.", "content": "IL-1 receptor blockade restores autophagy and reduces inflammation in chronic granulomatous disease in mice and in humans. Patients with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) have a mutated NADPH complex resulting in defective production of reactive oxygen species; these patients can develop severe colitis and are highly susceptible to invasive fungal infection. In NADPH oxidase-deficient mice, autophagy is defective but inflammasome activation is present despite lack of reactive oxygen species production. However, whether these processes are mutually regulated in CGD and whether defective autophagy is clinically relevant in patients with CGD is unknown. Here, we demonstrate that macrophages from CGD mice and blood monocytes from CGD patients display minimal recruitment of microtubule-associated protein 1 light chain 3 (LC3) to phagosomes. This defect in autophagy results in increased IL-1\u03b2 release. Blocking IL-1 with the receptor antagonist (anakinra) decreases neutrophil recruitment and T helper 17 responses and protects CGD mice from colitis and also from invasive aspergillosis. In addition to decreased inflammasome activation, anakinra restored autophagy in CGD mice in vivo, with increased Aspergillus-induced LC3 recruitment and increased expression of autophagy genes. Anakinra also increased Aspergillus-induced LC3 recruitment from 23% to 51% (P < 0.01) in vitro in monocytes from CGD patients. The clinical relevance of these findings was assessed by treating CGD patients who had severe colitis with IL-1 receptor blockade using anakinra. Anakinra treatment resulted in a rapid and sustained improvement in colitis. Thus, inflammation in CGD is due to IL-1-dependent mechanisms, such as decreased autophagy and increased inflammasome activation, which are linked pathological conditions in CGD that can be restored by IL-1 receptor blockade."}
{"id": "24548895", "title": "A new ultrasonic high-throughput instrument for rapid DNA release from microorganisms.", "content": "A new ultrasonic high-throughput instrument for rapid DNA release from microorganisms. Rapid detection methods for microbiological contamination are requested by many industries that respond to public health concerns. The control laboratories are replacing traditional culturing methods with faster assays based on nucleic acid amplification technologies, such as real-time PCR. However, an optimal nucleic acid sample preparation method is critical for the sensitivity and specificity of such tools. A high-throughput automated external ultrasonic device was developed for rapid lysing of microorganisms. Based on Ct values obtained from real-time PCR, there was efficient DNA release from the 16 microorganisms tested, including Gram positive and negative bacteria, bacterial spores, yeasts and spores of molds. Linearity of the lysis method was also demonstrated for Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Salmonella enterica, Candida albicans and the spores of Aspergillus brasiliensis, with correlation coefficients (r(2)) between 0.90 and 0.98. After sonication, PCR analysis of the lysates revealed earlier Ct values (0.83 to 7.49) for S. aureus, P. aeruginosa and S. enterica compared to the bead-beating method of lysis. These results demonstrated more efficient DNA release from bacteria with the ultrasonication system. Nevertheless, for fungi, the Ct values were 0.94 to 1.61 later for sonication than for bead beating. This study demonstrates that 4min of sonication with this new automated high-throughput instrument allows for the efficient lysis of a large range of microorganisms."}
{"id": "24548415", "title": "Diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis: updates and recommendations.", "content": "Diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis: updates and recommendations. Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis is an opportunistic mycosis, difficult to diagnose, due to the environmental fungi of the genus Aspergillus. The diagnostic tools, even if more are available, are still limited in number and effectiveness. The current recommendations issued by the EORTC/MSG (European Organization of Research and Treatment of Cancer/Mycoses Study Group) and the ECIL (European Conference for Infection in Leukemia) suggest collecting epidemiological, radio-clinical, and biological data to support the diagnosis of aspergillosis with a strong presumption. Thus, medical imaging and serum galactomannan antigen currently constitute the basis of the screening approach, although they both have some limitations in specificity. (1\u21923)-\u03b2-D-glucans are pan-fungal serum markers with a very good negative predictive value. Real-time PCR lacks standardization, and fungal culture from respiratory specimens is sometimes not sensitive enough. Histology allows proving the diagnosis of aspergillosis, but biopsy is not always possible in immunodepressed patients. We present the various arguments for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis, with a particular emphasis on recent exploration techniques."}
{"id": "24535743", "title": "Use of denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC) to characterize the bacterial and fungal airway microbiota of cystic fibrosis patients.", "content": "Use of denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC) to characterize the bacterial and fungal airway microbiota of cystic fibrosis patients. The aim of this study was to evaluate the use of denaturing high-performance liquid chromatography (DHPLC) to characterize cystic fibrosis (CF) airway microbiota including both bacteria and fungi. DHPLC conditions were first optimized using a mixture of V6, V7 and V8 region 16S rRNA gene PCR amplicons from 18 bacterial species commonly found in CF patients. Then, the microbial diversity of 4 sputum samples from 4 CF patients was analyzed using cultural methods, cloning/sequencing (for bacteria only) and DHPLC peak fraction collection/sequencing. DHPLC analysis allowed identifying more bacterial and fungal species than the classical culture methods, including well-recognized pathogens such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Even if a lower number of bacterial Operational Taxonomic Units (OTUs) was identified by DHPLC, it allowed to find OTUs unidentified by cloning/sequencing. The combination of both techniques permitted to correlate the majority of DHPLC peaks to defined OTUs. Finally, although Aspergillus fumigatus detection using DHPLC can still be improved, this technique clearly allowed to identify a higher number of fungal species versus classical culture-based methods. To conclude, DHPLC provided meaningful additional data concerning pathogenic bacteria and fungi as well as fastidious microorganisms present within the CF respiratory tract. DHPLC can be considered as a complementary technique to culture-dependent analyses in routine microbiological laboratories."}
{"id": "24493565", "title": "Directed modification of the Aspergillus usamii \u03b2-mannanase to improve its substrate affinity by in silico design and site-directed mutagenesis.", "content": "Directed modification of the Aspergillus usamii \u03b2-mannanase to improve its substrate affinity by in silico design and site-directed mutagenesis. \u03b2-Mannanases (EC 3.2.1.78) can catalyze the cleavage of internal \u03b2-1,4-D-mannosidic linkages of mannan backbones, and they have found applications in food, feed, pulp and paper, oil, pharmaceutical and textile industries. Suitable amino acid substitution can promote access to the substrate-binding groove and maintain the substrate therein, which probably improves the substrate affinity and, thus, increases catalytic efficiency of the enzyme. In this study, to improve the substrate affinity of AuMan5A, a glycoside hydrolase (GH) family 5 \u03b2-mannanase from Aspergillus usamii, had its directed modification conducted by in silico design, and followed by site-directed mutagenesis. The mutant genes, Auman5A (Y111F) and Auman5A (Y115F), were constructed by megaprimer PCR, respectively. Then, Auman5A and its mutant genes were expressed in Pichia pastoris GS115 successfully. The specific activities of purified recombinant \u03b2-mannanases (reAuMan5A, reAuMan5A(Y111F) and reAuMan5A(Y115F)) towards locust bean gum were 152.5, 199.6 and 218.9\u00a0U\u00a0mg(-1), respectively. The two mutants were found to be similar to reAuMan5A regarding temperature and pH characteristics. Nevertheless, the K m values of reAuMan5A(Y111F) and reAuMan5A(Y115F), towards guar gum, decreased to 2.95\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.22 and 2.39\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.33\u00a0mg\u00a0ml(-1) from 4.49\u00a0\u00b1\u00a00.07\u00a0mg\u00a0ml(-1) of reAuMan5A, which would make reAuMan5A(Y111F) and reAuMan5A(Y115F) promising candidates for industrial processes. Structural analysis showed that the two mutants increased their affinity by decreasing the steric conflicts with those more complicated substrates. The results suggested that subtle conformational modification in the substrate-binding groove could substantially alter the substrate affinity of AuMan5A. This study laid a solid foundation for the directed modification of substrate affinities of \u03b2-mannanases and other enzymes."}
{"id": "24491293", "title": "Enhanced cellulase producing mutants developed from heterokaryotic Aspergillus strain.", "content": "Enhanced cellulase producing mutants developed from heterokaryotic Aspergillus strain. A heterokaryon 28, derived through protoplast fusion between Aspergillus nidulans and Aspergillus tubingensis (Dal8), was subjected cyclic mutagenesis followed by selection on increasing levels of 2-deoxy glucose (2-DG) as selection marker. The derived deregulated cellulase hyper producing mutant '64', when compared to fusant 28, produced 9.83, 7.8, 3.2, 4.2 and 19.74 folds higher endoglucanase, \u03b2-glucosidase, cellobiohydrolase, FPase and xylanase, respectively, under shake cultures. The sequence analysis of PCR amplified \u03b2-glucosidase gene from wild and mutant showed nucleotide deletion/substitution. The mutants showed highly catalytic efficient \u03b2-glucosidase as evident from low Km and high Vmax values. The expression profiling through zymogram analysis also indicated towards over-expression of cellulases. The up/down regulated expressed proteins observed through SDS-PAGE were identified by Peptide mass fingerprinting The cellulase produced by mutants in conjunction with cellulase free xylanase derived from Thermomyces lanuginosus was used for efficient utilization of alkali treated rice straw for obtaining xylo-oligosaccharides and ethanol."}
{"id": "24464080", "title": "Isolation and characterization of formaldehyde-degrading fungi and its formaldehyde metabolism.", "content": "Isolation and characterization of formaldehyde-degrading fungi and its formaldehyde metabolism. Formaldehyde is classified as a human carcinogen that may cause nasopharyngeal cancer and probably leukemia. The effects of environmental and nutritional factors on fungal growth and the biodegradation of formaldehyde were investigated. Fungal strains SGFA1 and SGFA3 isolated from untreated sewage sediment samples collected from heavily formaldehyde-contaminated areas were identified using morphological characteristics and molecular techniques and named as Aspergillus nomius SGFA1 and Penicillium chrysogenum SGFA3. Results indicate that SGFA1 and SGFA3 completely consumed 3,000 and 900\u00a0mg\u00a0l(-1) of formaldehyde, respectively, within 7\u00a0days under optimized conditions. Quantitative real-time PCR analyses and enzyme activity analyses demonstrated that glutathione-dependent formaldehyde dehydrogenase (GDFADH) and formate dehydrogenase (FDH) pathway may play a functional role in enhancing formaldehyde-degrading capability in SGFA1. Both fungi have potential use for remediation of formaldehyde pollution."}
{"id": "24462974", "title": "An efficient tool for random insertional mutagenesis: Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of the filamentous fungus Aspergillus terreus.", "content": "An efficient tool for random insertional mutagenesis: Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of the filamentous fungus Aspergillus terreus. Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation (ATMT) has been widely used in various organisms. In the current study, we developed a simple and efficient system for genetic transformation of the filamentous fungus Aspergillus terreus using ATMT. The transformation protocol was optimized for certain parameters to rapidly generate a library of Transferred DNA (T-DNA) insertion mutants of A. terreus. The presence of mitotically stable hygromycin resistance gene (hph) integration in the genome was confirmed by PCR, and T-DNA flanking sequences were cloned by thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR. The successful construction of the mutant library demonstrated the utility of the ATMT approach for future forward and reverse genetic studies in this important fungus."}
{"id": "24457303", "title": "Potential halophilic cellulases for in situ enzymatic saccharification of ionic liquids pretreated lignocelluloses.", "content": "Potential halophilic cellulases for in situ enzymatic saccharification of ionic liquids pretreated lignocelluloses. Ionic liquids (ILs) have been used as an alternative green solvent for lignocelluloses pretreatment. However, being a salt, ILs exhibit an inhibitory effect on cellulases activity, thus making the subsequent saccharification inefficient. The aim of the present study is to produce salt-tolerant cellulases, with the rationale that the enzyme also tolerant to the presence of ILs. The enzyme was produced from a locally isolated halophilic strain and was characterized and assessed for its tolerance to different types of ionic liquids. The results showed that halophilic cellulases produced from Aspergillus terreus UniMAP AA-6 exhibited higher tolerance to ILs and enhanced thermo stability in the presence of high saline conditions."}
{"id": "24442359", "title": "Environmental investigations and molecular typing of Aspergillus in a Chinese hospital.", "content": "Environmental investigations and molecular typing of Aspergillus in a Chinese hospital. Invasive fungal infections due to Aspergillus species have become a major cause of morbidity and mortality among immunocompromised patients. In order to determine the possible relationship between environmental contamination by Aspergillus and the occurrence of invasive aspergillosis, a 1-year prospective study was carried out in a tertiary hospital in China. Air, surface, and tap water sampling was performed twice monthly at the bone marrow transplant (BMT) department, intensive care unit (ICU), neurosurgery intensive care unit (NICU), and outdoors. Nose, pharynx, and sputum samples were collected from high-risk patients. Isolates of Aspergillus from the environment and patients were genotyped by random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) assay to investigate the origin of infection. Mean total Aspergillus count was 7.73, 8.94, 13.19, and 17.32 cfu/m(3) in the BMT department, ICU, NICU, and outdoors, respectively. RAPD analysis by R108 primer demonstrated that strains isolated from patients in NICU were identical to the environmental strain. Strains isolated from patients in ICU differed from the environmental strain. Aspergillus contamination was found in the BTM department, NICU, and ICU. Clinical and environmental strains from NICU had identical genotypes. These findings suggest that Aspergillus is found in the hospital environment including the air, surface, and tap water. The genotypes of Aspergillus were identical from patients and the environment, suggesting that clinical infection may originate from the hospital environment."}
{"id": "24440682", "title": "Distribution, expression and expansion of Aspergillus fumigatus LINE-like retrotransposon populations in clinical and environmental isolates.", "content": "Distribution, expression and expansion of Aspergillus fumigatus LINE-like retrotransposon populations in clinical and environmental isolates. Functional genomic analysis of the mould pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus has identified multiple secondary metabolism genes upregulated in the host niche. Intriguingly, transcriptomic analyses of infectious germlings, germinating spores and mutants lacking the LaeA methyltransferase reveal differential expression of transposable elements (TEs), which often flank secondary metabolite gene clusters. In this study we investigate, in clinical and environmental isolates, the structure and distribution of a specific class of A. fumigatus long interspersed nuclear element (LINE)-like retrotransposons occupying subtelomeric loci in the A. fumigatus genome, and probe their stability in response to laboratory- and host-imposed stresses. In silico analyses revealed that this class belongs to the Tad clade of LINE-like elements. Southern blotting with a LINE-specific probe in clinical and environmental isolates revealed a high variability in the insertion pattern between strains and active transcription of LINE-like element(s) was discernable, in the type strain Af293, by RT-PCR. One out of 14 tested clinical isolates did not contain any LINEs at all, arguing against an absolute requirement for LINE-mediated activities in human infections. Finally, we found preliminary evidence of an association between mycovirus-infection and the expansion of Tad-element populations in discrete A. fumigatus genomes."}
{"id": "24418238", "title": "Gut microeukaryotes during anorexia nervosa: a case report.", "content": "Gut microeukaryotes during anorexia nervosa: a case report. Few studies have focused on eukaryote community in the human gut. Here, the diversity of microeukaryotes in the gut microbiota of an anorexic patient was investigated using molecular and culture approaches. A 21-year-old Caucasian woman was admitted in an intensive care unit for severe malnutrition in anorexia nervosa. One stool specimen was collected from the anorexic patient, culture and polymerase chain reaction-based explorations yielded a restricted diversity of fungi but four microeukaryotes Tetratrichomonas sp., Aspergillus ruber, Penicillium solitum and Cladosporium bruhnei previously undescribed in the human gut. Establishing microeukaryote repertoire in gut microbiota contributes to the understanding of its role in human health."}
{"id": "24392732", "title": "Fungal central nervous system infections: prevalence and diagnosis.", "content": "Fungal central nervous system infections: prevalence and diagnosis. Fungal infections of the central nervous system (CNS) are rare but they pose a significant challenge. Their prevalence spans a wide array of hosts including immunosuppressed and immunocompetent individuals, patients undergoing neurosurgical procedures and those carrying implantable CNS devices. Cryptococcus neoformans and Aspergillus spp. remain the most common pathogens. Magnetic resonance imaging can help localize the lesions, but diagnosis is challenging since invasive procedures may be needed for the retrieval of tissue, especially in cases of fungal abscesses. Antigen and antibody tests are available and approved for use in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). PCR-based techniques are promising but they are not validated for use in the CSF. This review provides an overview on the differential diagnosis of the fungal CNS disease based on the host and the clinical syndrome and suggests the optimal use of diagnostic techniques. It also summarizes the emergence of Cryptococcus gatti and an unanticipated outbreak caused by Exserohilum rostratum."}
{"id": "24384382", "title": "Functional analysis of the C-II subgroup killer toxin-like chitinases in the filamentous ascomycete Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Functional analysis of the C-II subgroup killer toxin-like chitinases in the filamentous ascomycete Aspergillus nidulans. Chitinases are hydrolytic enzymes responsible for chitin polymer degradation. Fungal chitinases belong exclusively to glycoside hydrolases family 18 and they are categorized into three phylogenetic groups (A, B and C), which are further divided into subgroups (A-II to A-V, B-I to B-V and C-I to C-II). Subgroup C chitinases display similarity with the \u03b1/\u03b2-subunit of the zymocin yeast killer toxin produced by Kluyveromyces lactis, suggesting a role of these enzymes in fungal-fungal interactions. In this study, we investigated the regulation and function of 4 Aspergillus nidulans subgroup C-II killer toxin-like chitinases by quantitative PCR and by constructing gene deletion strains. Our results showed that all 4 genes were highly induced during interactions with Botrytis cinerea and Rhizoctonia solani, compared to self-interactions. In addition, chiC2-2 and chiC2-3 were also induced during contact with Fusarium sporotrichoides, while none of these genes were induced during interactions with Phytophthora niederhauserii. In contrast, no difference in expression levels were observed between growth on glucose-rich media compared with media containing colloidal chitin, while all genes were repressed during growth on R. solani cell wall material. Phenotypic analysis of chitinase gene deletion strains revealed that B. cinerea biomass was significantly higher in culture filtrate derived from the \u0394chiC2-2 strain compared to biomasses grown in media derived from A. nidulans wild type or the other chitinase gene deletion strains. The analysis also showed that all chitinase gene deletion strains displayed increased biomass production in liquid cultures, and altered response to abiotic stress. In summary, our gene expression data suggest the involvement of A. nidulans subgroup C-II chitinases in fungal-fungal interactions, which is further proven for ChiC2-2. In addition, lacking any of the 4 chitinases influenced the growth of A. nidulans."}
{"id": "24376003", "title": "FigA, a putative homolog of low-affinity calcium system member Fig1 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, is involved in growth and asexual and sexual development in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "FigA, a putative homolog of low-affinity calcium system member Fig1 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, is involved in growth and asexual and sexual development in Aspergillus nidulans. Calcium-mediated signaling pathways are widely employed in eukaryotes and are implicated in the regulation of diverse biological processes. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, at least two different calcium uptake systems have been identified: the high-affinity calcium influx system (HACS) and the low-affinity calcium influx system (LACS). Compared to the HACS, the LACS in fungi is not well known. In this study, FigA, a homolog of the LACS member Fig1 from S. cerevisiae, was functionally characterized in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. Loss of figA resulted in retardant hyphal growth and a sharp reduction of conidial production. Most importantly, FigA is essential for the homothallic mating (self-fertilization) process; further, FigA is required for heterothallic mating (outcrossing) in the absence of HACS midA. Interestingly, in a figA deletion mutant, adding extracellular Ca(2+) rescued the hyphal growth defects but could not restore asexual and sexual reproduction. Furthermore, quantitative PCR results revealed that figA deletion sharply decreased the expression of brlA and nsdD, which are known as key regulators during asexual and sexual development, respectively. In addition, green fluorescent protein (GFP) tagging at the C terminus of FigA (FigA::GFP) showed that FigA localized to the center of the septum in mature hyphal cells, to the location between vesicles and metulae, and between the junctions of metulae and phialides in conidiophores. Thus, our findings suggest that FigA, apart from being a member of a calcium uptake system in A. nidulans, may play multiple unexplored roles during hyphal growth and asexual and sexual development."}
{"id": "24375164", "title": "Down-regulation of sidB gene by use of RNA interference in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Down-regulation of sidB gene by use of RNA interference in Aspergillus nidulans. Introduction of the RNA interference (RNAi) machinery has guided the researchers to discover the function of essential vital or virulence factor genes in the microorganisms such as fungi. In the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans, the gene sidB plays an essential role in septation, conidiation and vegetative hyphal growth. In the present study, we benefited from the RNAi strategy for down-regulating a vital gene, sidB, in the fungus A. nidulans. The 21-nucleotide small interfering RNA (siRNA) was designed based on the cDNA sequence of the sidB gene in A. nidulans. Transfection was performed through taking up siRNA from medium by 6 hour-germinated spores. To evaluate the morphologic effects of siRNA on the fungus, germ tube elongation was followed. Moreover, total RNA was extracted and quantitative changes in expression of the sidB gene were analyzed by measuring the cognate sidB mRNA level by use of a quantitative real-time RT-PCR assay. Compared to untreated-siRNA samples, a significant inhibition in germ tube elongation was observed in the presence of 25 nM of siRNA (42 VS 21 \u00b5M). In addition, at the concentration of 25 nM, a considerable decrease in sidB gene expression was revealed. Usage of RNAi as a kind of post-transcriptional gene silencing methods is a promising approach for designing new antifungal agents and discovering new drug delivery systems."}
{"id": "24323289", "title": "Screening a random mutagenesis library of a fungal \u03b2-fructofuranosidase using FT-MIR ATR spectroscopy and multivariate analysis.", "content": "Screening a random mutagenesis library of a fungal \u03b2-fructofuranosidase using FT-MIR ATR spectroscopy and multivariate analysis. Short-chain fructooligosaccharides (scFOS) are valuable health-promoting food additives. During the batch production of scFOS from sucrose the \u03b2-fructofuranosidase catalyst is subject to product inhibition by glucose. Engineering the enzyme for reduced sensitivity to glucose could improve product yields or process productivity while preserving the simple industrial batch design. Random mutagenesis is a useful technique for engineering proteins but should be coupled to a relevant high-throughput screen. Such a screen for sucrose and scFOS quantification remains elusive. This work presents the development of a screening method displaying potential high-throughput capacity for the evaluation of \u03b2-fructofuranosidase libraries using Fourier transform mid-infrared attenuated total reflectance (FT-MIR ATR) spectroscopy and multivariate analysis. A calibration model for the quantification of sucrose in enzyme assay samples ranged from 5 to 200\u00a0g/l and the standard error of prediction was below 13\u00a0g/l. A library of the Aspergillus japonicus fopA gene was generated by error prone PCR and screened in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Using FT-MIR ATR spectroscopy, potential hits were identified as those variants that converted more sucrose in the presence of the glucose inhibitor than the parent. Subsequent analysis of reaction products generated by top performers using high-performance liquid chromatography identified a variant producing higher scFOS levels than the parent. At the peak difference in performance the variant produced 28\u00a0% more scFOS from the same amount of sucrose. This study highlights the application of FT-MIR ATR spectroscopy to a variant discovery pipeline in the directed evolution of a \u03b2-fructofuranosidase for enhanced scFOS production."}
{"id": "24313443", "title": "Development of ISSR-derived SCAR marker-targeted PCR for identification of Aspergillus section Flavi members.", "content": "Development of ISSR-derived SCAR marker-targeted PCR for identification of Aspergillus section Flavi members. Aspergillus section Flavi is a heterogeneous fungal cluster including some of the most economically important Aspergillus species. The section is comprised of toxigenic and nontoxigenic aspergilli that are phenotypically undistinguishable. The aim of this study was to develop a genetic marker specific to Aspergillus section Flavi on the whole. Based on inter-simple sequence repeat (ISSR) fingerprinting profiles of major Aspergillus section Flavi members, a sequence-characterized amplified region (SCAR) marker was identified. Primers were designed in the conserved regions of the SCAR marker and were utilized in a PCR for concurrent identification of major members of the section. The detection level of the SCAR-PCR was found to be 0\u00b71\u00a0ng purified DNA, and when applied to 45 naturally contaminated food samples, 28 samples were found infected with Aspergillus section Flavi members. The present SCAR-PCR is rapid and less cumbersome unlike conventional identification techniques. Identification of Aspergillus section Flavi members is important owing to their impact on human health and economy. The ISSR-based SCAR-PCR developed in this study is superior over the other existing Aspergillus section Flavi detection systems due to its simplicity and minimal requirement of sample handling. This PCR could be a supplementary strategy to time-consuming and rather ambiguous conventional polyphasic detection techniques and a reliable tool for high-throughput sample analysis."}
{"id": "24309908", "title": "PCR as a screening test for invasive aspergillosis in haematological patients: a pilot study.", "content": "PCR as a screening test for invasive aspergillosis in haematological patients: a pilot study. Invasive aspergillosis is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised patients, particularly in individuals with haematological malignancy and in haematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients. Nowadays, the galactomannan (GM) assay has been widely used as an indication of invasive aspergillosis, even though the test is known to generate false-positive results. The aim of this study was to compare the performance of GM and real-time PCR (qPCR) to detected Aspergillus in blood samples obtained from high-risk haematological patients. Haematological patients were screened twice weekly with GM testing, which was performed by the Platelia ELISA kit. An additional sample of whole blood (4 ml) was obtained for the purpose of qPCR testing. Sixty-four samples from 12 patients with haematopoietic stem cell transplant or haematological malignancy were studied. The overall accordance between GM and qPCR tests was 96.9 % (62 samples). Only two samples showed contradictory results, with positive GM test and negative real-time PCR results. Based on the high concordance between GM and qPCR in terms of negative results, the main utility of qPCR could be in the confirmation of positive results seen with GM testing."}
{"id": "24290653", "title": "Cultivable microorganisms associated with honeys of different geographical and botanical origin.", "content": "Cultivable microorganisms associated with honeys of different geographical and botanical origin. In this study, the composition of the cultivable microbial populations of 38 nectar honey and honeydew honey samples of different botanical and geographical origin were assessed. After growth in specific media, various colonies with different appearance were isolated and purified before phenotypic (morphological, physiological and biochemical traits) and genotypic [randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD), repetitive DNA elements-PCR (rep-PCR) and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP)] differentiation. The identification was carried out by 16S rRNA gene sequencing for bacteria and, in addition to RFLP, by sequencing the D1/D2 region of the 26S rRNA gene for yeasts and the 5.8S-ITS rRNA region for filamentous fungi. The results showed the presence of 13 species of bacteria, 5 of yeasts and 17 of filamentous fungi; the species most frequently isolated were Bacillus amyloliquefaciens, Zygosaccharomyces mellis and Aspergillus niger for the three microbial groups, respectively. The highest microbial diversity was found in multifloral honeys. No correlation among the microbial species and the botanical/geographical origin was found, but some strains were highly adapted to these matrices since they were found in several samples of different origin."}
{"id": "24268295", "title": "Diversity and dynamics of microbial communities at each step of treatment plant for potable water generation.", "content": "Diversity and dynamics of microbial communities at each step of treatment plant for potable water generation. The dynamics of bacterial and eukaryotic community associated with each step of a water purification plant in China was investigated using 454 pyrosequencing and qPCR based approaches. Analysis of pyrosequencing revealed that a high degree diversity of bacterial and eukaryotic communities is present in the drinking water treatment process before sand filtration. In addition, the microbial compositions of the biofilm in the sand filters and those of the water of the putatively clear tanks were distinct, suggesting that sand filtration and chlorination treatments played primary roles in removing exposed microbial communities. Potential pathogens including Acinetobacter, Clostridium, Legionella, and Mycobacterium, co-occurred with protozoa such as Rhizopoda (Hartmannellidae), and fungi such as Penicillium and Aspergillus. Furthermore, this study supported the ideas based on molecular level that biofilm communities were different from those in corresponding water samples, and that the concentrations of Mycobacterium spp., Legionella spp., and Naegleria spp. in the water samples declined with each step of the water treatment process by qPCR. Overall, this study provides the first detailed evaluation of bacterial and eukaryotic diversity at each step of an individual potable water treatment process located in China."}
{"id": "24252827", "title": "Molecular diagnosis of endemic and invasive mycoses: advances and challenges.", "content": "Molecular diagnosis of endemic and invasive mycoses: advances and challenges. The diagnosis of endemic and invasive fungal disease remains challenging. Molecular techniques for identification of fungi now play a significant and growing role in clinical mycology and offer distinct advantages as they are faster, more sensitive and more specific. The aim of this mini-review is to provide an overview of the state of the art of molecular diagnosis of endemic and invasive fungal diseases, and to emphasize the challenges and current need for standardization of the different methods. The European Aspergillus PCR Initiative (EAPCRI) has made significant progress in developing a standard for Aspergillus polymerase chain reaction (PCR), but recognizes that the process will not be finished until clinical utility has been established in formal and extensive clinical trials. Similar efforts should be implemented for the diagnosis of the other mycoses in order to fully validate the current methods or reinforce the need to design new ones. This manuscript is part of the series of works presented at the \"V International Workshop: Molecular genetic approaches to the study of human pathogenic fungi\" (Oaxaca, Mexico, 2012)."}
{"id": "24237760", "title": "Identification accuracy and diversity reproducibility associated with internal transcribed spacer-based fungal taxonomic library preparation.", "content": "Identification accuracy and diversity reproducibility associated with internal transcribed spacer-based fungal taxonomic library preparation. This study investigated analytical parameters that are inherently relevant to identifying and quantifying fungal communities based on polymerase chain reaction amplicons. Specifically, we evaluated the accuracy of the BLASTn-based identification for internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences generated from pure cultures, and quantified the reproducibility of relative abundances as well as \u03b1 and \u03b2 diversity measurements using duplicated environmental samples. The BLASTn-based method produced accurate fungal identification for the pure culture sequences at the genus rank. Percentages of the sequences assigned to correct genera were 99.8%, 99.8% and 99.9% for Alternaria alternata, Cladosporium cladosporioides and Epicoccum nigrum respectively. These fractions were smaller for Aspergillus fumigatus and Penicillium chrysogenum, which have dual nomenclatures or sibling species that are indistinguishable by ITS sequences. Our duplicate environmental analyses demonstrated that \u03b1 diversity and relative abundance levels were reproducible (r(2) \u2009>\u20090.9), that variability decreases with increased sequence quantity, and that the differences in distinct environmental samples were larger than differences in replicate samples (\u03b2 diversity). These results serve to better characterize the identification and quantification limits of ITS-based fungal taxonomic studies, and demonstrate that while diversity quantification is reproducible, limitations in ITS-based taxonomic identification and dual nomenclature conventions are current barriers to identification accuracy."}
{"id": "24184309", "title": "Advancing USER cloning into simpleUSER and nicking cloning.", "content": "Advancing USER cloning into simpleUSER and nicking cloning. The two novel methods for DNA cloning presented here have been developed for the rapid construction of vectors used for insertion of genes in filamentous fungi. The current study shows that both simpleUSER cloning and nicking cloning can substitute USER cloning for insertion of single PCR fragments into plasmids. The simpleUSER cloning method proposed in this paper varies from USER cloning by substituting the dual enzymatic plasmid preparation step with a single enzymatic step. The other method further abolishes the use of USER\u2122 enzyme mix and PfuTurbo Cx polymerase, and is referred to as nicking cloning. We show that both simpleUSER cloning and nicking cloning can substitute USER cloning for insertion of single PCR fragments into plasmids, and that the combination of these two methods works efficiently for the construction of selective plasmids and plasmids for co-transformation. This strategy was applied to genetically modify the filamentous fungus Aspergillus carbonarius. The two methods simplify DNA cloning by reducing time and complexity associated with cloning in filamentous fungi."}
{"id": "24166184", "title": "Mycotoxigenic moulds and mycotoxins in flours consumed in Turkey.", "content": "Mycotoxigenic moulds and mycotoxins in flours consumed in Turkey. Aflatoxins (AFs) and ochratoxin A (OTA) are metabolites produced by several fungi of the genera Aspergillus and Penicillium and have been found to contaminate human foods and animal feeds. The aim of this study was to investigate the abundance and diversity of total microfungi and mycotoxigenic fungi in 25 samples of different grain-based flours from four regions of Turkey (Thrace and Central, Northwest and West Anatolia) and to evaluate the level of AF and OTA contamination. Microscopic and polymerase chain reaction analyses were used to identify fungi, while high-performance liquid chromatography was used for the detection of AFs and OTA. A total of 551 fungal strains were obtained from the samples and identified morphologically and by multi-locus gene sequencing. All samples were contaminated with fungi ((2-4.8)\u2009\u00d7\u200910(4) colony-forming units g(-1) ) and three of them exceeded the European Commission (EC) limits. The data also revealed that 70.5 and 14.7% of the fungal isolates were positive for AF and OTA production respectively. In addition, 21 samples were contaminated by AFs (14.98 and 22.4 \u00b5g kg(-1) for AFB1 ) and OTA (3.02 and 4.76 \u00b5g kg(-1) ) and three of them exceeded the EC limits. This study is the first report on problems with the occurrence of microfungi, mycotoxin contamination, AFs and OTA in different grain-based flour samples from Turkey and highlights developable points of current limits for food and public health safety."}
{"id": "24164706", "title": "The COP9 signalosome is involved in the regulation of lipid metabolism and of transition metals uptake in Saccharomyces\u00a0cerevisiae.", "content": "The COP9 signalosome is involved in the regulation of lipid metabolism and of transition metals uptake in Saccharomyces\u00a0cerevisiae. The COP9 signalosome (CSN) is a highly conserved eukaryotic protein complex which regulates the cullin RING family of ubiquitin ligases and carries out a deneddylase activity that resides in subunit 5 (CSN5). Whereas CSN activity is essential for the development of higher eukaryotes, several unicellular fungi including the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae can survive without a functional CSN. Nevertheless, the budding yeast CSN is biochemically active and deletion mutants of each of its subunits exhibit deficiency in cullins deneddylation, although the biological context of this activity is still unknown in this organism. To further characterize CSN function in budding yeast, we present here a transcriptomic and proteomic analysis of a S.\u00a0cerevisiae strain deleted in the CSN5/RRI1 gene (hereafter referred to as CSN5), coding for the only canonical subunit of the complex. We show that Csn5 is involved in modulation of the genes controlling amino acid and lipid metabolism and especially ergosterol biosynthesis. These alterations in gene expression correlate with the lower ergosterol levels and increased intracellular zinc content which we observed in csn5 null mutant cells. We show that some of these regulatory effects of Csn5, in particular the control of isoprenoid biosynthesis, are conserved through evolution, since similar transcriptomic and/or proteomic effects of csn5 mutation were previously observed in other eukaryotic organisms such as Aspergillus\u00a0nidulans, Arabidopsis\u00a0thaliana and Drosophila\u00a0melanogaster. Our results suggest that the diverged budding yeast CSN is more conserved than was previously thought."}
{"id": "24142380", "title": "An improved chemically inducible gene switch that functions in the monocotyledonous plant sugar cane.", "content": "An improved chemically inducible gene switch that functions in the monocotyledonous plant sugar cane. Chemically inducible gene switches can provide precise control over gene expression, enabling more specific analyses of gene function and expanding the plant biotechnology toolkit beyond traditional constitutive expression systems. The alc gene expression system is one of the most promising chemically inducible gene switches in plants because of its potential in both fundamental research and commercial biotechnology applications. However, there are no published reports demonstrating that this versatile gene switch is functional in transgenic monocotyledonous plants, which include some of the most important agricultural crops. We found that the original alc gene switch was ineffective in the monocotyledonous plant sugar cane, and describe a modified alc system that is functional in this globally significant crop. A promoter consisting of tandem copies of the ethanol receptor inverted repeat binding site, in combination with a minimal promoter sequence, was sufficient to give enhanced sensitivity and significantly higher levels of ethanol inducible gene expression. A longer CaMV 35S minimal promoter than was used in the original alc gene switch also substantially improved ethanol inducibility. Treating the roots with ethanol effectively induced the modified alc system in sugar cane leaves and stem, while an aerial spray was relatively ineffective. The extension of this chemically inducible gene expression system to sugar cane opens the door to new opportunities for basic research and crop biotechnology."}
{"id": "24132496", "title": "Biodegradation of a mixture of PAHs by non-ligninolytic fungal strains isolated from crude oil-contaminated soil.", "content": "Biodegradation of a mixture of PAHs by non-ligninolytic fungal strains isolated from crude oil-contaminated soil. Nine native non-ligninolytic fungal strains were isolated from Maya crude oil-contaminated soil and selected based on their ability to grow and use crude oil and several polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs) as carbon source, for their application to PAH removal in soil. The fungi were identified by PCR amplification of intergenic transcribed sequences regions and microbiological techniques, and results showed them to be part of the genera Fusarium, Neurospora, Aspergillus, Scedosporium, Penicillium, Neosartorya and Talaromyces. A primary selection of fungi was made in minimal medium plates, considering the tolerance to different concentrations of PAHs for each strain. The radial extension rate exhibited significant differences (p < 0.05) from 200 to 1,000 mg of PAHs mixture l\u207b\u00b9. A secondary selection of Aspergillus terreus, Talaromyces spectabilis, and Fusarium sp. was achieved based on their tolerance to 2,000 mg of a mixture of Phenanathrene and Pyrene kg\u207b\u00b9 of soil in a solid-state microcosm system for 2 weeks. The percentage of PAH removal obtained by the three strains was approximately 21 % of the mixture."}
{"id": "24037906", "title": "An investigation on the relationship between the occurrence of CMV DNAemia and the development of invasive aspergillosis in the allogeneic stem cell transplantation setting.", "content": "An investigation on the relationship between the occurrence of CMV DNAemia and the development of invasive aspergillosis in the allogeneic stem cell transplantation setting. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection might increase the risk of fungal superinfection in allogeneic stem cell transplant patients. The potential association between the occurrence of CMV DNAemia and the development of invasive aspergillosis in this clinical setting was investigated. The current retrospective observational study included 167 patients undergoing T cell-replete allogeneic stem cell transplantation. Virological monitoring of active CMV infection was performed by the pp65 antigenemia assay and/or by a plasma real-time PCR assay. A total of 109 out of 167 patients developed CMV DNAemia. Twenty-three patients had proven (n\u2009=\u20094) or probable (n\u2009=\u200919) invasive aspergillosis. The occurrence of CMV DNAemia was not significantly associated with the subsequent development of invasive aspergillosis (P\u2009=\u20090.38). Overall, the duration of the episodes of active CMV infection and the peak level of CMV DNAemia within the episodes were comparable, irrespective of whether invasive aspergillosis developed subsequently or not (P\u2009=\u20090.99; P\u2009=\u20090.70, respectively). Peak CMV DNA load in patients with proven or probable invasive aspergillosis who died was higher (median, 5,461\u2009copies/ml) than that in those who survived (median 1,179\u2009copies/ml) (P\u2009=\u20090.41). The data argue against the existence of an association between the occurrence of CMV DNAemia and the development of invasive aspergillosis, however, CMV replication, particularly at high levels, might aggravate the prognosis of this disease."}
{"id": "24030717", "title": "Discrimination of Aspergillus lentulus from Aspergillus fumigatus by Raman spectroscopy and MALDI-TOF MS.", "content": "Discrimination of Aspergillus lentulus from Aspergillus fumigatus by Raman spectroscopy and MALDI-TOF MS. In 2005, a new sibling species of Aspergillus fumigatus was discovered: Aspergillus lentulus. Both species can cause invasive fungal disease in immune-compromised patients. The species are morphologically very similar. Current techniques for identification are PCR-based or morphology-based. These techniques are labour-intense and not sufficiently discriminatory. Since A. lentulus is less susceptible to several antifungal agents, it is important to correctly identify the causative infectious agent in order to optimize antifungal therapy. In this study we determined whether Raman spectroscopy and/or MALDI-TOF MS were able to differentiate between A. lentulus and A. fumigatus. For 16 isolates of A. lentulus and 16 isolates of A. fumigatus, Raman spectra and peptide profiles were obtained using the Spectracell and MALDI-TOF MS (VITEK MS RUO, bioM\u00e9rieux) respectively. In order to obtain reliable Raman spectra for A. fumigatus and A. lentulus, the culture medium needed to be adjusted to obtain colourless conidia. Only Raman spectra obtained from colourless conidia were reproducible and correctly identified 25 out of 32 (78 %) of the Aspergillus strains. For VITEK MS RUO, no medium adjustments were necessary. Pigmented conidia resulted in reproducible peptide profiles as well in this case. VITEK MS RUO correctly identified 100 % of the Aspergillus isolates, within a timeframe of approximately 54 h including culture. Of the two techniques studied here, VITEK MS RUO was superior to Raman spectroscopy in the discrimination of A. lentulus from A. fumigatus. VITEK MS RUO seems to be a successful technique in the daily identification of Aspergillus spp. within a limited timeframe."}
{"id": "24026449", "title": "Comparison of methods for isolation of bacterial and fungal DNA from human blood.", "content": "Comparison of methods for isolation of bacterial and fungal DNA from human blood. The study aimed at optimization of DNA isolation from blood of representatives of four microbial groups causing sepsis, i.e., Gram negative: Escherichia coli, Gram positive: Staphylococcus aureus, yeast: Candida albicans, and filamentous fungus: Aspergillus fumigatus. Additionally, the five commercial kits for microbial DNA isolation from the blood were tested. The developed procedure of DNA isolation consisted of three consecutive steps, i.e., mechanical disruption, chemical lysis, and thermal lysis. Afterward, DNA was isolated from the previously prepared samples (erythrocyte lysis) with the use of five commercial kits for DNA isolation. They were compared paying heed to detection limit, concentration, DNA purity, and heme concentration in samples. The isolation of DNA without preliminary erythrocyte lysis resulted in far higher heme concentration than when lysis was applied. In the variant with erythrocyte lysis, two of the commercial kits were most effective in purifying the DNA extract from heme. Designed procedure allowed obtaining microbial DNA from all four groups of pathogens under study in the amount sufficient to conduct the rtPCR reaction, which aimed at detecting them in the blood."}
{"id": "23886693", "title": "Activation of NF-\u03baB and respiratory burst following Aspergillus fumigatus stimulation of macrophages.", "content": "Activation of NF-\u03baB and respiratory burst following Aspergillus fumigatus stimulation of macrophages. Dectin-2, a C-type lectin receptor (CLR), plays an essential role in mediating nuclear factor-kappa B (NF-\u03baB) activation and anti-fungal immunity in response to Candida albicans infection. However, the molecular mechanisms and function of Dectin-2 signaling in response to infection by the pathogenic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus have not been characterized. In order to characterize Dectin-2 signaling in response to A. fumigatus infection, activation of Dectin-2 was analyzed at both transcriptional and translational levels. Spleen tyrosine kinase (Syk) phosphorylation, NF-\u03baB activation and cytokine production downstream of Dectin-2 activation were also investigated. In addition, Dectin-2-Syk function and its ability to mediate reactive oxygen species (ROS) production and elimination of A. fumigatus conidia was examined. We demonstrate that Syk is involved in Dectin-2-induced I\u03baB\u03b1 (inhibitor of kappa B protein) phosphorylation and NF-\u03baB activation following A. fumigatus stimulation in a time dependent manner. Silencing of Dectin-2 and Syk as well as Syk inhibition blocks NF-\u03baB activation and cytokine secretion. Furthermore, the killing of A. fumigatus conidia and ROS production are significantly affected by Dectin-2 or Syk silencing as well as Syk inhibition. Swelling and germination of the fungus followed by hyphae formation and not the resting and heat-inactivated form of A. fumigatus mediate the activation of Dectin-2 signaling. In conclusion, Syk plays an essential role in I\u03baB\u03b1 kinase phosphorylation, NF-\u03baB activation, and ROS production mediated by Dectin-2 activation in response to A. fumigatus infection."}
{"id": "23801149", "title": "Occurrence and molecular detection of toxigenic Aspergillus species in food grain samples from India.", "content": "Occurrence and molecular detection of toxigenic Aspergillus species in food grain samples from India. The aim of this study was to detect the presence of different mycotoxigenic Aspergillus species in major food grains from southern states of India, namely maize, paddy, groundnut and sorghum. A total of 200 isolates recovered from 320 grain samples from four southern states were tested for their toxin chemotypes using high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), high-performance thin layer chromatography (HPTLC) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) methods. The diversity and distribution of the isolates were recorded in terms of their frequency, density, importance value index and diversity indices. Among the different grain samples tested, 83% of groundnut, 69% of maize, 57% of sorghum and 29% of paddy samples had aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) levels above the allowed limit, while 82% of maize, 70% of sorghum, 42% of paddy and 17% of groundnut samples had ochratoxin A (OTA) concentrations higher than the permitted threshold (5\u2009\u00b5g\u2009kg\u207b\u00b9). Since the southern states of India are temperate regions, environmental factors, especially temperature and relative humidity, may be responsible for the high levels of mycotoxins present in the grains studied. Therefore there is a need to generate awareness among farmers and consumers about the possible adverse health effects of high levels of mycotoxins present in different food grains."}
{"id": "23786547", "title": "Volume dependency for culture of fungi from respiratory secretions and increased sensitivity of Aspergillus quantitative PCR.", "content": "Volume dependency for culture of fungi from respiratory secretions and increased sensitivity of Aspergillus quantitative PCR. Diagnosis of aspergillosis is often difficult. We compared fungal yields from respiratory specimens using the Health Protection Agency standard culture method (BSOP57), a higher volume undiluted culture method Mycology Reference Centre Manchester (MRCM) and Aspergillus quantitative real time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). Sputum, bronchial aspirate and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples (total 23) were collected from aspergillosis patients. One fraction of all samples was cultured using the MRCM method, one BSOP57 and one was used for qPCR. The recovery rate for fungi was significantly higher by MRCM (87%) than by BSOP57 (8.7%) from all 23 specimens. Sputum samples were 44% positive by MRCM compared to no fungi isolated (0%) by BSOP57. Bronchial aspirates were 75% positive by MRCM and 0% by BSOP57. BAL samples were positive in 20% by MRCM and 10% by BSOP57. qPCR was always more sensitive than culture (95.6%) from all samples. In general, over 100 mould colonies (81 Aspergillus fumigatus) were grown using the MRCM method compared with only one colony from BSOP57. This study provides a reference point for standardisation of respiratory sample processing in diagnostic laboratories. Culture from higher volume undiluted respiratory specimens has a much higher yield for Aspergillus than BSOP57. qPCR is much more sensitive than culture and the current UK method requires revision."}
{"id": "23756242", "title": "Metabolic detoxification pathways for 5-methoxy-sterigmatocystin in primary tracheal epithelial cells.", "content": "Metabolic detoxification pathways for 5-methoxy-sterigmatocystin in primary tracheal epithelial cells. 1.\u2002 The health effects of inhaled mycotoxins remain poorly documented despite their presence in bioaerosols. 5-methoxy-sterigmatocystin is produced in association with sterigmatocystin by some Aspergillus spp., sometimes in larger amounts than sterigmatocystin. Whereas sterigmatocystin can be metabolized through cytochromes P450 (CYP), UDP-glucuronosyltransferases and sulfotransferases in airway epithelial cells, little is known about 5-methoxy-sterigmatocystin. 2.\u2002 The 5-methoxy-sterigmatocystin metabolites were analyzed using human recombinant CYP and porcine tracheal epithelial cell (PTEC) primary cultures at an air-liquid interface. The induction of xenobiotic-metabolizing enzymes was examined by real-time quantitative PCR for mRNA expression and 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation activity. 3.\u2002 CYP1A1 metabolized 5-methoxy-sterigmatocystin into hydroxy-nor-methoxy-sterigmatocystin, nor-methoxy-sterigmatocystin and dihydroxy-methoxy-sterigmatocystin. CYP1A2 led to monohydroxy-methoxy-sterigmatocystin. In PTEC, 5-methoxy-sterigmatocystin metabolism resulted into a glucuroconjugate of 5-methoxy-sterigmatocystin, a sulfoconjugate and a glucuroconjugate of monohydroxy-methoxy-sterigmatocystin. The exposure of PTEC for 24\u2009h to 1\u2009\u00b5M 5-methoxy-sterigmatocystin induced a significant increase in the mRNA levels of CYP1A1, without significant induction of the 7-ethoxyresorufin O-deethylation activity. 4.\u2002 These data suggest that 5-methoxy-sterigmatocystin is mainly detoxified in airway cells through conjugation, as sterigmatocystin. However, while CYP produced a reactive metabolite of sterigmatocystin, no such metabolite was detected with 5-methoxy-sterigmatocystin. Nevertheless, 5-methoxy-sterigmatocystin increases the CYP1A1 mRNA levels. The long-term consequences remain unknown."}
{"id": "23710880", "title": "Stability of airborne microbes in the Louvre Museum over time.", "content": "Stability of airborne microbes in the Louvre Museum over time. The microbial content of air has as yet been little described, despite its public health implications, and there remains a lack of environmental microbial data on airborne microflora in enclosed spaces. In this context, the aim of this study was to characterize the diversity and dynamics of airborne microorganisms in the Louvre Museum using high-throughput molecular tools and to underline the microbial signature of indoor air in this human-occupied environment. This microbial community was monitored for 6 month during occupied time. The quantitative results revealed variations in the concentrations of less than one logarithm, with average values of 10(3) and 10(4) Escherichia coli/Aspergillus fumigatus genome equivalent per m(3) for bacteria and fungi, respectively. Our observations highlight the stability of the indoor airborne bacterial diversity over time, while the corresponding eukaryote community was less stable. Bacterial diversity characterized by pyrosequencing 454 showed high diversity dominated by the Proteobacteria which represented 51.1%, 46.9%, and 38.4% of sequences, for each of the three air samples sequenced. A common bacterial diversity was underlined, corresponding to 58.4% of the sequences. The core species were belonging mostly to the Proteobacteria and Actinobacteria, and to the genus Paracoccus spp., Acinetobacter sp., Pseudomonas sp., Enhydrobacter sp., Sphingomonas sp., Staphylococcus sp., and Streptococcus sp."}
{"id": "23517274", "title": "Fungal encephalitis in human autopsy cases is associated with extensive neuronal damage but only minimal repair.", "content": "Fungal encephalitis in human autopsy cases is associated with extensive neuronal damage but only minimal repair. The present study aimed at examining neuronal injury and repair in post mortem brain sections of humans who died from fungal central nervous system infections. Histological and immunohistochemical abnormalities in 15 autopsy cases with fungal central nervous system infections from 1990 to 2008 were compared with findings in 10 age- und sex-matched control cases that died from acute non-neurological causes. The fungal pathogens were identified by culture or polymerase chain reaction and morphology in post mortem tissue. Seven patients with fungal encephalitis had either an organ transplantation or a malignant haematological disorder; five out of 15 did not have a classical predisposing illness but suffered from severe septic infections as the principal cause of immunosuppression, and three from alcoholism. Fungal organisms detected were Aspergillus spp. and other moulds, Candida spp. and black yeast-like fungi including Cladosporium spp. Histological analyses identified microglial activation, astrocytosis and axonal injury in the white matter without additional demyelination as characteristic features of this infectious disease. An increased rate of hippocampal neuronal apoptosis was detected in fungal encephalitis, while the number of recently generated TUC-4 and calretinin-expressing neurones in the dentate gyrus did not differ between patients and controls. Unlike in other infectious diseases of the nervous system where a coexistence of damage and repair was observed, fungal encephalitis is characterized by strong damage and minimal neuronal regeneration."}
{"id": "23391452", "title": "Occurrence and quantification of fungi and detection of mycotoxigenic fungi in drinking water in Xiamen City, China.", "content": "Occurrence and quantification of fungi and detection of mycotoxigenic fungi in drinking water in Xiamen City, China. Fungi are known to play an important role in nutrient and carbon cycling, and the occurrence of fungi in the water supply may result in a variety of human health problems. This study aimed to investigate the occurrence and frequency of various fungi in drinking water over a one-year period. The study also aimed to quantify the fungal presence using real-time PCR, and to effectively detect mycotoxigenic fungi in a variety of water sources. Water samples were collected from different water systems (surface water, public system water, house water, and tank water), from different sites (n=15) in Xiamen, China. Each month from February 2011 to January 2012, 22 water samples were collected and analyzed. The results showed that surface water samples possessed a higher frequency of fungi than did the other water samples. Identification of fungal species was conducted using morphological and molecular methods. The most dominant fungi found were Aspergillus spp., Fusarium spp., Pencillium spp., Trichoderma spp., Mucor sp., and Rhizopus sp. Notably, the more-frequency observed fungi in the tap water of houses and public systems were Fusarium sp., Exophiala sp., and Phialophora sp. Meanwhile, mycotoxigenic fungi were detected in some water samples at different times. The strains isolated from samples collected in September to November had the aflatoxigenic fungi, and for fumonisin and trichothecenes, the fungi strains were re-isolated from water in November and December."}
{"id": "24459772", "title": "Biodegradation of phenol by Antarctic strains of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Biodegradation of phenol by Antarctic strains of Aspergillus fumigatus. Taxonomic identification of three newly isolated Antarctic fungal strains by their 18S rDNA sequences revealed their affiliation with Aspergillus fumigatus. Phenol (0.5 g/l) as the sole carbon source was completely degraded by all strains within less than two weeks. Intracellular activities of three key enzymes involved in the phenol catabolism were determined. Activities of phenol hydroxylase (EC 1.14.13.7), hydroquinone hydroxylase (EC 1.14.13.x), and catechol 1,2-dioxygenase (EC 1.13.11.1) varied significantly between strains. The rates of phenol degradation in the three strains correlated best with the activity of catechol 1,2-dioxygenase. Six pairs of oligonucleotide primers were designed on the basis of the Aspergillus fumigatus Af293 genome sequence (NCBI Acc. No. XM_743491.1) and used to amplify phenol hydroxylase-related gene sequences. DNA sequences of about 1200 bp were amplified from all three strains and found to have a high degree of sequence identity with the corresponding gene of Aspergillus fumigatus Af293."}
{"id": "24409765", "title": "[Microbial diversity of Pyropia haitanensis phycosphere during cultivation].", "content": "[Microbial diversity of Pyropia haitanensis phycosphere during cultivation]. Pyropia haitanensis is of great commercial importance and wildly cultivated in Zhejiang and Fujian provinces. To observe the characteristics and changes of phycosphere microbial communities during cultivation can help us monitor the potential pathogens and microbial factors affecting the health of cultivated seaweeds. The morphological characteristics and the diversity of phycosphere and surrounding seawater microbes were studied by pure culture method and polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE). Similarity analysis was carried out online with the 16S rDNA (bacteria) and 18S rDNA (fungi) sequences in GenBank. The phycosphere microbial diversity during different growth stages, cultivated areas and periods was studied. Totally 467 bacteria and 55 fungi were isolated during P. haitanensis cultivation. The diversity of fungi was smaller than that of bacteria. The bacteria were classified into 41 genera, belonging to Alphaproteobacteria, Gammaproteobacteria, Actinobacteria, Firmicutes and Bacteroidetes. The dominant bacterial communities were Alphaproteobacteria and Gammaproteobacteria. Most of the fungi were classified into Ascomycota, only one strain belonging to the Basidiomycota, Agaricomycetes. Bacteria of 19 specific genera were isolated from P. haitanensis while 13 specific genera were isolated from the surrounding seawater. Most actinomycetes and fungi were isolated from the conchocelis cultured indoors, which was different from the microbial communities of the thalli in intertidal zone. Within the isolated microbes, we found that some strains had very high similarity with those pathogens such as Cobetia marina (C. marina, P. haitanensis red-rotting disease), Phoma porphyrae (P. yezoensis disease) and saprotrophic fungi Fusarium sp. and Aspergillus sp.. The diversity of Pyropia phycoshpere microbes during cultivation was affected by the seaweed morphology, culture time and environmental factors. The strains that shared high similarity with Pyropia pathogens were found in this study, which would cause our great attention to these potential pathogens for Pyropia diseases."}
{"id": "24391918", "title": "Assessing the effects of light on differentiation and virulence of the plant pathogen Botrytis cinerea: characterization of the White Collar Complex.", "content": "Assessing the effects of light on differentiation and virulence of the plant pathogen Botrytis cinerea: characterization of the White Collar Complex. Organisms are exposed to a tough environment, where acute daily challenges, like light, can strongly affect several aspects of an individual's physiology, including pathogenesis. While several fungal models have been widely employed to understand the physiological and molecular events associated with light perception, various other agricultural-relevant fungi still remain, in terms of their responsiveness to light, in the dark. The fungus Botrytis cinerea is an aggressive pathogen able to cause disease on a wide range of plant species. Natural B. cinerea isolates exhibit a high degree of diversity in their predominant mode of reproduction. Thus, the majority of naturally occurring strains are known to reproduce asexually via conidia and sclerotia, and sexually via apothecia. Studies from the 1970's reported on specific developmental responses to treatments with near-UV, blue, red and far-red light. To unravel the signaling machinery triggering development--and possibly also connected with virulence--we initiated the functional characterization of the transcription factor/photoreceptor BcWCL1 and its partner BcWCL2, that form the White Collar Complex (WCC) in B. cinerea. Using mutants either abolished in or exhibiting enhanced WCC signaling (overexpression of both bcwcl1 and bcwcl2), we demonstrate that the WCC is an integral part of the mentioned machinery by mediating transcriptional responses to white light and the inhibition of conidiation in response to this stimulus. Furthermore, the WCC is required for coping with excessive light, oxidative stress and also to achieve full virulence. Although several transcriptional responses are abolished in the absence of bcwcl1, the expression of some genes is still light induced and a distinct conidiation pattern in response to daily light oscillations is enhanced, revealing a complex underlying photobiology. Though overlaps with well-studied fungal systems exist, the light-associated machinery of B. cinerea appears more complex than those of Neurospora crassa and Aspergillus nidulans."}
{"id": "24368426", "title": "Bioaerosols from a food waste composting plant affect human airway epithelial cell remodeling genes.", "content": "Bioaerosols from a food waste composting plant affect human airway epithelial cell remodeling genes. The composting procedure in food waste plants generates airborne bioaerosols that have the potential to damage human airway epithelial cells. Persistent inflammation and repair responses induce airway remodeling and damage to the respiratory system. This study elucidated the expression changes of airway remodeling genes in human lung mucoepidermoid NCI-H292 cells exposed to bioaerosols from a composting plant. Different types of microorganisms were detectable in the composting plant, using the agar culture method. Real-time polymerase chain reaction was used to quantify the level of Aspergillus fumigatus and the profile of remodeling genes. The real-time PCR results indicated that the amount of A. fumigatus in the composting hall was less than 10(2) conidia. The endotoxins in the field bioaerosols were determined using a limulus amebocyte lysate test. The endotoxin levels depended on the type of particulate matter (PM), with coarse particles (2.5-10 \u03bcm) having higher endotoxin levels than did fine particles (0.5-2.5 \u03bcm). After exposure to the conditioned medium of field bioaerosol samples, NCI-H292 cells showed increased pro-inflammatory interleukin (IL)-6 release and activated epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), transforming growth factor (TGF)-\u03b21 and cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor 1 (p21 WAF1/CIP1) gene expression, but not of matrix metallopeptidase (MMP)-9. Airborne endotoxin levels were higher inside the composting hall than they were in other areas, and they were associated with PM. This suggested that airborne bioaerosols in the composting plant contained endotoxins and microorganisms besides A. fumigatus that cause the inflammatory cytokine secretion and augment the expression of remodeling genes in NCI-H292 cells. It is thus necessary to monitor potentially hazardous materials from bioaerosols in food composting plants, which could affect the health of workers."}
{"id": "24367682", "title": "Assessing the effect of litter species on the dynamic of bacterial and fungal communities during leaf decomposition in microcosm by molecular techniques.", "content": "Assessing the effect of litter species on the dynamic of bacterial and fungal communities during leaf decomposition in microcosm by molecular techniques. Although bacteria and fungi are well-known to be decomposers of leaf litter, few studies have examined their compositions and diversities during the decomposition process in tropical stream water. Xishuangbanna is a tropical region preserving one of the highest floristic diversity areas in China. In this study, leaf litter of four dominant plant species in Xishuangbanna was incubated in stream water for 42 days during which samples were taken regularly. Following DNA extraction, PCR-DGGE (denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis) and clone-sequencing analyses were performed using bacterial and fungal specific primers. Leaf species have slightly influences on bacterial community rather than fungal community. The richness and diversity of bacteria was higher than that of fungi, which increased towards the end of the 42-day-incubation. The bacterial community was initially more specific upon the type of leaves and gradually became similar at the later stage of decomposition with alpha-proteobacteria as major component. Sequences affiliated to methanotrophs were obtained that indicates potentially occurrence of methane oxidation and methanogenesis. For the fungal community, sequences affiliated to Aspergillus were predominant at the beginning and then shifted to Pleosporales. Our results suggest that the microorganisms colonizing leaf bio\ufb01lm in tropical stream water were mostly generalists that could exploit the resources of leaves of various species equally well."}
{"id": "24351905", "title": "Fumigaclavine C from a marine-derived fungus Aspergillus fumigatus induces apoptosis in MCF-7 breast cancer cells.", "content": "Fumigaclavine C from a marine-derived fungus Aspergillus fumigatus induces apoptosis in MCF-7 breast cancer cells. Recently, much attention has been given to discovering natural compounds as potent anti-cancer candidates. In the present study, the anti-cancer effects of fumigaclavine C, isolated from a marine-derived fungus, Aspergillus fumigatus, was evaluated in vitro. In order to investigate the impact of fumigaclavine C on inhibition of proliferation and induction of apoptosis in breast cancer, MCF-7 cells were treated with various concentrations of fumigaclavine C, and fumigaclavine C showed significant cytotoxicity towards MCF-7 cells. Anti-proliferation was analyzed via cell mobility and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway. In addition, fumigaclavine C showed potent inhibition on the protein and gene level expressions of MMP-2, -9 in MCF-7 cells which were manifested in Western blot and reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) results. The apoptosis induction abilities of the fumigaclvine C was studied by analyzing the expression of apoptosis related proteins, cell cycle analysis, DNA fragmentation and molecular docking studies. It was found that fumigaclavine C fragmented the MCF-7 cell DNA and arrested the cell cycle by modulating the apoptotic protein expressions. Moreover, fumigaclavine C significantly down-regulated the NF-kappa-B cell survival pathway. Collectively, data suggest that fumigaclavine C has a potential to be developed as a therapeutic candidate for breast cancer."}
{"id": "24294264", "title": "The potential effects of Zataria multiflora Boiss essential oil on growth, aflatoxin production and transcription of aflatoxin biosynthesis pathway genes of toxigenic Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "The potential effects of Zataria multiflora Boiss essential oil on growth, aflatoxin production and transcription of aflatoxin biosynthesis pathway genes of toxigenic Aspergillus parasiticus. This study aims at evaluating the effects of Zataria multiflora (Z. multiflora) essential oil (EO) on growth, aflatoxin production and transcription of aflatoxin biosynthesis pathway genes. Total RNAs of Aspergillus parasiticus (A.parasiticus) ATCC56775 grown in yeast extract sucrose (YES) broth medium treated with Z. multiflora EO were subjected to reverse transcription- polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). Specific primers of nor-1, ver-1, omt-A and aflR genes were used. In parallel mycelial dry weight of samples were measured and all the media were assayed by high-pressure liquid chromatography (HPLC) for aflatoxinB1 (AFB1), aflatoxinB2 (AFB2), aflatoxinG1 (AFG1), aflatoxinG2 (AFG2) and aflatoxin total (AFTotal) production. The results showed that mycelial dry weight and aflatoxin production reduce in the presence of Z. multiflora EO (100 ppm) on day 5 of growth. It was found that the expression of nor-1, ver-1, omt-A and aflR genes was correlated with the ability of fungus to produce aflatoxins on day 5 in YES medium. RT-PCR showed that in the presence of Z.multiflora EO (100 ppm) nor-1, ver-1 and omtA genes expression was reduced. It seems that toxin production inhibitory effects of Z. multiflora EO on day 5 may be at the transcription level and this herb may cause reduction in aflatoxin biosynthesis pathway genes activity."}
{"id": "24291925", "title": "[Genetic diagnosis against fungal cerebromeningitis].", "content": "[Genetic diagnosis against fungal cerebromeningitis]. Fungal cerebromeningitis is one of deep seated mycoses and also a fatal fungal infectious disease. Regarding to causative pathogen of fungal cerebromeningitis in Japan, Cryptococcus spp., Candida spp., Aspergillus spp., are popular fungi. In general, the diagnosis of deep seated mycosis is sometime difficult. The genetic diagnosis method such as PCR against deep seated mycosis has been developing and it has been also reported as one of useful diagnostic tests. However, PCR for fungal detection is still a research test that has not been cleared or approved officially, therefore it should not be used for diagnosis, or patient management routinely. The PCR which detect broad range of fungi or specific fungus is applied for clinical situation, a careful attention should be paid for avoiding contamination because many fungal species are available in living environment."}
{"id": "24152260", "title": "Clinical findings for fungal infections caused by methylprednisolone injections.", "content": "Clinical findings for fungal infections caused by methylprednisolone injections. Since September 18, 2012, public health officials have been investigating a large outbreak of fungal meningitis and other infections in patients who received epidural, paraspinal, or joint injections with contaminated lots of methylprednisolone acetate. Little is known about infections caused by Exserohilum rostratum, the predominant outbreak-associated pathogen. We describe the early clinical course of outbreak-associated infections. We reviewed medical records for outbreak cases reported to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention before November 19, 2012, from the six states with the most reported cases (Florida, Indiana, Michigan, New Jersey, Tennessee, and Virginia). Polymerase-chain-reaction assays and immunohistochemical testing were performed on clinical isolates and tissue specimens for pathogen identification. Of 328 patients without peripheral-joint infection who were included in this investigation, 265 (81%) had central nervous system (CNS) infection and 63 (19%) had non-CNS infections only. Laboratory evidence of E. rostratum was found in 96 of 268 patients (36%) for whom samples were available. Among patients with CNS infections, strokes were associated with an increased severity of abnormalities in cerebrospinal fluid (P<0.001). Non-CNS infections were more frequent later in the course of the outbreak (median interval from last injection to diagnosis, 39 days for epidural abscess and 21 days for stroke; P<0.001), and such infections developed in patients with and in those without meningitis. The initial clinical findings from this outbreak suggest that fungal infections caused by epidural and paraspinal injection of a contaminated glucocorticoid product can result in a broad spectrum of clinical disease, reflecting possible variations in the pathogenic mechanism and in host and exposure risk factors. (Funded by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.)."}
{"id": "24123732", "title": "Aspergillus collagen-like genes (acl): identification, sequence polymorphism, and assessment for PCR-based pathogen detection.", "content": "Aspergillus collagen-like genes (acl): identification, sequence polymorphism, and assessment for PCR-based pathogen detection. The genus Aspergillus is a burden to public health due to its ubiquitous presence in the environment, its production of allergens, and wide demographic susceptibility among cystic fibrosis, asthmatic, and immunosuppressed patients. Current methods of detection of Aspergillus colonization and infection rely on lengthy morphological characterization or nonstandardized serological assays that are restricted to identifying a fungal etiology. Collagen-like genes have been shown to exhibit species-specific conservation across the noncollagenous regions as well as strain-specific polymorphism in the collagen-like regions. Here we assess the conserved region of the Aspergillus collagen-like (acl) genes and explore the application of PCR amplicon size-based discrimination among the five most common etiologic species of the Aspergillus genus, including Aspergillus fumigatus, A. flavus, A. nidulans, A. niger, and A. terreus. Genetic polymorphism and phylogenetic analysis of the aclF1 gene were additionally examined among the available strains. Furthermore, the applicability of the PCR-based assay to identification of these five species in cultures derived from sputum and bronchoalveolar fluid from 19 clinical samples was explored. Application of capillary electrophoresis on nanogels was additionally demonstrated to improve the discrimination between Aspergillus species. Overall, this study demonstrated that Aspergillus acl genes could be used as PCR targets to discriminate between clinically relevant Aspergillus species. Future studies aim to utilize the detection of Aspergillus acl genes in PCR and microfluidic applications to determine the sensitivity and specificity for the identification of Aspergillus colonization and invasive aspergillosis in immunocompromised subjects."}
{"id": "24113825", "title": "Penicillium decumbens BrlA extensively regulates secondary metabolism and functionally associates with the expression of cellulase genes.", "content": "Penicillium decumbens BrlA extensively regulates secondary metabolism and functionally associates with the expression of cellulase genes. Penicillium decumbens has been used in the industrial production of lignocellulolytic enzymes in China for more than 15 years. Conidiation is essential for most industrial fungi because conidia are used as starters in the first step of fermentation. To investigate the mechanism of conidiation in P. decumbens, we generated mutants defective in two central regulators of conidiation, FluG and BrlA. Deletion of fluG resulted in neither \"fluffy\" phenotype nor alteration in conidiation, indicating possible different upstream mechanisms activating brlA between P. decumbens and Aspergillus nidulans. Deletion of brlA completely blocked conidiation. Further investigation of brlA expression in different media (nutrient-rich or nutrient-poor) and different culture states (liquid or solid) showed that brlA expression is required but not sufficient for conidiation. The brlA deletion strain exhibited altered hyphal morphology with more branches. Genome-wide expression profiling identified BrlA-dependent genes in P. decumbens, including genes previously reported to be involved in conidiation as well as previously reported chitin synthase genes and acid protease gene (pepB). The expression levels of seven secondary metabolism gene clusters (from a total of 28 clusters) were drastically regulated in the brlA deletion strain, including a downregulated cluster putatively involved in the biosynthesis of the mycotoxins roquefortine C and meleagrin. In addition, the expression levels of most cellulase genes were upregulated in the brlA deletion strain detected by real-time quantitative PCR. The brlA deletion strain also exhibited an 89.1 % increase in cellulase activity compared with the wild-type strain. The results showed that BrlA in P. decumbens not only has a key role in regulating conidiation, but it also regulates secondary metabolism extensively as well as the expression of cellulase genes."}
{"id": "24108612", "title": "Aspergillus PCR-based investigation of fresh tissue and effusion samples in patients with suspected invasive Aspergillosis enhances diagnostic capabilities.", "content": "Aspergillus PCR-based investigation of fresh tissue and effusion samples in patients with suspected invasive Aspergillosis enhances diagnostic capabilities. Although it is a severe complication in immunocompromised patients, diagnosing invasive fungal disease (IFD), especially invasive aspergillosis (IA), remains difficult. In certain clinical scenarios, examining tissue samples for identification of the infectious organism becomes important. As culture-based methods rarely yield results, the performance of an Aspergillus-specific nested PCR in fresh tissue or pleural effusion samples was evaluated. Fresh tissue (n = 59) and effusion (n = 47) specimens from 79 immunocompromised patients were subjected to an Aspergillus-specific PCR assay. Twenty-six patients had proven (n = 20) or probable (n = 6) IFD, according to the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer/Invasive Fungal Infections Cooperative Group and National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Mycoses Study Group (EORTC/MSG) criteria, while the remaining patients were classified as having either possible IFD (n = 30) or no IFD (n = 23). IA was identified as the underlying IFD in 21/26 proven/probable cases. PCR positivity was observed for 18/21 proven/probable and 6 possible IA cases; cases classified as no IA did not show positive signals. Patients with proven IFD (n = 5) with cultures positive for non-Aspergillus molds also had negative Aspergillus PCR results. Aspergillus PCR performance analysis yielded sensitivity and specificity values of 86% (95% confidence interval [CI], 65% to 95%) and 100% (95% CI, 86% to 100%), respectively, thus leading to a diagnostic odds ratio of >200. In this analysis, good diagnostic performance of the PCR assay for detection of IA was observed for tissue samples, while effusion samples showed lower sensitivity rates. PCR testing represents a complementary tool; a positive PCR result strengthens the likelihood of IA, whereas IA seems unlikely in cases with negative results but findings could indicate non-Aspergillus IFD. Thus, PCR testing of these specimens enhances the diagnostic capabilities."}
{"id": "24095659", "title": "bZIP transcription factor SmJLB1 regulates autophagy-related genes Smatg8 and Smatg4 and is required for fruiting-body development and vegetative growth in Sordaria macrospora.", "content": "bZIP transcription factor SmJLB1 regulates autophagy-related genes Smatg8 and Smatg4 and is required for fruiting-body development and vegetative growth in Sordaria macrospora. Autophagy is a precisely controlled degradation process in eukaryotic cells, during which the bulk of the cytoplasm is engulfed by a double membrane vesicle, the autophagosome. Fusion of the autophagosome with the vacuole leads to breakdown of its contents, such as proteins and organelles, and the recycling of nutrients. Earlier studies of autophagic genes of the core autophagic machinery in the filamentous ascomycete Sordaria macrospora elucidated the impact of autophagy on fungal viability, vegetative growth and fruiting-body development. To gain further knowledge about the regulation of autophagy in S. macrospora, we analyzed the function of the bZIP transcription factor SmJLB1, a homolog of the Podospora anserina basic zipper-type transcription factor induced during incompatibility 4 (IDI-4) and the Aspergillus nidulans transcription factor jun-like bZIP A (JlbA). Generation of the homokaryotic deletion mutant demonstrated S. macrospora Smjlb1 is associated with autophagy-dependent processes. Deletion of Smjlb1 abolished fruiting-body formation and impaired vegetative growth. SmJLB1 is localized to the cytoplasm and to nuclei. Quantitative real-time PCR experiments revealed an upregulated expression of autophagy-related genes Smatg8 and Smatg4 in the Smjlb1 deletion mutant, suggesting a transcriptional repression function of SmJLB1."}
{"id": "24091920", "title": "[PCR-based diagnosis of mucormycosis in tissue samples].", "content": "[PCR-based diagnosis of mucormycosis in tissue samples]. Mucormycosis is characterized by a rapid, often fatal progression. Early diagnosis of invasive mucormycosis is the key for timely therapeutic intervention and improved survival. Contrary to the more prevalent aspergillosis, effective antifungal therapy of mucormycosis is mainly limited to amphotericin B. Given the importance to guide the timely initiation of amphotericin B and possible surgical intervention, rapid and specific identification of fungal hyphae is essential. Conventional histopathology depends on abundance and morphology of the fungi as well as on the skills of the personnel, and usually shows an accuracy of 80\u2009%. PCR assays targeting fungal ribosomal genes to identify Mucorales at least at genus level increase sensitivity, allow a rapid identification as well as detection of double mold infections. Thus, PCR assays are beneficial to complement existing approaches. They are recommended to rapidly specify tissue diagnosis and accurate identification of fungi. This will help to guide effective therapy and thereby, survival will increase. Retrospective analyses of mucormycosis by PCR help to evaluate therapeutic interventions and will optimize treatment options."}
{"id": "24071866", "title": "[Identification of fungal pathogens in tissue samples using fluorescence in situ hybridization].", "content": "[Identification of fungal pathogens in tissue samples using fluorescence in situ hybridization]. Deep fungal infections are associated with significant mortality despite the availability of new antifungal agents. The identification of causative fungi is important to define successful antifungal therapies as agents differ in the in vitro susceptibility. Characterization of tissue morphology and cultivation from tissue provide important clues to patient management. Molecular techniques such as PCR-based assays are increasingly being used to identify agents of invasive fungal infections. However, potential contamination limits the use when ubiquitous fungi are targeted. Hybridization with fluorescently labeled probes targeting the ribosomal RNA of fungi is emerging as an alternative identification strategy. Using conserved or variable regions of the rRNA as targets, group or species-specific probes can be synthesized to identify fungal pathogens and localize them in the infectious process. These techniques have been successfully applied to deep fungal infections due to different agents in various organ samples."}
{"id": "24066582", "title": "[Separation and molecular identification of fungal contamination on surface of 15 Chinese herbal medicines].", "content": "[Separation and molecular identification of fungal contamination on surface of 15 Chinese herbal medicines]. To evaluate fungal contamination on the surface of Chinese herbal medicines and explore an appropriate method for fast and efficient identification of contaminant fungi. Chinese herbal medicines were first washed and the washing solution was plated onto potato dextrose agar (PDA) to obtain the pure isolates. For molecular identification, two new pairs of specific primers were designed according to ITS region of fungi genome sequences. The strains were identified through polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sequence analysis. Fifty fungal strains were obtained from the surface of 15 Chinese herbal medicines with the percent of contaminated samples of 93.3%. Twenty-seven strains among them were successfully identified. Fungal contamination on the surface of Chinese herbal medicines is quite common. Although different fungal species were isolated, the genus Aspergillus was the predominant. The primer pairs developed in this study are compatible and can be used to identify fungal species from the surface of Chinese herbal medicines."}
{"id": "24065675", "title": "Molecular characterization of Aspergillus flavus and aflatoxin contamination of wheat grains from Saudi Arabia.", "content": "Molecular characterization of Aspergillus flavus and aflatoxin contamination of wheat grains from Saudi Arabia. Twelve species belonging to six fungal genera were found to be associated with wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) grain samples collected from three main regions in Saudi Arabia. The most common genera (average frequency) were Aspergillus (14.3%), Fusarium (29.1%), Penicillium (9.3%), and Alternaria (8.2%). Nineteen isolates of Aspergillus flavus were screened for their ability to produce aflatoxins using HPLC. Thirteen isolates produced aflatoxins ranging from 0.5 to 2.6 \u00b5g/kg. Inter-simple sequence repeats (ISSR), and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) molecular markers were used, with the aim of genetically characterizing strains of A. flavus to discriminate between aflatoxigenic and non-aflatoxigenic isolates. RAPD and ISSR analysis revealed a high level of genetic diversity in the A. flavus population, useful for genetic characterization. Clustering based on RAPD and ISSR dendograms was unrelated to geographic origin. RAPD and ISSR markers were not suitable to discriminate aflatoxigenic and non-aflatoxigenic isolates, but ISSR primers were better compared to RAPD."}
{"id": "24052228", "title": "Cloning, expression of a feruloyl esterase from Aspergillus usamii E001 and its applicability in generating ferulic acid from wheat bran.", "content": "Cloning, expression of a feruloyl esterase from Aspergillus usamii E001 and its applicability in generating ferulic acid from wheat bran. A cDNA gene (AufaeA), which encodes a mature polypeptide of the type-A feruloyl esterase from Aspergillus usamii E001 (abbreviated to AuFaeA), was cloned and heterologously expressed in Pichia pastoris GS115. One transformant, labeled as P. pastoris GSFaeA4-8, expressing the highest recombinant AuFaeA (reAuFaeA) activity of 10.76\u00a0U/ml was selected by the flask expression test. The expressed reAuFaeA was purified to homogeneity with an apparent molecular weight of 36.0\u00a0kDa by SDS-PAGE analysis, and characterized using the model substrate of methyl ferulate (MFA). The purified reAuFaeA was optimally active at pH 5.0 and 45\u00a0\u00b0C, and highly stable at pH 4.0-6.5 and 45\u00a0\u00b0C or below. Its activity was not significantly affected by metal ions tested and EDTA. The K m and V max of reAuFaeA towards MFA were 4.64\u00a0mM and 115.5\u00a0U/mg, respectively. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis showed that only 9.7\u00a0% of total alkali-extractable ferulic acid (FA) was released from destarched wheat bran by reAuFaeA alone. The released FA increased to 36.5\u00a0% when reAuFaeA was used together with a recombinant Aspergillus usamii GH family 11 xylanase A, indicating a synergistic interaction between them."}
{"id": "24047134", "title": "Extraction of DNA from orange juice, and detection of bacterium Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus by real-time PCR.", "content": "Extraction of DNA from orange juice, and detection of bacterium Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus by real-time PCR. Orange juice processed from Huanglongbing (HLB) affected fruit is often associated with bitter taste and/or off-flavor. HLB disease in Florida is associated with Candidatus Liberibacter asiaticus (CLas), a phloem-limited bacterium. The current standard to confirm CLas for citrus trees is to take samples from midribs of leaves, which are rich in phloem tissues, and use a quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) test to detect the 16S rDNA gene of CLas. It is extremely difficult to detect CLas in orange juice because of the low CLas population, high sugar and pectin concentration, low pH, and possible existence of an inhibitor to DNA amplification. The objective of this research was to improve extraction of DNA from orange juice and detection of CLas by qPCR. Homogenization using a sonicator increased DNA yield by 86% in comparison to mortar and pestle extraction. It is difficult to separate DNA from pectin; however, DNA was successfully extracted by treating the juice with pectinase. Application of an elution column successfully removed the unidentified inhibitor to DNA amplification. This work provided a protocol to extract DNA from whole orange juice and detect CLas in HLB-affected fruit."}
{"id": "24045934", "title": "Use of mycological, nested PCR, and real-time PCR methods on BAL fluids for detection of Aspergillus fumigatus and A. flavus in solid organ transplant recipients.", "content": "Use of mycological, nested PCR, and real-time PCR methods on BAL fluids for detection of Aspergillus fumigatus and A. flavus in solid organ transplant recipients. Invasive aspergillosis continues to be a significant cause of morbidity and mortality in solid organ transplant (SOT) recipients. A reliable and early diagnostic method is needed to improve survival. In this study, four methods direct microscopy, culture, nested PCR on internal transcribed spacer region, and TaqMan real-time PCR targeted \u03b2-tubulin gene were examined for the detection of Aspergillus fumigatus and A. flavus in sixty-four bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluids that were obtained from SOT recipients. Direct examination with 20\u00a0% KOH (potassium hydroxide) and culture on mycological media were also performed. Of the 64 samples, seven (10.9\u00a0%) were positive in direct examination (five with septate hyphae and two with aseptate hyphae), and 15 (23\u00a0%) had positive culture including five A. flavus, four A. niger, two Penicillium spp., two Rhizopus spp., one Fusarium spp. and one mixed A. flavus/A. niger. Twenty five (39\u00a0%) samples had positive nested PCR with A. flavus and 6 (9.4\u00a0%) with A. fumigatus-specific primers. Only eight (12.5\u00a0%) had positive real-time PCR for A. flavus and nine (14\u00a0%) for A. fumigatus. The incidence of aspergillosis in these patients included proven invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) in two (3\u00a0%), probable IPA in 14 (22\u00a0%), possible IPA in 38 (59\u00a0%), and not IPA in 10 (16\u00a0%). A. flavus was the most common cause of pulmonary aspergillosis (PA) in the study. The results suggest that because nested PCR is too sensitive it may increase the number of false-positive results and is not recommended for BAL samples for diagnosis of PA. Although further studies with significant number of proved positive/negative standard BAL samples are necessary for better evaluation, the novel multiplex real-time PCR developed in the study could be promising as a valid diagnostic method for IPA."}
{"id": "24040343", "title": "Oxygen and an extracellular phase transition independently control central regulatory genes and conidiogenesis in Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Oxygen and an extracellular phase transition independently control central regulatory genes and conidiogenesis in Aspergillus fumigatus. Conidiogenesis is the primary process for asexual reproduction in filamentous fungi. As the conidia resulting from the conidiogenesis process are primarily disseminated via air currents and/or water, an outstanding question has been how fungi recognize aerial environments suitable for conidial development. In this study, we documented the somewhat complex development of the conidia-bearing structures, termed conidiophores, from several Aspergillus species in a subsurface (gel-phase) layer of solid media. A subset of the isolates studied was able to develop conidiophores in a gel-phase environment, but exposure to the aeriform environment was required for the terminal developmental transition from phialide cells to conidia. The remaining Aspergilli could not initiate the conidiogenesis process until they were exposed to the aeriform environment. Our observations of conidiophore development in high or low oxygen conditions in both aeriform and gel-phase environments revealed that oxygen and the aeriform state are positive environmental factors for inducing conidiogenesis in most of the aspergilli tested in this study. Transcriptional analysis using A. fumigatus strain AF293 confined to either the aeriform or gel-phase environments revealed that expression of a key regulatory gene for conidiophore development (AfubrlA) is facilitated by oxygen while expression of another regulatory gene controlling conidia formation from phialides (AfuabaA) was repressed regardless of oxygen levels in the gel-embedded environment. Furthermore, by comparing the developmental behavior of conidiation-defective mutants lacking genes controlling various regulatory checkpoints throughout the conidiogenesis pathway, we propose that this aerial response by the fungus requires both oxygen and the phase transition (solid to aeriform), with these environmental signals integrating into the upstream regulatory pathway and central regulatory pathway of conidiogenesis, respectively. Our findings provide not only novel insight into how fungi respond to an aerial environment to trigger development for airborne conidia production but also the relationship between environmental factors and conidiogenesis regulation in aspergilli."}
{"id": "24037306", "title": "Profiling of dynamic changes in the microbial community during the soy sauce fermentation process.", "content": "Profiling of dynamic changes in the microbial community during the soy sauce fermentation process. Soy sauce is a traditional condiment manufactured by natural inoculation and mixed culture fermentation. As is well known, it is the microbial community that plays an important role in the formation of its flavors. However, to date, its dynamic changes during the long period of fermentation process are still unclear, intensively constraining the improvement and control of the soy sauce quality. In this work, we revealed the dynamic changes of the microbial community by combining a cultured dependent method and a cultured independent method of polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. Results indicated that the two methods verified and complemented each other in profiling microbial community, and that significant dynamics of the microbial community existed during the fermentation process, especially the strong inhibition of the growth of most of the microbes when entering into the mash stage from the koji stage. In the analysis of bacterial community, Staphylococcus and Bacillus were found to be the dominant bacteria and detected in the whole fermentation process. Kurthia and Klebsiella began to appear in the koji stage and then fade away in the early stage of the mash fermentation. In the analysis of fungal community, Aspergillus sojae and Zygosaccharomyces rouxii were found to be the dominant fungi in the koji and mash fermentation, respectively. It was clearly shown that when A. sojae decreased and disappeared in the middle stage of the mash fermentation, Z. rouxii appeared and increased at the meantime. Aspergillus parasiticus, Trichosporon ovoides and Trichosporon asahii also appeared in the koji and the early period of the mash fermentation and disappeared thereafter. Similar to Z. rouxii, Millerozyma farinosa and Peronospora farinosa were also found spontaneously which appeared in the mid-late period of the mash fermentation. The principal component analysis suggested that the microbial community underwent significant changes in the early period of the fermentation and, thereafter, tended to the stabilization in the mid-late periods. This study gave us important clues to understand the fermentation process and can serve as a foundation for improving the quality of soy sauce in the future."}
{"id": "24036751", "title": "Mixed infection of an atypical Mycobacterium and Aspergillus following a cryopreserved fat graft to a face.", "content": "Mixed infection of an atypical Mycobacterium and Aspergillus following a cryopreserved fat graft to a face. We report a chronic infection of a patient who received a cryopreserved fat graft on her face. A 22-year-old female patient presented with multiple abscesses of her face. Four months previously, she received a second fat graft with the fat harvested at a previous surgery which was cryopreserved for 2 months. On examination, she had tender erythematous nodules on both cheeks. A computed tomography of her neck showed multiple peripheral enhancing nodular lesions. In an open pus fungus culture, Aspergillus fumigatus growth was observed. On the Mycobacterium Other Than Tuberculosis identification PCR, Mycobacterium fortuitum was found. She was treated with levofloxacin, clarithromycin, and minocycline for 11 months, and finally the symptoms subsided. To avoid infection after the fat graft, cryopreserved fat should not be used as a possible grafting material. In cases of persistent infection, or in cases of waxes and gains after drainage of pus and short-term antibiotics therapy, atypical Mycobacterium or Aspergillus should be suspected and a PCR for them should be carried out."}
{"id": "24033951", "title": "Dexamethasone enhances invasiveness of Aspergillus fumigatus conidia and fibronectin expression in A549 cells.", "content": "Dexamethasone enhances invasiveness of Aspergillus fumigatus conidia and fibronectin expression in A549 cells. The efficacies of current treatments for invasive aspergillus (IA) are unsatisfactory and new therapeutic targets or regimens to treat IA are urgently needed. Previous studies have indicated that the ability of conidia to invade host cells is critical in IA development and fibronectin has a hand in the conidia adherence process. In the clinical setting, many patients who receive glucocorticoid for extended periods are susceptible to Aspergillus fumigatus (A. fumigatus) infection, for this reason we investigated the effect of glucocorticoid on conidia invasiveness by comparing the invasiveness of A. fumigatus conidia in the type II human alveolar cell line (A549) cultured with different concentrations of dexamethasone. We also explored the relationships between dexamethasone and fibronectin expression. Following culture with anti-fibronectin antibodies and/or dexamethasone, type II human alveolar A549 cells were infected with conidia of A. fumigatus. After 4 hours, the extracellular free conidia were washed away and the remaining immobilized conidia were released using Triton-X 100 and quantified by counting the colony-forming units. The invasiveness of conidia was measured by calculating the invasion rate (%). The transcription of the fibronectin gene in cells cultured with different concentrations of dexamethasone for 24 hours was tested by fluorogenic quantitative RT-PCR while the expression of fibronectinin cells cultured for 48 hours was tested by Western blotting and immunocytochemistry. A significant reduction in the invasiveness of conidia was seen in the cells cultured with anti-fibronectin antibody ((14.42 \u00b1 1.68)% vs. (19.17 \u00b1 2.53)%, P < 0.05), but no significant difference was observed in cells cultured with a combination of anti-fibronectin antibody and dexamethasone (6.37 \u00b1 10(-5) mol/L). There was no correlation between the dexamethasone concentration and the invasiveness of conidia after dexamethasone pretreatment of cells for 4 hours. In contrast, after pretreated for 24 hours, the invasiveness of conidia in the presence of 6.37\u00d710(-5) mol/L dexamethasone ((24.66 \u00b1 2.41)%) was higher than for the control ((19.17 \u00b1 2.53)%) and the 0.25\u00d710(-5) mol/L group ((19.93 \u00b1 3.06)%), and the invasiveness in the 1.27\u00d710(-5) mol/L group ((22.47 \u00b1 2.46)%) was also higher than in the control, P < 0.05. The relative transcripts of the fibronectin gene after exposure to 6.37\u00d710(-5) mol/L dexamethasone (9.19\u00d710(-3)\u00b11.2\u00d710(-3)) was higher than for the control (4.61\u00d710(-3)\u00b1 1.54\u00d710(-3)) and the 0.25\u00d710(-5) mol/L group (6.20\u00d710(-3)\u00b1 1.93\u00d710(-3)), and expression in the 1.27\u00d710(-5) mol/L group (7.94\u00d710(-3)\u00b1 2.24\u00d710(-3)) was also higher than for the control, P < 0.05. High concentrations of dexamethasone promoted fibronectin production after culture for 48 hours. Dexamethasone can increase invasiveness of A. fumigatus conidia by promoting fibronectin expression. This may partially explain why patients who are given large doses of glucocorticoids for extended periods are more susceptible to A. fumigatus infection."}
{"id": "24009710", "title": "Heterologous reconstitution of the intact geodin gene cluster in Aspergillus nidulans through a simple and versatile PCR based approach.", "content": "Heterologous reconstitution of the intact geodin gene cluster in Aspergillus nidulans through a simple and versatile PCR based approach. Fungal natural products are a rich resource for bioactive molecules. To fully exploit this potential it is necessary to link genes to metabolites. Genetic information for numerous putative biosynthetic pathways has become available in recent years through genome sequencing. However, the lack of solid methodology for genetic manipulation of most species severely hampers pathway characterization. Here we present a simple PCR based approach for heterologous reconstitution of intact gene clusters. Specifically, the putative gene cluster responsible for geodin production from Aspergillus terreus was transferred in a two step procedure to an expression platform in A. nidulans. The individual cluster fragments were generated by PCR and assembled via efficient USER fusion prior to transformation and integration via re-iterative gene targeting. A total of 13 open reading frames contained in 25 kb of DNA were successfully transferred between the two species enabling geodin synthesis in A. nidulans. Subsequently, functions of three genes in the cluster were validated by genetic and chemical analyses. Specifically, ATEG_08451 (gedC) encodes a polyketide synthase, ATEG_08453 (gedR) encodes a transcription factor responsible for activation of the geodin gene cluster and ATEG_08460 (gedL) encodes a halogenase that catalyzes conversion of sulochrin to dihydrogeodin. We expect that our approach for transferring intact biosynthetic pathways to a fungus with a well developed genetic toolbox will be instrumental in characterizing the many exciting pathways for secondary metabolite production that are currently being uncovered by the fungal genome sequencing projects."}
{"id": "23973838", "title": "Influence of temperature and substrate conditions on the omt-1 gene expression of Aspergillus parasiticus in relation to its aflatoxin production.", "content": "Influence of temperature and substrate conditions on the omt-1 gene expression of Aspergillus parasiticus in relation to its aflatoxin production. Most strains of Aspergillus parasiticus are able to produce high concentrations of aflatoxin (AF) B1 and G1 which are among the most potent mutagenic, teratogenic, and carcinogenic mycotoxins. Molecular studies in relation to activity of secondary metabolite gene clusters are crucial to improving food safety. In the present work, reverse transcriptase quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) was used to monitor the influence of temperature, substrates containing nitrogen and incubation time on the omt-1 gene expression in A. parasiticus. Phenotypic AFB1 and G1 production was also evaluated by high-performance liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS). The results demonstrated that temperature (25\u00b0C and 30\u00b0C) influenced relative expression of omt-1 gene throughout the time (maximum at 25\u00b0C) while substrate composition was not affected by it. However, when effect of temperature and substrate was analyzed at each incubation time, significant effects were found. Optimal conditions for biosynthesis of AFB1 and AFG1 were similar, and they were related to changes in temperature and sodium nitrate. The highest AFB1 and G1 production levels were found at 25\u00b0C. However, lower AFB1 and G1 values were obtained when A. parasiticus grew on the substrate containing sodium nitrate and there was no production of these AFs at 37\u00b0C in any of the conditions tested. In addition, omt-1 gene expression was correlated to AFB1 and G1 syntheses at the different conditions. Use of temperature conditions and sodium nitrate concentrations which limit production of AFs holds potential for preventing AF from entering the food chain."}
{"id": "23959322", "title": "Impact of in vivo triazole and echinocandin combination therapy for invasive pulmonary aspergillosis: enhanced efficacy against Cyp51 mutant isolates.", "content": "Impact of in vivo triazole and echinocandin combination therapy for invasive pulmonary aspergillosis: enhanced efficacy against Cyp51 mutant isolates. Previous studies examining combination therapy for invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) have revealed conflicting results, including antagonism, indifference, and enhanced effects. The most commonly employed combination for this infection includes a mold-active triazole and echinocandin. Few studies have evaluated combination therapy from a pharmacodynamic (PD) perspective, and even fewer have examined combination therapy against both wild-type and azole-resistant Cyp51 mutant isolates. The current studies aim to fill this gap in knowledge. Four Aspergillus fumigatus isolates were utilized, including a wild-type strain, an Fks1 mutant (posaconazole susceptible and caspofungin resistant), and two Cyp51 mutants (posaconazole resistant). A neutropenic murine model of IPA was used for the treatment studies. The dosing design included monotherapy with posaconazole, monotherapy with caspofungin, and combination therapy with both. Efficacy was determined using quantitative PCR, and results were normalized to known quantities of conidia (conidial equivalents [CE]). The static dose, 1-log kill dose, and associated PD target area under the curve (AUC)/MIC ratio were determined for monotherapy and combination therapy. Monotherapy experiments revealed potent activity for posaconazole, with reductions of 3 to 4 log10 Aspergillus CE/ml with the two \"low\"-MIC isolates. Posaconazole alone was less effective for the two isolates with higher MICs. Caspofungin monotherapy did not produce a significant decrease in fungal burden for any strain. Combination therapy with the two antifungals did not enhance efficacy for the two posaconazole-susceptible isolates. However, the drug combination produced synergistic activity against both posaconazole-resistant isolates. Specifically, the combination resulted in a 1- to 2-log10 decline in burden that would not have been predicted based on the monotherapy results for each drug. This corresponded to a reduction in the free-drug posaconazole AUC/MIC ratio needed for stasis of up to 17-fold. The data suggest that combination therapy using a triazole and an echinocandin may be a beneficial treatment strategy for triazole-resistant isolates."}
{"id": "23957415", "title": "Bacterial and fungal communities in Pu'er tea samples of different ages.", "content": "Bacterial and fungal communities in Pu'er tea samples of different ages. Pu'er is a major kind of postfermented tea and is made with a \"large leaf\" variety of Camellia sinensis (C. sinensis assamica), whose distribution is limited to the mountains of southern Yunnan, China. The quality of Pu'er tea is believed to increase with storage (aging, maturing) because of postfermentation by microbes. The effect of storage period (from < 1 to 192\u00a0mo) on the bacteria and fungi in Pu'er tea was investigated by a culture-dependent and a PCR-DGGE method. The individual numbers of fungi and bacteria decreased with increasing storage time and were significantly greater in ripened tea than in raw Pu'er tea. Both methods indicated that yeast, Aspergillus spp., and Penicillium spp. were the dominant fungi in almost all the samples. However, the common bacteria detected by the culture-dependent method were species of Pseudomonas, Achromobacter, Alcaligenes, Sporosarcina, and Bacillus, whereas those detected by PCR-DGGE were species of Staphylococcus, Arthrobacter, and Streptomyces. According to ordination analysis, bacterial community structure differed between ripened and raw Pu'er tea. Bacterial diversity was positively correlated with aging time, while fungal diversity in both raw and ripened tea increased during the first 60 mo of aging and then decreased. Changes in polyphenol content were correlated with the changes in fungal diversity. These results suggest that the relationship between storage time and the quality of Pu'er tea is complex and involves changes in polyphenol content and microbial abundance and diversity."}
{"id": "23955377", "title": "Mycotoxigenic fungi and mycotoxins associated with stored maize from different regions of Lesotho.", "content": "Mycotoxigenic fungi and mycotoxins associated with stored maize from different regions of Lesotho. Samples of stored maize from villages located in five different agroecological zones (southern lowlands, northern lowlands, Senqu river valley, foothills and mountains) of Lesotho were collected in 2009/10 and 2010/11 and assessed for contamination with toxigenic fungi. The water activity of all samples collected during the two seasons was <0.70. The total fungal populations of the maize from different regions in the two seasons was not significantly different (p\u2009>\u20090.05). Fusarium verticillioides, F. proliferatum and F. subglutinans predominated in different regions in both seasons based on molecular analyses. In the 2009/10 season, the isolates of these species all produced FB1, while in the 2010/11 season, very few produced FB1. A. flavus isolates (2009/10) were recovered from mountains and Senqu river valley samples while the 2010/11 isolates were predominantly from the foothills and northern lowlands. The mountain isolates of Aspergillus section Flavi produced the highest levels of AFB1 (20\u00a0mg\u00a0kg(-1)). Aspergillus parasiticus was only isolated from the foothills, Senqu river valley and southern lowlands samples, and the AFB1 levels produced ranged from 'none detected' to 3.5\u00a0mg\u00a0kg(-1). The Aspergillus ochraceous isolates were least frequently encountered in both seasons. In the 2009/10 season, the isolates from the northern lowlands produced ochratoxin A (OTA) in culture. No isolates of A. niger from different regions in both seasons produced any OTA. Multi-mycotoxin analyses of the maize samples were done for a range of mycotoxins. At least one sample from each region in both seasons was FB1-positive. FB1 levels for 2010/11 samples (7-936\u00a0\u03bcg\u00a0kg(-1)) were higher than in the 2009/10 season (2-3\u00a0\u03bcg\u00a0kg(-1)). In both seasons, the mountains registered the highest levels of FB1. Deoxynivalenol (DON) was recovered from all the samples analysed, with the highest mean contamination of 1,469\u00a0\u03bcg\u00a0kg(-1) in samples from the northern lowlands. Moniliformin (MON) was detected from all agroecological zones in the two seasons (5-320\u00a0\u03bcg\u00a0kg(-1) in 2009/10; 15-1,205\u00a0\u03bcg\u00a0kg(-1) in 2010/11). Emerging toxins such as fusaproliferin (FUS) and beauvericin (BEA) were also detected. OTA was not detected in any of the samples analysed. Only one 2009/10 sample in the Senqu river valley was positive for AFB1. This is the first report on toxigenic fungi and multi-mycotoxin contamination of maize samples from subsistence farmers' stores in different agroecological zones of Lesotho."}
{"id": "23954943", "title": "Studies on drug metabolism by fungi colonizing decomposing human cadavers. Part I: DNA sequence-based identification of fungi isolated from postmortem material.", "content": "Studies on drug metabolism by fungi colonizing decomposing human cadavers. Part I: DNA sequence-based identification of fungi isolated from postmortem material. Cadavers can be colonized by a wide variety of bacteria and fungi. Some of these microbes could change the concentration or the metabolic pattern of drugs present in postmortem samples. The purpose of this study was to identify fungi from human postmortem material and to further assess their potential role in the metabolism of drugs. Aliquots of 252 postmortem samples (heart blood, liver, kidney, and lung) taken from 105 moderately to severely decomposed bodies were streaked on Sabouraud agar for isolation of fungal species. One part of the samples was worked up immediately after autopsy (group I). The second part had previously been stored at -20 \u00b0C for at least 1 year (group II). Identification of the isolates was achieved morphologically by microscopy and molecularly by polymerase chain reaction amplification and sequencing of markers allowing species identification of the respective genera. Depending on the genus, different gene fragments were used: calmodulin for Aspergillus, \u03b2-tubulin for Penicillium, translation elongation factor 1\u03b1 for Fusarium, and the internal transcribed spacer region of the ribosomal DNA for all remaining genera. A total of 156 fungal strains were isolated from 62% of the postmortem materials. By using these primers, 98% of the isolates could be identified to the species level. The most common genera were Candida (60.0%-six species), Penicillium (10.3%-two species), Rhodotorula (7.1%-one species), Mucor (6.4%-four species), Aspergillus (3.2%-four species), Trichosporon (3.2%-one species), and Geotrichum (3.2%-one species). Group I samples contained 53% more fungal species than stored samples suggesting some fungi did not survive the freezing process. The isolated fungi might be characteristic for decomposed bodies. The proposed methodology proved to be appropriate for the identification of fungi in this type of material."}
{"id": "23934489", "title": "Microbial contents of vacuum cleaner bag dust and emitted bioaerosols and their implications for human exposure indoors.", "content": "Microbial contents of vacuum cleaner bag dust and emitted bioaerosols and their implications for human exposure indoors. Vacuum cleaners can release large concentrations of particles, both in their exhaust air and from resuspension of settled dust. However, the size, variability, and microbial diversity of these emissions are unknown, despite evidence to suggest they may contribute to allergic responses and infection transmission indoors. This study aimed to evaluate bioaerosol emission from various vacuum cleaners. We sampled the air in an experimental flow tunnel where vacuum cleaners were run, and their airborne emissions were sampled with closed-face cassettes. Dust samples were also collected from the dust bag. Total bacteria, total archaea, Penicillium/Aspergillus, and total Clostridium cluster 1 were quantified with specific quantitative PCR protocols, and emission rates were calculated. Clostridium botulinum and antibiotic resistance genes were detected in each sample using endpoint PCR. Bacterial diversity was also analyzed using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), image analysis, and band sequencing. We demonstrated that emission of bacteria and molds (Penicillium/Aspergillus) can reach values as high as 1E5 cell equivalents/min and that those emissions are not related to each other. The bag dust bacterial and mold content was also consistent across the vacuums we assessed, reaching up to 1E7 bacterial or mold cell equivalents/g. Antibiotic resistance genes were detected in several samples. No archaea or C. botulinum was detected in any air samples. Diversity analyses showed that most bacteria are from human sources, in keeping with other recent results. These results highlight the potential capability of vacuum cleaners to disseminate appreciable quantities of molds and human-associated bacteria indoors and their role as a source of exposure to bioaerosols."}
{"id": "23931836", "title": "Invasive fungal infections: biomarkers and molecular approaches to diagnosis.", "content": "Invasive fungal infections: biomarkers and molecular approaches to diagnosis. The biomarkers galactomannan and 1,3-\u03b2-d-glucan have been well studied over the past years and are gaining a role in the diagnosis of invasive fungal infections. Although not as well studied until recently, molecular methods for the diagnosis of invasive fungal infection are also being evaluated. Outcomes data for molecular testing are expanding, but have not yet provided enough evidence for inclusion of molecular diagnostics in formal clinical guidelines. Lack of standardization and validation of the various molecular assays and platforms has hindered their widespread acceptance in the evaluation of invasive fungal infections, although the future is promising."}
{"id": "23928558", "title": "Dectin-2 is predominately macrophage restricted and exhibits conspicuous expression during Aspergillus fumigatus invasion in human lung.", "content": "Dectin-2 is predominately macrophage restricted and exhibits conspicuous expression during Aspergillus fumigatus invasion in human lung. We investigated the features of Dectin-2 expression both at transcriptional and translational levels during Aspergillus fumigatus infection in human lung. Simultaneously, the expression of CD206 was assayed as an activated marker of alveolar macrophages. The characteristic of Dectin-2 expression were then confirmed in Monocyte-derived macrophages (MDM) after A. fumigatus stimulation by Flow Cytometry. We found that the expression of Dectin-2 was low in normal lung, while it revealed a markedly up-regulation during A. fumigatus invasion. Dectin-2 expression was predominantly restricted to CD206 positive cells. There was salient positive correlation between Dectin-2 expression and CD206. We conclude that Dectin-2 expression is largely restricted to alveolar macrophages in human lung. The conspicuous expression of Dectin-2 during A. fumigatus invasion suggests its notable contribution to antifungal defenses in pulmonary aspergillosis."}
{"id": "23889550", "title": "Typing clinical and animal environment Aspergillus fumigatus gliotoxin producer strains isolated from Brazil by PCR-RFLP markers.", "content": "Typing clinical and animal environment Aspergillus fumigatus gliotoxin producer strains isolated from Brazil by PCR-RFLP markers. Aspergillus fumigatus, a well-known human and animal pathogen causing aspergillosis, has been historically identified by morphological and microscopic features. However, recent studies have shown that species identification on the basis of morphology alone is problematic. The aim of this work was to confirm the taxonomic state at specie level of a set of clinical (human and animal) and animal environment A.\u00a0fumigatus strains identified by morphological criteria applying a PCR-RFLP assay by an in silico and in situ analysis with three restriction enzymes. The A.\u00a0fumigatus gliotoxin-producing ability was also determined. Previous to the in situ PCR-RFLP analysis, an in silico assay with BccI, MspI and Sau3AI restriction enzymes was carried out. After that, these enzymes were used for in situ assay. All A.\u00a0fumigatus strains isolated from corn silage, human aspergillosis and bovine mastitis and high per cent of the strains isolated from cereals, animal feedstuff and sorghum silage were able to produce high gliotoxin levels. Also, all these strains identified by morphological criteria as A.\u00a0fumigatus, regardless of its isolation source, had band patterns according to A.\u00a0fumigatus sensu stricto by PCR-RFLP markers. Aspergillus fumigatus is a well-known human and animal pathogen causing aspergillosis. In this study, clinical (human and animal) and animal environment strains were able to produce high gliotoxin levels and had band profiles according to A.\u00a0fumigatus sensu stricto by PCR-RFLP markers. The results obtained here suggest that strains involved in human and animal aspergillosis could come from the animal environment in which A.\u00a0fumigatus is frequently found. Its presence in animal environments could affect animal health and productivity; in addition, there are risks of contamination for rural workers during handling and storage of animal feedstuffs."}
{"id": "23886435", "title": "Differential expression of ATP-binding cassette and/or major facilitator superfamily class efflux pumps contributes to voriconazole resistance in Aspergillus flavus.", "content": "Differential expression of ATP-binding cassette and/or major facilitator superfamily class efflux pumps contributes to voriconazole resistance in Aspergillus flavus. Invasive aspergillosis remains a life-threatening infection in immunocompromised patients. Although clinical failures are attributed to poor host immunity, antifungal drug resistance may be a contributing factor. Reports of voriconazole (VRC) resistance (VRC-R) in clinical isolates of Aspergillus spp. continue to emerge from various centers around the world, and mechanisms contributing to drug resistance are poorly understood. The aim of this study is to study the role of multidrug resistance efflux pumps (MDR-EPs) in VRC-R in Aspergillus flavus using efflux pump inhibitors and quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. Relative quantification of various MDR-EPs was performed pre-exposure and postexposure to VRC, which demonstrated an increase in 1 or more efflux pump gene transcripts to varying degrees in VRC-susceptible and VRC-R isolates of A. flavus. Exposure to sub-MIC of VRC causes up-regulation of genes encoding MDR-EPs, contributing to triazole resistance in A. flavus and may not be detected during routine antifungal susceptibility testing in vitro."}
{"id": "23884469", "title": "CaMKII is essential for the proasthmatic effects of oxidation.", "content": "CaMKII is essential for the proasthmatic effects of oxidation. Increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) contribute to asthma, but little is known about the molecular mechanisms connecting increased ROS with characteristic features of asthma. We show that enhanced oxidative activation of the Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase (ox-CaMKII) in bronchial epithelium positively correlates with asthma severity and that epithelial ox-CaMKII increases in response to inhaled allergens in patients. We used mouse models of allergic airway disease induced by ovalbumin (OVA) or Aspergillus fumigatus (Asp) and found that bronchial epithelial ox-CaMKII was required to increase a ROS- and picrotoxin-sensitive Cl(-) current (ICl) and MUC5AC expression, upstream events in asthma progression. Allergen challenge increased epithelial ROS by activating NADPH oxidases. Mice lacking functional NADPH oxidases due to knockout of p47 and mice with epithelial-targeted transgenic expression of a CaMKII inhibitory peptide or wild-type mice treated with inhaled KN-93, an experimental small-molecule CaMKII antagonist, were protected against increases in ICl, MUC5AC expression, and airway hyperreactivity to inhaled methacholine. Our findings support the view that CaMKII is a ROS-responsive, pluripotent proasthmatic signal and provide proof-of-concept evidence that CaMKII is a therapeutic target in asthma."}
{"id": "23865052", "title": "Potential of chitinolytic Serratia marcescens strain JPP1 for biological control of Aspergillus parasiticus and aflatoxin.", "content": "Potential of chitinolytic Serratia marcescens strain JPP1 for biological control of Aspergillus parasiticus and aflatoxin. Serratia marcescens strain JPP1 was isolated from peanut hulls in Huai'an city, Jiangsu Province, China. Its potential to inhibit the mycelial growth of Aspergillus parasiticus and the subsequent aflatoxin production was evaluated. The strain JPP1 could produce chitinase to degrade fungal cell walls, which was the main mechanism of strain JPP1 for biocontrol. Scanning electron microscopy of fungi treated with the crude chitinase revealed abnormal morphological changes. While the strain was grown in the peanut hulls-based medium, the chitinase activity reached 7.39 units. RT-PCR analysis showed that the crude chitinase repressed the transcription of genes involved in the aflatoxin gene cluster, such as aflR, aflC (pksL1), and aflO (dmtA) genes. By visual agar plate assay and tip culture method, the strain JPP1 exhibited remarkable inhibitory effect on mycelia growth (antifungal ratio\u2009>95%) and subsequent aflatoxin production (antiaflatoxigenic ratio\u2009>98%). An in vitro assay with seed coating agent of bacterial suspension showed that strain JPP1 effectively reduced fungal growth and subsequent aflatoxin production on peanut seeds, and its antagonistic effect was superior to the common agricultural fungicide of carbendazim. These characteristics suggest that S. marcescens JPP1 strain could potentially be utilized for the biological control of phytopathogenic fungi and aflatoxin in Chinese peanut main producing areas."}
{"id": "23835170", "title": "Deletion of creB in Aspergillus oryzae increases secreted hydrolytic enzyme activity.", "content": "Deletion of creB in Aspergillus oryzae increases secreted hydrolytic enzyme activity. Aspergillus oryzae has been used in the food and beverage industry for centuries, and industrial strains have been produced by multiple rounds of selection. Targeted gene deletion technology is particularly useful for strain improvement in such strains, particularly when they do not have a well-characterized meiotic cycle. Phenotypes of an Aspergillus nidulans strain null for the CreB deubiquitinating enzyme include effects on growth and repression, including increased activity levels of various enzymes. We show that Aspergillus oryzae contains a functional homologue of the CreB deubiquitinating enzyme and that a null strain shows increased activity levels of industrially important secreted enzymes, including cellulases, xylanases, amylases, and proteases, as well as alleviated inhibition of spore germination on glucose medium. Reverse transcription-quantitative PCR (RT-qPCR) analysis showed that the increased levels of enzyme activity in both Aspergillus nidulans and Aspergillus oryzae are mirrored at the transcript level, indicating transcriptional regulation. We report that Aspergillus oryzae DAR3699, originally isolated from soy fermentation, has a similar phenotype to that of a creB deletion mutant of the RIB40 strain, and it contains a mutation in the creB gene. Collectively, the results for Aspergillus oryzae, Aspergillus nidulans, Trichoderma reesei, and Penicillium decumbens show that deletion of creB may be broadly useful in diverse fungi for increasing production of a variety of enzymes."}
{"id": "23813092", "title": "Empirical voriconazole therapy for febrile neutropenic patients with hematological disorders: a prospective multicenter trial in Japan.", "content": "Empirical voriconazole therapy for febrile neutropenic patients with hematological disorders: a prospective multicenter trial in Japan. An open-label, prospective, multicenter study was conducted between October 2006 and March 2010 to assess the efficacy and safety of intravenous voriconazole (VRCZ) as empirical therapy for antibiotic-refractory febrile neutropenia in Japanese patients with hematological disorders. In addition, to find the patient groups that may benefit from antifungal therapy, the definition of invasive fungal infection proposed by EORTC/MSG (2002) was assessed in this study. Plasma (1-3)-\u03b2-D-glucan and Aspergillus PCR in blood were also measured to improve the diagnostic accuracy. A total of 103 patients (median age, 59 years), including 25 undergoing induction chemotherapies and 19 allogeneic hematopoietic cell transplants, were evaluable. Sixty-nine percent of the patients achieved resolution of clinical symptoms and 31% achieved treatment success, defined as fulfilling the previously described five-part composite endpoint. Although VRCZ was discontinued in 9.7% of the patients because of adverse effects, all the patients recovered soon after discontinuation of VRCZ. The treatment success rate of VRCZ appeared to be higher in patients categorized as \"not classified\" compared with \"possible invasive fungal disease\" according to the EORTC/MSG criteria. Moreover, six \"not classified\" patients were positive for either plasma (1-3)-\u03b2-D-glucan (n = 5) or Aspergillus PCR in blood (n = 2). The present study demonstrates that empirical VRCZ therapy is safe and effective in Japanese patients. Additionally, (1-3)-\u03b2-D-glucan and Aspergillus PCR tests were expected to provide additional information on the diagnosis of invasive fungal infections."}
{"id": "23809840", "title": "XYLH encodes a xylose/H+ symporter from the highly related yeast species Debaryomyces fabryi and Debaryomyces hansenii.", "content": "XYLH encodes a xylose/H+ symporter from the highly related yeast species Debaryomyces fabryi and Debaryomyces hansenii. The closely related yeasts Debaryomyces fabryi and Debaryomyces hansenii are excellent xylose consumers. We previously described the activity of a high-affinity xylose/H(+) symport from an industrial strain of D.\u00a0hansenii subsequently reclassified as D.\u00a0fabryi. We now report the identification of the gene encoding this permease, AY347871.2. This was retrieved from D.\u00a0fabryi gDNA using a degenerate primer PCR strategy, based on conserved regions from the amino acid sequences of three well-characterized bacterial xylose/H(+) symporters. This sequence is 86% identical to another, DEHA2C11374p from D.\u00a0hansenii type strain. DEHA2C11374p was conceptually ascribed to the major facilitator superfamily. The putative amino acid sequence of AY347871.2 and DEHA2C11374p presented a hydrophobicity pattern compatible with plasma membrane proteins. The last was functionally expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The sensitivity of transport activity to a protonophore confirmed its dependence on proton motive force, as expected from a symporter. We named D.\u00a0fabryi AY347871.2 and D.\u00a0hansenii DEHA2C11374p as XYLH from Xylose/H(+) symport. Based on the very high similarity, we suggested that Scheffersomyces stipitis Xut3 and Aspergillus nidulans AN8400.2 may also encode xylose high-affinity permeases."}
{"id": "23805875", "title": "IL-33-responsive innate lymphoid cells are an important source of IL-13 in chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps.", "content": "IL-33-responsive innate lymphoid cells are an important source of IL-13 in chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps. Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) without nasal polyps (CRSsNP) and CRS with nasal polyps (CRSwNP) are associated with Th1 and Th2 cytokine polarization, respectively; however, the pathophysiology of CRS remains unclear. The importance of innate lymphoid cells in Th2-mediated inflammatory disease has not been clearly defined. The objective of this study was to investigate the role of the epithelial cell-derived cytokine IL-33 and IL-33-responsive innate lymphoid cells in the pathophysiology of CRS. Relative gene expression was evaluated using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. Innate lymphoid cells in inflamed ethmoid sinus mucosa from patients with CRSsNP and CRSwNP were characterized using flow cytometry. Cytokine production from lymphoid cells isolated from inflamed mucosa of patients with CRS was examined using ELISA and intracellular cytokine staining. Elevated expression of ST2, the ligand-binding chain of the IL-33 receptor, was observed in inflamed sinonasal mucosa from CRSwNP compared with CRSsNP and healthy control subjects. An increased percentage of innate lymphoid cells was observed in inflamed sinonasal mucosa from CRSwNP compared with CRSsNP. ST2(+) innate lymphoid cells are a consistent source of IL-13 in response to IL-33 stimulation. Significant induction of IL-33 was observed in epithelial cells derived from patients with CRSwNP compared with patients with CRSsNP in response to stimulation with Aspergillus fumigatus extract. These data suggest a role for sinonasal epithelial cell-derived IL-33 and an IL-33-responsive innate lymphoid cell population in the pathophysiology of CRSwNP demonstrating the functional importance of innate lymphoid cells in Th2-mediated inflammatory disease."}
{"id": "23799048", "title": "Performance of serum biomarkers for the early detection of invasive aspergillosis in febrile, neutropenic patients: a multi-state model.", "content": "Performance of serum biomarkers for the early detection of invasive aspergillosis in febrile, neutropenic patients: a multi-state model. The performance of serum biomarkers for the early detection of invasive aspergillosis expectedly depends on the timing of test results relative to the empirical administration of antifungal therapy during neutropenia, although a dynamic evaluation framework is lacking. We developed a multi-state model describing simultaneously the likelihood of empirical antifungal therapy and the risk of invasive aspergillosis during neutropenia. We evaluated whether the first positive test result with a biomarker is an independent predictor of invasive aspergillosis when both diagnostic information used to treat and risk factors of developing invasive aspergillosis are taken into account over time. We applied the multi-state model to a homogeneous cohort of 185 high-risk patients with acute myeloid leukemia. Patients were prospectively screened for galactomannan antigenemia twice a week for immediate treatment decision; 2,214 serum samples were collected on the same days and blindly assessed for (1->3)- \u03b2-D-glucan antigenemia and a quantitative PCR assay targeting a mitochondrial locus. The usual evaluation framework of biomarker performance was unable to distinguish clinical benefits of \u03b2-glucan or PCR assays. The multi-state model evidenced that the risk of invasive aspergillosis is a complex time function of neutropenia duration and risk management. The quantitative PCR assay accelerated the early detection of invasive aspergillosis (P\u200a=\u200a.010), independently of other diagnostic information used to treat, while \u03b2-glucan assay did not (P\u200a=\u200a.53). The performance of serum biomarkers for the early detection of invasive aspergillosis is better apprehended by the evaluation of time-varying predictors in a multi-state model. Our results provide strong rationale for prospective studies testing a preemptive antifungal therapy, guided by clinical, radiological, and bi-weekly blood screening with galactomannan antigenemia and a standardized quantitative PCR assay."}
{"id": "23774978", "title": "Early diagnosis of cerebral aspergillosis with various methods: a case report.", "content": "Early diagnosis of cerebral aspergillosis with various methods: a case report. The clinical and laboratory diagnosis of cerebral aspergillosis (CA) is problematic and mortality is quite high, even in cases receiving appropriate treatment. Therefore, an early and accurate diagnosis may prove to be life saving in patients with the diagnosis of CA. In this report, a case of CA which developed in a pediatric patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) is presented. Upon development of neutropenia and focal seizures in the left arm during implementation of the ALL treatment protocol, brain MRI was performed in the patient and nodular lesions compliant with brain abscess were detected in the frontal lobe, left cerebellum and the cingulate gyrus on the superior aspect of the left corpus callosum. Direct assessment of brain tissue revealed fungal elements, while consecutive serum galactomannan (GM) values were determined as 3.39 ng/ml and 0.72 ng/ml, and the consecutive serum (1x3)-beta-D-glucan (BG) values were 93 pg/ml and 356 pg/ml. Negative serum real-time polymerase chain reaction (RtPCR) and positive tissue RtPCR were determined, with growth of Aspergillus fumigatus in the culture. Treatment was initiated with amphotericin B and voriconazole; upon disappearance of symptoms and negative control serum BG and GM values, the patient was discharged with recommendations. In conclusion, this case is presented with the objective of indicating the significance of serological and molecular methods used in the early diagnosis of patients with CA."}
{"id": "23761142", "title": "Preliminary laboratory report of fungal infections associated with contaminated methylprednisolone injections.", "content": "Preliminary laboratory report of fungal infections associated with contaminated methylprednisolone injections. In September 2012, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) initiated an outbreak investigation of fungal infections linked to injection of contaminated methylprednisolone acetate (MPA). Between 2 October 2012 and 14 February 2013, the CDC laboratory received 799 fungal isolates or human specimens, including cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), synovial fluid, and abscess tissue, from 469 case patients in 19 states. A novel broad-range PCR assay and DNA sequencing were used to evaluate these specimens. Although Aspergillus fumigatus was recovered from the index case, Exserohilum rostratum was the primary pathogen in this outbreak and was also confirmed from unopened MPA vials. Exserohilum rostratum was detected or confirmed in 191 specimens or isolates from 150 case patients, primarily from Michigan (n=67 patients), Tennessee (n=26), Virginia (n=20), and Indiana (n=16). Positive specimens from Michigan were primarily abscess tissues, while positive specimens from Tennessee, Virginia, and Indiana were primarily CSF. E. rostratum antifungal susceptibility MIC50 and MIC90 values were determined for voriconazole (1 and 2 \u03bcg/ml, respectively), itraconazole (0.5 and 1 \u03bcg/ml), posaconazole (0.5 and 1 \u03bcg/ml), isavuconazole (4 and 4 \u03bcg/ml), and amphotericin B (0.25 and 0.5 \u03bcg/ml). Thirteen other mold species were identified among case patients, and four other fungal genera were isolated from the implicated MPA vials. The clinical significance of these other fungal species remains under investigation. The laboratory response provided significant support to case confirmation, enabled linkage between clinical isolates and injected vials of MPA, and described significant features of the fungal agents involved in this large multistate outbreak."}
{"id": "23758105", "title": "Rep-PCR and RAPD-PCR fingerprinting of Aspergillus terreus.", "content": "Rep-PCR and RAPD-PCR fingerprinting of Aspergillus terreus. We compared two PCR methods for molecular typing the medically important filamentous fungus Aspergillus terreus. In a set of 46 strains investigated we found 19 and 12 different fingerprinting types obtained by random amplified polymorphic DNA PCR (RAPD) and semi-automated repetitive element PCR (rep-PCR), respectively."}
{"id": "23726262", "title": "Novel immunologic classification of aspergillosis in adult cystic fibrosis.", "content": "Novel immunologic classification of aspergillosis in adult cystic fibrosis. Patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) demonstrate a wide range of hypersensitivity responses to Aspergillus, beyond allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, which require classification. This study integrated 2 new methods of Aspergillus detection-sputum galactomannan (GM) and real-time PCR-alongside established serologic markers, to reclassify aspergillosis in CF. A total of 146 adult patients with CF had serologic tests (ImmunoCap total IgE, specific Aspergillus fumigatus IgE, and specific A fumigatus IgG), sputum real-time Aspergillus PCR, and sputum GM. Patients were classified by using latent class analysis. Both RT-PCR and GM were more sensitive than culture in detecting Aspergillus in sputum (culture 37%, RT-PCR 74%, and GM 46%). Intraassay and interassay reproducibility of PCR and GM was excellent. Latent class analysis of triazole-naive patients identified a nondiseased group and 3 disease classes: class 1 (n = 49, 37.7%) represented patients with or without positive RT-PCR but no immunologic response to A fumigatus and negative GM (nondiseased); class 2 (n = 23, 17.7%) represented patients with positive RT-PCR, elevated total and specific A fumigatus IgE/IgG, and positive GM (serologic allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis); class 3 (n = 19, 14.6%) represented patients with or without positive RT-PCR, elevated A fumigatus IgE (not IgG), and negative GM (Aspergillus sensitized); and class 4 (n = 39, 30%) represented patients with positive RT-PCR, elevated A fumigatus IgG (not IgE), and positive GM (Aspergillus bronchitis). Three distinct classes of aspergillosis in CF were identified by latent class analysis by using serologic, RT-PCR, and GM data. This novel classification will facilitate improved phenotyping, pathogenesis studies, and management evaluations."}
{"id": "23725402", "title": "Establishment and application of real-time quantitative PCR for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis via the blood in hematological patients: targeting a specific sequence of Aspergillus 28S-ITS2.", "content": "Establishment and application of real-time quantitative PCR for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis via the blood in hematological patients: targeting a specific sequence of Aspergillus 28S-ITS2. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised individuals. This study was conducted to identify a desirable target DNA sequence for the diagnosis of aspergillosis using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR). Genomic DNA was extracted from Aspergillus, Candida, and bacteria species, and qPCR was applied to validate a partial ribosomal DNA 28S-ITS2 sequence. Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid-anticoagulated blood samples were collected from 72 febrile hematological patients, while total DNA was isolated from plasma and whole blood for the Aspergillus qPCR. The results were analyzed using a receiver operating characteristic curve. All cases were evaluated using the revised European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer/Invasive Fungal Infections Cooperative Group and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Mycoses Study Group (EORTC/MSG) diagnostic criteria. Use of qPCR yielded positive results for 15 Aspergillus species but negative results for Candida species, bacterial strains, and human DNA. The limit of detection was one copy per microliter of DNA. Analytical sensitivity and specificity were six copies of DNA and 100%, respectively. The standard curve showed that qPCR was reliable for Aspergillus detection and that significantly more DNA copies were obtained from whole blood than from plasma (P < 0.001). At a cut-off value \u2265 25 copies/\u03bcL, the diagnostic sensitivity and specificity for IA using 28S-ITS2 qPCR were 90.9% and 73.4%, respectively. The use of qPCR with whole blood to detect and verify the 28S-ITS2 sequence is a specific and useful way to diagnose IA."}
{"id": "23723998", "title": "Aspergillus luchuensis, an industrially important black Aspergillus in East Asia.", "content": "Aspergillus luchuensis, an industrially important black Aspergillus in East Asia. Aspergilli known as black- and white-koji molds which are used for awamori, shochu, makgeolli and other food and beverage fermentations, are reported in the literature as A. luchuensis, A. awamori, A. kawachii, or A. acidus. In order to elucidate the taxonomic position of these species, available ex-type cultures were compared based on morphology and molecular characters. A. luchuensis, A. kawachii and A. acidus showed the same banding patterns in RAPD, and the three species had the same rDNA-ITS, \u03b2-tubulin and calmodulin sequences and these differed from those of the closely related A. niger and A. tubingensis. Morphologically, the three species are not significantly different from each other or from A. niger and A. tubingensis. It is concluded that A. luchuensis, A. kawachii and A. acidus are the same species, and A. luchuensis is selected as the correct name based on priority. Strains of A. awamori which are stored in National Research Institute of Brewing in Japan, represent A. niger (n\u200a=\u200a14) and A. luchuensis (n\u200a=\u200a6). The neotype of A. awamori (CBS 557.65\u200a=\u200a NRRL 4948) does not originate from awamori fermentation and it is shown to be identical with the unknown taxon Aspergillus welwitschiae. Extrolite analysis of strains of A. luchuensis showed that they do not produce mycotoxins and therefore can be considered safe for food and beverage fermentations. A. luchuensis is also frequently isolated from meju and nuruk in Korea and Puerh tea in China and the species is probably common in the fermentation environment of East Asia. A re-description of A. luchuensis is provided because the incomplete data in the original literature."}
{"id": "23719654", "title": "Fungal sepsis in the ICU: are we doing better? Trends in incidence, diagnosis, and outcome.", "content": "Fungal sepsis in the ICU: are we doing better? Trends in incidence, diagnosis, and outcome. Despite the availability of broad-spectrum antifungal agents, fungal sepsis remains an issue in Intensive Care Unit (ICU) patients. In terms of occurrence rates, the most important fungal infections are invasive candidiasis and invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. Early diagnosis is essential to optimize the chances of survival. As clinical rules based on risk factor assessment lack specificity, early initiation of antifungal therapy depends on fast and reliable diagnostics. Blood cultures or histopathologic evidence is the gold standard but blood cultures lack sensitivity and biopsy sampling may include substantial risk in critically ill patients. Non-culture-based diagnosis tools have therefore arisen as a smart way to detect earlier and/or more accurately the patients with on going fungal infection. For diagnosing invasive candidiasis, three assays (beta-D-glucan and mannan antigen detection, and polymerase chain reaction) yield promising predictive values, albeit that specificity remains an issue. In the absence of biopsies, invasive pulmonary aspergillosis can be diagnosed in nonneutropenic ICU patients by galactomannan antigen detection in broncho-alveolar lavage fluid. Aspergillus colonization of the respiratory tract can be discriminated from invasive disease by means of a clinical algorithm with high sensitivity but only moderate specificity. The incidence of invasive candidiasis has been stable over the past decades, but an alarming trend towards more non-albicans Candida species and reduced susceptibility is observed. Given the problematic diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis no reliable trend data are available. Outcome following fungal sepsis remains cumbersome. Given the availability of potent antifungal agents any progress in survival is likely to come from a more timely diagnosis."}
{"id": "23710454", "title": "Lovastatin in Aspergillus terreus: fermented rice straw extracts interferes with methane production and gene expression in Methanobrevibacter smithii.", "content": "Lovastatin in Aspergillus terreus: fermented rice straw extracts interferes with methane production and gene expression in Methanobrevibacter smithii. Lovastatin, a natural byproduct of some fungi, is able to inhibit HMG-CoA (3-hydroxy-3 methyl glutaryl CoA) reductase. This is a key enzyme involved in isoprenoid synthesis and essential for cell membrane formation in methanogenic Archaea. In this paper, experiments were designed to test the hypothesis that lovastatin secreted by Aspergillus terreus in fermented rice straw extracts (FRSE) can inhibit growth and CH4 production in Methanobrevibacter smithii (a test methanogen). By HPLC analysis, 75% of the total lovastatin in FRSE was in the active hydroxyacid form, and in vitro studies confirmed that this had a stronger effect in reducing both growth and CH4 production in M. smithii compared to commercial lovastatin. Transmission electron micrographs revealed distorted morphological divisions of lovastatin- and FRSE-treated M. smithii cells, supporting its role in blocking normal cell membrane synthesis. Real-time PCR confirmed that both commercial lovastatin and FRSE increased (P < 0.01) the expression of HMG-CoA reductase gene (hmg). In addition, expressions of other gene transcripts in M. smithii. with a key involvement in methanogenesis were also affected. Experimental confirmation that CH4 production is inhibited by lovastatin in A. terreus-fermented rice straw paves the way for its evaluation as a feed additive for mitigating CH4 production in ruminants."}
{"id": "23706827", "title": "Molecular analysis of changes in Pseudomonas aeruginosa load during treatment of a pulmonary exacerbation in cystic fibrosis.", "content": "Molecular analysis of changes in Pseudomonas aeruginosa load during treatment of a pulmonary exacerbation in cystic fibrosis. Intravenous antibiotics for pulmonary exacerbations (PEs) of cystic fibrosis (CF) usually target Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Insights into the CF lung microbiome have questioned this approach. We used RT-qPCR to determine whether intravenous antibiotics reduced P. aeruginosa numbers and whether this correlated with improved lung function. We also investigated antibiotic effects on other common respiratory pathogens in CF. Sputa were collected from patients when stable and again during a PE. Sputa were expectorated into a RNA preservation buffer for RNA extraction and preparation of cDNA. qPCR was used to enumerate viable P. aeruginosa as well as Streptococcus pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Staphylococcus aureus, Burkholderia cepacia complex and Aspergillus fumigatus. Fifteen CF patients were followed through 21 PEs. A complete set of serial sputum samples was unavailable for two patients (three separate PEs). P. aeruginosa numbers did not increase immediately prior to a PE, but numbers during intravenous antibiotic treatment were reduced \u22654-log in 6/18 and \u22651-log in 4/18 PEs. In 7/18 PEs, P. aeruginosa numbers changed very little with intravenous antibiotics and one patient demonstrated a \u22652-log increase in P. aeruginosa load. H. influenzae and S. pneumoniae were detected in ten and five PEs respectively, but with antibiotic treatment these bacteria rapidly became undetectable in 6/10 and 4/5 PEs, respectively. There was a negative correlation between P. aeruginosa numbers and FEV1 during stable phase (r(s)=0.75, p<0.05), and reductions in P. aeruginosa load with intravenous antibiotic treatment correlated with improved FEV1 (r(s)=0.52, p<0.05). Exacerbations are not due to increased P. aeruginosa numbers in CF adults. However, lung function improvements correlate with reduced P. aeruginosa burden suggesting that current antibiotic treatment strategies remain appropriate in most patients. Improved understanding of PE characterised by unchanged P. aeruginosa numbers and minimal lung function improvement following treatment may allow better targeted therapies."}
{"id": "23686776", "title": "Incidence of pulmonary aspergillosis and correlation of conventional diagnostic methods with nested PCR and real-time PCR assay using BAL fluid in intensive care unit patients.", "content": "Incidence of pulmonary aspergillosis and correlation of conventional diagnostic methods with nested PCR and real-time PCR assay using BAL fluid in intensive care unit patients. Although the incidence of invasive aspergillosis in the intensive care unit (ICU) is scarce, it has emerged as major problems in critically ill patients. In this study, the incidence of pulmonary aspergillosis (PA) in ICU patients has evaluated and direct microscopy and culture has compared with nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and real-time PCR for detection of Aspergillus fumigatus and A. flavus in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples of the patients. Thirty BAL samples obtained from ICU patients during a 16-month period were subjected to direct examinations on 20% potassium hydroxide (KOH) and culture on two culture media. Nested PCR targeting internal transcribed spacer ribosomal DNA and TaqMan real-time PCR assay targeting \u03b2-tubulin gene were used for the detection of A. fumigatus and A. flavus. Of 30 patients, 60% were men and 40% were women. The diagnosis of invasive PA was probable in 1 (3%), possible in 11 (37%), and not IPA in 18 (60%). Nine samples were positive in nested PCR including seven samples by A. flavus and two by A. fumigatus specific primers. The lowest amount of DNA that TaqMan real-time PCR could detect was \u226540 copy numbers. Only one of the samples had a positive result of A. flavus real-time PCR with Ct value of 37.5. Although a significant number of specimens were positive in nested PCR, results of this study showed that establishment of a correlation between the conventional methods with nested PCR and real-time PCR needs more data confirmed by a prospective study with a larger sample group."}
{"id": "23666221", "title": "[Refractory acute myeloid leukemia developed malignancy-associated hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis during treatment of invasive fungal infection].", "content": "[Refractory acute myeloid leukemia developed malignancy-associated hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis during treatment of invasive fungal infection]. We here report a 2-year-old female with relapsed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) with MLL gene rearrangement in the bone marrow and central nervous system. The 3'-RACE (Rapid Amplification of cDNA Ends) method identified the MLLT10 gene as a fusion partner of the MLL gene. The patient was complicated with hemophagocytic lymphohistiocytosis (HLH) and invasive aspergillosis (IPA) after re-induction treatment with FLAG-IDA following etoposide, cytarabine, and mitoxantrone. Although treatment with systemic anti-fungal drugs was effective for IPA, HLH did not improve. We considered tumor-associated HLH to be initiated from leukemic stem cells (LSCs) in the bone marrow niche because reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis of a bone marrow biopsy sample was positive for MLL-MLLT10. Gemtuzumab ozogamicin and sorafenib had no major effect on acquiring complete remission, and the patient died of progressive AML with an exacerbation of HLH and aspergillosis. LSCs are known to be resistant to conventional chemotherapy due to their quiescence in the cell cycle. Novel therapeutic concepts are important to eradicate LSCs in order to cure AML patients."}
{"id": "23650087", "title": "Discovery of a sexual cycle in Aspergillus lentulus, a close relative of A. fumigatus.", "content": "Discovery of a sexual cycle in Aspergillus lentulus, a close relative of A. fumigatus. Aspergillus lentulus was described in 2005 as a new species within the A. fumigatus sensu lato complex. It is an opportunistic human pathogen causing invasive aspergillosis with high mortality rates, and it has been isolated from clinical and environmental sources. The species is morphologically nearly identical to A. fumigatus sensu stricto, and this similarity has resulted in their frequent misidentification. Comparative studies show that A. lentulus has some distinguishing growth features and decreased in vitro susceptibility to several antifungal agents, including amphotericin B and caspofungin. Similar to the once-presumed-asexual A. fumigatus, it has only been known to reproduce mitotically. However, we now show that A. lentulus has a heterothallic sexual breeding system. A PCR-based mating-type diagnostic detected isolates of either the MAT1-1 or MAT1-2 genotype, and examination of 26 worldwide clinical and environmental isolates revealed similar ratios of the two mating types (38% versus 62%, respectively). MAT1-1 and MAT1-2 idiomorph regions were analyzed, revealing the presence of characteristic alpha and high-mobility-group (HMG) domain genes, together with other more unusual features such as a MAT1-2-4 gene. We then demonstrated that A. lentulus possesses a functional sexual cycle with mature cleistothecia, containing heat-resistant ascospores, being produced after 3 weeks of incubation. Recombination was confirmed using molecular markers. However, isolates of A. lentulus failed to cross with highly fertile strains of A. fumigatus, demonstrating reproductive isolation between these sibling species. The discovery of the A. lentulus sexual stage has significant implications for the management of drug resistance and control of invasive aspergillosis associated with this emerging fungal pathogen."}
{"id": "23644832", "title": "Furry pet allergens, fungal DNA and microbial volatile organic compounds (MVOCs) in the commercial aircraft cabin environment.", "content": "Furry pet allergens, fungal DNA and microbial volatile organic compounds (MVOCs) in the commercial aircraft cabin environment. There has been concern about the cabin environment in commercial aircraft. We measured cat, dog and horse allergens and fungal DNA in cabin dust and microbial volatile organic compounds (MVOCs) in cabin air. Samples were collected from two European airline companies, one with cabins having textile seats (TSC) and the other with cabins having leather seats (LSC), 9 airplanes from each company. Dust was vacuumed from seats and floors in the flight deck and different parts of the cabin. Cat (Fel d1), dog (Can f1) and horse allergens (Equ cx) were analyzed by ELISA. Five sequences of fungal DNA were analyzed by quantitative PCR. MVOCs were sampled on charcoal tubes in 42 TSC flights, and 17 compounds were analyzed by gas chromatography mass spectrometry (GC-MS) with selective ion monitoring (SIM). MVOC levels were compared with levels in homes from Nordic countries. The weight of dust was 1.8 times larger in TSC cabins as compared to LSC cabins (p < 0.001). In cabins with textile seats, the geometric mean (GM) concentrations of Fel d1, Can f1 and Equ cx were 5359 ng g(-1), 6067 ng g(-1), and 13\u2009703 ng g(-1) (GM) respectively. Levels of Fel d1, Can f1 and Equ cx were 50 times, 27 times and 75 times higher respectively, in TSC cabins as compared to LSC cabins (p < 0.001). GM levels of Aspergillus/Penicillium DNA, Aspergillus versicolor DNA, Stachybotrys chartarum DNA and Streptomyces DNA were all higher in TSC as compared to LSC (p < 0.05). The sum of MVOCs in cabin air (excluding butanols) was 3192 ng m(-3) (GM), 3.7 times higher than in homes (p < 0.001) and 2-methyl-1-butanol and 3-methyl-1-butanol concentrations were 15-17 times higher as compared to homes (p < 0.001). Concentrations of isobutanol, 1-butanol, dimethyldisulfide, 2-hexanone, 2-heptanone, 3-octanone, isobutyl acetate and ethyl-2-methylbutyrate were lower in cabin air as compared to homes (p < 0.05). In conclusion, textile seats are much more contaminated by pet allergens and fungal DNA than leather seats. The use of seats with smooth surfaces should be encouraged. The MVOC levels differed between cabin air and homes."}
{"id": "23644098", "title": "Prevention and diagnosis of invasive fungal disease in high-risk patients within an integrative care pathway.", "content": "Prevention and diagnosis of invasive fungal disease in high-risk patients within an integrative care pathway. The aim of this study was to assess the clinical utility of enhanced diagnostics on the management of invasive fungal disease in high risk patients within an integrated care pathway and to audit compliance and efficacy of antifungal prophylaxis. A cohort of 549 high risk haematology and stem-cell transplant recipients was followed over a 5 year period. The routine standard of care involved the use of antimould prophylaxis and a neutropenic care pathway utilizing twice weekly antigen and PCR testing. Prophylaxis with itraconazole was poorly tolerated and therapeutic levels could not be maintained. Antigen testing and PCR showed good clinical utility in the management of invasive aspergilosis with high sensitivity (98%) and negative predictive value (99.6%) when both tests were used together, allowing a diagnosis IA to be excluded and obviating the need for empirical antifungal agents. When used serially, multiple positive PCR and antigen test results enabled accurate diagnosis of IA with a specificity of 95% and a positive likelihood ratio of 11. Biomarkers preceded clinical signs in 85% of proven and probable invasive disease. The combination of both tests showed optimum clinical utility for the diagnosis and management of IA in this high risk group."}
{"id": "23639613", "title": "The end of the road for empirical antifungal treatment?", "content": "The end of the road for empirical antifungal treatment?"}
{"id": "23639612", "title": "Galactomannan and PCR versus culture and histology for directing use of antifungal treatment for invasive aspergillosis in high-risk haematology patients: a randomised controlled trial.", "content": "Galactomannan and PCR versus culture and histology for directing use of antifungal treatment for invasive aspergillosis in high-risk haematology patients: a randomised controlled trial. Empirical treatment with antifungal drugs is often used in haematology patients at high risk of invasive aspergillosis. We compared a standard diagnostic strategy (culture and histology) with a rapid biomarker-based diagnostic strategy (aspergillus galactomannan and PCR) for directing the use of antifungal treatment in this group of patients. In this open-label, parallel-group, randomised controlled trial, eligible patients were adults undergoing allogeneic stem-cell transplantation or chemotherapy for acute leukaemia, with no history of invasive fungal disease. Enrolled patients were randomly assigned (1:1) by a computer-generated schedule to follow either a standard diagnostic strategy (based on culture and histology) or a biomarker-based diagnostic strategy (aspergillus galactomannan and PCR) to direct treatment with antifungal drugs. Patients, were followed up for 26 weeks or until death. Masking of the use of different diagnostic tests was not possible for patients, treating physicians, or investigators. The primary endpoint was empirical treatment with antifungal drugs in the 26 weeks after enrolment (for the biomarker-based diagnostic strategy, a single postive galactomannan or PCR result was deemed insufficient to confirm invasive aspergillosis, so treatment in this context was classified as empirical). This outcome was assessed by an independent data review committee from which the study allocations were masked. Analyses were by intention to treat and included all enrolled patients. This study is registered with ClinicalTrial.gov, number NCT00163722. 240 eligible patients were recruited from six Australian centres between Sept 30, 2005, and Nov 19, 2009. 122 were assigned the standard diagnostic strategy and 118 the biomarker-based diagnostic strategy. 39 patients (32%) in the standard diagnosis group and 18 (15%) in the biomarker diagnosis group received empirical antifungal treatment (difference 17%, 95% CI 4-26; p=0\u00b7002). The numbers of patients who had hepatotoxic and nephrotoxic effects did not differ significantly between the standard diagnosis and biomarker diagnosis groups (hepatotoxic effects: 21 [17%] vs 12 [10%], p=0\u00b711; nephrotoxic effects: 52 [43%] vs 60 [51%], p=0\u00b720). Use of aspergillus galactomannan and PCR to direct treatment reduced use of empirical antifungal treatment. This approach is an effective strategy for the management of invasive aspergillosis in high-risk haematology patients. Australian National Health and Medical Research Council, Cancer Council New South Wales, Pfizer, Merck, Gilead Sciences."}
{"id": "23637884", "title": "\u03b2-Glucan synthase gene overexpression and \u03b2-glucans overproduction in Pleurotus ostreatus using promoter swapping.", "content": "\u03b2-Glucan synthase gene overexpression and \u03b2-glucans overproduction in Pleurotus ostreatus using promoter swapping. Mushroom \u03b2-glucans are potent immunological stimulators in medicine, but their productivities are very low. In this study, we successfully improved its production by promoter engineering in Pleurotus ostreatus. The promoter for \u03b2-1,3-glucan synthase gene (GLS) was replaced by the promoter of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene of Aspergillus nidulans. The homologous recombination fragment for swapping GLS promoter comprised five segments, which were fused by two rounds of combined touchdown PCR and overlap extension PCR (TD-OE PCR), and was introduced into P. ostreatus through PEG/CaCl2-mediated protoplast transformation. The transformants exhibited one to three fold higher transcription of GLS gene and produced 32% to 131% higher yield of \u03b2-glucans than the wild type. The polysaccharide yields had a significant positive correlation to the GLS gene expression. The infrared spectra of the polysaccharides all displayed the typical absorption peaks of \u03b2-glucans. This is the first report of successful swapping of promoters in filamentous fungi."}
{"id": "23633661", "title": "Pretreatment with TLR2 and TLR4 ligand modulates innate immunity in corneal fibroblasts challenged with Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Pretreatment with TLR2 and TLR4 ligand modulates innate immunity in corneal fibroblasts challenged with Aspergillus fumigatus. To study the innate immunity in telomerase-immortalized human stroma fibroblasts (THSFs) challenged with Aspergillus fumigatus hyphae after copretreatment with TLR2 and TLR4 ligand. THSFs were pretreated with different concentrations of zymosan and/or lipopolysaccharide (LPS) at different time periods, and challenged with high-dose Aspergillus fumigatus hyphae. The gene expression and protein secretion of inflammatory cytokines (TNF-\u03b1, IL-6, and IL-8) were detected by RT-PCR and ELISA. The effects of stimulation or pretreatment of TLR ligands on proliferation of THSFs were measured by MTT analysis. In the certain concentration range, pretreatment of THSFs with zymosan suppressed gene expression of inflammatory cytokines (TNF-\u03b1 and IL-6). Copretreatment with zymosan and LPS suppressed gene expression and protein secretion more strongly compared with pretreatment with zymosan or LPS alone. Zymosan and/or LPS pretreatment suppressed lethal effect of A. fumigatus to THSFs in a certain period. Pretreatment of THSFs with TLR2-specific ligand zymosan results in a state of A. fumigatus hyphae tolerance. Copretreatment with TLR2 and -4 ligands (zymosan and LPS) leads to a stronger state of A. fumigatus hyphae tolerance, and suppresses the lethal effect of A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "23621588", "title": "Fungal diagnosis: how do we do it and can we do better?", "content": "Fungal diagnosis: how do we do it and can we do better? Morbidity and mortality remain high for patients with invasive fungal infections (IFIs) despite an increasing number of antifungals and other treatments. Many studies indicate that delayed or inaccurate diagnosis and treatment are major causes of poor outcomes in patients with IFIs. The aim of the current paper is to provide a review of traditional and newer approaches to the diagnosis of IFIs, with a particular focus on invasive candidiasis (IC) and aspergillosis (IA). Recent studies from the author's institution are highlighted, along with an advancement in cryptococcal meningitis diagnosis that should improve the care of AIDS and its opportunistic infection in many developing countries. Currently available tools for the diagnosis of IFIs include traditional methods like histopathology, culture, and radiology, and newer antigen- and PCR-based diagnostic assays. Attempts have also been made to predict IFIs based on colonization or other factors, including genetic polymorphisms impacting IFI susceptibility in high-risk patients. Biopsy with histopathologic analysis is often not possible in patients suspected of pulmonary aspergillosis due to increased bleeding risk, and blood cultures for IC, IA, or other IFIs are hindered by poor sensitivity and slow turnaround time which delays diagnosis. Radiology is often used to predict IFI but suffers from inability to differentiate certain pathogens and does not generally provide certainty of IFI diagnosis. Newer antigen-based diagnostics for early diagnosis include the \u03b2-glucan assay for IFIs, galactomannan assay for IA, and a recent variation on the traditional cryptococcal antigen (CRAG) test with a Lateral Flow Assay for invasive cryptococcosis. PCR-based diagnostics represent additional tools with high sensitivity for the rapid diagnosis of IFIs, although better standardization of these methods is still required for their routine clinical use. Better understanding of the strengths and weaknesses of currently available diagnostic tools, and further devising linked strategies to best implement them either alone or in combination, would greatly improve early and accurate diagnosis of IFIs and improve their successful management."}
{"id": "23621043", "title": "[Diagnosis of non dermatophyte onychomycosis ant its relevance for treatment].", "content": "[Diagnosis of non dermatophyte onychomycosis ant its relevance for treatment]. PCR methods are reliable and suitable to in situ identify dermatophytes, yeasts and non dermatophyte moulds (NDM) in onychomycosis. Onychomycosis insensitive to standard treatment with topical agents as well as with oral terbinafine or itraconazole revealed Fusarium spp., Acremonium spp. and Aspergillus spp. as infectious agents. However, NDM onychomycosis could be efficiently cured using topical amphotericin B. In conclusion, correct fungal species identification is important in onychomycoses in order to prescribe adequate treatments since dermatophytes and moulds have different sensitivities to antifungal drugs."}
{"id": "23620764", "title": "Evaluation of MycAssay\u2122 Aspergillus for diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in patients without hematological cancer.", "content": "Evaluation of MycAssay\u2122 Aspergillus for diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in patients without hematological cancer. Methods based on real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) can speed up the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis but are limited by a lack of standardization. We evaluated the commercially available MycAssay\u2122 Aspergillus test for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in patients without hematological cancer. We prospectively collected 322 lower respiratory tract samples (November 2009-January 2011) from 175 patients with lower respiratory tract infection and the following predisposing conditions: solid cancer (16.8%), cirrhosis (16.8%), corticosteroid therapy (71.7%), HIV infection (15.6%), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD, 52.6%), solid organ transplantation (kidney [1.2%], heart [3%], liver [4.6%]), or none (3.5%). Specimens were obtained when clinically indicated and analyzed in the microbiology laboratory. Aspergillus DNA was extracted and amplified by means of MycXtra\u00ae and MycAssay\u2122 Aspergillus. Aspergillus spp. was isolated from 65 samples (31 patients). According to the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer and Bulpa's criteria (for patients with COPD), 15 had probable invasive aspergillosis. MycAssay\u2122 Aspergillus results were negative (n\u200a=\u200a254), positive (n\u200a=\u200a54), or indeterminate (n\u200a=\u200a14). The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, negative predictive value, and diagnostic odds ratio of the MycAssay\u2122 (first sample/any sample) were 86.7/93, 87.6/82.4, 34.1/34.1, 92.2/100, and 48/68.75. The differences between the proportion of samples with positive PCR determinations (63%) and the proportion of samples with Aspergillus spp. isolation (75%) did not reach statistical significance (P\u200a=\u200a0.112). The median time from sample culture to visualization of fungal growth was 3 days, compared with \u223c4 hours for MycAssay\u2122 Aspergillus PCR. MycAssay\u2122 Aspergillus showed high sensitivity for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in patients without hematological cancer. Sensitivity increased when multiple samples were used. Compared with fungal culture, PCR significantly reduced the time to diagnosis."}
{"id": "23615821", "title": "A 76-year-old man with a right lung adenocarcinoma and invasive Aspergillosis.", "content": "A 76-year-old man with a right lung adenocarcinoma and invasive Aspergillosis. A 76-year-old male with adenocarcinoma on the right lung underwent five cycles of chemotherapy with pemetrexed disodium, cisplatin, and dexamethasone. Imaging studies of control showed a node in a cavitary lesion on the left lung, and the main hypothesis was Aspergillus infection. PCR was utilized and contributed to establish the early diagnosis in this patient with invasive aspergillosis. Furthermore, the species Aspergillus fumigatus was characterized by its growing at 50 \u00b0C but not at 10 \u00b0C, typical culture features, and presence of subclavate vesicles. Diagnosis criteria for Aspergillus pulmonary infection include characteristic clinical and imaging findings, elevated C-reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation rate, positive specific serological test, and isolation of Aspergillus from bronchoalveolar cultures. Molecular methods, as PCR, have been useful to complement the conventional microbiological investigations in immunocompromised people with invasive fungal infections. The patient was successfully treated with a schedule of voriconazole 4 mg/kg intravenous infusion every 12 h for 21 days and then switched to oral administration of 200 mg twice a day. He has been comfortable, maintaining normal vital signs, and the results of the periodical microbiologic tests of control are negative. Pathogenesis of invasive aspergillosis in patients with lung cancer is not completely understood. Case studies may contribute to a better knowledge about Aspergillus infection in this setting."}
{"id": "23614624", "title": "Combined real-time PCR and galactomannan surveillance improves diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in high risk patients with haematological malignancies.", "content": "Combined real-time PCR and galactomannan surveillance improves diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in high risk patients with haematological malignancies. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is a leading complication of intensive treatment for haematological malignancies. Earlier diagnosis should facilitate effective antifungal therapy and prevent progression to invasive disease, which is often lethal. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays, targeting the 28S and ITS ribosomal gene regions respectively, were evaluated for early detection of Aspergillus DNA and for diagnostic utility in patients receiving treatment in two busy haematopoietic stem cell transplant centres. Patients undergoing intensive chemotherapy, autologous or allogeneic transplant were eligible for inclusion in the study. EDTA blood and serum samples for circulating Aspergillus biomarkers, including galactomannan (GM), were collected twice-weekly on a prospective basis from all study patients who were categorized according to international consensus criteria for defining invasive fungal disease (IFD). Of 278 patients recruited there were 44 probable IA cases and only one proven case. Moderate sensitivity and specificity, poor positive predictive value (50-80%), but good negative predictive value (>80-90%) were common to both PCR assays. Overall biomarker performance could be improved by combining positive results of either PCR assay with GM taken within a 12-d period. The addition of PCR to GM monitoring in high-risk patients with haematological malignancies provides greater diagnostic accuracy in invasive aspergillosis."}
{"id": "23603018", "title": "A rapid DNA assembling strategy mediated by direct full-length polymerase chain reaction.", "content": "A rapid DNA assembling strategy mediated by direct full-length polymerase chain reaction. An efficient DNA assembling strategy was developed here modified from Class-IIS endonuclease mediated DNA splicing by directed ligation (SDL). Benefited from the full-length PCR directly using ligation products as template, this strategy required less effort and less time to obtain the assembled full-length DNA. The advantages of this strategy made it a rapid and easy-to-perform gene splicing and multiple site-directed mutagenesis approach especially practicable when more fragments need to be assembled at the same time."}
{"id": "23588332", "title": "Correlation of CYP2C19 phenotype with voriconazole plasma concentration in children.", "content": "Correlation of CYP2C19 phenotype with voriconazole plasma concentration in children. Voriconazole is a triazole antifungal agent with potent activity against a broad spectrum of pathogens, including Aspergillus and Candida species. In human adults, allelic polymorphisms of CYP2C19 are known to correlate with significant variation in voriconazole plasma concentration. Here, we report an analysis of CYP2C19 phenotype and voriconazole plasma concentrations in children. This retrospective study included 37 children who had voriconazole plasma concentrations measured from May 2006 to June 2011. All had single-nucleotide polymorphisms that define the 3 major CYP2C19 alleles. Patients were classified as follows: normal metabolizers, intermediate metabolizers, poor metabolizers, or hypermetabolizers. The frequencies of the 3 CYP2C19 genetic polymorphisms were similar to those previously reported for Japanese adults. Trough plasma concentrations of voriconazole were significantly higher in the poor metabolizer and intermediate metabolizer groups compared with the normal metabolizer and hypermetabolizer groups (P=0.004). Two patients with high plasma concentrations experienced voriconazole-related severe adverse events (syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion and cardiac toxicities). The current study suggests that a significant association exists in children between the voriconazole plasma concentration and the CYP2C19 phenotype. Dose adjustment based on CYP2C19 phenotype may be useful during voriconazole therapy, especially for Japanese children, who as a group have a higher incidence of the poor metabolizer and intermediate metabolizer phenotypes."}
{"id": "23583899", "title": "A novel and highly efficient method for genetic transformation of fungi employing shock waves.", "content": "A novel and highly efficient method for genetic transformation of fungi employing shock waves. Genetic transformation of filamentous fungi is an essential tool in many areas such as biotechnology, medicine, phytopathology and genetics. However, available protocols to transform fungi are inefficient, laborious and have low reproducibility. We report the use of underwater shock waves as a novel method to transform filamentous fungi. An experimental piezoelectric shock wave generator was designed to expose fungal conidia to heterologous DNA. The device was successfully tested in Aspergillus niger, Fusarium oxysporum, Trichoderma reesei and Phanerochaete chrysosporium. The transformation frequency per number of conidia was between two and four orders of magnitude higher in comparison to previously published methods. For example, the frequency of transformation in A. niger was improved up to 5400-fold as compared with Agrobacterium protocols. Transformation was verified by expression of the green fluorescent protein, PCR and Southern blot. Our method offers new possibilities for fast, easy and efficient genetic manipulation of diverse fungal species."}
{"id": "23580559", "title": "The cdr1B efflux transporter is associated with non-cyp51a-mediated itraconazole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "The cdr1B efflux transporter is associated with non-cyp51a-mediated itraconazole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus. Recent increases in triazole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus have been attributed primarily to target site (cyp51A) mutations. A recent survey of resistant isolates in Manchester showed that >50% of resistant isolates had no mutation in cyp51A or its promoter. We investigated the mechanisms of resistance in clinical azole-resistant isolates without cyp51A mutations. Twelve azole-resistant isolates, 10 of which were itraconazole resistant, were studied. Bioinformatic comparisons between Candida albicans efflux genes and A. fumigatus genome data identified 20 putative azole transporter genes. Basal and azole-induced expression of these genes and cyp51A was quantified using RT-PCR with comparison with clinical azole-susceptible isolates. Function of high basal or itraconazole-induced expression transporters was tested by gene knockout in azole-susceptible and azole-resistant isolates. All susceptible strains showed minimal basal expression of cdr1B compared with 8 of 10 azole-resistant strains with high basal expression of this gene (>5-fold), 3 of which showed >30-fold increased expression. Knockout of this gene resulted in a 4-fold reduction in itraconazole, posaconazole and voriconazole MICs for a susceptible clinical isolate and a 4-fold reduction in itraconazole susceptibility in a clinical resistant isolate. One strain showed a >500-fold induction of cyp51A. No increase in basal expression or expression after induction was seen for the 18 remaining putative transporters. The reasons behind the shift away from target site mutation in azole-resistant isolates from Manchester are unknown. The modest change in expression of cdr1B in azole-susceptible strains implies that only study of resistant isolates will lead to further understanding of resistance mechanisms in A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "23573983", "title": "Inhibitory effects of tea extract on aflatoxin production by Aspergillus flavus.", "content": "Inhibitory effects of tea extract on aflatoxin production by Aspergillus flavus. Aflatoxins, one of the most carcinogenic substances, have been implicated as a potential threat to the safety of tea beverages. In this study, we studied the inhibitory effects of the aqueous extracts from several Chinese traditional teas, such as green tea, black tea, flower tea, raw Puer tea (naturally fermented Puer tea) and Puer tea (inoculated Puer tea), on the growth and aflatoxin production of Aspergillus flavus. All the tested extracts inhibited the production of aflatoxin B1, whereas they did not inhibit mycelial growth of A.\u00a0flavus. Considering the highest inhibitory effect of Puer tea extract on aflatoxin production, a semi-quantitative RT-PCR was designed to detect its impacts on the expression of genes responsible for the regulation of aflatoxin synthesis. The results showed that the transcriptions of both aflS and aflR were down-regulated to undetectable levels by the addition of Puer tea extract. This study indicated that most tea contained molecules inhibitory to aflatoxin production, which were very important factors for the risk assessment of tea exposed to aflatoxin. Some tea extracts could be developed as antiaflatoxin agents in food preservation. Recently, safety concerns of the popular Puer tea have arisen because of aflatoxin contamination. In this study, we analysed the inhibitory effect of 30 tea aqueous extracts on the growth and aflatoxin production of Aspergillus flavus. Our results indicated that most tea inhibited aflatoxin production by down-regulating the transcription of aflR and aflS. The findings could contribute to the safety assessment of tea exposed to aflatoxin and provide some useful data concerning a new approach for controlling aflatoxin contamination."}
{"id": "23571105", "title": "High-level extracellular production and characterization of Candida antarctica lipase B in Pichia pastoris.", "content": "High-level extracellular production and characterization of Candida antarctica lipase B in Pichia pastoris. The gene encoding lipase B from Candida antarctica (CalB) was expressed in Pichia pastoris after it was synthesized by the recursive PCR and cloned into the Pichia expression plasmid, pPICZ\u03b1A. The CalB was successfully secreted in the recombinant P.\u00a0pastoris strain X-33 with an apparent molecular weight of 34\u00a0kDa. For 140\u00a0h flask culture, the dry cell weight and the extracellular lipase activity reached at 5.4\u00a0g/l and 57.9\u00a0U/l toward p-nitrophenyl palmitate, respectively. When we performed the fed-batch fermentation using a methanol feeding strategy for 110\u00a0h, the dry cell weight and the extracellular lipase activity were increased to 135.7\u00a0g/l and 11,900\u00a0U/l; the CalB protein concentration was 1.18\u00a0g/l of culture supernatant. The characteristics of CalB recovered from the P.\u00a0pastoris culture were compared with the commercial form of CalB produced in Aspergillus oryzae. The kinetic constants and specific activity, the effects of activity and stability on temperature and pH, the glycosylation extent, the degree of immobilization on macroporous resin and the yield of esterification reaction between oleic acid and n-butanol were almost identical to each other. Therefore, we successfully proved that the Pichia-based expression system for CalB in this study was industrially promising compared with one of the most efficient production systems."}
{"id": "23569017", "title": "Vertebral osteomyelitis and epidural abscess due to Aspergillus nidulans resulting in spinal cord compression: case report and literature review.", "content": "Vertebral osteomyelitis and epidural abscess due to Aspergillus nidulans resulting in spinal cord compression: case report and literature review. Vertebral osteomyelitis caused by Aspergillus nidulans is rare and usually affects immunocompromised patients. This report presents a case of thoracic vertebral osteomyelitis with epidural abscesses due to A. nidulans in a 40-year-old immunocompetent female who presented with back pain, numbness and weakness of both lower limbs. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated osteomyelitis involving the thoracic (T)1-T3 vertebral bodies with epidural abscesses, resulting in spinal compression. The patient underwent a decompression laminectomy of T1-T3 and debridement of the thoracic epidural inflammatory granuloma. Histopathology revealed fungal granulomatous inflammation. The patient received 6 mg/kg voriconazole every 12 h (loading dose on day 1) followed by 4 mg/kg voriconazole twice daily for 1 month, administered intravenously. The patient returned with recurrent back pain 16 months after initial presentation. A. nidulans was identified by fungal culture and polymerase chain reaction. The patient showed no evidence of recurrence 1 year after a 6-month course of oral voriconazole. The key to the effective treatment of Aspergillus osteomyelitis is not to excise the abscess, but to administer systemic antifungal drug therapy."}
{"id": "23568517", "title": "Changes in atmospheric CO2 influence the allergenicity of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Changes in atmospheric CO2 influence the allergenicity of Aspergillus fumigatus. Increased susceptibility to allergies has been documented in the Western world in recent decades. However, a comprehensive understanding of its causes is not yet available. It is therefore essential to understand trends and mechanisms of allergy-inducing agents, such as fungal conidia. In this study, we investigated the hypothesis that environmental conditions linked to global atmospheric changes can affect the allergenicity of Aspergillus fumigatus, a common allergenic fungal species in indoor and outdoor environments and in airborne particulate matter. We show that fungi grown under present-day CO2 levels (392\u00a0ppm) exhibit 8.5 and 3.5 fold higher allergenicity compared to fungi grown at preindustrial (280\u00a0ppm) and double (560\u00a0ppm) CO2 levels, respectively. A corresponding trend is observed in the expression of genes encoding for known allergenic proteins and in the major allergen Asp f1 concentrations, possibly due to physiological changes such as respiration rates and the nitrogen content of the fungus, influenced by the CO2 concentrations. Increased carbon and nitrogen levels in the growth medium also lead to a significant increase in the allergenicity. We propose that climatic changes such as increasing atmospheric CO2 levels and changes in the fungal growth medium may impact the ability of allergenic fungi such as A. fumigatus to induce allergies."}
{"id": "23563559", "title": "Time-dependent correlation of the microbial community and the metabolomics of traditional barley nuruk starter fermentation.", "content": "Time-dependent correlation of the microbial community and the metabolomics of traditional barley nuruk starter fermentation. The microbial community and the metabolites of barley nuruk were studied to determine the time-dependent correlation between the fermentation of microbes and metabolites. Samples were analyzed by a polyphasic approach based on culture-dependent, culture-independent (PCR-DGGE and qPCR analysis), and metabolite analysis using GC-MS. Barley nuruk consists of varying amounts of bacteria, yeasts, and molds. The PCR-DGGE results showed that only one phylotype, Aspergillus oryzae, was predominant throughout fermentation, reaching a maximum on day 9. The bacterial load was higher on day 6 of fermentation, and then gradually decreased because of increased fungal activity. The shift in fungal and bacterial diversity observed by DGGE was further confirmed by qPCR analysis. In addition, microbes closely related to Pantoea agglomerans and Saccharomycopsis fibuligera appeared to play key roles in the fermentation of barley nuruk. GC-MS analysis combined with multivariate analysis, including PCA, PLS-DA, and OPLS-DA, showed fermentation time-dependent metabolite patterns. A total of 21 metabolites, including organic acids, amino acids, sugars, and sugar alcohols, were identified. In particular, glycerol, malic acid, fructose, glucose, sucrose, and maltose were produced at the early fermentation stages (0-6 d), whereas glutamine, aspartic acid, glutamic acid, mannitol, and xylitol were produced during the latter stages of fermentation (9-18 d). Mixed culture fermentation was found throughout the natural fermentation of barley nuruk starter. Most likely, A. oryzae had a major role in saccharification, along with other mixed cultures."}
{"id": "23561301", "title": "The characterisation of xyloglucanase inhibitors from Humulus lupulus.", "content": "The characterisation of xyloglucanase inhibitors from Humulus lupulus. Phytopathogenic fungi secrete a powerful arsenal of enzymes that are potentially active against each polysaccharide component of the plant cell wall. To defend themselves, plants synthetise a variety of molecules that inhibit the activity of cell wall-degrading enzymes. Xyloglucan-specific endoglucanase inhibitor proteins (XEGIPs) act specifically against the members of fungal glycoside hydrolase family 12 (GH12 in the CAZy database). In the present study, we describe the identification of three XEGIP homologues from hop (Humulus lupulus L.). When incubating each of the recombinant inhibitors with an enzymatic cocktail from Aspergillus aculeatus (Viscozyme\u00ae), the xyloglucan-degrading endoglucanase activity decreased to 15% and 5% for HlXEGIP1 and HlXEGIP2, respectively, whereas no inhibition of the Viscozyme\u00ae enzymes was observed for the third (also called HlXEGIP homologue 3, or HlXEGIPh3). Fungal enzymatic cocktails from 20 different species also showed xyloglucan-degrading endoglucanase activities, and most of them were inhibited by HlXEGIP1 and -2. Furthermore, a real time RT-PCR analysis revealed variations in the spatial distribution of the genes encoding the three inhibitors and differential expression during development and (a) biotic stress. The role of XEGIPs in the plant-fungus interaction is discussed, and a model suggesting a distinct role of these XEGIP homologues is proposed: HlXEGIP1 may act in cases of abiotic stress, while HlXEGIP2 reacts to biotic stress, and physiological development may be influenced by HlXEGIPh3."}
{"id": "23560622", "title": "Deciphering the aetiology of a mixed fungal infection by broad-range PCR with sequencing and fluorescence in situ hybridisation.", "content": "Deciphering the aetiology of a mixed fungal infection by broad-range PCR with sequencing and fluorescence in situ hybridisation. Simultaneous infections with multiple fungi may be misinterpreted as monomicrobial infections by current diagnostics with ramifications for the choice of antimicrobial agents that may impact patient outcomes. The application of molecular methods on tissue samples may be useful to decipher the aetiology of mixed fungal infections. We present a leukaemic patient who died from sepsis due to candidaemia. The postmortem examination documented fungal elements in lung tissue. Fungal DNA was amplified from the lung sample by broad-range PCR assays targeting the 28S ribosomal RNA gene or the internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS-2). Fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) using differentially labelled fungal probes was applied on the tissue. Sequencing identified the PCR amplicons as Aspergillus fumigatus (28S assay) and Candida tropicalis (ITS-2 assay). As a chromatogram suggested mixed amplicons, the Isentio ripseq(\u00ae) tool for in silico analysis was applied and confirmed the presence of both amplicons in the PCR products of both assays. FISH confirmed the presence of Aspergillus and Candida within the infectious process, a prerequisite for inferring a causal relationship with the infection. The combination of broad-range PCR with sequence analysis and FISH applied on tissue samples is a powerful approach to identify the aetiology of invasive fungal infections, including mixed infections."}
{"id": "23555591", "title": "Identification of telomerase RNAs from filamentous fungi reveals conservation with vertebrates and yeasts.", "content": "Identification of telomerase RNAs from filamentous fungi reveals conservation with vertebrates and yeasts. Telomeres are the nucleoprotein complexes at eukaryotic chromosomal ends. Telomeric DNA is synthesized by the ribonucleoprotein telomerase, which comprises a telomerase reverse transcriptase (TERT) and a telomerase RNA (TER). TER contains a template for telomeric DNA synthesis. Filamentous fungi possess extremely short and tightly regulated telomeres. Although TERT is well conserved between most organisms, TER is highly divergent and thus difficult to identify. In order to identify the TER sequence, we used the unusually long telomeric repeat sequence of Aspergillus oryzae together with reverse-transcription-PCR and identified a transcribed sequence that contains the potential template within a region predicted to be single stranded. We report the discovery of TERs from twelve other related filamentous fungi using comparative genomic analysis. These TERs exhibited strong conservation with the vertebrate template sequence, and two of these potentially use the identical template as humans. We demonstrate the existence of important processing elements required for the maturation of yeast TERs such as an Sm site, a 5' splice site and a branch point, within the newly identified TER sequences. RNA folding programs applied to the TER sequences show the presence of secondary structures necessary for telomerase activity, such as a yeast-like template boundary, pseudoknot, and a vertebrate-like three-way junction. These telomerase RNAs identified from filamentous fungi display conserved structural elements from both yeast and vertebrate TERs. These findings not only provide insights into the structure and evolution of a complex RNA but also provide molecular tools to further study telomere dynamics in filamentous fungi."}
{"id": "23555039", "title": "Plant and fungal diversity in gut microbiota as revealed by molecular and culture investigations.", "content": "Plant and fungal diversity in gut microbiota as revealed by molecular and culture investigations. Few studies describing eukaryotic communities in the human gut microbiota have been published. The objective of this study was to investigate comprehensively the repertoire of plant and fungal species in the gut microbiota of an obese patient. A stool specimen was collected from a 27-year-old Caucasian woman with a body mass index of 48.9 who was living in Marseille, France. Plant and fungal species were identified using a PCR-based method incorporating 25 primer pairs specific for each eukaryotic phylum and universal eukaryotic primers targeting 18S rRNA, internal transcribed spacer (ITS) and a chloroplast gene. The PCR products amplified using these primers were cloned and sequenced. Three different culture media were used to isolate fungi, and these cultured fungi were further identified by ITS sequencing. A total of 37 eukaryotic species were identified, including a Diatoms (Blastocystis sp.) species, 18 plant species from the Streptophyta phylum and 18 fungal species from the Ascomycota, Basidiomycota and Chytridiocomycota phyla. Cultures yielded 16 fungal species, while PCR-sequencing identified 7 fungal species. Of these 7 species of fungi, 5 were also identified by culture. Twenty-one eukaryotic species were discovered for the first time in human gut microbiota, including 8 fungi (Aspergillus flavipes, Beauveria bassiana, Isaria farinosa, Penicillium brevicompactum, Penicillium dipodomyicola, Penicillium camemberti, Climacocystis sp. and Malassezia restricta). Many fungal species apparently originated from food, as did 11 plant species. However, four plant species (Atractylodes japonica, Fibraurea tinctoria, Angelica anomala, Mitella nuda) are used as medicinal plants. Investigating the eukaryotic components of gut microbiota may help us to understand their role in human health."}
{"id": "23545354", "title": "Isolation and identification of antifungal peptides from Bacillus BH072, a novel bacterium isolated from honey.", "content": "Isolation and identification of antifungal peptides from Bacillus BH072, a novel bacterium isolated from honey. A bacterial strain BH072 isolated from a honey sample showed antifungal activity against mold. Based on morphological, biochemical, physiological tests, and analysis of 16S rDNA sequence, the strain was identified to be a new subspecies of Bacillus sp. It had a broad spectrum of antifungal activity against various mold, such as Aspergillus niger, Pythium, and Botrytis cinerea. Six pairs of antifungal genes primers were designed and synthesized, and ituA, hag, tasA genes were detected by PCR analysis. The remarkable antifungal activity could be associated with the co-production of these three peptides. One of them was purified by 30-40% ammonium sulfate precipitation, Sephadex G-75 gel filtration and anion exchange chromatography on D201 resin. The purified peptide was estimated to be 35.615 kDa and identified to be flagellin by micrOTOF-Q II. By using methanol extraction, another substance was isolated from fermentation liquor, and determined to be iturin with liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS) method. The third possible peptide encoded by tasA was not isolated in this study. The culture liquor displayed antifungal activity in a wide pH range (5.0-9.0) and at 40-100\u00b0C. The result of the present work suggested that Bacillus BH072 might be a bio-control bacterium of research value."}
{"id": "23522080", "title": "Fatal pneumonia caused by Penicillium digitatum: a case report.", "content": "Fatal pneumonia caused by Penicillium digitatum: a case report. Penicillium species are among the most common fungi present in the environment and are usually considered non-pathogenic to humans. However, in immunocompromised hosts they can be virulent pathogens and can cause death. Penicillium digitatum is a plant pathogen that commonly causes a postharvest fungal disease of citrus called green mould; it very rarely causes systemic mycosis in humans. Here, we report a case of fatal pneumonia due to P. digitatum infection, as confirmed by repeated examination of cultured sputum. A cavity was found in the left upper lung on routine chest X-ray in a 78-year-old undernourished male who had been diagnosed at age 66 with bronchial asthma and pulmonary emphysema. No increased sputum production was present. The presence of antigen-specific precipitating antibodies to Aspergillus flavus and P. digitatum was confirmed in the patient's serum and also later pleural fluid by using Ouchterlony double immunodiffusion testing with A. flavus and P. digitatum antigens. The patient was treated over a period of months with itraconazole, micafungin, voriconazole, amphotericin B, and antibacterials. However, the cavity enlarged, the pleural effusion increased, and the patient began producing purulent sputum. He died from progressive renal failure. From sputum culture only one fungus was isolated repeatedly on potato-dextrose agar in large quantities. This fungus was confirmed to be P. digitatum by molecular identification. Partial sequences of the beta-tubulin gene were determined by using the primers Bt2a and Bt2b for PCR amplification and sequencing and underwent a BLAST search at the National Centre for Biotechnology Information, these results confirmed that the isolated fungus was P. digitatum. To our knowledge, this is the first report of pulmonary infection with P. digitatum. Our patient had pulmonary emphysema and was elderly, and undernourished. These factors might have facilitated the infection. In his case, antimycotics were ineffective in treating the lung involvement. Although human infection with P. digitatum is considered rare, it appears that this organism can be very virulent and resistant to antimycotics."}
{"id": "23513028", "title": "Intravenous antibiotics reduce the presence of Aspergillus in adult cystic fibrosis sputum.", "content": "Intravenous antibiotics reduce the presence of Aspergillus in adult cystic fibrosis sputum. Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Aspergillus fumigatus frequently co-colonise the airways of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). This study aimed to assess the impact of short-term administration of intravenous antipseudomonal antibiotics during CF exacerbations on the presence of Aspergillus. Pre- and post-antibiotic sputum samples from 26 adult patients with CF and chronic Pseudomonas colonisation were analysed for the presence of Aspergillus by fungal culture, real-time PCR and galactomannan antigen (GM). Lung function (forced expiratory volume in 1 s and forced vital capacity % predicted) and blood levels of total IgE, specific A fumigatus IgE and specific A fumigatus IgG were measured at the start and end of antibiotics. Respiratory viral real-time PCR and bacterial community profiling using ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (RISA) were performed to estimate concurrent changes in the lung microbiome. Aspergillus PCR and GM were more sensitive than culture in detecting Aspergillus species (culture 8%, GM 31%, PCR 77%). There was a significant decline in the presence of Aspergillus, measured both by PCR and GM index, following antibacterial therapy (PCR: median increase in crossing threshold 1.7 (IQR 0.5-3.8), p<0.001; GM: median fall in GM index 0.7 (IQR 0.4-1.6), p=0.016). All patients improved clinically with a significant increase in lung function (p<0.0001). RISA community analysis showed large changes in bacterial community similarity in 67% of patients following antibiotics. Viral RT-PCR demonstrated the presence of a concurrent respiratory virus in 27% of patients. Intravenous antibiotics targeting Pseudomonas during CF pulmonary exacerbations have a negative impact on the presence of Aspergillus in sputum samples."}
{"id": "23508862", "title": "Molecular cloning and overexpression of an endo-\u03b2-1,4-xylanase gene from Aspergillus niger in industrial Saccharomyces cerevisiae YS2 strain.", "content": "Molecular cloning and overexpression of an endo-\u03b2-1,4-xylanase gene from Aspergillus niger in industrial Saccharomyces cerevisiae YS2 strain. The aim of this study was to endow an industrial strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae with the ability to overexpress the xylanase by constructing a homology-driven integration vector. The total mRNA from a xylanase-producing strain of Aspergillus niger IME-216 was extracted and used as the template for the production of endo-\u03b2-1,4-xylanase cDNA by reverse transcription. The fusion fragment containing the phosphoglycerate kinase promoter, \u03b1-factor signal peptide, xylanase gene encoding the mature peptide, and CYC1 terminator was first generated by overlap extension polymerase chain reaction. Then, the vector pUPX was constructed by inserting the fusion fragment into the S. cerevisiae plasmid pUG6. Then, A 2.2-kb rDNA sequence was further cloned and attached to the SalI-digested pUPX to obtain the integration plasmid pUPXR. The pUPXR was linearized by KpnI, transformed into the industrial strain S. cerevisiae YS2 using the lithium acetate method and integrated into the S. cerevisiae chromosome. The maximum yield of the recombinant xylanase produced by the engineered S. cerevisiae strain YS2_2 was 74.8\u00a0U per microliter, which was about 1.5-fold higher than the original 50\u00a0U per microliter by Aspergillus niger IME-216 strain under the flask culture at 28\u00a0\u00b0C for 72\u00a0h. The findings of our study can be used for further development of industrial S. cerevisiae strain for producing interested enzymes, or improving the achievement of metabolism, for example, simultaneous fermentation of glucose and xylose to producing bioethanol."}
{"id": "23498197", "title": "Microbial composition during Chinese soy sauce koji-making based on culture dependent and independent methods.", "content": "Microbial composition during Chinese soy sauce koji-making based on culture dependent and independent methods. Koji-making is a key process for production of high quality soy sauce. The microbial composition during koji-making was investigated by culture-dependent and culture-independent methods to determine predominant bacterial and fungal populations. The culture-dependent methods used were direct culture and colony morphology observation, and PCR amplification of 16S/26S rDNA fragments followed by sequencing analysis. The culture-independent method was based on the analysis of 16S/26S rDNA clone libraries. There were differences between the results obtained by different methods. However, sufficient overlap existed between the different methods to identify potentially significant microbial groups. 16 and 20 different bacterial species were identified using culture-dependent and culture-independent methods, respectively. 7 species could be identified by both methods. The most predominant bacterial genera were Weissella and Staphylococcus. Both 6 different fungal species were identified using culture-dependent and culture-independent methods, respectively. Only 3 species could be identified by both sets of methods. The most predominant fungi were Aspergillus and Candida species. This work illustrated the importance of a comprehensive polyphasic approach in the analysis of microbial composition during soy sauce koji-making, the knowledge of which will enable further optimization of microbial composition and quality control of koji to upgrade Chinese traditional soy sauce product."}
{"id": "23486712", "title": "Evaluation of real-time PCR, galactomannan enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and a novel lateral-flow device for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Evaluation of real-time PCR, galactomannan enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and a novel lateral-flow device for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. Diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) remains challenging. With a relatively low incidence of disease, the use of expensive empirical antifungal therapy exposes many patients to unnecessary toxicity. Diagnosis places emphasis on specific but temporal radiological evidence. Circulating biomarker diagnosis has shown potential, but assays show variable performance, take several hours to perform, and require a degree of technical ability. A novel and simple lateral-flow device (LFD) using monoclonal antibody JF5, which targets an extracellular glycoprotein, has been developed and potentially removes any technical requirements, reducing processing time considerably. In this study, we evaluate the performance of this LFD compared to real-time PCR (targeting the 28S rRNA gene) and galactomannan (GM) detection when testing serum from a European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer/Invasive Fungal Infections Cooperative Group, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Mycoses Study Group (EORTC/MSG)-defined hematological population. In a proven/probable-IA population versus a no-IA population, the LFD performance was comparable to that of both PCR and galactomannan enzyme immunoassay. Specificity (98.0%) was similar to that of PCR (96.6%) and slightly superior to that of GM (91.5%). Sensitivity (81.8%) was inferior to that of PCR (95.5%) but better than that of GM (77.3%). In combination with PCR, it provided both 100% sensitivity and 100% specificity. The LFD permits rapid testing of easily obtainable specimens, to be used as an adjunct test, before confirmation by other investigations. Its simplicity provides centers without specialist diagnostics with a test with clinical performance superior to that of classical microbiological approaches and results that can be used to direct antifungal management. In summary, microbiological diagnosis of IA is difficult and options are limited, with variable performance. An LFD assay targeting a novel specific biomarker has been developed, one which is methodologically simple and provides good clinical performance, particularly if combined with PCR."}
{"id": "23464751", "title": "Efficacy of DNA amplification in tissue biopsy samples to improve the detection of invasive fungal disease.", "content": "Efficacy of DNA amplification in tissue biopsy samples to improve the detection of invasive fungal disease. The performance of a pan-fungal PCR-based technique was evaluated to assess the aetiology of invasive fungal diseases (IFDs). A total of 89 formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded biopsy samples from 84 patients with proven IFD were studied. Culture of tissue was performed in 68 (81%) patients. The sensitivities of the PCR-based technique and microbiological culture of tissues were 89% and 56%, respectively (p <0.01). According to PCR results, Aspergillus species accounted for 67%, Candida species for 13%, zygomycetes for 11%, and rare and emerging fungi for 9%. Aspergillus species were significantly associated with lung samples (79.6%, p <0.01), Mucorales were associated with skin/subcutaneous samples, and Candida species were associated with gastrointestinal samples. Regarding biopsy samples with Aspergillus species, Aspergillus fumigatus DNA was detected in 43 of 50 (86%), and Aspergillus flavus in six of 50 (12%). PCR was positive in 24 of 30 (80%) cases with negative culture. In nine of the 84 patients, the PCR technique failed to amplify the DNA. Six also had negative cultures, and in the remaining three cases culture was positive (Rhizopus microsporus, Rhizopus arrhizus, and Sakseneae vasiformis), suggesting that the PCR technique was not as effective in amplifying the DNA of some species of Zygomycetes. In five cases, there was no correlation between culture results and those obtained with DNA amplification, indicating the possibility of a mixed infection or the presence of colonizer/contaminant microorganisms. In summary, PCR-based techniques for DNA amplification should be implemented in histopathology and microbiology departments, as they appear to be complementary to conventional methods for IFD detection."}
{"id": "23463213", "title": "Azole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples of patients with chronic diseases.", "content": "Azole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples of patients with chronic diseases. Triazole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus has been increasing. We explored the A. fumigatus azole resistance profiles in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid samples from Danish patients examined for aspergillosis. A total of 94 BAL samples from 87 patients were evaluated by galactomannan (GM) test and A. fumigatus CYP51A profiling by PCR. Aspergillus spp. were isolated from 27/48 (56.3%) cultured samples, including 23 A. fumigatus with one resistant strain (4.3%). Samples were classified into GM-positive (\u22653.0), GM-intermediate (0.5 to <3.0) and GM-negative (<0.5) groups, where the CYP51A PCR was positive in 81.8% (36/44), 56.3% (18/32) and 38.9% (7/18) of samples, respectively. Nine CYP51A PCR-positive samples (9/61, 14.8%) were found to have mutations resulting in amino acid substitutions. M220V was detected from a sample culture positive for susceptible A. fumigatus and P216L was found in a culture-negative BAL sample. Conversely, no mutation was found in one sample culture positive for azole-resistant A. fumigatus. The tandem repeat/L98H mutation was not detected. Our study shows that azole resistance in A. fumigatus can be cryptic and may go undiagnosed. The combination of improved culture/susceptibility tests and the direct molecular detection of resistance markers will facilitate prompt institution of appropriate antifungal therapy."}
{"id": "23451071", "title": "Diagnostic performance of an Aspergillus-specific nested PCR assay in cerebrospinal fluid samples of immunocompromised patients for detection of central nervous system aspergillosis.", "content": "Diagnostic performance of an Aspergillus-specific nested PCR assay in cerebrospinal fluid samples of immunocompromised patients for detection of central nervous system aspergillosis. Central nervous system (CNS) invasive aspergillosis (IA) is a fatal complication in immunocompromised patients. Confirming the diagnosis is rarely accomplished as invasive procedures are impaired by neutropenia and low platelet count. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) cultures or galactomannan (GM) regularly yield negative results thus suggesting the need for improving diagnostic procedures. Therefore the performance of an established Aspergillus-specific nested polymerase chain reaction assay (PCR) in CSF samples of immunocompromised patients with suspicion of CNS IA was evaluated. We identified 113 CSF samples from 55 immunocompromised patients for whom CNS aspergillosis was suspected. Of these patients 8/55 were identified as having proven/probable CNS IA while the remaining 47 patients were classified as having either possible (n\u200a=\u200a22) or no CNS IA (n\u200a=\u200a25). PCR positivity in CSF was observed for 8/8 proven/probable, in 4/22 possible CNS IA patients and in 2/25 NoIA patients yielding sensitivity and specificity values of 1.0 (95% CI 0.68-1) and 0.93 (95% CI 0.77-0.98) and a positive likelihood ratio of 14 and negative likelihood ratio of 0.0, respectively, thus resulting in a diagnostic odds ratio of \u221e. The retrospective analysis of CSF samples from patients with suspected CNS IA yielded a high sensitivity of the nested PCR assay. PCR testing of CSF samples is recommended for patients for whom CNS IA is suspected, especially for those whose clinical condition does not allow invasive procedures as a positive PCR result makes the presence of CNS IA in that patient population highly likely."}
{"id": "23448824", "title": "Aspergillus galactomannan antigen for diagnosis and treatment monitoring in cerebral aspergillosis.", "content": "Aspergillus galactomannan antigen for diagnosis and treatment monitoring in cerebral aspergillosis. Invasive aspergillosis, especially neuroaspergillosis, predominantly affects immunocompromised patients such as transplant recipients. Early diagnosis and subsequent early initiation of therapy may improve final outcome. In cerebral aspergillosis, samples for culture or histopathology, the diagnostic reference standard, are often impossible to obtain without risk. Because of these limitations, serological, nucleic acid amplification tests such as polymerase chain reaction or enzyme immunoassay from cerebrospinal fluid appear advantageous for early diagnosis and probably also for therapy monitoring. We report on the successful detection and treatment monitoring by serial testing of galactomannan in cerebrospinal fluid in a patient with neuroaspergillosis after heart transplant."}
{"id": "23446835", "title": "The biogeography of fungal communities in wetland sediments along the Changjiang River and other sites in China.", "content": "The biogeography of fungal communities in wetland sediments along the Changjiang River and other sites in China. Whether fungal community structure depends more on historical factors or on contemporary factors is controversial. This study used culture-dependent and -independent (polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE)) methods to assess the influence of historical and contemporary factors on the distributions of fungi in the wetland sediments at 10 locations along the Changjiang River and at 10 other locations in China. The culture-dependent approach detected greater species diversity (177 operational taxonomic units (OTUs)) than PCR-DGGE analysis (145 OTUs), and the species in the genera of Penicillium (relative frequency=16.8%), Fusarium (15.4%), Aspergillus (7.6%), Trichoderma (5.8%) and Talaromyces (4.2%) were dominant. On the basis of DGGE data, fungal diversity along the Changjiang River increased from upstream to downstream; altitude explained 44.8% of this variation in diversity. And based on the data from all 20 locations, the fungal communities were geographically clustered into three groups: Southern China, Northern China and the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau. Multivariate regression tree analysis for data from the 20 locations indicated that the fungal community was influenced primarily by location (which explained 61.8% of the variation at a large scale), followed by total potassium (9.4%) and total nitrogen (3.5%) at a local scale. These results are consistent with the concept that geographic distance is the dominant factor driving variation in fungal diversity at a regional scale (1000-4000\u2009km), whereas environmental factors (total potassium and total nitrogen) explain variation in fungal diversity at a local scale (<1000\u2009km)."}
{"id": "23426930", "title": "Multicenter comparison of serum and whole-blood specimens for detection of Aspergillus DNA in high-risk hematological patients.", "content": "Multicenter comparison of serum and whole-blood specimens for detection of Aspergillus DNA in high-risk hematological patients. Samples from patients at high risk for invasive aspergillosis (IA) were prospectively collected and analyzed for the presence of molecular markers of fungal infection. Serum specimens were screened for galactomannan and Aspergillus DNA, and whole-blood specimens were screened only for Aspergillus DNA. Fungal infections were categorized according to the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer/Invasive Fungal Infections Cooperative Group, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Mycoses Study Group (EORTC/MSG) criteria. Forty-seven cases (proven and probable IA) and 31 controls (no evidence of IA) were selected retrospectively for this case-control study, comprising 803 samples, in order to determine the performance of whole-blood PCR, serum PCR, and serum galactomannan testing. Although no single assay was able to detect every case of IA, a combination of different assays provided the best performance. There was no significant difference between the use of whole-blood and serum specimens for PCR-based diagnosis of IA, but there was a trend for whole blood to be more sensitive (85% versus 79%) and to yield an earlier positive result (36 days versus 15 days) than for serum. However, DNA extraction from serum specimens is easier and faster than that from whole-blood specimens, and it allows the same specimen to be used for both galactomannan and PCR assays. In conclusion, the appropriate sample type for DNA extraction should be determined by the local requirements and the technical platforms available at each individual center. A combination of biomarker tests offered the best diagnostic utility for detecting IA."}
{"id": "23420404", "title": "Molecular cloning and characterization of the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene from Penicillium expansum PE-12.", "content": "Molecular cloning and characterization of the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene from Penicillium expansum PE-12. Penicillium expansum produces large amounts of lipase, which is widely used in laundry detergent and leather industry. We isolated the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene (PeGPD) from P. expansum PE-12 through reverse transcriptase PCR and 5'-3' rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE-PCR). The gene is 1266 bp long, including an ORF of 1014 bp, encoding a polypeptide chain of 337 amino acids. A phylogenetic tree based on GPD proteins showed that P. expansum is close to Aspergillus species, but comparatively distant from P. marneffei. Southern blot results revealed a single copy of PeGPD, and expression analysis gave evidence of high expression levels. PeGPD genes have potential for genetic engineering of P. expansum for industrial lipase production."}
{"id": "23417151", "title": "Terrein induces apoptosis in HeLa human cervical carcinoma cells through p53 and ERK regulation.", "content": "Terrein induces apoptosis in HeLa human cervical carcinoma cells through p53 and ERK regulation. Terrein, a fungal metabolite derived from Aspergillus terreus, has been shown to have a variety of biological activities in human cells including inhibition of melanogenesis, as well as anti-inflammatory, antioxidant and anticancer properties. In the present study, terrein was shown to have marked anticancer activity on HeLa human cervical carcinoma cells. Terrein exhibited inhibition of proliferation within the same ranges for other cancer cell types with an IC50 at 0.29\u00a0mM. The growth inhibition that induced cell death was via apoptosis mechanisms. Chromatin condensation was observed using the Hoechst 33342 stain, a DNA-specific dye. The increase of DNA fragmentation or the sub-G0 peak was also detected by flow cytometry. The signaling used by terrein to induce apoptosis was via the death-receptor and mitochondrial pathways; the cleavage of specific fluorogenic substrates by caspase-3, -8 and -9 activities are clearly demonstrated. The mitochondria were damaged as demonstrated by the decrease of the red/green ratio of the JC-1 staining and the increase of the Bax/Bcl-2 expression ratio. Further analysis of the upstream signaling by the quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction showed that p53, p21 and ERK were upregulated which indicates the importance of their roles on terrein signaling. This study is the first to show that terrein has an effect on the anticancer properties in cervical cancer cells by inducing apoptosis through p53 and ERK regulation. Our data may help expand the function of the terrein compound and may also aid in the discovery of new anticancer agents."}
{"id": "23411576", "title": "Frequency, diagnosis and management of fungal respiratory infections.", "content": "Frequency, diagnosis and management of fungal respiratory infections. This review highlights key recent advances in fungal respiratory infections, encompassing developments in epidemiology, diagnostics and management, focussing on Aspergillus, Pneumocystis and Cryptococcus as key pathogens. Chronic pulmonary aspergillosis complicates existing lung diseases, particularly those associated with cavities or bullae, with a high global disease burden (prevalence estimate >1.1 million following tuberculosis) and significant under diagnosis (using Aspergillus IgG antibody). Several new treatment studies have been published (using caspofungin and voriconazole). Pneumocystis jirovecii demonstrates airborne transmission between infected and noninfected individuals necessitating isolation, and possibly identifying colonized patients. Early detection of serum cryptococcal antigenaemia in HIV may prevent development of meningitis, reducing morbidity and mortality, and routine testing of serum in community-acquired pneumonia cases in high endemicity areas may be helpful. Respiratory Aspergillus antigen and PCR testing is more sensitive than culture or serum testing. A new lateral flow antigen testing device may provide rapid bedside diagnosis of aspergillosis. Azole resistance to Aspergillus fumigatus is increasing across Europe. The field of fungal respiratory infection continues to evolve and develop, with many recent key advances. Patients, and possibly colonized patients, with Pneumocystis require isolation in hospitals and preferably segregation in outpatients. Challenges remain in almost all areas, with further work needed to identify the true burden of Aspergillus disease and address the increasing problem of azole resistance."}
{"id": "23399248", "title": "Expression of an exoinulinase gene from Aspergillus ficuum in Escherichia coli and its characterization.", "content": "Expression of an exoinulinase gene from Aspergillus ficuum in Escherichia coli and its characterization. An exoinulinase gene from Aspergillus ficuum JNSP5-06 was overexpressed in Escherichia coli. Two exons of the exoinulinase gene were amplified separately, joined together by an overlap PCR, and expressed in E. coli. The molecular weight of the recombinant exoinulinase was estimated to be 63 kDa. The K(m) and V(max) values for inulin were (7.1\u00b10.2) mM and (1000.0\u00b10.1) \u03bcmol/(min mg protein), respectively. The K(m) and V(max) values for sucrose were (347.6\u00b125.9)mM and (12,037.0\u00b1801.9) \u03bcmol/(min mg protein), respectively. The optimum temperature and pH with inulin as the substrate were 60\u00b0C and 4.0, respectively. The optimum temperature and pH with sucrose as the substrate were 55 \u00b0C and 5.0, respectively. Its activity was increased by Mn(2+), completely inhibited by Cu(2+), and strongly inhibited by Al(3+), Ag(+), Fe(3+), Fe(2+), Ni(2+), Zn(2+), and Mg(2+). The product of hydrolysis of inulin by the recombinant exoinulinase was fructose."}
{"id": "23398543", "title": "Mycotic keratitis: epidemiology, diagnosis and management.", "content": "Mycotic keratitis: epidemiology, diagnosis and management. Mycotic keratitis (an infection of the cornea) is an important ocular infection, especially in young male outdoor workers. There are two frequent presentations: keratitis due to filamentous fungi (Fusarium, Aspergillus, phaeohyphomycetes and Scedosporium apiospermum are frequent causes) and keratitis due to yeast-like fungi (Candida albicans and other Candida species). In the former, trauma is usually the sole predisposing factor, although previous use of corticosteroids and contact lens wear are gaining importance as risk factors; in the latter, there is usually some systemic or local (ocular) defect. The clinical presentation and clinical features may suggest a diagnosis of mycotic keratitis; increasingly, in vivo (non-invasive) imaging techniques (confocal microscopy and anterior segment optical coherence tomography) are also being used for diagnosis. However, microbiological investigations, particularly direct microscopic examination and culture of corneal scrape or biopsy material, still form the cornerstone of diagnosis. In recent years, the PCR has gained prominence as a diagnostic aid for mycotic keratitis, being used to complement microbiological methods; more importantly, this molecular method permits rapid specific identification of the aetiological agent. Although various antifungal compounds have been used for therapy, management of this condition (particularly if deep lesions occur) continues to be problematic; topical natamycin and, increasingly, voriconazole (given by various routes) are key therapeutic agents. Therapeutic surgery, such as therapeutic penetrating keratoplasty, is needed when medical therapy fails. Increased awareness of the importance of this condition is likely to spur future research initiatives."}
{"id": "23396159", "title": "Taxonomic revision of Eurotium and transfer of species to Aspergillus.", "content": "Taxonomic revision of Eurotium and transfer of species to Aspergillus. Aspergillus section Aspergillus contains economically important, xerophilic fungi that are widely distributed in nature and the human environment and are known for their ability to grow on substrates with low water activity. The taxa were revised based on sequence data from four loci, PCR fingerprinting, micro- and macromorphology, and physiology. The number of taxa was reduced to 17 species, all of which can be distinguished with sequence data from either the caM or RPB2 locus. The original description of A. proliferans was supplemented by a description of its teleomorph. This species seems to be relatively common and often has been confused with A. glaucus. In addition, green sporulating isolates of A. niveoglaucus isolated from food and several other substrates are indistinguishable in phenotype from A. glaucus. A dichotomous key based on ascospore size and ornamentation and the ability to grow at specific combinations of temperature and water activity is provided for identification of species. In response to recent changes in the botanical code, we transferred the Eurotium species to Aspergillus and selected one name for each species."}
{"id": "23388129", "title": "Key diagnostic features of granulomatous interstitial nephritis due to Encephalitozoon cuniculi in a lung transplant recipient.", "content": "Key diagnostic features of granulomatous interstitial nephritis due to Encephalitozoon cuniculi in a lung transplant recipient. Microsporidia are increasingly recognized as opportunistic pathogens in immunocompromised organ transplant recipients (OTR). Disseminated infection due to Encephalitozoon sp. is reported mainly in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive patients and rarely in HIV-negative OTR. The clinical spectrum ranges from keratoconjunctivitis, to pneumonitis, to acute kidney injury. The kidney is a common site for disseminated infection; however, specialized techniques are required for definitive diagnosis. We report the first case of disseminated Encephalitozoon cuniculi infection in an HIV-negative lung transplant recipient diagnosed on renal biopsy. Five months after transplant, he presented with fever and a lung infiltrate and developed acute kidney injury. Renal biopsy showed granulomatous interstitial nephritis with gram-positive rod-shaped organisms with a \"belt-like stripe\" in tubular epithelial cells. Electron microscopy, polymerase chain reaction, and mammalian cell cultures of the urine sediment confirmed E. cuniculi infection. Retrospective review of a previous lung biopsy showed similar organisms. On the basis of electron microscopy findings, the patient was treated with albendazole, and immunosuppressive therapy was reduced. However, the patient expired due to Aspergillus pneumonia and disseminated E. cuniculi infection. Microsporidia should be considered in cases of fever of unknown origin and/or multiorgan infection in HIV-negative OTR when other causes have been excluded, as successful treatment requires early detection."}
{"id": "23385948", "title": "Light inhibits spore germination through phytochrome in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Light inhibits spore germination through phytochrome in Aspergillus nidulans. Aspergillus nidulans responds to light in several aspects. The balance between sexual and asexual development as well as the amount of secondary metabolites produced is controlled by light. Here, we show that germination is largely delayed by blue (450 nm), red (700 nm), and far-red light (740 nm). The largest effect was observed with far-red light. Whereas 60 % of the conidia produced a germ tube after 20 h in the dark, less than 5 % of the conidia germinated under far-red light conditions. Because swelling of conidia was not affected, light appears to act at the stage of germ-tube formation. In the absence of nutrients, far-red light even inhibited swelling of conidia, whereas in the dark, conidia did swell and germinated after prolonged incubation. The blue-light signaling components, LreA (WC-1) and LreB (WC-2), and also the cryptochrome/photolyase CryA were not required for germination inhibition. However, in the phytochrome mutant, \u2206fphA, the germination delay was released, but germination was delayed in the dark in comparison to wild type. This suggests a novel function of phytochrome as far-red light sensor and as activator of polarized growth in the dark."}
{"id": "23360173", "title": "Clinical utility of a panfungal polymerase chain reaction assay for invasive fungal diseases in patients with haematologic disorders.", "content": "Clinical utility of a panfungal polymerase chain reaction assay for invasive fungal diseases in patients with haematologic disorders. Invasive fungal diseases (IFDs) are life-threatening events in patients with haematologic disorders, and the spectrum of the aetiological pathogens continues to expand. This study aimed to evaluate the clinical utility of a panfungal polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay for the management of IFDs in such patients. We prospectively analysed 273 consecutive blood samples from 64 risk episodes in 51 patients with haematologic disorders at high risk for IFD who were treated at our hospital between April 2007 and October 2010. PCR-positive results were obtained in 18 of 64 risk episodes (35.3%). IFD was documented in 14 episodes (21.9%, 9 probable IFDs and 5 possible IFDs) according to the revised criteria of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer/Mycoses Study Group. PCR was positive in all of these 14 episodes, and in 4 of the 50 episodes with no IFD category. Sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of our assay were 100%, 92%, 78% and 100% respectively. A considerable number of fungi (44.4%) that are less common than Aspergillus and Candida species were positive by PCR. Molecular diagnoses of Cunninghamella species, Aspergillus ustus, Fusarium species, Scedosporium apiospermum, Rhodotorula species and Rhizopus species were beneficial in selecting suitable treatments. Our panfungal PCR approach allows for the highly sensitive and specific detection and identification of a wide spectrum of fungal pathogens, which provides indispensable information for managing IFDs, especially refractory or breakthrough IFDs during antifungal therapy in high-risk patients with haematologic disorders."}
{"id": "23337500", "title": "Regulation of cellulolytic genes by McmA, the SRF-MADS box protein in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Regulation of cellulolytic genes by McmA, the SRF-MADS box protein in Aspergillus nidulans. Cellobiose triggers the production of two endoglucanases, EglA and EglB, in Aspergillus nidulans. The cellulose responsive element (CeRE) cis-element that is essential for induction has been identified on the eglA promoter, but transcription factors that bind to CeRE have not yet been identified. CeRE contained a consensus sequence CC(A/T)6GG for binding of the SRF-type MADS box proteins. Introduction of a missense mutation into mcmA, encoding for the sole SRF-MADS protein in A. nidulans, caused a significant reduction in cellulase induction. Real-time RT-PCR analysis revealed that inductive expression of not only eglA but also eglB and cbhA by cellobiose were under control of McmA. The McmA protein expressed in Escherichia coli specifically bound to two regions of the eglA promoter: CeRE and its upstream proximal region. These results, together with our previous study on the eglA promoter structure, imply that McmA regulates eglA expression by binding directly to its promoter. This is the first evidence for participation of an SRF-MADS protein in cellulase regulation."}
{"id": "23336696", "title": "The aspHS gene as a new target for detecting Aspergillus fumigatus during infections by quantitative real-time PCR.", "content": "The aspHS gene as a new target for detecting Aspergillus fumigatus during infections by quantitative real-time PCR. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is a serious nosocomial infection caused by Aspergillus spp. which has a high mortality rate due to the fact, among other factors, that it is difficult to diagnose. Within the Aspergillus genus, A. fumigatus is the main species causing IA. We propose a virulence factor, the aspHS gene, as a novel target for the specific detection of A. fumigatus by quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR). This target gene encodes a haemolysin, which is overexpressed in vivo during infection. We have designed specific primers and hydrolysis (Taqman) probes for the detection of this target and a chimeric internal amplification control (IC), designed to detect false negative results due to PCR inhibition. This qPCR assay was tested with DNA extracted from a wide collection of microorganisms, tissues from infected mice, and human bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples. Results showed that it, together with the DNA extraction method, could detect A. fumigatus with high specificity. Furthermore, it can distinguish between germinated (first step to the development of infection) and non-germinated conidia (not detected). Our data indicate that these techniques could be sufficiently sensitive and rapid to help clinicians establish an earlier diagnosis, but the presence of PCR inhibitors in clinical samples such as BAL fluids needs to be addressed."}
{"id": "23331959", "title": "Identification of ochratoxin A producing Aspergillus carbonarius and A. niger clade isolated from grapes using the loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) reaction.", "content": "Identification of ochratoxin A producing Aspergillus carbonarius and A. niger clade isolated from grapes using the loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) reaction. To develop two assays based on the loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) of DNA for the quick and specific identification of Aspergillus carbonarius and ochratoxigenic strains of the Aspergillus niger clade isolated from grapes. Two sets of primers were designed based on the polyketide synthase genes involved or putatively involved in ochratoxin A (OTA) biosynthesis in A. carbonarius and A. niger clade. Hydroxynaphthol blue was used as indirect method to indicate DNA amplification. The limit of detection of both assays was comparable to that of a PCR reaction. Specificities of the reactions were tested using DNA from different black aspergilli isolated from grapes. The two LAMP assays were then used to identify A. carbonarius and ochratoxigenic A. niger and A. awamori grown in pure cultures without a prior DNA extraction. The two LAMP assays permitted to quickly and specifically identify DNA from OTA-producing black aspergilli, as well as isolates grown in pure culture. Monitoring vineyards for the presence of OTA-producing strains is part of the measures to minimize the occurrence of OTA in grape products. The two LAMP assays developed here could be potentially used to speed the screening process of vineyards for the presence of OTA-producing black aspergilli."}
{"id": "23330675", "title": "Complexity generation in fungal peptidyl alkaloid biosynthesis: a two-enzyme pathway to the hexacyclic MDR export pump inhibitor ardeemin.", "content": "Complexity generation in fungal peptidyl alkaloid biosynthesis: a two-enzyme pathway to the hexacyclic MDR export pump inhibitor ardeemin. Ardeemins are hexacyclic peptidyl alkaloids isolated from Aspergillus fischeri as agents that block efflux of anticancer drugs by MultiDrug Resistance (MDR) export pumps. To evaluate the biosynthetic logic and enzymatic machinery for ardeemin framework assembly, we sequenced the A. fischeri genome and identified the ardABC gene cluster. Through both genetic deletions and biochemical characterizations of purified ArdA and ArdB we show this ArdAB enzyme pair is sufficient to convert anthranilate (Ant), L-Ala, and L-Trp to ardeemin. ArdA is a 430 kDa trimodular nonribosomal peptide synthase (NRPS) that converts the three building blocks into a fumiquinazoline (FQ) regioisomer termed ardeemin FQ. ArdB is a prenyltransferase that takes tricyclic ardeemin FQ and dimethylallyl diphosphate to the hexacyclic ardeemin scaffold via prenylation at C2 of the Trp-derived indole moiety with intramolecular capture by an amide NH of the fumiquinazoline ring. The two-enzyme ArdAB pathway reveals remarkable efficiency in construction of the hexacyclic peptidyl alkaloid scaffold."}
{"id": "23314962", "title": "Extracellular DNA release acts as an antifungal resistance mechanism in mature Aspergillus fumigatus biofilms.", "content": "Extracellular DNA release acts as an antifungal resistance mechanism in mature Aspergillus fumigatus biofilms. Aspergillus fumigatus has been shown to form biofilms that are associated with adaptive antifungal resistance mechanisms. These include multidrug efflux pumps, heat shock proteins, and extracellular matrix (ECM). ECM is a key structural and protective component of microbial biofilms and in bacteria has been shown to contain extracellular DNA (eDNA). We therefore hypothesized that A. fumigatus biofilms also possess eDNA as part of the ECM, conferring a functional role. Fluorescence microscopy and quantitative PCR analyses demonstrated the presence of eDNA, which was released phase dependently (8 < 12 < 24 < 48 h). Random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) PCR showed that eDNA was identical to genomic DNA. Biofilm architectural integrity was destabilized by DNase treatment. Biochemical and transcriptional analyses showed that chitinase activity and mRNA levels of chitinase, a marker of autolysis, were significantly upregulated as the biofilm matured and that inhibition of chitinases affected biofilm growth and stability, indicating mechanistically that autolysis was possibly involved. Finally, using checkerboard assays, it was shown that combinational treatment of biofilms with DNase plus amphotericin B and caspofungin significantly improved antifungal susceptibility. Collectively, these data show that eDNA is an important structural component of A. fumigatus ECM that is released through autolysis, which is important for protection from environmental stresses, including antifungal therapy."}
{"id": "23305771", "title": "Disclosing a crypt: microbial diversity and degradation activity of the microflora isolated from funeral clothes of Cardinal Peter P\u00e1zm\u00e1ny.", "content": "Disclosing a crypt: microbial diversity and degradation activity of the microflora isolated from funeral clothes of Cardinal Peter P\u00e1zm\u00e1ny. A crypt can be considered as a particular environment where different microbial communities contribute to decomposition of organic materials present inside during a long interval of time. The textile remains of the funeral clothes (biretta and tunic) of Cardinal P\u00e1zm\u00e1ny, an important historic figure dead in Bratislava the 19th March 1637, conserved in this kind of environment were subjected to microbial investigation. The sampling comprised three different approaches and the use of various kinds of cultivation media. Two different PCR-based clustering methods, f-ITS and f-CBH, were employed in order to select the bacterial and fungal microfloras which were identified in a second step by the 16S rRNA and ITS sequencing respectively. The isolated microflora was tested for its proteolytic, keratinolytic and cellulolytic activities and for its ability to grow on Fibroin agar medium. The combination of cultural, molecular and biodegradative assays was able to isolate and characterize a bacterial community composed mainly by members of the phyla Firmicutes and Actinobacteria. The fungal community appeared more diversified, together with several Penicillium and Aspergillus strains, members belonging to the species Beauveria bassiana, Eurotium cristatum, Xenochalara juniperi, Phialosimplex caninus and Myriodontium keratinophilum were isolated. Bacteria, especially the Bacillus members, showed their strong ability to degrade keratin and gelatin and a large portion of them was able to growth on Fibroin agar. The fungal isolates displayed a widespread cellulolytic activity and fibroin utilization, although they possessed a weaker and slower proteolytic and keratinolytic properties respect to bacterial counterpart. The present study can be considered perhaps as the first or among the few microbial investigations which treated the textile biodegradation from such unusual environment."}
{"id": "23303501", "title": "PCR followed by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry for broad-range identification of fungal pathogens.", "content": "PCR followed by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry for broad-range identification of fungal pathogens. Invasive fungal infections are a significant cause of morbidity and mortality among immunocompromised patients. Early and accurate identification of these pathogens is central to direct therapy and to improve overall outcome. PCR coupled with electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (PCR/ESI-MS) was evaluated as a novel means for identification of fungal pathogens. Using a database grounded by 60 ATCC reference strains, a total of 394 clinical fungal isolates (264 molds and 130 yeasts) were analyzed by PCR/ESI-MS; results were compared to phenotypic identification, and discrepant results were sequence confirmed. PCR/ESI-MS identified 81.4% of molds to either the genus or species level, with concordance rates of 89.7% and 87.4%, respectively, to phenotypic identification. Likewise, PCR/ESI-MS was able to identify 98.4% of yeasts to either the genus or species level, agreeing with 100% of phenotypic results at both the genus and species level. PCR/ESI-MS performed best with Aspergillus and Candida isolates, generating species-level identification in 94.4% and 99.2% of isolates, respectively. PCR/ESI-MS is a promising new technology for broad-range detection and identification of medically important fungal pathogens that cause invasive mycoses."}
{"id": "23296888", "title": "Differentiation of fungi using hybridization probes on the LightCycler(\u00ae).", "content": "Differentiation of fungi using hybridization probes on the LightCycler(\u00ae). The polymerase chain reaction is a powerful molecular tool for the detection and analysis of very small amounts of DNA. Today, hybridization probes are often used in real-time PCR for more sensitive and specific detection of pathogens and for determination of gene regulation or mutation analysis instead of intercalating dyes like SYBR Green. Here, we describe how to generate suitable primers and hybridization probes for the specific detection of fungal DNA. Furthermore, we show the advantages of hybridization probes using the LightCycler-PCR for the detection of different Candida spp. and Aspergillus spp. in patient blood samples. The methods used to develop such PCR assays will also be presented in the following protocol."}
{"id": "23287496", "title": "Xylitol production by NAD(+)-dependent xylitol dehydrogenase (xdhA)- and l-arabitol-4-dehydrogenase (ladA)-disrupted mutants of Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Xylitol production by NAD(+)-dependent xylitol dehydrogenase (xdhA)- and l-arabitol-4-dehydrogenase (ladA)-disrupted mutants of Aspergillus oryzae. Aspergillus oryzae can metabolize xylan to d-xylose and d-xylose to xylitol. However, accumulation of xylitol is controlled by dehydrogenases, such as xylitol dehydrogenase (XDH) and l-arabitol-4-dehydrogenase (LAD), and fluxed into the pentose phosphate pathway. In A. oryzae, XDH and LAD are encoded by xdhA and ladA, respectively. We disrupted the xdhA and ladA genes individually in an attempt to increase xylitol production. The xdhA- and ladA-disrupted mutants were constructed by homologous transformation into A. oryzae P5 (\u0394pyrG), and pyrG was used as a selectable marker. The mutants were grown on different carbohydrate-containing media, colony diameters of mutants were measured, and gene disruption was confirmed by PCR. The xylitol productivity of the mutants was measured using d-xylose and oat spelt xylan as the sole sources of carbohydrates. The xdhA-disrupted mutant xdhA2-1 produced 16.6 g/L xylitol at a yield of 0.43 g/g d-xylose and productivity of 0.248 g/L. h from d-xylose, while 10.2 g/L xylitol was produced at a yield of 0.204 g/g xylan from oat spelt xylan."}
{"id": "23278665", "title": "Multiplex real-time PCR method for detection and quantification of mycotoxigenic fungi belonging to three different genera.", "content": "Multiplex real-time PCR method for detection and quantification of mycotoxigenic fungi belonging to three different genera. Cereal crop plants are colonized by many fungal species such as Aspergillus ochraceus and Penicillium verrucosum, which produce ochratoxins, and Fusarium graminearum, which produces trichothecene mycotoxins. A multiplex real-time PCR method using TaqMan probes was developed to simultaneously detect and quantify these mycotoxigenic Fusarium, Penicillium and Aspergillus species in cereal grains. Primers and probes used in this method were designed targeting the trichothecene synthase (Tri5) gene in trichothecene-producing Fusarium, rRNA gene in Penicillium verrucosum, and polyketide synthase gene (Pks) in Aspergillus ochraceus. The method was highly specific in detecting fungal species containing these genes and was sensitive, detecting up to 3 pg of genomic DNA. These PCR products were detectable over five orders of magnitude (3 pg to 30 ng of genomic DNA). The method was validated by evaluating sixteen barley culture samples for the presence of deoxynivalenol (DON) and ochratoxin A (OTA) producing fungi. Among the barley culture samples tested, 9 were positive for Fusarium spp, 5 tested positive for Penicillium spp, and 2 tested positive for Aspergillus spp. Results were confirmed by traditional microbiological methods. These results indicate that DON- and OTA-producing fungi can be detected and quantified in a single reaction tube using this multiplex real-time PCR method. This method would be helpful in detecting and quantifying the mycotoxin producing fungi such as Fusarium, Aspergillus, and Penicillium in cereal grains and cereal-based foods."}
{"id": "23278646", "title": "HLA-DRB1 and HLA-DQB1 genes on susceptibility to and protection from allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis in patients with cystic fibrosis.", "content": "HLA-DRB1 and HLA-DQB1 genes on susceptibility to and protection from allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis in patients with cystic fibrosis. Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) is a hypersensitivity pulmonary disease that affects both patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) and those with asthma. HLA-DRB1 alleles have previously been associated with ABPA-CF susceptibility; however, HLA-DQB1 allele associations have not been clearly established. The aim of the present study was to investigate HLA class II associations in patients with ABPA-CF and determine their roles in susceptibility or protection. Patients with ABPA-CF, patients with CF without ABPA, patients with asthma without ABPA (AST), and healthy controls were included in this study. DNA was extracted by automatic extractor. HLA-DRB1 and -DQB1 genotyping was performed by the Luminex PCR-SSOP method (One Lambda, Canoga Park, CA, USA). Allele specific PCR-SSP was also performed by high-resolution analysis (One Lambda). Statistical analysis was performed with SSPS and Arlequin software. Both HLA-DRB1*5:01 and -DRB1*11:04 alleles occurred with greater frequency in patients with ABPA-CF than in those with AST and CF and control subjects, corroborating previously published data. On the other hand, analysis of haplotypes revealed that almost all patients with ABPA-CF lacking DRB1*15:01 or DRB1*11:04 carry either DRB1*04, DRB1*11:01, or DRB1*07:01 alleles. In the HLA-DQB1 region, the HLA-DQB1*06:02 allele occurred more frequently in patients with ABPA-CF than in those with AST and CF and healthy controls, whereas HLA-DQB1*02:01 occurred less frequently in patients with ABPA-CF. These data confirm that there is a correlation between HLA-DRB1*15:01, -DRB1*11:04, DRB1*11:01, -DRB1*04 and -DRB1*07:01 alleles and ABPA-CF susceptibility and suggest that HLA-DQB1*02:01 is an ABPA-CF resistance allele."}
{"id": "23278540", "title": "Up-date on diagnostic strategies of invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Up-date on diagnostic strategies of invasive aspergillosis. Invasive fungal infections are a major cause of morbidity and mortality in immunosuppressed patients with fatality rates ranging from 30 % to 80 % in neutropenic patients. This results at least partly in difficulties obtaining a reliable and early diagnosis, followed by the fact that clinical symptoms are unspecific and of very limited use. Conventional methods may be difficult and are often delayed. Serological tests like the galactomannan enzyme immunoassay are presently most promising for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis, however, sensitivity and specificity vary within the studies. This review reflects the current situation of diagnosing invasive fungal infections with a special focus on how to best diagnose Aspergillus-related infections (e.g., culture, microscopy, imaging techniques, CT-guided biopsies). Promising molecular techniques under development will be discussed and their potential for routine diagnostic applications (e.g. lateral flow device, polymerase chain reaction [PCR]-based assays, rolling circle amplification [RCA], loop-mediated amplification [LAMP], nucleic acid sequence-based amplification [NASBA]). A summary is given on commercial assays (e.g., Platelia Aspergillus\u00ae, Fungitell\u00ae, in situ hybridization, immunohistochemisty) and their purposes as screening tools and/or diagnostic tools. This review gives a future outlook on how to best diagnose Aspergillus infections."}
{"id": "23275075", "title": "Expression of aflatoxin genes aflO (omtB) and aflQ (ordA) differentiates levels of aflatoxin production by Aspergillus flavus strains from soils of pistachio orchards.", "content": "Expression of aflatoxin genes aflO (omtB) and aflQ (ordA) differentiates levels of aflatoxin production by Aspergillus flavus strains from soils of pistachio orchards. The expression of four aflatoxin (AF) biosynthetic pathway genes (aflD, aflO, aflP and aflQ) was evaluated in 24 Aspergillus flavus strains isolated from soils of pistachio orchards, with the aim of rapidly and accurately differentiating toxigenic from non-toxigenic strains. The amounts of AFB1 produced by 20 aflatoxigenic strains varied from 1.25 to 321.56\u00a0ng/mg fungal dry weights in YES medium. RT-PCR results showed that transcription of the four genes was not always correlated with AF production. The expression pattern of aflO and aflQ, however, was found to be well correlated with the amounts of AFB1 produced when strains were arbitrarily classified into two types: type I, comprised of strains producing \u226530\u00a0ng/mg; and type II, low (\u226430\u00a0ng/mg) and non-AF producers. The present study suggests that, under specific growth conditions, the expression pattern of aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway genes such as aflO and aflQ can be used to infer the AF-producing capability of A. flavus strains."}
{"id": "23252499", "title": "Fungal infections associated with contaminated methylprednisolone injections.", "content": "Fungal infections associated with contaminated methylprednisolone injections. Fungal infections are rare complications of injections for treatment of chronic pain. In September 2012, we initiated an investigation into fungal infections associated with injections of preservative-free methylprednisolone acetate that was purchased from a single compounding pharmacy. Three lots of methylprednisolone acetate were recalled by the pharmacy; examination of unopened vials later revealed fungus. Notification of all persons potentially exposed to implicated methylprednisolone acetate was conducted by federal, state, and local public health officials and by staff at clinical facilities that administered the drug. We collected clinical data on standardized case-report forms, and we tested for the presence of fungi in isolates and specimens by examining cultures and performing polymerase-chain-reaction assays and histopathological and immunohistochemical testing. By October 19, 2012, more than 99% of 13,534 potentially exposed persons had been contacted. As of July 1, 2013, there were 749 reported cases of infection in 20 states, with 61 deaths (8%). Laboratory evidence of Exserohilum rostratum was present in specimens from 153 case patients (20%). Additional data were available for 728 case patients (97%); 229 of these patients (31%) had meningitis with no other documented infection. Case patients had received a median of 1 injection (range, 1 to 6) of implicated methylprednisolone acetate. The median age of the patients was 64 years (range, 15 to 97), and the median incubation period (the number of days from the last injection to the date of the first diagnosis) was 47 days (range, 0 to 249); 40 patients (5%) had a stroke. Analysis of data from a large, multistate outbreak of fungal infections showed substantial morbidity and mortality. The infections were associated with injection of a contaminated glucocorticoid medication from a single compounding pharmacy. Rapid public health actions included prompt recall of the implicated product, notification of exposed persons, and early outreach to clinicians."}
{"id": "23216688", "title": "Evaluation of a multiplex PCR assay for concurrent detection of four major mycotoxigenic fungi from foods.", "content": "Evaluation of a multiplex PCR assay for concurrent detection of four major mycotoxigenic fungi from foods. To develop and evaluate a multiplex polymerase chain reaction assay (mPCR) for the concurrent detection of four major mycotoxin metabolic pathway genes, viz. nor1 (aflatoxin), Tri6 (trichothecene), FUM13 (fumonisin) and otanps (ochratoxin A). A mPCR assay with competitive internal amplification control, employing specific primers for each of the aforementioned four genes, was optimized and validated using 10 reference strains and 60 pure culture isolates. The standardized mPCR assay detected all four mycotoxin metabolic genes in artificially contaminated maize samples with a sensitivity of 2 \u00d7 10(3) CFU g(-1) for nor1-positive Aspergillus strains, Tri6 and FUM13-positive Fusarium strains and 2 \u00d7 10(4) CFU g(-1) for otanps-positive Penicillium strains. When the developed mPCR assay was applied to 40 natural foods, 35% (14 of 40) of the samples were contaminated with either one or more mycotoxins. The mPCR results were further evaluated with high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and in general, both the methods provided unequivocal results. The current mPCR assay is a rapid and reliable tool for simultaneous specific and sensitive detection of aflatoxigenic Aspergillus strains, trichothecene- and fumonisin-producing Fusarium strains, and ochratoxigenic Penicillium species from naturally contaminated foods. This mPCR assay could be a supplementary strategy to current conventional mycotoxin analytical techniques such as thin-layer chromatography (TLC), high performance thin layer chromatography, HPLC, etc., and a reliable tool for high-throughput monitoring of major mycotoxin-producing fungi during the processing steps of food and feed commodities."}
{"id": "23198683", "title": "Isolation of Aspergillus fumigatus from sputum is associated with elevated airborne levels in homes of patients with asthma.", "content": "Isolation of Aspergillus fumigatus from sputum is associated with elevated airborne levels in homes of patients with asthma. Indoor bioaerosols, such as mold spores, have been associated with respiratory symptoms in patients with asthma; however, dose-response relationships and guidelines on acceptable levels are lacking. Furthermore, a causal link between mold exposure and respiratory infections or asthma remains to be established. The aim of this study was to determine indoor concentrations of Aspergillus fumigatus and a subset of clinically relevant fungi in homes of people with asthma, in relation to markers of airways colonization and sensitization. Air and dust samples were collected from the living room of 58 properties. Fungal concentrations were quantified using mold-specific quantitative PCR and compared with traditional microscopic analysis of air samples. Isolation of A. fumigatus from sputum was associated with higher airborne concentrations of the fungus in patient homes (P = 0.04), and a similar trend was shown with Aspergillus/Penicillium-type concentrations analyzed by microscopy (P = 0.058). No association was found between airborne levels of A. fumigatus and sensitization to this fungus, or dustborne levels of A. fumigatus and either isolation from sputum or sensitization. The results of this study suggest that the home environment should be considered as a potential source of fungal exposure, and elevated home levels may predispose people with asthma to airways colonization."}
{"id": "23180546", "title": "Microbial succession in the traditional Chinese Luzhou-flavor liquor fermentation process as evaluated by SSU rRNA profiles.", "content": "Microbial succession in the traditional Chinese Luzhou-flavor liquor fermentation process as evaluated by SSU rRNA profiles. The community succession of microbes inhabited in the fermenting lees of Luzhou-flavor liquor was investigated based on small-subunit rRNA culture independent method. All sequences recovered from fermenting lees respectively fell into the genera of Lactobacillus, Streptococcus, Bacillus, Staphylococcus, Clostridium, Pelobacter, Actobacter, Serratia, Burkholderia, Rhodoccous, Corynebacterium, Arthrobacter, Microbacterium, Curtobacterium, Leptotrichia, Methanocuuleus, Saccharomyces, Zygosaccharomyces, Saccharomycopsis, Pichia, Talaromyces, Aspergillus, Eurotium, Fomitopsis and Trichosporon. The fungal Pichia, Saccharomycopsis and Talaromyces were most abundant in the lees fermented for 1 day, the fungal Eurotium and the bacteria Burkholderia, Streptococcus and Lactobacillus were dominant in the lees fermented for 7 days, only the bacteria Lactobacillus, Burkholderia were prevalent in the lees fermented for 60 days. Most genera almost existed in the fermenting lees, while their distributions were significantly different in 1, 7 and 60 days fermented lees. The prokaryotic community similarity coefficient was from 0.5000 to 0.5455 and followed to 0.1523, and that of eukaryotic community was from 0.5466 to 0.5259 and to 0.3750 when compared at species level. These results suggested that many microbes in lees have community successions associated with fermenting and that such successions maybe contribute the fermentation process of Luzhou-flavor liquor and is main reasons that the characteristic flavor factors are produced."}
{"id": "23165244", "title": "Surfactant-free synthesis of Fe3O4@PANI and Fe3O4@PPy microspheres as adsorbents for isolation of PCR-ready DNA.", "content": "Surfactant-free synthesis of Fe3O4@PANI and Fe3O4@PPy microspheres as adsorbents for isolation of PCR-ready DNA. Magnetic separation with composite microspheres presents an alternative strategy for applications in biomedical and bioengineering fields. However, the synthesis of core-shell structured magnetic composites universally assumes the surfactant-directing and/or silica-assisting polymerization approach to modify and stabilize the magnetic cores. In this paper, we report on the surfactant-free synthesis of well-defined core-shell structured Fe(3)O(4)@PANI and Fe(3)O(4)@PPy microspheres with high magnetization. The temperature dependence of magnetization of the samples was examined as a function of temperature between 3 and 300 K in an applied field of 500 Oe. It was found that the blocking temperature (T(B)) values of the composite spheres are well above the room temperature. The small variation in magnetization as the temperature changes renders the composite spheres a suitable candidate when used at elevated temperatures. Also, the genomic DNA can be effectively isolated from Aspergillus niger (A. niger) cells with the composite microspheres, using a PEG-NaCl binding buffer and a phosphate eluting buffer. The magnetic isolation of genomic DNA with the composite microspheres was shown to be superior to the conventional phenol-chloroform extraction, which was confirmed by agarose gel eletrophoresis and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) diagnosis. The Fe(3)O(4)@PANI and Fe(3)O(4)@PPy microspheres presented here have great potential in enzyme immobilization, drug delivery, catalysis, and sensors."}
{"id": "23163595", "title": "Impaired bactericidal but not fungicidal activity of polymorphonuclear neutrophils in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia.", "content": "Impaired bactericidal but not fungicidal activity of polymorphonuclear neutrophils in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia. We examined the qualitative polymorphonuclear neutrophil (PMN)-associated immune impairment in patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) by characterizing phagocytic killing of key non-opsonized bacterial (Staphylococcus aureus and Pseudomonas aeruginosa) and fungal (Candida albicans and Aspergillus fumigatus) pathogens. Neutrophils were collected from 47 non-neutropenic patients with CLL (PMN count > 1000/mm(3)) and age-matched and young healthy controls (five each). A subset of patients (13%) had prior or subsequent infections. We found that the patients with CLL had diminished PMN microbicidal response against bacteria but not against fungi compared with the controls. Compared to patients with effective PMN responses, we did not identify differences of basal PMN pathogen-associated molecular pattern receptor gene expression, soluble pathogen-associated molecular pattern gene expression or inflammatory cytokine signatures in patients with impaired PMN responses when PMNs were analyzed in multiplex real-time polymerase chain reaction assays. However, differences in PMN microbicidal response against A. fumigatus in patients with CLL were associated with the degree of hypogammaglobulinemia."}
{"id": "23160134", "title": "Nontuberculous mycobacteria, fungi, and opportunistic pathogens in unchlorinated drinking water in The Netherlands.", "content": "Nontuberculous mycobacteria, fungi, and opportunistic pathogens in unchlorinated drinking water in The Netherlands. The multiplication of opportunistic pathogens in drinking water supplies might pose a threat to public health. In this study, distributed unchlorinated drinking water from eight treatment plants in the Netherlands was sampled and analyzed for fungi, nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM), and several opportunistic pathogens by using selective quantitative PCR methods. Fungi and NTM were detected in all drinking water samples, whereas Legionella pneumophila, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Stenotrophomonas maltophilia, and Aspergillus fumigatus were sporadically observed. Mycobacterium avium complex and Acanthamoeba spp. were not detected. Season had no influence on the occurrence of these organisms, except for NTM and S. maltophilia, which were present in higher numbers in the summer. Opportunistic pathogens were more often observed in premise plumbing water samples than in samples from the distribution system. The lowest number of these organisms was observed in the finished water at the plant. Thus, fungi, NTM, and some of the studied opportunistic pathogens can multiply in the distribution and premise plumbing systems. Assimilable organic carbon (AOC) and/or total organic carbon (TOC) had no clear effects on fungal and NTM numbers or on P. aeruginosa- and S. maltophilia-positive samples. However, L. pneumophila was detected more often in water with AOC concentrations above 10 \u03bcg C liter(-1) than in water with AOC levels below 5 \u03bcg C liter(-1). Finally, samples that contained L. pneumophila, P. aeruginosa, or S. maltophilia were more frequently positive for a second opportunistic pathogen, which shows that certain drinking water types and/or sampling locations promote the growth of multiple opportunistic pathogens."}
{"id": "23154970", "title": "Transcriptome changes initiated by carbon starvation in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Transcriptome changes initiated by carbon starvation in Aspergillus nidulans. Carbon starvation is a common stress for micro-organisms both in nature and in industry. The carbon starvation stress response (CSSR) involves the regulation of several important processes including programmed cell death and reproduction of fungi, secondary metabolite production and extracellular hydrolase formation. To gain insight into the physiological events of CSSR, DNA microarray analyses supplemented with real-time RT-PCR (rRT-PCR) experiments on 99 selected genes were performed. These data demonstrated that carbon starvation induced very complex changes in the transcriptome. Several genes contributing to protein synthesis were upregulated together with genes involved in the unfolded protein stress response. The balance between biosynthesis and degradation moved towards degradation in the case of cell wall, carbohydrate, lipid and nitrogen metabolism, which was accompanied by the production of several hydrolytic enzymes and the induction of macroautophagy. These processes provide the cultures with long-term survival by liberating nutrients through degradation of the cell constituents. The induced synthesis of secondary metabolites, antifungal enzymes and proteins as well as bacterial cell wall-degrading enzymes demonstrated that carbon-starving fungi should have marked effects on the micro-organisms in their surroundings. Due to the increased production of extracellular and vacuolar enzymes during carbon starvation, the importance of the endoplasmic reticulum increased considerably."}
{"id": "23147740", "title": "Posaconazole pharmacodynamic target determination against wild-type and Cyp51 mutant isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus in an in vivo model of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis.", "content": "Posaconazole pharmacodynamic target determination against wild-type and Cyp51 mutant isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus in an in vivo model of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) is a devastating disease of immunocompromised patients. Pharmacodynamic (PD) examination of antifungal drug therapy in IPA is one strategy that may improve outcomes. The current study explored the PD target of posaconazole in an immunocompromised murine model of IPA against 10 A. fumigatus isolates, including 4 Cyp51 wild-type isolates and 6 isolates carrying Cyp51 mutations conferring azole resistance. The posaconazole MIC range was 0.25 to 8 mg/liter. Following infection, mice were given 0.156 to 160 mg/kg of body weight of oral posaconazole daily for 7 days. Efficacy was assessed by quantitative PCR (qPCR) of lung homogenate and survival. At the start of therapy, mice had 5.59 \u00b1 0.19 log(10) Aspergillus conidial equivalents (CE)/ml of lung homogenate, which increased to 7.11 \u00b1 0.29 log(10) CE/ml of lung homogenate in untreated animals. The infection was uniformly lethal prior to the study endpoint in control mice. A Hill-type dose response function was used to model the relationship between posaconazole free drug area under the concentration-time curve (AUC)/MIC and qPCR lung burden. The static dose range was 1.09 to 51.9 mg/kg/24 h. The free drug AUC/MIC PD target was 1.09 \u00b1 0.63 for the group of strains. The 1-log kill free drug AUC/MIC was 2.07 \u00b1 1.02. The PD target was not significantly different for the wild-type and mutant organism groups. Mortality mirrored qPCR results, with the greatest improvement in survival noted at the same dosing regimens that produced static or cidal activity. Consideration of human pharmacokinetic data and the current static dose PD target would predict a clinical MIC threshold of 0.25 to 0.5 mg/liter."}
{"id": "23139075", "title": "IgE-mediated immune responses and airway detection of Aspergillus and Candida in adult cystic fibrosis.", "content": "IgE-mediated immune responses and airway detection of Aspergillus and Candida in adult cystic fibrosis. The recovery of Aspergillus and Candida from the respiratory secretions of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) is common. Their relationship to the development of allergic sensitization and effect on lung function has not been established. Improved techniques to detect these organisms are needed to increase knowledge of these effects. A 2-year prospective observational cohort study was performed. Fifty-five adult patients with CF had sputum monitored for Aspergillus by culture and real-time polymerase chain reaction and Candida by CHROMagar and carbon assimilation profile (API/ID 32C). Skin prick tests and ImmunoCAP IgEs to a panel of common and fungal allergens were performed. Lung function and pulmonary exacerbation rates were monitored over 2 years. Sixty-nine percent of patient sputum samples showed chronic colonization with Candida and 60% showed colonization with Aspergillus. There was no association between the recovery of either organism and the presence of specific IgE responses. There was no difference in lung function decline for patients with Aspergillus or Candida colonization compared with those without (FEV\u2081 percent predicted, P = .41 and P = .90, respectively; FVC % predicted, P = .87 and P = .37, respectively). However, there was a significantly greater decline in FEV1 and increase in IV antibiotic days for those sensitized to Aspergillus (FEV\u2081 decline, P = .03; IV antibiotics days, P = .03). Allergic sensitization is not associated with recovery of Candida or Aspergillus from the sputum of patients with CF. Aspergillus but not Candida sensitization is associated with greater lung function decline and pulmonary exacerbations."}
{"id": "23137280", "title": "Higher Environmental Relative Moldiness Index (ERMI) values measured in homes of asthmatic children in Boston, Kansas City, and San Diego.", "content": "Higher Environmental Relative Moldiness Index (ERMI) values measured in homes of asthmatic children in Boston, Kansas City, and San Diego. Mold in water-damaged homes has been linked to asthma. Our objective was to test a new metric to quantify mold exposures in asthmatic children's homes in three widely dispersed cities in the United States. The Environmental Relative Moldiness Index (ERMI) metric was created by the US Environmental Protection Agency, with assistance by the Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), to quantify mold contamination in US homes. The ERMI values in homes of asthmatic children were determined for the three widely dispersed cities of Boston, Kansas City, and San Diego. Asthmatic children in Boston (n = 76), Kansas City (n = 60), and San Diego (n = 93) were found to be living in homes with significantly higher ERMI values than were found in homes randomly selected during the 2006 HUD American Healthy Homes Survey (AHHS) from the same geographic areas (n = 34, 22, and 28, respectively). Taken together, the average ERMI value in the homes with an asthmatic child was 8.73 compared to 3.87 for the AHHS homes. In addition, Kansas City homes of children with \"Mild, Moderate, or Severe Persistent Asthma\" had average ERMI value of 12.4 compared to 7.9 for homes of children with only \"Mild Intermittent Asthma.\" Aspergillus niger was the only mold of the 36 tested which was measured in significantly greater concentration in the homes of asthmatic children in all three cities. High ERMI values were associated with homes of asthmatic children in three widely dispersed cities in the United States."}
{"id": "23100337", "title": "Detection, identification, and distribution of fungi in bronchoalveolar lavage specimens by use of multilocus PCR coupled with electrospray ionization/mass spectrometry.", "content": "Detection, identification, and distribution of fungi in bronchoalveolar lavage specimens by use of multilocus PCR coupled with electrospray ionization/mass spectrometry. As pulmonary fungal infections continue to increase due to an increasing number of immunocompromised patients, rapid detection and accurate identification of these fungal pathogens are critical. A broad fungal assay was developed by incorporating broad-range multilocus PCR amplification and electrospray ionization/mass spectrometry (PCR/ESI-MS) to detect and identify fungal organisms directly from clinical specimens. The aims of this study were to evaluate the performance of PCR/ESI-MS for detection, identification, and determination of the distribution of fungal organisms in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid specimens. The BAL fluid specimens submitted for fungal culture at Vanderbilt University Medical Center between May 2005 and October 2011 were included. Cultures and identification were done using standard procedures. In addition, DNA was extracted from BAL fluid specimens, and fungal DNA amplification/identification were performed by PCR/ESI-MS. The results were compared with those of the standard cultures. A total of 691 nonduplicated BAL fluid specimens with sufficient leftover volume for molecular testing were evaluated using PCR/ESI-MS. Among them, 134 specimens (19.4%) were positive for fungi by both culture and PCR/ESI-MS testing. Of the dual-positive specimens, 125 (93.3%) were positive for Candida and Aspergillus species, with concordances between culture and PCR/ESI-MS results being 84 (67.2%) at the species level and 109 (87.2%) at the genus level. In addition, 243 (35.2%) and 30 (4.3%) specimens were positive only by PCR/ESI-MS or by culture, respectively (odds ratio [OR] = 11.95, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 7.90 to 18.17, P = 0.0000). Codetection of fungal organisms was noted in 23 (3.3%) specimens by PCR/ESI-MS, which was significantly higher than the 4 (0.6%) in which they were noted by culture (OR = 5.91, 95% CI = 1.93 to 20.27, P = 0.0002). Among 53 specimens in which cultures failed because of bacterial overgrowth, at least one fungus was identified in 26 specimens (47.3%) by PCR/ESI-MS. PCR/ESI-MS provides an advanced tool for rapid and sensitive detection, identification, and determination of the distribution of fungal organisms directly from BAL fluid specimens. Moreover, it detected fungal organisms in specimens in which cultures failed because of bacterial overgrowth. The clinical relevance of the significantly higher detection rate of fungal organisms by PCR/ESI-MS merits further investigation."}
{"id": "23036749", "title": "[Genotyping of clinical isolates of Aspergillus flavus and its relationship with environmental isolates of an oncohematological center].", "content": "[Genotyping of clinical isolates of Aspergillus flavus and its relationship with environmental isolates of an oncohematological center]. During 4 months, and while conducting an environmental sampling of air, 2 cases of aspergillosis by Aspergillus flavus (A. flavus) were diagnosed at an oncohematological center in Buenos Aires, Argentina. The aim of this study was to know the variability and the genetic relationship between the clinical and environmental isolates, obtained in the oncohematological center. Two genotyping techniques of different discriminatory power (RAPD and AFLP) were used. A genetic similarity matrix was calculated using Jaccard method and was the basis for the construction of a dendrogram by UPGMA. The level of genetic variability was assessed by measuring the percentage of polymorphic loci, number of effective allele, expected heterocygozity and association index test (I(A)). The dendrogram reveals that the A. flavus isolates recovered from the patients were not genetically related to those gotten from the rooms occupied by the patients. The environmental isolates had higher values of genetic diversity than the clinical isolates. The I(A) estimated for all the isolates suggest that recombination events occurred. Patients 1 and 2 were not infected with isolates from the nosocomial environment. Clinical and environmental isolates of A. flavus showed high genetic variability among them."}
{"id": "23002911", "title": "Resistant invasive aspergillosis in an autosomal recessive chronic granulomatous disease.", "content": "Resistant invasive aspergillosis in an autosomal recessive chronic granulomatous disease. Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is an inherited immunodeficiency characterized by severe bacterial and fungal infections. Invasive aspergillosis and other rare mold diseases are the leading causes of mortality. We report one case of CGD revealed by retropharyngeal abscess. On evolution, the patient developed an invasive aspergillosis resistant to treatment."}
{"id": "22983699", "title": "Alpha-momorcharin, a RIP produced by bitter melon, enhances defense response in tobacco plants against diverse plant viruses and shows antifungal activity in vitro.", "content": "Alpha-momorcharin, a RIP produced by bitter melon, enhances defense response in tobacco plants against diverse plant viruses and shows antifungal activity in vitro. Alpha-momorcharin (\u03b1-MMC) is type-1 ribosome inactivating proteins (RIPs) with molecular weight of 29\u00a0kDa and has lots of biological activity. Our recent study indicated that the \u03b1-MMC purified from seeds of Momordica charantia exhibited distinct antiviral and antifungal activity. Tobacco plants pre-treated with 0.5\u00a0mg/mL \u03b1-MMC 3\u00a0days before inoculation with various viruses showed less-severe symptom and less reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation compared to that inoculated with viruses only. Quantitative real-time PCR analysis revealed that the replication levels of viruses were lower in the plants treated with the \u03b1-MMC than control plants at 15\u00a0days post inoculation. Moreover, the coat protein expression of viruses was almost completely inhibited in plants which were treated with the \u03b1-MMC compared with control plants. Furthermore, the SA-responsive defense-related genes including non-expressor of pathogenesis-related genes 1 (NPR1), PR1, PR2 were up-regulated and activities of some antioxidant enzymes including superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), peroxidase (POD) were increased after the \u03b1-MMC treatment. In addition, the \u03b1-MMC (500\u00a0\u03bcg/mL) revealed remarkable antifungal effect against phytopathogenic fungi, in the growth inhibition range 50.35-67.21\u00a0%, along with their MIC values ranging from 100 to 500\u00a0\u03bcg/mL. The \u03b1-MMC had also a strong detrimental effect on spore germination of all the tested plant pathogens along with concentration as well as time-dependent kinetic inhibition of Sclerotinia sclerotiorum. The \u03b1-MMC showed a remarkable antiviral and antifungal effect and hence could possibly be exploited in crop protection for controlling certain important plant diseases."}
{"id": "22962354", "title": "Multiplex PCR analysis of fumonisin biosynthetic genes in fumonisin-nonproducing Aspergillus niger and A. awamori strains.", "content": "Multiplex PCR analysis of fumonisin biosynthetic genes in fumonisin-nonproducing Aspergillus niger and A. awamori strains. To determine the genetic basis for loss of fumonisin B2 (FB2) biosynthesis in FB2-nonproducing Aspergillus niger and A. awamori strains, we developed multiplex PCR primer sets to amplify fragments of eight fumonisin biosynthetic pathway (fum) genes. Fragments of all eight fum genes were amplified from FB2-producing A. niger and A. awamori strains; from FB2-nonproducing strains four amplification patterns arose in which one or more fum gene fragments were absent. Southern hybridization analysis of strains yielding patterns 2 and 3 confirmed that loss of FB2 production in A. awamori is associated with gene deletions within the fumonisin biosynthetic gene cluster. In addition, we observed a fifth multiplex amplification pattern in which all eight fum gene fragments appeared. Reverse transcription-PCR analysis of strains yielding pattern 5 showed that the expression of at least one fum gene was reduced relative to expression in FB2-producing A. niger. This suggests that in these strains loss of FB2 production is a result of structural or regulatory mutations that alter gene expression or function. These results demonstrate a diversity of genotypes within FB2-nonproducing A. niger and A. awamori populations and provide tools useful for identifying certain non-toxigenic strains for industrial or ecological applications."}
{"id": "22955887", "title": "Monitoring of bioaerosol inhalation risks in different environments using a six-stage Andersen sampler and the PCR-DGGE method.", "content": "Monitoring of bioaerosol inhalation risks in different environments using a six-stage Andersen sampler and the PCR-DGGE method. Increasing evidences show that inhalation of indoor bioaerosols has caused numerous adverse health effects and diseases. However, the bioaerosol size distribution, composition, and concentration level, representing different inhalation risks, could vary with different living environments. The six-stage Andersen sampler is designed to simulate the sampling of different human lung regions. Here, the sampler was used in investigating the bioaerosol exposure in six different environments (student dorm, hospital, laboratory, hotel room, dining hall, and outdoor environment) in Beijing. During the sampling, the Andersen sampler was operated for 30 min for each sample, and three independent experiments were performed for each of the environments. The air samples collected onto each of the six stages of the sampler were incubated on agar plates directly at 26 \u00b0C, and the colony forming units (CFU) were manually counted and statistically corrected. In addition, the developed CFUs were washed off the agar plates and subjected to polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) for diversity analysis. Results revealed that for most environments investigated, the culturable bacterial aerosol concentrations were higher than those of culturable fungal aerosols. The culturable bacterial and fungal aerosol fractions, concentration, size distribution, and diversity were shown to vary significantly with the sampling environments. PCR-DGGE analysis indicated that different environments had different culturable bacterial aerosol compositions as revealed by distinct gel band patterns. For most environments tested, larger (>3 \u03bcm) culturable bacterial aerosols with a skewed size distribution were shown to prevail, accounting for more than 60 %, while for culturable fungal aerosols with a normal size distribution, those 2.1-4.7 \u03bcm dominated, accounting for 20-40 %. Alternaria, Cladosporium, Chaetomium, and Aspergillus were found abundant in most environments studied here. Viable microbial load per unit of particulate matter was also shown to vary significantly with the sampling environments. The results from this study suggested that different environments even with similar levels of total microbial culturable aerosol concentrations could present different inhalation risks due to different bioaerosol particle size distribution and composition. This work fills literature gaps regarding bioaerosol size and composition-based exposure risks in different human dwellings in contrast to a vast body of total bioaerosol levels."}
{"id": "22945270", "title": "Detection of (1, 3)-\u03b2-D-glucan in bronchoalveolar lavage and serum samples collected from immunocompromised hosts.", "content": "Detection of (1, 3)-\u03b2-D-glucan in bronchoalveolar lavage and serum samples collected from immunocompromised hosts. The incidence of invasive fungal infections (IFI) has increased in recent years, especially among immunocompromised hosts (ICH). In 2003, the Fungitell(\u00ae) assay received FDA clearance for the presumptive diagnosis of IFI using serum and detects (1-3)-\u03b2-D-glucan, which is a major cell wall component of certain fungi (e.g., Candida, Aspergillus, and Pneumocystis). The goal of the current study was to assess the performance of the assay on bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid and serum to identify IFI in ICH. Patients were classified as having proven, probable, possible, or no IFI according to the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer/Mycoses Study Group (EORTC/MSG) guidelines. Among 109 patients for whom the results of Fungitell were compared to the EORTC/MSG criteria, Fungitell showed a low positive predictive value for the identification of IFI from both BAL (20.0%) and serum (26.7%). However, the negative predictive value of Fungitell was significantly higher for both sample types (BAL, 83.0%; serum, 84.8%). Interestingly, the results of Fungitell were positive in BAL and serum in 7/8 (87.5%) patients diagnosed with Pneumocystis pneumonia (PcP) by real-time, non-nested PCR. These data indicate that the Fungitell assay has a low positive predictive value for the diagnosis of IFI in ICH, regardless of the specimen type that is tested. However, testing of serum samples by Fungitell may permit a rapid and noninvasive initial screening approach in patients with presumed PcP."}
{"id": "22834482", "title": "Interleukin-12 and interleukin-2 alone or in combination against the infection in invasive pulmonary aspergillosis mouse model.", "content": "Interleukin-12 and interleukin-2 alone or in combination against the infection in invasive pulmonary aspergillosis mouse model. Aspergillus fumigatus is an intracellular opportunistic fungus causing invasive pulmonary mycosis, characterised by hyphal invasion and destruction of pulmonary tissue. Th1 cytokines could enhance fungicidal activity. The effects from the combination of interleukin-12 (IL-12) and IL-2 are rarely known in invasive pulmonary aspergillosis infection. To assess the cleaning of A. fumigatus infection in the pulmonary tissues by IL-12 and IL-2, interferon-\u03b3 (IFN-\u03b3) was detected in the sera using ELISA, quantification of IFN-\u03b3 mRNA using real-time RT-PCR and lung Colony-forming unit was assayed by cultivation. Morphology was analysed by histopathological examination. Our results showed that IL-12 and/or IL-2 could enhance the IFN-\u03b3 expression in the pulmonary tissue, reduce the colony load in the pulmonary tissue and increase the survival rate of mouse. The combination of IL-12 and IL-2 could assist in increasing the IFN-\u03b3 expression in the pulmonary tissue, but neither reduce colony load in the pulmonary tissue nor increase the survival rate of mouse significantly. It was demonstrated that IL-12 and IL-2 were strong immunomodulatory cytokines as a prerequisite for protecting the host from infectious agents."}
{"id": "22795370", "title": "Patients with cystic fibrosis have inducible IL-17+IL-22+ memory cells in lung draining lymph nodes.", "content": "Patients with cystic fibrosis have inducible IL-17+IL-22+ memory cells in lung draining lymph nodes. IL-17 is an important cytokine signature of the TH differentiation pathway TH17. This T-cell subset is crucial in mediating autoimmune disease or antimicrobial immunity in animal models, but its presence and role in human disease remain to be completely characterized. We set out to determine the frequency of TH17 cells in patients with cystic fibrosis (CF), a disease in which there is recurrent infection with known pathogens. Explanted lungs from patients undergoing transplantation or organ donors (CF samples=18; non-CF, nonbronchiectatic samples=10) were collected. Hilar nodes and parenchymal lung tissue were processed and examined for TH17 signature by using immunofluorescence and quantitative real-time PCR. T cells were isolated and stimulated with antigens from Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Aspergillus species. Cytokine profiles and staining with flow cytometry were used to assess the reactivity of these cells to antigen stimulation. We found a strong IL-17 phenotype in patients with CF compared with that seen in control subjects without CF. Within this tissue, we found pathogenic antigen-responsive CD4+IL-17+ cells. There were double-positive IL-17+IL-22+ cells [TH17(22)], and the IL-22+ population had a higher proportion of memory characteristics. Antigen-specific TH17 responses were stronger in the draining lymph nodes compared with those seen in matched parenchymal lungs. Inducible proliferation of TH17(22) with memory cell characteristics is seen in the lungs of patients with CF. The function of these individual subpopulations will require further study regarding their development. T cells are likely not the exclusive producers of IL-17 and IL-22, and this will require further characterization."}
{"id": "22733113", "title": "Increased production of fatty acids and triglycerides in Aspergillus oryzae by enhancing expressions of fatty acid synthesis-related genes.", "content": "Increased production of fatty acids and triglycerides in Aspergillus oryzae by enhancing expressions of fatty acid synthesis-related genes. Microbial production of fats and oils is being developed as a means of converting biomass to biofuels. Here we investigate enhancing expression of enzymes involved in the production of fatty acids and triglycerides as a means to increase production of these compounds in Aspergillus oryzae. Examination of the A. oryzae genome demonstrates that it contains two fatty acid synthases and several other genes that are predicted to be part of this biosynthetic pathway. We enhanced the expression of fatty acid synthesis-related genes by replacing their promoters with the promoter from the constitutively highly expressed gene tef1. We demonstrate that by simply increasing the expression of the fatty acid synthase genes we successfully increased the production of fatty acids and triglycerides by more than two-fold. Enhancement of expression of the fatty acid pathway genes ATP-citrate lyase and palmitoyl-ACP thioesterase increased productivity to a lesser extent. Increasing expression of acetyl-CoA carboxylase caused no detectable change in fatty acid levels. Increases in message level for each gene were monitored using quantitative real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction. Our data demonstrate that a simple increase in the abundance of fatty acid synthase genes can increase the detectable amount of fatty acids."}
{"id": "23231717", "title": "Aspergillus bronchitis without significant immunocompromise.", "content": "Aspergillus bronchitis without significant immunocompromise. Aspergillus bronchitis is poorly understood and described. We extracted clinical data from more than 400 referred patients with persistent chest symptoms who did not fulfill criteria for allergic, chronic, or invasive aspergillosis. Symptomatic patients with a positive culture or real-time PCR for Aspergillus spp. were reviewed. Seventeen patients fulfilled the selected criteria. Fourteen were women, with a mean age of 57 years (range 39-76). Sixteen of the patients had productive cough, eight had voluminous tenacious sputum, and seven had recurrent chest infections. Eight patients had Medical Research Council dyspnea scores of 4-5; 12 had bronchiectasis; and 13 patients grew A. fumigatus, 3 A. niger, and 1 A. terreus. Twelve of the 17 patients (71%) had elevated Aspergillus IgG (47-137 mg/L, mean 89.2) and 5 (29%) had elevated Aspergillus precipitins. Six of 12 (50%) had a major response to antifungal therapy and five of 12 (42%) patients relapsed, requiring long-term therapy. Aspergillus bronchitis is a discrete clinical entity in patients with structural lung disease but who are not significantly immunocompromised. It is distinct from asymptomatic fungal colonization and other forms of aspergillosis, and may respond to antifungal therapy."}
{"id": "23231708", "title": "Application of diagnostic markers to invasive aspergillosis in children.", "content": "Application of diagnostic markers to invasive aspergillosis in children. Early mycological detection of Aspergillus species is the cornerstone for a prompt diagnosis, appropriate treatment strategies, and improved survival of patients with invasive aspergillosis (IA), irrespective of age. However, the currently available laboratory tests for the diagnosis of IA include culture with direct microscopy, histology, and antigenic markers, such as galactomannan and \u03b2-1, 3-d-glucan, Aspergillus spp. DNA detection by PCR, and imaging studies, such as high-resolution CT scan. However, all need further validation, especially in children. In this review we focus on the diagnosis of IA emphasizing the current perspectives, difficulties in interpretation, and the need of further evaluation from a pediatric point of view."}
{"id": "23226235", "title": "Discovery of a HapE mutation that causes azole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus through whole genome sequencing and sexual crossing.", "content": "Discovery of a HapE mutation that causes azole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus through whole genome sequencing and sexual crossing. Azole compounds are the primary therapy for patients with diseases caused by Aspergillus fumigatus. However, prolonged treatment may cause resistance to develop, which is associated with treatment failure. The azole target cyp51A is a hotspot for mutations that confer phenotypic resistance, but in an increasing number of resistant isolates the underlying mechanism remains unknown. Here, we report the discovery of a novel resistance mechanism, caused by a mutation in the CCAAT-binding transcription factor complex subunit HapE. From one patient, four A. fumigatus isolates were serially collected. The last two isolates developed an azole resistant phenotype during prolonged azole therapy. Because the resistant isolates contained a wild type cyp51A gene and the isolates were isogenic, the complete genomes of the last susceptible isolate and the first resistant isolate (taken 17 weeks apart) were sequenced using Illumina technology to identify the resistance conferring mutation. By comparing the genome sequences to each other as well as to two A. fumigatus reference genomes, several potential non-synonymous mutations in protein-coding regions were identified, six of which could be confirmed by PCR and Sanger sequencing. Subsequent sexual crossing experiments showed that resistant progeny always contained a P88L substitution in HapE, while the presence of the other five mutations did not correlate with resistance in the progeny. Cloning the mutated hapE gene into the azole susceptible akuB(KU80) strain showed that the HapE P88L mutation by itself could confer the resistant phenotype. This is the first time that whole genome sequencing and sexual crossing strategies have been used to find the genetic basis of a trait of interest in A. fumigatus. The discovery may help understand alternate pathways for azole resistance in A. fumigatus with implications for the molecular diagnosis of resistance and drug discovery."}
{"id": "23202303", "title": "Toxigenic potential of Aspergillus species occurring on maize kernels from two agro-ecological zones in Kenya.", "content": "Toxigenic potential of Aspergillus species occurring on maize kernels from two agro-ecological zones in Kenya. Two agro-ecological zones in Kenya were selected to compare the distribution in maize of Aspergillus spp. and their toxigenicity. These were Nandi County, which is the main maize growing region in the country but where no human aflatoxicoses have been reported, and Makueni County where most of the aflatoxicosis cases have occurred. Two hundred and fifty-five households were sampled in Nandi and 258 in Makueni, and Aspergillus was isolated from maize. Aspergillus flavus and A. parasiticus isolates were tested for the presence of aflD and aflQ genes. Positive strains were induced to produce aflatoxins on yeast extract sucrose and quantified using liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LCMSMS). Aspergillus flavus was the most common contaminant, and the incidence of occurrence in Nandi and Makueni was not significantly different (82.33% and 73.26%, respectively). Toxigenic strains were more prevalent than non-toxigenic strains. All the toxigenic strains from Makueni were of the S-type while those from Nandi belonged to the l-type. Quantitative differences in aflatoxin production in vitro between isolates and between strains were detected with S strains producing relatively larger amounts of total aflatoxins, B toxins and lower values for G toxins. This was in accord with the frequent aflatoxicosis outbreaks in Makueni. However some L strains produced considerable amounts of B toxins. Given the widespread distribution of toxigenic strains in both regions, the risk of aflatoxin poisoning is high when favorable conditions for toxin production occur."}
{"id": "23188584", "title": "[The importance of bronchoalveolar lavage sample for galactomannan, 1,3-\u00df-d-glucan and PCR tests].", "content": "[The importance of bronchoalveolar lavage sample for galactomannan, 1,3-\u00df-d-glucan and PCR tests]. Opportunistic fungal infections are life threatening especially for immunosuppressed patients. Early and accurate diagnosis is very important for the prompt initiation of treatment and to reduce unnecessary use of antifungal drugs. In recent years, efforts providing more rapid and more sensitive diagnosis of invasive fungal infections have been increasing. These methods include detection of fungal antigens, specific antibodies, fungal metabolites and DNA in the clinical samples. In this case, we report a seven year-old male patient with cystic fibrosis and diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, who presented with fever, vomiting and chronic cough. Diffuse parenchymal infiltrations and alveolar opacities in the inferior lobe of right lung and focal patchy alveolar infiltrates in different segments in both lungs were seen in thoracal CT scanning. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) sample obtained by bronchoscopy was sent to the mycology laboratory and hypha elements that were compatible with Aspergillus were seen in direct examination. Aspergillus fumigatus was isolated from the culture of BAL sample. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (Rt-PCR), galactomannan (GM = 1.08 ng/ml) and 1,3-\u00df-D-Glucan (BG > 523 pg/ml) tests in BAL sample yielded positive results, however simultaneously performed PCR, GM (0.13 ng/ml) and BG (< 7 pg/ml) tests in serum sample were found to be negative. Treatment with voriconazole was started and continued for 45 days. The patient was discharged after improvement of his general state. It was concluded that PCR, GM and BG tests performed both in sera and BAL samples might aid to the early diagnosis and treatment of patients with invasive fungal infections in immunosuppressed patients. These data should be supported with further larger scale studies."}
{"id": "23173087", "title": "SAGA complex components and acetate repression in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "SAGA complex components and acetate repression in Aspergillus nidulans. Alongside the well-established carbon catabolite repression by glucose and other sugars, acetate causes repression in Aspergillus nidulans. Mutations in creA, encoding the transcriptional repressor involved in glucose repression, also affect acetate repression, but mutations in creB or creC, encoding components of a deubiquitination system, do not. To understand the effects of acetate, we used a mutational screen that was similar to screens that uncovered mutations in creA, creB, and creC, except that glucose was replaced by acetate to identify mutations that were affected for repression by acetate but not by glucose. We uncovered mutations in acdX, homologous to the yeast SAGA component gene SPT8, which in growth tests showed derepression for acetate repression but not for glucose repression. We also made mutations in sptC, homologous to the yeast SAGA component gene SPT3, which showed a similar phenotype. We found that acetate repression is complex, and analysis of facA mutations (lacking acetyl CoA synthetase) indicates that acetate metabolism is required for repression of some systems (proline metabolism) but not for others (acetamide metabolism). Although plate tests indicated that acdX- and sptC-null mutations led to derepressed alcohol dehydrogenase activity, reverse-transcription quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction showed no derepression of alcA or aldA but rather elevated induced levels. Our results indicate that acetate repression is due to repression via CreA together with metabolic changes rather than due to an independent regulatory control mechanism."}
{"id": "23172020", "title": "[Invasive fungal infections in immunocompromised patients with focus on aspergillosis and its causative agents].", "content": "[Invasive fungal infections in immunocompromised patients with focus on aspergillosis and its causative agents]. Invasive fungal diseases (IFD) are a life-threatening infectious complications in immunocompromised patients and are associated with high rate of morbidity and mortality. The most common invasive mycosis in patients who underwent an allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation is invasive aspergilosis (IA), most frequently caused by the clinically dominant species Aspergillus fumigatus and, rarely, also by Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus terreus and Aspergillus niger. In recent years, other related Aspergillus species were also reported to cause IFD, phenotypically similar to A. fumigatus and moreover, frequently exhibiting resistance towards various antifungals. For example, it is Aspergillus lentulus, Aspergillus viridinutans, Neosartoya fischeri, etc. Classical microbiological methods such as direct microscopy or culture are usually used for the identification of Aspergillus species. The application of PCR-based molecular techniques and monitoring of secondary metabolites production enable detection and identification of species, which are not distinguishable solely by their morphology. PCR methods are also useful for molecular strain typing of aspergilli and can reveal the genetic diversity of isolates."}
{"id": "23160681", "title": "Detection of invasive fungal pathogens by real-time PCR and high-resolution melting analysis.", "content": "Detection of invasive fungal pathogens by real-time PCR and high-resolution melting analysis. Causative agents most frequently encountered in systemic infections are bacteria, although fungi that cause invasive infections have also emerged, mostly in immune-compromised patients. The early detection and adequate treatment of bloodstream infections are critical for successful treatment. The aim of this study was to develop a rapid and efficient method for the detection and differentiation of the most common fungal pathogens. Real-time Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and consecutive high-resolution melting analysis was used for the detection and differentiation of fungal pathogens. The developed analysis procedure proved appropriate for discrimination of the ten most relevant Candida species, four Aspergillus species, and Cryptococcus neoformans. The sensitivity of the PCR reaction was 5, which is suitable for the detection of these fungi in blood. This technique is not adaptable as a general identification method, but it is highly useful when certain fungal species are to be expected in clinical samples."}
{"id": "23153805", "title": "Molecular phylogeny and phenotypic variability of clinical and environmental strains of Aspergillus flavus.", "content": "Molecular phylogeny and phenotypic variability of clinical and environmental strains of Aspergillus flavus. Aspergillus flavus is the second most common cause of aspergillosis infection in immunocompromised patients and is responsible for the production of aflatoxins. Little is known about the population structure of A. flavus, although recent molecular and phenotypic data seem to demonstrate that different genetic lineages exist within this species. The aim of this study was to carry out a morphological, physiological, and molecular analysis of a set of clinical and environmental isolates to determine whether this variability is due to species divergence or intraspecific diversity, and to assess whether the clinical isolates form a separate group. The amdS and omtA genes were more phylogenetically informative than the other tested genes and their combined analysis inferred three main clades, with no clear distinction between clinical and environmental isolates. No important morphological and physiological differences were found between the members of the different clades, with the exception of the assimilation of d-glucosamine, which differentiates the members of the clade II from the others."}
{"id": "23109474", "title": "Identification of the verruculogen prenyltransferase FtmPT3 by a combination of chemical, bioinformatic and biochemical approaches.", "content": "Identification of the verruculogen prenyltransferase FtmPT3 by a combination of chemical, bioinformatic and biochemical approaches. Previous studies showed that verruculogen is the end product of a biosynthetic gene cluster for fumitremorgin-type alkaloids in Aspergillus fumigatus and Neosartorya fischeri. In this study, we isolated fumitremorgin A from N. fischeri. This led to the identification of the responsible gene, ftmPT3, for O-prenylation of an aliphatic hydroxy group in verruculogen. This gene was found at a different location in the genome of N. fischeri than the identified cluster. The coding sequence of ftmPT3 was amplified by fusion PCR and overexpressed in Escherichia coli. The enzyme product of the soluble His(8)-FtmPT3 with verruculogen and dimethylallyl diphosphate (DMAPP) was identified unequivocally as fumitremorgin A by NMR and MS analyses. K(M) values of FtmPT3 were determined for verruculogen and DMAPP at 5.7 and 61.5 \u03bcM, respectively. Average turnover number (k(cat)) was calculated from kinetic parameters of verruculogen and DMAPP to be 0.069 s(-1). FtmPT3 also accepted biosynthetic precursors of fumitremorgin A, for example, fumitremorgin B and 12,13-dihydroxyfumitremorgin C, as substrates and catalyses their prenylation."}
{"id": "23101390", "title": "Cloning and bioinformatic analysis of an acidophilic beta-mannanase gene, Anman5A, from Aspergillus niger LW-1.", "content": "Cloning and bioinformatic analysis of an acidophilic beta-mannanase gene, Anman5A, from Aspergillus niger LW-1. Using 3' and 5' rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) techniques, the full-length cDNA sequence of the AnmanSA, a gene that encodes an acidophilic beta-mannanase of Aspergillus niger LW-1 (abbreviated to AnMan5A), was identified from the total RNA. The cDNA sequence was 1417 bp in length, harboring 5'- and 3'-untranslated regions, as well as an open reading frame (ORF) which encodes a 21-aa signal peptide, a 17-aa propeptide and a 345-aa mature peptide. Based on the topology of the phylogenetic tree of beta3-mannanases from glycoside hydrolase (GH) family 5, the AnMan5A belongs to the subfamily 7 of the GH family 5. Its 3D structure was modeled by the bitemplate-based method using both MODELLER 9.9 and SALIGN programs, based on the known beta-mannanase crystal structures of Trichoderma reesei (1QNO) and Lycopersicon esculentum (1RH9) from the GH family 5. In addition, the complete DNA sequence of the Anman5A was amplified from the genomic DNA using the pUCm-T vector-mediated PCR and conventional PCR methods. The DNA sequence was 1825 bp in length, containing a 5'-flanking regulatory region, 2 introns and 3 exons when compared with the full-length cDNA."}
{"id": "23095159", "title": "Fungal and microbial volatile organic compounds exposure assessment in a waste sorting plant.", "content": "Fungal and microbial volatile organic compounds exposure assessment in a waste sorting plant. In the management of solid waste, pollutants over a wide range are released with different routes of exposure for workers. The potential for synergism among the pollutants raises concerns about potential adverse health effects, and there are still many uncertainties involved in exposure assessment. In this study, conventional (culture-based) and molecular real-time polymerase chain reaction (RTPCR) methodologies were used to assess fungal air contamination in a waste-sorting plant which focused on the presence of three potential pathogenic/toxigenic fungal species: Aspergillus flavus, A. fumigatus, and Stachybotrys chartarum. In addition, microbial volatile organic compounds (MVOC) were measured by photoionization detection. For all analysis, samplings were performed at five different workstations inside the facilities and also outdoors as a reference. Penicillium sp. were the most common species found at all plant locations. Pathogenic/toxigenic species (A. fumigatus and S. chartarum) were detected at two different workstations by RTPCR but not by culture-based techniques. MVOC concentration indoors ranged between 0 and 8.9 ppm (average 5.3 \u00b1 3.16 ppm). Our results illustrated the advantage of combining both conventional and molecular methodologies in fungal exposure assessment. Together with MVOC analyses in indoor air, data obtained allow for a more precise evaluation of potential health risks associated with bioaerosol exposure. Consequently, with this knowledge, strategies may be developed for effective protection of the workers."}
{"id": "23078837", "title": "Aspergillus nidulans galactofuranose biosynthesis affects antifungal drug sensitivity.", "content": "Aspergillus nidulans galactofuranose biosynthesis affects antifungal drug sensitivity. The cell wall is essential for fungal survival in natural environments. Many fungal wall carbohydrates are absent from humans, so they are a promising source of antifungal drug targets. Galactofuranose (Galf) is a sugar that decorates certain carbohydrates and lipids. It comprises about 5% of the Aspergillus fumigatus cell wall, and may play a role in systemic aspergillosis. We are studying Aspergillus wall formation in the tractable model system, A. nidulans. Previously we showed single-gene deletions of three sequential A. nidulans Galf biosynthesis proteins each caused similar hyphal morphogenesis defects and 500-fold reduced colony growth and sporulation. Here, we generated ugeA, ugmA and ugtA strains controlled by the alcA(p) or niiA(p) regulatable promoters. For repression and expression, alcA(p)-regulated strains were grown on complete medium with glucose or threonine, whereas niiA(p)-regulated strains were grown on minimal medium with ammonium or nitrate. Expression was assessed by qPCR and colony phenotype. The alcA(p) and niiA(p) strains produced similar effects: colonies resembling wild type for gene expression, and resembling deletion strains for gene repression. Galf immunolocalization using the L10 monoclonal antibody showed that ugmA deletion and repression phenotypes correlated with loss of hyphal wall Galf. None of the gene manipulations affected itraconazole sensitivity, as expected. Deletion of any of ugmA, ugeA, ugtA, their repression by alcA(p) or niiA(p), OR, ugmA overexpression by alcA(p), increased sensitivity to Caspofungin. Strains with alcA(p)-mediated overexpression of ugeA and ugtA had lower caspofungin sensitivity. Galf appears to play an important role in A. nidulans growth and vigor."}
{"id": "23077786", "title": "Efficiency of phosphorus utilization in phyA-expressing cotton lines.", "content": "Efficiency of phosphorus utilization in phyA-expressing cotton lines. To evaluate and characterize the stability of traits conferred by phyA from Aspergillus ficuum, we examined expression of phyA in sexually-derived transgenic cotton progeny and assessed the capacity for phytate-utilization in T4 progeny. The gene (phyA) was expressed only in the roots, but not in the stem and leaf tissues. Phytase activity was 2.38-fold higher in transgenic line L2 than in wild-type (WT) plants. The amount of phosphorus in the leaves was also significantly higher in transgenic lines L2, L6 and L9. Among those lines, L2 performed best, showing increase in phosphorus contents of 10.67% (seedling stage), 8.78% (squaring), 11.77% (flowering) and 11.59% (boll-opening). The level of available phosphorus in the rhizosphere was 19% higher in soil containing transgenic plants compared with the WT. When both transgenic and WT were grown in the same type of soil, the number of bacteria, fungi and actinomycetes was not obviously different. These results indicated that although the T4 generation enhanced the utilization of phytate phosphorus, it had no influence on the number of soil microorganisms. Our findings also demonstrated that phytase-expression lines could be used for developing new varieties of cotton having improved phosphorus uptake from the soil."}
{"id": "23073111", "title": "Degradation kinetics of chlorpyrifos and 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCP) by fungal communities.", "content": "Degradation kinetics of chlorpyrifos and 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol (TCP) by fungal communities. Fungal isolates obtained from soil were used for degrading chlorpyrifos (CP) and TCP. The percentage degradation ranged from 69.4 to 89.8 for CP and 62.2 to 92.6 for TCP after one week. The values of K(s) and V(max) were different for different isolates. The K(s) ranged from 66.66 to 169.5mg/L and V(max) from 6.56 to 40.4 mg/L/d for CP and from 53.19 to 163.9 mg/L and 3.41 to 40.40 mg/L/d, respectively, for TCP. Fungal community showed high affinity for both CP and TCP. The genetic relatedness of isolate F1 to Aspergillus sp., F2 and F3 to Penicillium sp., F4 to Eurotium sp. and F5 to Emericella sp. were confirmed. The degradation potential was in the order: F1>F2=F3>F4>F5."}
{"id": "23065615", "title": "Fast and easy method for construction of plasmid vectors using modified quick-change mutagenesis.", "content": "Fast and easy method for construction of plasmid vectors using modified quick-change mutagenesis. Plasmid vector construction is an essential step for molecular microbiology yet often a time-consuming process. Manipulation of the fungal genome to express genes to activate secondary metabolite production often requires creation of plasmid constructs in a reiterative fashion. Here we introduce a modified Quick-change site-directed mutagenesis method that allows for rapid and accurate construction of fungal transformation vectors."}
{"id": "23065614", "title": "Tools for manipulation of secondary metabolism pathways: rapid promoter replacements and gene deletions in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Tools for manipulation of secondary metabolism pathways: rapid promoter replacements and gene deletions in Aspergillus nidulans. Targeted gene deletions and promoter replacements are proving to be a valuable tool for awakening and analyzing silent secondary metabolism gene clusters in Aspergillus nidulans and, as molecular genetic methods for manipulating the genomes of other fungi are developed, they will likely be as valuable in those organisms. Here we describe procedures for constructing DNA fragments by PCR that can be used to replace genes or promoters quickly and on a large scale. We also describe transformation procedures for A. nidulans that allow these fragments to be introduced into target strains efficiently such that many genes or promoters can be replaced in a single experiment."}
{"id": "23043829", "title": "Method for identifying heat-resistant fungi of the genus Neosartorya.", "content": "Method for identifying heat-resistant fungi of the genus Neosartorya. Species of the genus Neosartorya are heat-resistant fungi that cause the spoilage of heat-processed acidic foods due to the formation of heat-resistant ascospores, and they produce mycotoxins, such as fumitremorgins and gliotoxin. Their anamorphs are phylogenetically and morphologically very close to Aspergillus fumigatus, which has never been reported as a spoilage agent in heat-processed food products. Therefore it is important to discriminate between the species of Neosartorya and A. fumigatus in the food industry. In the present study, we examined \u03b2-tubulin and calmodulin genes to identify Neosartorya and A. fumigatus at the species level and found a region for specifically detecting these species. We succeeded in developing the PCR method of differentiating and identifying Neosartorya and A. fumigatus using specific primer sets. Moreover, we developed specific primer sets to identify Neosartorya species, N. fischeri, N. glabra, N. hiratsukae, N. pseudofischeri, and N. spinosa-complex, which are important in food spoilage; these fungi vary in heat resistance and productivity of mycotoxins, depending on the species. PCR using these primer sets did not detect other fungi involved in food spoilage and environmental contamination. These identification methods are rapid and simple with extremely high specificity."}
{"id": "23031334", "title": "Aspergillus-PCR in bronchoalveolar lavage for detection of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in immunocompromised patients.", "content": "Aspergillus-PCR in bronchoalveolar lavage for detection of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in immunocompromised patients. Invasive fungal disease (IFD) is a frequent and serious infectious complication in immunocompromised patients. Culture and cytology in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) have a high specificity but low sensitivity for the diagnosis of IFD as assessed by histology. Molecular methods are expected to allow a rapid diagnosis of IFD with a high sensitivity. We evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of conventional nested PCR in the bronchoalveolar fluid to diagnose IFD in severely immunocompromised patients. Consecutive immunosuppressed patients undergoing bronchoscopy for suspected pulmonary infection in a tertiary care hospital were included. Patients were classified as having \"proven\", \"probable\", \"possible\", and \"no\" IFD based on definitions of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer and National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases (EORTC/NIAID) and on clinical grounds. Conventional nested PCR for aspergillus fumigatus, flavus, niger, glaucus, terreus and tomarrii were applied to 2.5 ml bronchoalveolar fluid. A total of 191 patients were included. Mean age was 51 y, 61% were male. There were 129 patients with hematological conditions, 26 solid organ transplant recipients, 24 auto-immune disorders, and 12 HIV. According to the EORTC/NIAID classification, there were 53 patients with potential IFD: 3 (2%) had proven, 8 (4%) probable, 42 (22%) possible and 138 (72%) no IFD. A total of 111 (58%) of the patients - 10 (90.9%) proven or probable IFD, 32 (76.2%) possible IFD and 69 (50%) \"no\" IFD) were on anti-fungal therapy at the time of bronchoscopy. Conventional nested PCR for Aspergillus was positive in 55 cases (28.8%). According to these results, sensitivity, specificity, PPV and NPV for \"proven\" IFD was 0%, 71%, 0%, 98%, respectively and \"probable\" IFD was 36%, 72%, 7%, 95%, respectively. In 53 (28%) cases there was a strong clinical suspicion of IFD in the chest-x-ray and/or chest-CT irrespective of the EORTC/NIAID classification. However, from those, only 15 (28%) had a positive conventional nested PCR. In our experience, conventional nested Aspergillus PCR in the BAL seems to be of limited usefulness for detection of invasive fungal disease in immunocompromised patients due to the limited sensitivity and specificity of the method."}
{"id": "23028503", "title": "Simple and highly discriminatory VNTR-based multiplex PCR for tracing sources of Aspergillus flavus isolates.", "content": "Simple and highly discriminatory VNTR-based multiplex PCR for tracing sources of Aspergillus flavus isolates. Aspergillus flavus is second only to A. fumigatus in causing invasive aspergillosis and it is the major agent responsible for fungal sinusitis, keratitis and endophthalmitis in many countries in the Middle East, Africa and Southeast Asia. Despite the growing challenge due to A. flavus, data on the molecular epidemiology of this fungus remain scarce. The objective of the present study was to develop a new typing method based on the detection of VNTR (Variable number tandem repeat) markers. Eight VNTR markers located on 6 different chromosomes (1, 2, 3, 5, 7 and 8) of A. flavus were selected, combined by pairs for multiplex amplifications and tested on 30 unrelated isolates and six reference strains. The Simpson index for individual markers ranged from 0.398 to 0.818. A combined loci index calculated with all the markers yielded an index of 0.998. The MLVA (Multiple Locus VNTR Analysis) technique proved to be specific and reproducible. In a second time, a total of 55 isolates from Chinese avian farms and from a Tunisian hospital have been evaluated. One major cluster of genotypes could be defined by using the graphing algorithm termed Minimum Spanning Tree. This cluster comprised most of the isolates collected in an avian farm in southern China. The MLVA technique should be considered as an excellent and cost-effective typing method that could be used in many laboratories without the need for sophisticated equipment."}
{"id": "22971327", "title": "Azole-resistant invasive aspergillosis in a patient with acute myeloid leukaemia in Germany.", "content": "Azole-resistant invasive aspergillosis in a patient with acute myeloid leukaemia in Germany. We report the first culture-proven case of invasive aspergillosis (IA) caused by azole-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus in a patient with acute myeloid leukaemia in Germany. IA presented as breakthrough infection under posaconazole prophylaxis. Analysis of the resistance mechanism revealed the TR/L98H mutation in the cyp51A gene, which indicates an environmental origin of the strain. This case underscores the need for monitoring azole resistance in Aspergillus spp. and for routine susceptibility testing of moulds."}
{"id": "22964252", "title": "Chitin synthases with a myosin motor-like domain control the resistance of Aspergillus fumigatus to echinocandins.", "content": "Chitin synthases with a myosin motor-like domain control the resistance of Aspergillus fumigatus to echinocandins. Aspergillus fumigatus has two chitin synthases (CSMA and CSMB) with a myosin motor-like domain (MMD) arranged in a head-to-head configuration. To understand the function of these chitin synthases, single and double csm mutant strains were constructed and analyzed. Although there was a slight reduction in mycelial growth of the mutants, the total chitin synthase activity and the cell wall chitin content were similar in the mycelium of all of the mutants and the parental strain. In the conidia, chitin content in the \u0394csmA strain cell wall was less than half the amount found in the parental strain. In contrast, the \u0394csmB mutant strain and, unexpectedly, the \u0394csmA/\u0394csmB mutant strain did not show any modification of chitin content in their conidial cell walls. In contrast to the hydrophobic conidia of the parental strain, conidia of all of the csm mutants were hydrophilic due to the presence of an amorphous material covering the hydrophobic surface-rodlet layer. The deletion of CSM genes also resulted in an increased susceptibility of resting and germinating conidia to echinocandins. These results show that the deletion of the CSMA and CSMB genes induced a significant disorganization of the cell wall structure, even though they contribute only weakly to the overall cell wall chitin synthesis."}
{"id": "22952943", "title": "Ambient pH controls glycogen levels by regulating glycogen synthase gene expression in Neurospora crassa. New insights into the pH signaling pathway.", "content": "Ambient pH controls glycogen levels by regulating glycogen synthase gene expression in Neurospora crassa. New insights into the pH signaling pathway. Glycogen is a polysaccharide widely distributed in microorganisms and animal cells and its metabolism is under intricate regulation. Its accumulation in a specific situation results from the balance between glycogen synthase and glycogen phosphorylase activities that control synthesis and degradation, respectively. These enzymes are highly regulated at transcriptional and post-translational levels. The existence of a DNA motif for the Aspergillus nidulans pH responsive transcription factor PacC in the promoter of the gene encoding glycogen synthase (gsn) in Neurospora crassa prompted us to investigate whether this transcription factor regulates glycogen accumulation. Transcription factors such as PacC in A. nidulans and Rim101p in Saccharomyces cerevisiae play a role in the signaling pathway that mediates adaptation to ambient pH by inducing the expression of alkaline genes and repressing acidic genes. We showed here that at pH 7.8 pacC was over-expressed and gsn was down-regulated in wild-type N. crassa coinciding with low glycogen accumulation. In the pacC(KO) strain the glycogen levels and gsn expression at alkaline pH were, respectively, similar to and higher than the wild-type strain at normal pH (5.8). These results characterize gsn as an acidic gene and suggest a regulatory role for PACC in gsn expression. The truncated recombinant protein, containing the DNA-binding domain specifically bound to a gsn DNA fragment containing the PacC motif. DNA-protein complexes were observed with extracts from cells grown at normal and alkaline pH and confirmed by ChIP-PCR analysis. The PACC present in these extracts showed equal molecular mass, indicating that the protein is already processed at normal pH, in contrast to A. nidulans. Together, these results show that the pH signaling pathway controls glycogen accumulation by regulating gsn expression and suggest the existence of a different mechanism for PACC activation in N. crassa."}
{"id": "22952268", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of PCR alone compared to galactomannan in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid for diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis: a systematic review.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of PCR alone compared to galactomannan in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid for diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis: a systematic review. PCR in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid has not been accepted as a diagnostic criterion for invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA). We conducted a systematic review assessing the diagnostic accuracy of PCR in BAL fluid with a direct comparison versus galactomannan (GM) in BAL fluid. We included prospective and retrospective cohort and case-control studies. Studies were included if they used the EORTC/MSG consensus definition criteria of IPA and assessed \u226580% of patients at risk for IPA. Two reviewers abstracted data independently. Risk of bias was assessed using QUADAS-2. Summary sensitivity and specificity values were estimated using a bivariate model and reported with a 95% confidence interval (CI). Nineteen studies published between 1993 and 2012 were included. The summary sensitivity and specificity values (CIs) for diagnosis of proven or probable IPA were 90.2% (77.2 to 96.1%) and 96.4% (93.3 to 98.1%), respectively. In nine cohort studies strictly adherent to the 2002 or 2008 EORTC/MSG criteria for reference standard definitions, the summary sensitivity and specificity values (CIs) were 77.2% (62 to 87.6%) and 93.5% (90.6 to 95.6%), respectively. Antifungal treatment before bronchoscopy significantly reduced sensitivity. The diagnostic performance of PCR was similar to that of GM in BAL fluid using an optical density index cutoff of 0.5. If either PCR or GM in BAL fluid defined a positive result, the pooled sensitivity was higher than that of GM alone, with similar specificity. We conclude that the diagnostic performance of PCR in BAL fluid is good and comparable to that of GM in BAL fluid. Performing both tests results in optimal sensitivity with no loss of specificity. Results are dependent on the reference standard definitions."}
{"id": "22919314", "title": "FAD2-DGAT2 genes coexpressed in endophytic Aspergillus fumigatus derived from tung oilseeds.", "content": "FAD2-DGAT2 genes coexpressed in endophytic Aspergillus fumigatus derived from tung oilseeds. Recent efforts to genetically engineer plants that contain fatty acid desaturases to produce valuable fatty acids have made only modest progress. Diacylglycerol acyltransferase 2 (DGAT2), which catalyzes the final step in triacylglycerol (TAG) assembly, might potentially regulate the biosynthesis of desired fatty acids in TAGs. To study the effects of tung tree (Vernicia fordii) vfDGAT2 in channeling the desired fatty acids into TAG, vfDGAT2 combined with the tung tree fatty acid desaturase-2 (vfFAD2) gene was co-introduced into Aspergillus fumigatus, an endophytic fungus isolated from healthy tung oilseed. Two transformants coexpressing vfFAD2 and vfDGAT2 showed a more than 6-fold increase in linoleic acid production compared to the original A. fumigatus strain, while a nearly 2-fold increase was found in the transformant expressing only vfFAD2. Our data suggest that vfDGAT2 plays a pivotal role in promoting linoleic acid accumulation in TAGs. This holds great promise for further genetic engineering aimed at producing valuable fatty acids."}
{"id": "22906850", "title": "Effect of DMI-resistance mechanisms on cross-resistance patterns, fitness parameters and aflatoxin production in Aspergillus parasiticus Speare.", "content": "Effect of DMI-resistance mechanisms on cross-resistance patterns, fitness parameters and aflatoxin production in Aspergillus parasiticus Speare. Aspergillus parasiticus mutant strains resistant to DMIs were isolated in a high mutation frequency after UV-mutagenesis and selection on media containing flusilazole. Two different resistant phenotypes, R(1) and R(2), on the basis of their aflatoxigenic ability were identified. All R(1) mutant strains produced aflatoxins at concentrations significantly higher (up to 3-fold) than the wild-type parent strain on yeast extract sucrose medium, whereas the majority of mutant strains (R(2) phenotype) lost their aflatoxigenic ability. Real-time PCR analysis of the expression levels of the aflR gene, a pathway transcriptional regulatory gene in aflatoxin biosynthesis, showed that this gene was not expressed in R(2) mutant strains tested. Study of fitness determining parameters showed that most flusilazole-resistant mutant strains had mycelial growth rate, sporulation and spore germination lower that the sensitive one. Cross-resistance studies with other fungicides showed that all R(1) mutant strains were also resistant to the DMIs imazalil and tebuconazole, but retained their parental sensitivity to fungicides affecting other metabolic pathways and/or cellular processes. Contrary to the above, all R(2) mutant strains exhibited a low to moderate multi-drug resistance to DMIs and to several other fungicide classes. Two different homologous genes, cyp51A and cyp51B, encoding C-14 alpha sterol demethylase (Cyp51) and an mdr gene encoding an ATP-binding cassette protein which may be involved in multidrug resistance were cloned and characterized. Sequence comparison of cyp51A gene revealed an amino acid substitution from glycine (GGG) to tryptophan (TGG) at position 54 (G54W) in two out of three of R(1) mutant strains. Analysis of deduced amino acid sequence of cyp51B showed that no mutations were associated with DMI resistance. Study for the transcriptional levels of cyp51A showed that this gene was over-expressed in the third aflatoxigenic mutant strain. Neither amino acid substitutions nor an overexpression of the cyp51A gene were found in the R(2) mutant strains tested. Real-time PCR analysis showed high levels (up to 25-fold higher) of the mdr transcript in all R(2) mutant strains tested. This is the first report describing the existence of two cyp51 genes and a potential mdr gene coding for an ATP binding cassette protein in A. parasiticus. These results also indicate that multiple biochemical mechanisms, including target-site modification due to mutation at cyp51A gene, overexpression of cyp51A gene and the function of an ABC transporter protein, are responsible for DMI-resistance in A. parasiticus. Our findings suggest that A. parasiticus have the genetic and biochemical potential for the appearance of highly aflatoxigenic DMI-resistant isolates in the field."}
{"id": "22906186", "title": "Identifying and characterizing the most significant \u03b2-glucosidase of the novel species Aspergillus saccharolyticus.", "content": "Identifying and characterizing the most significant \u03b2-glucosidase of the novel species Aspergillus saccharolyticus. The newly discovered fungal species Aspergillus saccharolyticus was found to produce a culture broth rich in \u03b2-glucosidase activity. In this present work, the main \u03b2-glucosidase of A.\u00a0saccharolyticus responsible for the efficient hydrolytic activity was identified, isolated, and characterized. Ion exchange chromatography was used to fractionate the culture broth, yielding fractions with high \u03b2-glucosidase activity and only 1 visible band on an SDS-PAGE gel. Mass spectrometry analysis of this band gave peptide matches to \u03b2-glucosidases from aspergilli. Through a polymerase chain reaction approach using degenerate primers and genome walking, a 2919 bp sequence encoding the 860 amino acid BGL1 polypeptide was determined. BGL1 of A.\u00a0saccharolyticus has 91% and 82% identity with BGL1 from Aspergillus aculeatus and BGL1 from Aspergillus niger , respectively, both belonging to Glycoside Hydrolase family 3. Homology modeling studies suggested \u03b2-glucosidase activity with preserved retaining mechanism and a wider catalytic pocket compared with other \u03b2-glucosidases. The bgl1 gene was heterologously expressed in Trichoderma reesei QM6a, purified, and characterized by enzyme kinetics studies. The enzyme can hydrolyze cellobiose, p-nitrophenyl-\u03b2-d-glucoside, and cellodextrins. The enzyme showed good thermostability, was stable at 50\u00a0\u00b0C, and at 60\u00a0\u00b0C it had a half-life of approximately 6\u00a0h."}
{"id": "22905261", "title": "Systematic review and meta-analysis of detecting galactomannan in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Systematic review and meta-analysis of detecting galactomannan in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) galactomannan (GM) assay has been used for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis (IA). We aimed to derive a definitive estimate of the overall accuracy of BAL-GM for diagnosing IA. We undertook a systematic review of thirty diagnostic studies that evaluated the BAL-GM assay for diagnosing IA. PubMed and CBM (China Biological Medicine Database) databases were searched for relevant studies published in all languages up until Feb 2012. The pooled diagnostic odds ratio (DOR) and summary receiver operating characteristic (SROC) were constructed for each cutoff value. Additionally, pooled sensitivity (SEN), specificity (SPE), and positive and negative likelihood ratios (PLR and NLR, respectively) were calculated for summarizing overall test performance. Thirty studies were included in this meta-analysis. The summary estimates of pooled DOR, SEN, SPE, PLR, and NLR of the BAL-GM assay (cutoff value 0.5) for proven or probable IA were 52.7 (95% confidence interval (CI) 31.8-87.3), 0.87 (95% CI 0.79-0.92), 0.89 (95% CI 0.85-0.92), 8.0 (95% CI 5.7-11.1) and 0.15 (95% CI 0.10-0.23) respectively. The SROC was 0.94 (95% CI 0.92-0.96). Compared with cutoff value of 0.5, it has higher DOR, SPE and PLR, and similar SEN and NLR with cutoff value of 1.0, which indicated the optimal cutoff value might be 1.0. Compared with BAL-GM, serum GM has a lower SEN and higher SPE, while PCR displays a lower SEN and a similar SPE. With the optimal cutoff value of 1.0, the BAL-GM assay has higher SEN compared to PCR and serum GM test. It is a useful adjunct in the diagnosis of proven and probable IA."}
{"id": "22904183", "title": "The effect of Aspergillus fumigatus infection on vitamin D receptor expression in cystic fibrosis.", "content": "The effect of Aspergillus fumigatus infection on vitamin D receptor expression in cystic fibrosis. Aspergillus fumigatus (A. fumigatus) in cystic fibrosis (CF) is increasingly recognized. Although allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) leads to deterioration of pulmonary function, the effect of A. fumigatus colonization in the absence of ABPA remains unclear. To address this, we examined individuals with CF with A. fumigatus who were ABPA negative to identify the effects of itraconazole therapy on Aspergillus-induced lung inflammation. The effect of A. fumigatus on nuclear vitamin D receptor (VDR) expression was investigated using qRT-PCR and Western blotting. IL-5 and IL-13 levels were quantified by ELISA. The effect of itraconazole was assessed by a combination of high-resolution computed tomography, lung function test, and microbiological analysis. We demonstrate that A. fumigatus down-regulates VDR in macrophages and airway epithelial cells and that the fungal metabolite gliotoxin (Gt) is the main causative agent. Gt overcame the positive effect of 1,25-OH vitamin D(3) on VDR expression in vitro, resulting in increased IL-5 and IL-13 production. In vivo, A. fumigatus positivity was associated with increased Gt in CF bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and increased bronchoalveolar lavage fluid levels of IL-5 and IL-13. After airway eradication of A. fumigatus with itraconazole, we observed decreased Gt, IL-5 and IL-13, improved respiratory symptoms, and diminished high-resolution computed tomography mosaic pattern consistent with sustained pulmonary function. This study provides a rationale for the therapeutic effect of itraconazole and implied that the therapeutic potential of vitamin D supplementation in preventing ABPA is only feasible with concurrent elimination of A. fumigatus to permit VDR expression and its positive functional consequences."}
{"id": "22901231", "title": "Phase II study on voriconazole for treatment of Chinese patients with malignant hematological disorders and invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Phase II study on voriconazole for treatment of Chinese patients with malignant hematological disorders and invasive aspergillosis. To investigate the efficacy and safety of voriconazole in treating Chinese patients with hematological malignancies and invasive aspergillosis. From March 2007 to April 2012, patients with diagnoses confirmed by CT, GM test and/or PCR assays, were recruited into this study. Aspergillosis of all patients were treated with voriconazole 6 mg/kg intravenous infusion (iv) every 12 h for 1 day, followed by 4 mg/kg IV every 12 h for 10-15 days; Then, switch to oral administration that was 200 mg every 12 h for 4-12 weeks. Efficacy and safety were evaluated according to Practice Guideline of Infectious Diseases Society of America. The overall response rate of 38 patients after voriconazole treatment was 81.6%. The median time to pyretolysis was 4.5 days. Treatment related side effects were mild and found in only 15.8% of cases. No treatment related deaths occurred. Voriconazole can considered to be a safe and effective front-line therapy to treat patients with hematological malignancies and invasive aspergillosis. Alternatively it could be used as a remedial treatment when other antifungal therapies are ineffective."}
{"id": "22863901", "title": "A strategy based on galactomannan antigen detection and PCR for invasive pulmonary aspergillosis following influenza A (H1N1) pneumonia.", "content": "A strategy based on galactomannan antigen detection and PCR for invasive pulmonary aspergillosis following influenza A (H1N1) pneumonia."}
{"id": "22862919", "title": "Isolation and functional characterization of Sporothrix schenckii ROT2, the encoding gene for the endoplasmic reticulum glucosidase II.", "content": "Isolation and functional characterization of Sporothrix schenckii ROT2, the encoding gene for the endoplasmic reticulum glucosidase II. The N-linked glycosylation is a ubiquitous protein modification in eukaryotic cells. During the N-linked glycan synthesis, the precursor Glc(3)Man(9)GlcNAc(2) is processed by endoplasmic reticulum (ER) glucosidases I, II and \u03b11,2-mannosidase, before transporting to the Golgi complex for further structure modifications. In fungi of medical relevance, as Candida albicans and Aspergillus, it is well known that ER glycosidases are important for cell fitness, cell wall organization, virulence, and interaction with the immune system. Despite this, little is known about these enzymes in Sporothrix schenckii, the causative agent of human sporotrichosis. This limited knowledge is due in part to the lack of a genome sequence of this organism. In this work we used degenerate primers and inverse PCR approaches to isolate the open reading frame of S. schenckii ROT2, the encoding gene for \u03b1 subunit of ER glucosidase II. This S. schenckii gene complemented a Saccharomyces cerevisiae rot2\u0394 mutant; however, when expressed in a C. albicans rot2\u0394 mutant, S. schenckii Rot2 partially increased the levels of \u03b1-glucosidase activity, but failed to restore the N-linked glycosylation defect associated to the mutation. To our knowledge, this is the first report where a gene involved in protein N-linked glycosylation is isolated from S. schenckii."}
{"id": "22843562", "title": "Analysis of promoter function in Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Analysis of promoter function in Aspergillus fumigatus. The filamentous fungus Aspergillus fumigatus is an important opportunistic pathogen that can cause high mortality levels in susceptible patient populations. The increasing dependence on antifungal drugs to control A. fumigatus has led to the inevitable acquisition of drug-resistant forms of this pathogen. In other fungal pathogens, drug resistance is often associated with an increase in transcription of genes such as ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters that directly lead to tolerance to commonly employed antifungal drugs. In A. fumigatus, tolerance to azole drugs (the major class of antifungal) is often associated with changes in the sequence of the azole target enzyme as well as changes in the transcription level of this gene. The target gene for azole drugs in A. fumigatus is referred to as cyp51A. In order to dissect transcription of cyp51A transcription and other genes of interest, we constructed a set of firefly luciferase reporter genes designed for use in A. fumigatus. These reporter genes can either replicate autonomously or be targeted to the pyrG locus, generating an easily assayable uracil auxotrophy. We fused eight different A. fumigatus promoters to luciferase. Faithful behaviors of these reporter gene fusions compared to their chromosomal equivalents were evaluated by 5' rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) and quantitative reverse transcription-PCR (qRT-PCR) analysis. We used this reporter gene system to study stress-regulated transcription of a Hsp70-encoding gene, map an important promoter element in the cyp51A gene, and correct an annotation error in the actin gene. We anticipate that this luciferase reporter gene system will be broadly applicable in analyses of gene expression in A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "22838495", "title": "Diversity and specificity of microsatellites within Aspergillus section Fumigati.", "content": "Diversity and specificity of microsatellites within Aspergillus section Fumigati. Microsatellites (or short tandem repeats, STRs) are the genetic markers of choice for studying Aspergillus fumigatus molecular epidemiology due to its reproducibility and high discrimination power. However, the specificity of these markers must be investigated in a group of isolates from closely related species. The aim of this work was to test a microsatellite-based PCR multiplex previously designed for A. fumigatus in a set of species belonging to section Fumigati, namely Aspergillus fumigatiaffinis, Aspergillus lentulus, Aspergillus novofumigatus, Aspergillus unilateralis, Aspergillus viridinutans, Neosartorya fischeri, Neosartorya hiratsukae, Neosartorya pseudofischeri and Neosartorya udagawae. The reference A. fumigatus strain ATCC 46645 was easily genotyped in standard conditions showing a final electrophoretic profile of 8 expected peaks corresponding to each microsatellite locus. Inversely, no peaks were observed for all other species from section Fumigati, with an exception for marker MC6b in A. unilateralis. By screening the genome sequence of Neosartorya fischeri NRRL 181, the results showed that MC3, MC6a and MC7 might be employed for N. fischeri genotyping since these markers present several repeats of each motif. The accumulation of insertions and deletions was frequently observed in the genomic regions surrounding the microsatellites, including those where the A. fumigatus primers are located. The amplification of microsatellite markers in less stringent amplification conditions resulted in a distinct electrophoretic profile for species within section Fumigati. Therefore, the microsatellite-based PCR multiplex allow simple identification of A. fumigatus and, with a slight modification of temperature conditions, it also allows discriminating other pathogenic species within section Fumigati, particularly A. fumigatiaffinis, N. fischeri and N. udagawae."}
{"id": "22837320", "title": "Rapid detection and identification of Aspergillus from lower respiratory tract specimens by use of a combined probe-high-resolution melting analysis.", "content": "Rapid detection and identification of Aspergillus from lower respiratory tract specimens by use of a combined probe-high-resolution melting analysis. Diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) requires increasingly rapid molecular methods that enable sensitive detection and discrimination between species. We designed and evaluated a real-time PCR-based method that combined melting temperature (T(m)) calling analysis of a specific probe with high-resolution melting analysis of the full amplicon. The test correctly identified 78 isolates of Aspergillus section Fumigati and non-Fumigati sections of Aspergillus with a limit of detection of 10(2) conidia/ml (10(2) fg/ml). No cross-reactivity with other fungi was found. The assay was further validated on lower respiratory tract specimens containing Aspergillus or not. It successfully identified Aspergillus to section level in 56 of 59 specimens. With culture as the gold standard, our assay shows 100% sensitivity and specificity and constitutes an efficient alternative for identification of Aspergillus in lower respiratory tract samples."}
{"id": "22808087", "title": "A MIQE-compliant real-time PCR assay for Aspergillus detection.", "content": "A MIQE-compliant real-time PCR assay for Aspergillus detection. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is widely used as a diagnostic tool in clinical laboratories and is particularly effective for detecting and identifying infectious agents for which routine culture and microscopy methods are inadequate. Invasive fungal disease (IFD) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in immunosuppressed patients, and optimal diagnostic criteria are contentious. Although PCR-based methods have long been used for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA), variable performance in clinical practice has limited their value. This shortcoming is a consequence of differing sample selection, collection and preparation protocols coupled with a lack of standardisation of the PCR itself. Furthermore, it has become clear that the performance of PCR-based assays in general is compromised by the inadequacy of experimental controls, insufficient optimisation of assay performance as well as lack of transparency in reporting experimental details. The recently published \"Minimum Information for the publication of real-time Quantitative PCR Experiments\" (MIQE) guidelines provide a blueprint for good PCR assay design and unambiguous reporting of experimental detail and results. We report the first real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) assay targeting Aspergillus species that has been designed, optimised and validated in strict compliance with the MIQE guidelines. The hydrolysis probe-based assay, designed to target the 18S rRNA DNA sequence of Aspergillus species, has an efficiency of 100% (range 95-107%), a dynamic range of at least six orders of magnitude and limits of quantification and detection of 6 and 0.6 Aspergillus fumigatus genomes, respectively. It does not amplify Candida, Scedosporium, Fusarium or Rhizopus species and its clinical sensitivity is demonstrated in histological material from proven IA cases, as well as concordant PCR and galactomannan data in matched broncho-alveolar lavage and blood samples. The robustness, specificity and sensitivity of this assay make it an ideal molecular diagnostic tool for clinical use."}
{"id": "22805966", "title": "Molecular analysis of Aspergillus section Flavi isolated from Brazil nuts.", "content": "Molecular analysis of Aspergillus section Flavi isolated from Brazil nuts. Brazil nuts are an important export market in its main producing countries, including Brazil, Bolivia, and Peru. Approximately 30,000 tons of Brazil nuts are harvested each year. However, substantial nut contamination by Aspergillus section Flavi occurs with subsequent production of aflatoxins. In our study, Aspergillus section Flavi were isolated from Brazil nuts (Bertholletia excelsa), and identified by morphological and molecular means. We obtained 241 isolates from nut samples, 41% positive for aflatoxin production. Eighty-one isolates were selected for molecular investigation. Pairwise genetic distances among isolates and phylogenetic relationships were assessed. The following Aspergillus species were identified: A. flavus, A. caelatus, A. nomius, A. tamarii, A. bombycis, and A. arachidicola. Additionally, molecular profiles indicated a high level of nucleotide variation within \u03b2-tubulin and calmodulin gene sequences associated with high genetic divergence from RAPD data. Among the 81 isolates analyzed by molecular means, three of them were phylogenetically distinct from all other isolates representing the six species of section Flavi. A putative novel species was identified based on molecular profiles."}
{"id": "22782265", "title": "Cloning and expression of the Aspergillus oryzae glucan 1,3-beta-glucosidase A (exgA) in Pichia pastoris.", "content": "Cloning and expression of the Aspergillus oryzae glucan 1,3-beta-glucosidase A (exgA) in Pichia pastoris. The glucan 1,3-beta-glucosidase A gene (exgA) from Aspergillus oryzae and fused to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae signal peptide (\u03b1-factor) was expressed under the control of either a constitutive (GAP) or an inducible (AOX1) promoter in Pichia pastoris. A 1.4-fold higher extracellular enzyme activity (2 U/ml) was obtained using the AOX1 inducible expression system than with the GAP constitutive promoter (1.4 U/ml). The purified recombinant ExgA enzyme, with a yield of 10 mg protein/l culture supernatant, was about 40 kDa by SDS-PAGE analysis with a specific activity of 289 U/mg protein. The enzyme was optimally active at 35 \u00b0C and pH 5.0 and displayed a K(M) and V(max) of 0.56 mM and 10,042 \u03bcmol/(min mg protein), respectively, with p-nitrophenyl-\u03b2-D-glucopyranoside as the substrate. Moreover, it was tolerant to glucose inhibition with a K(i) of 365 mM."}
{"id": "22781455", "title": "[Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction for the diagnosis of invasive fungal disease].", "content": "[Quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction for the diagnosis of invasive fungal disease]. To establish the diagnostic assays of quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for the diagnosis of invasive fungal disease and evaluate their accuracy in clinical samples. Three assays have been developed for the diagnosis of clinically prevalent fungi, Aspergillus spp. and Candida spp.. Their analytical sensitivity and specificity were evaluated. Twenty-one serum samples from invasive fungal disease patients and non-invasive fungal disease patients were analyzed by the diagnostic assays and the accuracy was evaluated. Three assays were managed to run at the same condition. The universal fungi assay was able to detect, but not differentiate between most of the pathogenic fungi, including A. fumigatus, A. flavus, A. niger, C. albicans, C. parapsilosis, C. tropicalis, C.kruseii, C.glabrata, Cryptococcus neoformans, Rhizomucor variabilis, Rhizopus arrhizus and Penicillosis marneffei. The assays of Aspergillus spp. and Candida spp. were able to detect, but not differentiate between A. fumigatus, A. flavus, A. niger and C. albicans, C. parapsilosis, C. tropicalis. The detection limits of assays were 4 pg of A. fumigatus gDNA, 2 copies of A. fumigatus and 2 copies of C. albicans respectively. The results of quantitative real-time PCR matched well with each other and were identical to the classical procedures in all patients. Among the 11 patients with invasive fungal disease, the pathogens were identified down to a genus level in 2 invasive aspergillosis patients and 2 invasive candidiasis patients. And the other 7 patients could be diagnosed with invasive fungal disease by the universal fungi assay. All the 10 serum samples from non-invasive fungal disease patients were revealed as negative. The universal fungi assay is helpful in screening while the assays of Aspergillus spp. and the Candida spp. may identify the pathogens down to a genus level."}
{"id": "22771862", "title": "Application of a multiplex suspension array for rapid and simultaneous identification of clinically important mold pathogens.", "content": "Application of a multiplex suspension array for rapid and simultaneous identification of clinically important mold pathogens. We have developed a microsphere-based suspension array (MSA) for the identification of 23 medically important mold pathogens including Aspergillus spp., Fusarium spp., Mucor spp., Rhizopus spp., Rhizomucor pusillus, Penicillium marneffei, Saksenaea vasiformis, Apophysomyces elegans, Lichtheimia corymbifer, and Syncephalastrum racemosum. Twenty-one oligonucleotide probes were designed based on the internal transcribed spacer (ITS2) region for species level identification of molds. Among the 21 probes, 2 probes are shared by more than one species due to low or absence of sequence variability, i.e. Rpam for Rhizopus azygosporus/Rhizopus microsporus and Fumop for Fusarium moniliforme/Fusarium oxysporum/Fusarium pallidoroseum. No cross reactivity was identified except for probes of Mucor racemosus (Murac) which cross react with Mucor hiemalis and Mucor ramosissimus. The sensitivity of MSA is 100 fg-1 ng. The whole procedure including DNA extraction and PCR amplification can be finished within 5 h. The MSA is simple, rapid, specific, high-throughput and capable of multiple-species detection in one reaction tube."}
{"id": "22740590", "title": "Therapy with antifungals decreases the diagnostic performance of PCR for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis in bronchoalveolar lavage samples of patients with haematological malignancies.", "content": "Therapy with antifungals decreases the diagnostic performance of PCR for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis in bronchoalveolar lavage samples of patients with haematological malignancies. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is a life-threatening infection in severely immunocompromised patients, especially those receiving intensive chemotherapy or undergoing haematopoietic stem cell transplantation. As the clinical diagnosis of IA is mostly based on biomarkers (galactomannan, \u03b2-d-glucan, PCR assays) indicating Aspergillus as the underlying pathogen, the effect of antifungal treatment on the performance of these parameters is still controversial. We evaluated the effect of antifungal treatment on the performance of an Aspergillus-specific PCR assay in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples. Two-hundred-and-twenty-six BAL samples from 226 patients with haematological malignancies at high risk for IA classified according to the 2008 European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer criteria were analysed retrospectively for the diagnostic performance of a nested Aspergillus PCR assay in relation to the number and type of mould-active antifungals received prior to BAL sampling. Sensitivity of BAL PCR for patients without antifungal treatment prior to BAL sampling was 0.69, whereas specificity was 0.87. While no significant change in diagnostic performance by the addition of one antifungal was observed, receiving two or more antifungals prior to BAL sampling led to a significant decrease in the diagnostic performance of BAL PCR testing (P\u200a<\u200a0.009). Treatment with mould-active antifungals prior to BAL sampling significantly decreases the performance of the Aspergillus PCR assay in haematological patients if BAL was performed after administration of more than one antifungal agent. Performing BAL sampling for Aspergillus PCR diagnostic despite pre-treatment with one antifungal or while on prophylaxis is feasible."}
{"id": "22731696", "title": "Systemic biomarkers of inflammation and haemostasis in patients with chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis.", "content": "Systemic biomarkers of inflammation and haemostasis in patients with chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis. The purpose of this study was to investigate mediators of inflammation and haemostasis in patients with chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis (CNPA), a locally, destructive process of the lung due to invasion by Aspergillus species. Measurements of selected biomarkers in 10 patients with CNPA and 19 healthy, matched controls were performed with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and multiplex methodology. The gene expressions of relevant biomarkers were analyzed with real-time quantitative RT-PCR. Increased concentrations of circulating mediators of inflammation interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8, RANTES, TNF-\u03b1, ICAM-1 and mediators involved in endothelial activation and thrombosis (vWF, TF and PAI-1) were observed in patients with CNPA. The concentration of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 was increased both in plasma and in PBMC in the patient population. The gene expression of CD40L was decreased in PBMC from the patient group, accompanied by decreased concentrations of soluble (s) CD40L in the circulation. The proinflammatory response against Aspergillus may be counteracted by reduced CD40L and sCD40L, as well as increased IL-10, which may compromise the immune response against Aspergillus in patients with CNPA."}
{"id": "22728589", "title": "[Photo quiz: Deep-seated mycosis].", "content": "[Photo quiz: Deep-seated mycosis]."}
{"id": "22704686", "title": "Validation of hisH4 and cox5 reference genes for RT-qPCR analysis of gene expression in Aspergillus flavus under aflatoxin conducive and non-conducive conditions.", "content": "Validation of hisH4 and cox5 reference genes for RT-qPCR analysis of gene expression in Aspergillus flavus under aflatoxin conducive and non-conducive conditions. Aspergillus flavus is an environmental pathogen that produces highly carcinogenic aflatoxins. Biosynthesis of aflatoxins is affected by external factors such as pH, temperature, carbon source and nitrogen source. Real-Time PCR (RT-qPCR) is a powerful technique used to detect minute changes in gene expression of a target gene in comparison to one or more reference genes. Several candidate genes were analysed to determine their suitability for use as reference genes for analysing gene expression in A. flavus via RT-qPCR under various aflatoxin conducive and non-conducive conditions. BestKeeper analysis indicated that histone H4 (hisH4) and cytochrome C oxidase subunit V (cox5) were suitable reference genes for analysis of gene expression in A. flavus via RT-qPCR. This was further confirmed by REST2009 analysis of hisH4 and cox5 stability. Furthermore, REST2009 was used to predict which gene or gene combination would be the best reference gene/s for RT-qPCR expression analysis under each treatment condition tested in this study."}
{"id": "22699061", "title": "[Establishment of real-time PCR and loop-mediated isothermal amplification for detecting Cryptococcus neoformans CAP10 gene].", "content": "[Establishment of real-time PCR and loop-mediated isothermal amplification for detecting Cryptococcus neoformans CAP10 gene]. To establish real-time PCR and loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) systems for detecting Cryptococcus neoformans CAP10 gene. Specific primers were designed targeting CAP10 gene of Cryptococcus neoformans, and the plasmid was constructed. After optimization of the reaction condition, the plasmid was quantitatively detected using real-time PCR and LAMP, and the detection sensitivity and specificity were evaluated. Clinical samples were also detected using the two methods. The detection sensitivity of real-time PCR and LAMP was 6.8\u00d710(1) and 6.8\u00d710(3) copies, respectively. Real-time PCR yielded a higher positivity rate than LAMP. Both of the two methods showed a high detection specificity and produced negative results in the detection of Neisseria meningitidis, Candida albicans, Candida tropicalis, Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus niger and Escherichia coli. Real-time PCR is highly sensitive and specific for detecting Cryptococcus neoformans CAP10 gene but requires sophisticated equipment. LAMP, though with a relatively lower sensitivity, is simple to operate without the need of special equipment, and the result can be conveniently observed. Both of the two methods are suitable for detecting Cryptococcus neoformans and evaluating the treatment outcomes."}
{"id": "22685137", "title": "A novel glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored glycoside hydrolase from Ustilago esculenta functions in \u03b2-1,3-glucan degradation.", "content": "A novel glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored glycoside hydrolase from Ustilago esculenta functions in \u03b2-1,3-glucan degradation. A glycoside hydrolase responsible for laminarin degradation was partially purified to homogeneity from a Ustilago esculenta culture filtrate by weak-cation-exchange, strong-cation-exchange, and size-exclusion chromatography. Three proteins in enzymatically active fractions were digested with chymotrypsin followed by liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC/MS/MS) analysis, resulting in the identification of three peptide sequences that shared significant similarity to a putative \u03b2-1,3-glucanase, a member of glucoside hydrolase family 16 (GH16) from Sporisorium reilianum SRZ2. A gene encoding a laminarin-degrading enzyme from U. esculenta, lam16A, was isolated by PCR using degenerate primers designed based on the S. reilianum SRZ2 \u03b2-1,3-glucanase gene. Lam16A possesses a GH16 catalytic domain with an N-terminal signal peptide and a C-terminal glycosylphosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor peptide. Recombinant Lam16A fused to an N-terminal FLAG peptide (Lam16A-FLAG) overexpressed in Aspergillus oryzae exhibited hydrolytic activity toward \u03b2-1,3-glucan specifically and was localized both in the extracellular and in the membrane fractions but not in the cell wall fraction. Lam16A without a GPI anchor signal peptide was secreted extracellularly and was not detected in the membrane fraction. Membrane-anchored Lam16A-FLAG was released completely by treatment with phosphatidylinositol-specific phospholipase C. These results suggest that Lam16A is anchored in the plasma membrane in order to modify \u03b2-1,3-glucan associated with the inner cell wall and that Lam16A is also used for the catabolism of \u03b2-1,3-glucan after its release in the extracellular medium."}
{"id": "22678428", "title": "High indoor microbial levels are associated with reduced Th1 cytokine secretion capacity in infancy.", "content": "High indoor microbial levels are associated with reduced Th1 cytokine secretion capacity in infancy. Exposure to microbes and their components may affect the maturation of the immune system. We examined the association of house dust microbial content with cytokine-producing capacity at birth and at the age of 1 year. Production of TNF-\u03b1, IFN-\u03b3, IL-5, IL-8 and IL-10 at birth (n = 228) and at the age of 1 year (n = 200) following 24- and 48-hour whole-blood stimulation with staphylococcal enterotoxin B (SEB), lipopolysaccharide and the combination of phorbol ester and ionomycin was measured. Concentrations of ergosterol (marker for fungal biomass), muramic acid (marker for Gram-positive bacteria) and 3-hydroxy fatty acids with a carbon chain length from 10 to 14 (marker for Gram-negative bacteria) in living room floor dust were analyzed using gas chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. Five single microbial species or groups were determined using a quantitative polymerase chain reaction method. A high total level of the studied Gram-positive bacteria in general or Mycobacterium spp. in house dust was associated with decreased SEB-stimulated IFN-\u03b3 production, especially at the age of 1 year. The total level of indoor fungi analyzed (Penicillium spp., Aspergillus spp. and Paecilomyces variotii group, Trichoderma viride/atroviride/koningii,Wallemia sebi) was also inversely associated with IFN-\u03b3 production at the age of 1 year, but this association did not remain significant after adjustment for potential confounders. A few associations were found between microbial exposures and other measured cytokines. High indoor microbial exposures may affect immune development in early life by reducing T helper type 1 cytokine secretion capacity. The observed hyporesponsiveness may reflect the adaptation of the immune system to environmental antigens. In future, more attention should be paid especially to the immunomodulatory role of exposures to Gram-positive bacteria."}
{"id": "22670589", "title": "Restriction analysis of an amplified rodA gene fragment to distinguish Aspergillus fumigatus var. ellipticus from Aspergillus fumigatus var. fumigatus.", "content": "Restriction analysis of an amplified rodA gene fragment to distinguish Aspergillus fumigatus var. ellipticus from Aspergillus fumigatus var. fumigatus. A previous multidisciplinary study indicated that gliotoxin-producing Aspergillus fumigatus Fresen. isolates from silage commodities mostly belonged to its variant A. fumigatus var. ellipticus Raper & Fennell. Sequence analysis revealed the presence of a single nucleotide polymorphism at five positions in a fragment of the rodA gene (coding for a hydrophobin rodletA protein) between Aspergillus fumigatus var. fumigatus and Aspergillus fumigatus var. ellipticus. A method was developed to distinguish these two types of isolates based on restriction analysis of this rodA gene fragment using the HinfI restriction enzyme. In addition, in silico analysis of 113 rodA gene fragments retrieved from GenBank was performed and confirmed the suitability of this method. In conclusion, the method developed in this study allows easy distinction between A. fumigatus var. fumigatus and its variant ellipticus. In combination with the earlier developed PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism method of Staab et al. (2009, J Clin Microbiol 47: 2079), this method is part of a sequencing-independent identification scheme that allows for rapid distinction between similar species/variants within Aspergillus section Fumigati, specifically A. fumigatus, A. fumigatus var. ellipticus, Aspergillus lentulus Balajee & K.A. Marr, Neosartorya pseudofischeri S.W. Peterson and Neosartorya udagawae Y. Horie, Miyaji & Nishim."}
{"id": "22650156", "title": "Diagnosing pulmonary aspergillosis in patients with hematological malignancies: a multicenter prospective evaluation of an Aspergillus PCR assay and a galactomannan ELISA in bronchoalveolar lavage samples.", "content": "Diagnosing pulmonary aspergillosis in patients with hematological malignancies: a multicenter prospective evaluation of an Aspergillus PCR assay and a galactomannan ELISA in bronchoalveolar lavage samples. Diagnosing invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) remains a challenge in patients with hematological malignancies. The clinical significance of testing bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples both with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Aspergillus galactomannan ELISA (GM) is unclear, and the BAL cutoff for GM has not been clearly evaluated yet. Using a validated nested PCR assay and a GM ELISA, we prospectively examined BAL samples from 87 hematological patients at high risk of IPA. Of 76 (87%) evaluable patients, 29 patients had proven or probable disease. The receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis of GM optical density (OD) cutoff levels yielded a BAL OD of 0.5 to be optimal. We identified 29 probable or proven cases based on this OD. Sensitivity and specificity for BAL GM were 0.79 (95% CI, 0.62-0.9) and 0.96 (95% CI, 0.86-0.99), respectively. For BAL PCR, sensitivity and specificity were 0.59 (95% CI, 0.41-0.75) and 0.87 (95% CI, 0.75-0.94), respectively. Combining BAL GM and PCR for diagnosis showed a sensitivity and specificity rate of 0.55 (95% CI, 0.38-0.72) and 1.0 (95% CI, 0.93-1.0), respectively, if positivity was defined by positive results for both tests. If either positive BAL GM or positive BAL PCR results defined test positivity, the sensitivity was 0.83 (95% CI, 0.65-0.92), and the specificity was 0.83 (95% CI, 0.70-0.91) In terms of optimal sensitivity and specificity, a GM OD cutoff of 0.5 was determined for BAL samples. Positivity for both GM and Aspergillus PCR in BAL makes a pulmonary aspergillosis highly likely."}
{"id": "22634401", "title": "Comparative proteome analysis of Aspergillus oryzae 3.042 and A. oryzae 100-8 strains: Towards the production of different soy sauce flavors.", "content": "Comparative proteome analysis of Aspergillus oryzae 3.042 and A. oryzae 100-8 strains: Towards the production of different soy sauce flavors. Aspergillus oryzae plays a central role in soybean fermentation, particularly in its contribution to the flavor of soy sauce. We present a comparative assessment of the intracellular differences between wild-type strain 3.042 and mutant strain A100-8, at the proteome level. 522 different protein spots were identified by MALDI-TOF MS, with 134 spots being confirmed by MALDI-TOF MS/MS. Of these, 451 were differentially expressed proteins (DEPs). There was at least a two-fold increase for 288 spots, and at least a two-fold decrease for 163 spots, in strain A100-8 when compared to 3.042. Further analysis showed that 63 of the more abundant proteins were involved in glycolysis and the citrate cycle; 43 more abundant proteins and 10 less abundant proteins were related to amino acid biosynthesis and metabolism; two of the more abundant proteins were involved in vitamin biosynthesis; and five of the more abundant proteins and four of the less abundant proteins were related to secondary metabolites. Moreover, quantitative real time PCR showed that the mRNA expression levels of six typical genes we selected were consistent with changes in protein expression. We postulate that there may be a relationship between DEPs and the flavor formation mechanism in A. oryzae."}
{"id": "22613889", "title": "Multiple amino acid substitutions significantly improve the thermostability of feruloyl esterase A from Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Multiple amino acid substitutions significantly improve the thermostability of feruloyl esterase A from Aspergillus niger. Feruloyl esterase A from Aspergillus niger (AnFaeA) is one of the most important feruloyl esterases of industrial relevance. Previous work aided by the PoPMuSiC algorithm has identified two beneficial mutants (D93G and S187F) with thermostabilization effect. In this work, twelve additional amino acid substitutions were identified to be beneficial to the thermostability of AnFaeA after screening a random mutagenesis library constructed in Pichia pastoris. Combination of these mutations resulted in a mutant with 80% residual activity after heat treatment at 90 \u00b0C for 15 min and a half-life increasing from 15 min to >4000 min at 55 \u00b0C. The thermostabilized mutant displayed significantly enhanced performance compared to the parental AnFaeA when applied to the treatment of steam-exploded corn stalk at 60 \u00b0C together with an xylanase, demonstrating its great potential for industrial application."}
{"id": "22610430", "title": "Gene cloning, purification, and characterization of a novel peptidoglutaminase-asparaginase from Aspergillus sojae.", "content": "Gene cloning, purification, and characterization of a novel peptidoglutaminase-asparaginase from Aspergillus sojae. Glutaminase is an enzyme that catalyzes the hydrolysis of l-glutamine to l-glutamate, and it plays an important role in the production of fermented foods by enhancing the umami taste. By using the genome sequence and expressed sequence tag data available for Aspergillus oryzae RIB40, we cloned a novel glutaminase gene (AsgahA) from Aspergillus sojae, which was similar to a previously described gene encoding a salt-tolerant, thermostable glutaminase of Cryptococcus nodaensis (CnGahA). The structural gene was 1,929 bp in length without introns and encoded a glutaminase, AsGahA, which shared 36% identity with CnGahA. The introduction of multiple copies of AsgahA into A. oryzae RIB40 resulted in the overexpression of glutaminase activity. AsGahA was subsequently purified from the overexpressing transformant and characterized. While AsGahA was located at the cell surface in submerged culture, it was secreted extracellularly in solid-state culture. The molecular mass of AsGahA was estimated to be 67 kDa and 135 kDa by SDS-PAGE and gel filtration chromatography, respectively, indicating that the native form of AsGahA was a dimer. The optimal pH of the enzyme was 9.5, and its optimal temperature was 50\u00b0C in sodium phosphate buffer (pH 7.0). Analysis of substrate specificity revealed that AsGahA deamidated not only free l-glutamine and l-asparagine but also C-terminal glutaminyl or asparaginyl residues in peptides. Collectively, our results indicate that AsGahA is a novel peptidoglutaminase-asparaginase. Moreover, this is the first report to describe the gene cloning and purification of a peptidoglutaminase-asparaginase."}
{"id": "22608236", "title": "Complex microbiota of a Chinese \"Fen\" liquor fermentation starter (Fen-Daqu), revealed by culture-dependent and culture-independent methods.", "content": "Complex microbiota of a Chinese \"Fen\" liquor fermentation starter (Fen-Daqu), revealed by culture-dependent and culture-independent methods. Daqu is a traditional fermentation starter that is used for Chinese liquor production. Although partly mechanized, its manufacturing process has remained traditional. We investigated the microbial diversity of Fen-Daqu, a starter for light-flavour liquor, using combined culture-dependent and culture-independent approaches (PCR-DGGE). A total of 190 microbial strains, comprising 109 bacteria and 81 yeasts and moulds, were isolated and identified on the basis of the sequences of their 16S rDNA (bacteria) and 26S rDNA and ITS regions (fungi). DGGE of DNA extracted from Daqu was used to complement the culture-dependent method in order to include non-culturable microbes. Both approaches revealed that Bacillus licheniformis was an abundant bacterial species, and Saccharomycopsis fibuligera, Wickerhamomyces anomalus, and Pichia kudriavzevii were the most common yeasts encountered in Fen-Daqu. Six genera of moulds (Absidia, Aspergillus, Mucor, Rhizopus, Rhizomucor and Penicillium) were found. The potential function of these microorganisms in starters for alcoholic fermentation is discussed. In general the culture-based findings overlapped with those obtained by DGGE by a large extent. However, Weissella cibaria, Weissella confusa, Staphylococcus saprophyticus, Enterobacter aerogenes, Lactobacillus sanfranciscensis, Lactobacillus lactis, and Bacillus megaterium were only revealed by DGGE."}
{"id": "22606305", "title": "Identification of maize genes associated with host plant resistance or susceptibility to Aspergillus flavus infection and aflatoxin accumulation.", "content": "Identification of maize genes associated with host plant resistance or susceptibility to Aspergillus flavus infection and aflatoxin accumulation. Aspergillus flavus infection and aflatoxin contamination of maize pose negative impacts in agriculture and health. Commercial maize hybrids are generally susceptible to this fungus. Significant levels of host plant resistance have been observed in certain maize inbred lines. This study was conducted to identify maize genes associated with host plant resistance or susceptibility to A. flavus infection and aflatoxin accumulation. Genome wide gene expression levels with or without A. flavus inoculation were compared in two resistant maize inbred lines (Mp313E and Mp04:86) in contrast to two susceptible maize inbred lines (Va35 and B73) by microarray analysis. Principal component analysis (PCA) was used to find genes contributing to the larger variances associated with the resistant or susceptible maize inbred lines. The significance levels of gene expression were determined by using SAS and LIMMA programs. Fifty candidate genes were selected and further investigated by quantitative RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) in a time-course study on Mp313E and Va35. Sixteen of the candidate genes were found to be highly expressed in Mp313E and fifteen in Va35. Out of the 31 highly expressed genes, eight were mapped to seven previously identified quantitative trait locus (QTL) regions. A gene encoding glycine-rich RNA binding protein 2 was found to be associated with the host hypersensitivity and susceptibility in Va35. A nuclear pore complex protein YUP85-like gene was found to be involved in the host resistance in Mp313E. Maize genes associated with host plant resistance or susceptibility were identified by a combination of microarray analysis, qRT-PCR analysis, and QTL mapping methods. Our findings suggest that multiple mechanisms are involved in maize host plant defense systems in response to Aspergillus flavus infection and aflatoxin accumulation. These findings will be important in identification of DNA markers for breeding maize lines resistant to aflatoxin accumulation."}
{"id": "22605848", "title": "Acute community acquired Aspergillus pneumonia in a presumed immunocompetent host.", "content": "Acute community acquired Aspergillus pneumonia in a presumed immunocompetent host. Infection from Aspergillus results in a wide range of diseases from simple Aspergillus pneumonia to fatal invasive Aspergillosis. Though the fungus is known to predominantly affect the immunocompromised host, it has also been known to cause acute pneumonia in immunocompetent hosts which is invariably fatal. It presents as an acute pneumonia with bilateral chest infiltrates on radiograph. Early clinical suspicion and microbiological identification by measures such as broncho alveolar lavage and initiation of therapy with voricanozole significantly increase the chances of survival. In this article the authors discuss a case of acute community acquired Aspergillus pneumonia in an immunocompetent host who survived due to early identification and prompt treatment with appropriate antifungal medication."}
{"id": "22593600", "title": "A novel extraction method combining plasma with a whole-blood fraction shows excellent sensitivity and reproducibility for patients at high risk for invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "A novel extraction method combining plasma with a whole-blood fraction shows excellent sensitivity and reproducibility for patients at high risk for invasive aspergillosis. Diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) is still a major problem in routine clinical practice. Early diagnosis is essential for a good patient prognosis. PCR is a highly sensitive method for the detection of nucleic acids and could play an important role in improving the diagnosis of fungal infections. Therefore, a novel DNA extraction method, ultraclean production (UCP), was developed allowing purification of both cellular and cell-free circulating fungal DNA. In this prospective study we evaluated the commercially available UCP extraction system and compared it to an in-house system. Sixty-three patients at high risk for IA were screened twice weekly, and DNA extracted by both methods was cross-analyzed, in triplicate, by two different real-time PCR assays. The negative predictive values were high for all methods (94.3 to 100%), qualifying them as screening methods, but the sensitivity and diagnostic odds ratios were higher using the UCP extraction method. Sensitivity ranged from 33.3 to 66.7% using the in-house extracts to 100% using the UCP extraction method. Most of the unclassified patients showed no positive PCR results; however, single-positive PCR replicates were observed in some cases. These can bear clinical relevance but should be interpreted with additional clinical and laboratory data. The PCR assays from the UCP extracts showed greater reproducibility than the in-house method for probable IA patients. The standardized UCP extraction method yielded superior results, with regard to sensitivity and reproducibility, than the in-house method. This was independent of the PCR assay used to detect fungal DNA in the sample extracts."}
{"id": "22585286", "title": "Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation for investigating pathogenicity genes of the phytopathogenic fungus Colletotrichum sansevieriae.", "content": "Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation for investigating pathogenicity genes of the phytopathogenic fungus Colletotrichum sansevieriae. Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation (AtMT) has become a common technique for DNA transformation of yeast and filamentous fungi. In this study, we first established a protocol of AtMT for the phytopathogenic fungus Colletotrichum sansevieriae. Binary T-DNA vector containing the hygromycin B phosphotransferase gene controlled by the Aspergillus nidulans gpdA promoter and the trpC terminator was constructed with pCAMBIA0380 and used with three different strains LBA4404, GV3101, and GV2260 of A. tumefaciens. Transformants were most effectively obtained when GV2260 and C. sansevieriae Sa-1-2 were co-cultivated; there were about 320 transformants per 10(6) spores. When 1,048 transformants were inoculated on Sansevieria trifasciata, three transformants were found to have completely lost their pathogenicity and two transformants displayed reduced pathogenicity. All of the five transformants had a single copy of T-DNA in their genomes. The three pathogenicity-deficient transformants were subjected to thermal asymmetric interlaced polymerase chain reaction and the reaction allowed us to amplify the sequences flanking the left and/or right borders. The flanking sequences of the two transformants, M154 and M875, showed no homology to any sequences in databases, but the sequences of M678 contained motifs of alpha-1,3-glucan synthase, suggesting that the gene might contribute to the pathogenicity of C. sansevieriae. This study describes a useful method for investigating pathogenicity genes in C. sansevieriae."}
{"id": "22580756", "title": "Significance of molecular identification and antifungal susceptibility of clinically significant yeasts and moulds in a global antifungal surveillance programme.", "content": "Significance of molecular identification and antifungal susceptibility of clinically significant yeasts and moulds in a global antifungal surveillance programme. The increasing diversity of opportunistic fungi causing serious invasive fungal infections (IFI) has been documented. Accurate identification (ID) is important in guiding therapy, determining prognosis for IFIs and in epidemiological surveys. We assessed the utility of PCR-based methods for the ID of yeasts and moulds that either were uncommon, failed conventional ID, or represented unusual biochemical or phenotypic profiles of common species. Among 1,790 viable fungal clinical isolates received during the SENTRY Program in 2010, 322 strains from 40 study sites had ID confirmed by molecular methods. Isolates were previously identified in participant institutions. Yeasts that were not confirmed by morphology on CHROMagar, growth at 45\u00a0\u00b0C (Candida albicans/dubliniensis), or assimilation of trehalose (C. glabrata) as well as non-Candida yeasts and all moulds were amplified and sequenced using primers amplifying one or more of the following genes: ITS, 28S, \u03b2-tubulin (Aspergillus spp.), TEF (Fusarium spp.), IGS (Trichosporon spp.). The isolates selected for molecular ID included 149 isolates of Candida species, 77 of Aspergillus species, 73 non-Candida yeasts, and 23 other moulds (a total of 41 different species). Overall, the ID determined by the submitting site was confirmed for 189 isolates (58.7\u00a0%): Aspergillus spp. (64.1\u00a0% correct); Candida spp. (60.1\u00a0% correct); non-Candida yeasts (58.9\u00a0% correct); non-Aspergillus moulds (30.4\u00a0% correct). Species with high levels of concordance between conventional and molecular ID included A. fumigatus (95.0 \u00a0%), C. lusitaniae (100\u00a0%), C. dubliniensis (92.3\u00a0%), C. kefyr (100\u00a0%), and C. neoformans (90.2\u00a0%). Only 50.0\u00a0% of isolates of C. albicans and 59.1\u00a0% of C. glabrata selected due to unusual phenotypic or biochemical features were found to be correctly identified by the submitting site. Molecular methods for the identification of fungal pathogens are an important adjunct to the conventional identification of many less common clinically relevant yeasts and moulds including species of Candida with unusual or erroneous phenotypic or biochemical profiles. Molecular confirmation of fungal identification is essential in epidemiological surveys such as SENTRY."}
{"id": "22574193", "title": "A simple and accurate two-step long DNA sequences synthesis strategy to improve heterologous gene expression in pichia.", "content": "A simple and accurate two-step long DNA sequences synthesis strategy to improve heterologous gene expression in pichia. In vitro gene chemical synthesis is a powerful tool to improve the expression of gene in heterologous system. In this study, a two-step gene synthesis strategy that combines an assembly PCR and an overlap extension PCR (AOE) was developed. In this strategy, the chemically synthesized oligonucleotides were assembled into several 200-500 bp fragments with 20-25 bp overlap at each end by assembly PCR, and then an overlap extension PCR was conducted to assemble all these fragments into a full length DNA sequence. Using this method, we de novo designed and optimized the codon of Rhizopus oryzae lipase gene ROL (810 bp) and Aspergillus niger phytase gene phyA (1404 bp). Compared with the original ROL gene and phyA gene, the codon-optimized genes expressed at a significantly higher level in yeasts after methanol induction. We believe this AOE method to be of special interest as it is simple, accurate and has no limitation with respect to the size of the gene to be synthesized. Combined with de novo design, this method allows the rapid synthesis of a gene optimized for expression in the system of choice and production of sufficient biological material for molecular characterization and biotechnological application."}
{"id": "22566119", "title": "Laboratory diagnostics of invasive fungal infections: an overview with emphasis on molecular approach.", "content": "Laboratory diagnostics of invasive fungal infections: an overview with emphasis on molecular approach. Although invasive fungal diseases (IFDs) are relatively rare, they have become an increasingly common life-threatening complication in a variety of critically ill patients. Due to changes in treatment strategies, patterns of IFDs have changed substantially as well. Yeast infections have shifted toward a higher proportion of non-albicans Candida species, but their overall incidence has remained stable. In contrast, IFDs caused by molds, including particularly various species of Aspergillus, Fusarium, and Mucorales, have increased in number. In view of the growing incidence and the high mortality rates of IFDs, accurate diagnostic techniques permitting timely onset of adequate antifungal treatment are of paramount importance. Although conventional approaches such as microscopy, cultivation, histopathological examination, and imaging methods still represent the gold standard, the diagnosis remains difficult because of limited sensitivity and specificity. Noninvasive and culture-independent diagnostic techniques, including fungal antigen detection, and different molecular-based techniques are becoming increasingly important. Of the fungal surrogate markers such as cell wall components, galactomannan and (1,3)-\u03b2-D-glucan by commercially available diagnostic kits have become widely used, but the results are still controversial. A plethora of PCR-based diagnostic methods targeting different gene regions and exploiting a variety of amplicon detection tools have been published. Molecular assays have the capacity to overcome the limitations of other diagnostic approaches, but the current lack of methodological standardization and validation, together with not always clear interpretation of the results, has prevented broad application in the clinical setting."}
{"id": "22532664", "title": "Conserved and essential transcription factors for cellulase gene expression in ascomycete fungi.", "content": "Conserved and essential transcription factors for cellulase gene expression in ascomycete fungi. Rational engineering of filamentous fungi for improved cellulase production is hampered by our incomplete knowledge of transcriptional regulatory networks. We therefore used the model filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa to search for uncharacterized transcription factors associated with cellulose deconstruction. A screen of a N. crassa transcription factor deletion collection identified two uncharacterized zinc binuclear cluster transcription factors (clr-1 and clr-2) that were required for growth and enzymatic activity on cellulose, but were not required for growth or hemicellulase activity on xylan. Transcriptional profiling with next-generation sequencing methods refined our understanding of the N. crassa transcriptional response to cellulose and demonstrated that clr-1 and clr-2 were required for the bulk of that response, including induction of all major cellulase and some major hemicellulase genes. Functional CLR-1 was necessary for expression of clr-2 and efficient cellobiose utilization. Phylogenetic analyses showed that CLR-1 and CLR-2 are conserved in the genomes of most filamentous ascomycete fungi capable of degrading cellulose. In Aspergillus nidulans, a strain carrying a deletion of the clr-2 homolog (clrB) failed to induce cellulase gene expression and lacked cellulolytic activity on Avicel. Further manipulation of this control system in industrial production strains may significantly improve yields of cellulases for cellulosic biofuel production."}
{"id": "22527320", "title": "Novel diagnosis of fungal endophthalmitis by broad-range real-time PCR detection of fungal 28S ribosomal DNA.", "content": "Novel diagnosis of fungal endophthalmitis by broad-range real-time PCR detection of fungal 28S ribosomal DNA. To detect the fungal genome in the ocular fluids of patients with fungal endophthalmitis by using a novel broad-range polymerase chain reaction (PCR) system. After informed consent was obtained, ocular fluid samples (aqueous humor or vitreous fluids) were collected from 497 patients (76 patients with infectious endophthalmitis including clinically suspected bacterial and fungal endophthalmitis and 421 patients with infectious or non-infectious uveitis). Forty ocular samples from non-infectious patients without ocular inflammation were collected as controls. Fungal ribosomal DNA (28\u00a0S rDNA) was measured by a quantitative real-time PCR assay. Fungal 28\u00a0S rDNA of the major fungal species, such as Candida, Aspergillus, and Cryptococcus, were detected by novel broad-range real-time PCR examination (>10(1) copies/ml). Fungal 28\u00a0S rDNA was detected in the ocular fluids of 11 patients with endophthalmitis or uveitis (11/497, 2.2%). All 11 positive samples were detected in the infectious endophthalmitis patients (11/76, 14.5%). These PCR-positive ocular fluids had high copy numbers of fungal 28\u00a0S rDNA (range, 1.7 \u00d7 10(3) to 7.9 \u00d7 10(6) copies/ml), which indicated the presence of fungal infection. Of the 11 patients who were PCR positive, further examinations led to a diagnosis of fungal endophthalmitis in ten patients. The fungal 28\u00a0S rDNA was detected in one non-infectious case (a false-positive case). In addition, there were two PCR false-negative cases that were clinically suspected of having fungal endophthalmitis. This novel quantitative broad-range PCR of fungal 28\u00a0S rDNA is a useful tool for diagnosing endophthalmitis related to fungal infections."}
{"id": "22526309", "title": "Development of novel PCR assays to detect azole resistance-mediating mutations of the Aspergillus fumigatus cyp51A gene in primary clinical samples from neutropenic patients.", "content": "Development of novel PCR assays to detect azole resistance-mediating mutations of the Aspergillus fumigatus cyp51A gene in primary clinical samples from neutropenic patients. The increasing incidence of azole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus causing invasive aspergillosis (IA) in immunocompromised/hematological patients emphasizes the need to improve the detection of resistance-mediating cyp51A gene mutations from primary clinical samples, particularly as the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis is rarely based on a positive culture yield in this group of patients. We generated primers from the unique sequence of the Aspergillus fumigatus cyp51A gene to establish PCR assays with consecutive DNA sequence analysis to detect and identify the A. fumigatus cyp51A tandem repeat (TR) mutation in the promoter region and the L98H and M220 alterations directly in clinical samples. After testing of the sensitivity and specificity of the assays using serially diluted A. fumigatus and human DNA, A. fumigatus cyp51A gene fragments of about 150 bp potentially carrying the mutations were amplified directly from primary clinical samples and subsequently DNA sequenced. The determined sensitivities of the PCR assays were 600 fg, 6 pg, and 4 pg of A. fumigatus DNA for the TR, L98H, and M220 mutations, respectively. There was no cross-reactivity with human genomic DNA detectable. Sequencing of the PCR amplicons for A. fumigatus wild-type DNA confirmed the cyp51A wild-type sequence, and PCR products from one azole-resistant A. fumigatus isolate showed the L98H and TR mutations. The second azole-resistant isolate revealed an M220T alteration. We consider our assay to be of high epidemiological and clinical relevance to detect azole resistance and to optimize antifungal therapy in patients with IA."}
{"id": "22518857", "title": "Rapid identification of Aspergillus terreus from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid by PCR and electrospray ionization with mass spectrometry.", "content": "Rapid identification of Aspergillus terreus from bronchoalveolar lavage fluid by PCR and electrospray ionization with mass spectrometry. We describe the application of PCR and electrospray-ionization with mass spectrometry (PCR/ESI-MS) to culture-negative bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid in order to identify septate hyphae noted by Gomori methenamine silver (GMS) staining of the fluid that was obtained from an immunocompromised woman with neutropenia following induction chemotherapy for treatment of acute myelogenous leukemia (AML). The patient was treated with empirical antifungal therapy, including intrathecal amphotericin B, while results of fungal cultures were pending. Ultimately, Aspergillus terreus, an amphotericin-resistant mold, was cultured from bilateral brain abscesses. PCR/ESI-MS correctly identified the mold."}
{"id": "22506079", "title": "Identification and characterization of a novel diterpene gene cluster in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Identification and characterization of a novel diterpene gene cluster in Aspergillus nidulans. Fungal secondary metabolites are a rich source of medically useful compounds due to their pharmaceutical and toxic properties. Sequencing of fungal genomes has revealed numerous secondary metabolite gene clusters, yet products of many of these biosynthetic pathways are unknown since the expression of the clustered genes usually remains silent in normal laboratory conditions. Therefore, to discover new metabolites, it is important to find ways to induce the expression of genes in these otherwise silent biosynthetic clusters. We discovered a novel secondary metabolite in Aspergillus nidulans by predicting a biosynthetic gene cluster with genomic mining. A Zn(II)(2)Cys(6)-type transcription factor, PbcR, was identified, and its role as a pathway-specific activator for the predicted gene cluster was demonstrated. Overexpression of pbcR upregulated the transcription of seven genes in the identified cluster and led to the production of a diterpene compound, which was characterized with GC/MS as ent-pimara-8(14),15-diene. A change in morphology was also observed in the strains overexpressing pbcR. The activation of a cryptic gene cluster by overexpression of its putative Zn(II)(2)Cys(6)-type transcription factor led to discovery of a novel secondary metabolite in Aspergillus nidulans. Quantitative real-time PCR and DNA array analysis allowed us to predict the borders of the biosynthetic gene cluster. Furthermore, we identified a novel fungal pimaradiene cyclase gene as well as genes encoding 3-hydroxy-3-methyl-glutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) reductase and a geranylgeranyl pyrophosphate (GGPP) synthase. None of these genes have been previously implicated in the biosynthesis of terpenes in Aspergillus nidulans. These results identify the first Aspergillus nidulans diterpene gene cluster and suggest a biosynthetic pathway for ent-pimara-8(14),15-diene."}
{"id": "22505446", "title": "Diagnostic potential of nested PCR, galactomannan EIA, and beta-D-glucan for invasive aspergillosis in pediatric patients.", "content": "Diagnostic potential of nested PCR, galactomannan EIA, and beta-D-glucan for invasive aspergillosis in pediatric patients. Limited specific data and investigations are available for invasive aspergillosis (IA) in pediatric patients. We evaluated the diagnostic potential of three noninvasive tests including the Platelia Aspergillus EIA kit for using galactomannan antigen, (1,3)-\u03b2-D-glucan Detection Reagent Kit, and nested-PCR for Aspergillus DNA in sera. We evaluated the diagnostic potential of three noninvasive tests including EIA for galactomannan antigen\u00a0 (Platelia Aspergillus), nested\u00a0 PCR assay for Aspergillus DNA and test for\u00a0(1\u21923)-\u03b2-D-glucan (Glucatell assay Kit). All pediatric patients treated at the hematology/oncology unit who were at increased risk of developing invasive aspergillosis were enrolled. Clinical samples were examined for Aspergillus infections by mycological methods. Serial blood samples were collected twice weekly and evaluated by noninvasive tests. We analyzed 230 consecutive blood samples from 62 pediatric patients. The incidence rate of invasive aspergillosis in the patients was found to be 27.4%, and the etiologic agents were Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus fumigatus, and Aspergillus spp.\u00a0 The sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values, and likelihood ratios for positive and negative results of galactomannan in patients with proven and probable IA were 90%, 92%, 81.8%, 96%, 11.25, and 0.1; for beta-D-glucan they were 50%, 46%, 26%, 70.6%, 0.9, 0.9; and for nested-PCR they were 80%, 96.2%, 88.9%, 92.6%, 21, and 0.2, respectively. The conventional methods are not able to detect IA, due to the lack of valid and proper sampling. Galactomannan and nested-PCR tests in serum, with enough accuracy and reliability, can serve as noninvasive methods for the detection of IA in pediatric patients. However, the beta-D-glucan test cannot serve as an efficient diagnostic tool in those with hematologic disorders."}
{"id": "22502959", "title": "Performance of 2 commercial real-time polymerase chain reaction assays for the detection of Aspergillus and Pneumocystis DNA in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples from critical care patients.", "content": "Performance of 2 commercial real-time polymerase chain reaction assays for the detection of Aspergillus and Pneumocystis DNA in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples from critical care patients. This article investigates the performance of 2 commercial real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays, MycAssay\u2122 Aspergillus (Myc(Asp)Assay) and MycAssay\u2122 Pneumocystis (Myc(PCP)Assay), on the ABI 7300 platform for the detection of Aspergillus (Asp) or Pneumocystis jirovecii (Pj) DNA in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples from 20 patients. Operationally, patients enrolled were clustered into 3 groups: invasive aspergillosis group (IA, 7 patients), Pj pneumonia group (PCP, 8 patients), and negative control group (5 patients). All the IA patients were Myc(Asp)Assay positive, whereas 12 non-IA patients returned negative PCR results. Furthermore, 7 of 8 PCP patients were Myc(PCP)Assay positive, while 9 non-PCP patients were PCR negative. In conclusion, these data provide an early indication of the effectiveness of both the Myc(Asp)Assay and Myc(PCP)Assay on the ABI 7300 platform for the detection of either Asp or Pj DNA in BAL from patients with deep fungal infections."}
{"id": "22495451", "title": "Functional and phylogenetic analysis of the Aspergillus ochraceoroseus aflQ (ordA) gene ortholog.", "content": "Functional and phylogenetic analysis of the Aspergillus ochraceoroseus aflQ (ordA) gene ortholog. Within the Aspergillus parasiticus and A. flavus aflatoxin (AF) biosynthetic gene cluster the aflQ (ordA) and aflP (omtA) genes encode respectively an oxidoreductase and methyltransferase. These genes are required for the final steps in the conversion of sterigmatocystin (ST) to aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1)). Aspergillus nidulans harbors a gene cluster that produces ST, as the aflQ and aflP orthologs are either non-functional or absent in the genome. Aspergillus ochraceoroseus produces both AF and ST, and it harbors an AF/ST biosynthetic gene cluster that is organized much like the A. nidulans ST cluster. The A. ochraceoroseus cluster also does not contain aflQ or aflP orthologs. However the ability of A. ochraceoroseus to produce AF would indicate that functional aflQ and aflP orthologs are present within the genome. Utilizing degenerate primers based on conserved regions of the A. flavus aflQ gene and an A. nidulans gene demonstrating the highest level of homology to aflQ, a putative aflQ ortholog was PCR amplified from A. ochraceoroseus genomic DNA. The A. ochraceoroseus aflQ ortholog demonstrated 57% amino acid identity to A. flavus AflQ. Transformation of an O-methylsterigmatocystin (OMST)-accumulating A. parasiticus aflQ mutant with the putative A. ochraceoroseus aflQ gene restored AF production. Although the aflQ gene does not reside in the AF/ST cluster it appears to be regulated in a manner similar to other A. ochraceoroseus AF/ST cluster genes. Phylogenetic analysis of AflQ and AflQ-like proteins from a number of ST- and AF-producing Aspergilli indicates that A. ochraceoroseus might be ancestral to A. nidulans and A. flavus."}
{"id": "22475947", "title": "Monitoring of the microbial communities involved in the soy sauce manufacturing process by PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis.", "content": "Monitoring of the microbial communities involved in the soy sauce manufacturing process by PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. Soy sauce is a traditional seasoning produced through the fermentation of soybeans and wheat using microbes. In this study, the microbial communities involved in the soy sauce manufacturing process were analyzed by PCR-Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE). The bacterial DGGE profile indicated that the bacterial microbes in the koji were Weissella cibaria (Weissella confusa, Weissella kimchii, Weissella salipiscis, Lactobacillus fermentum, Lactobacillus plantarum, Lactobacillus iners, or Streptococcus thermophilus), Staphylococcus gallinarum (or Staphylococcus xylosus), and Staphylococcus kloosii. In addition to these bacteria, Tetragenococcus halophilus was also detected in the mash during lactic acid fermentation. The fungal DGGE profile indicated that the fungal microbes in the koji were not only Aspergillus oryzae but also several yeasts. In the mash, Zygosaccharomyces rouxii appeared in the early fermentation stage, Candida etchellsii (or Candida nodaensis) and Candida versatilis were detected at the middle fermentation stage, and Candida etchellsii was detected at the mature fermentation stage. These results suggest that the microbial communities present during the soy sauce manufacturing process change drastically throughout its production. This is the first report to reveal the microbial communities involved in the soy sauce manufacturing process using a culture-independent method."}
{"id": "22474565", "title": "Ochratoxigenic black species of Aspergilli in grape fruits of northern Italy identified by an improved PCR-RFLP procedure.", "content": "Ochratoxigenic black species of Aspergilli in grape fruits of northern Italy identified by an improved PCR-RFLP procedure. A collection of 356 isolates of Aspergillus spp. collected during 2006 and 2007 from grapevines in northern Italy were identified through Internal Transcribed Spacer based Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (ITS-RFLP) and tested for ochratoxin A (OTA) production. Restriction endonuclease digestion of the ITS products using the endonucleases HhaI, HinfI and RsaI, distinguished five different RFLPs. From each pattern, three samples were sequenced and the nucleotide sequences showed different species corresponding to Aspergillus niger, A. carbonarius, A. tubingensis, A. japonicus and A. aculeatus. By comparing the sequences of the ITS regions, also the uniseriate species A. japonicus and A. aculeatus could be differentiated by HinfI digestion of the ITS products. Among the aspergilli, A. niger was the major species associated with grapes during 2006 (57.4%), while A. carbonarius was the major species during 2007 (46.6%). All the strains of Aspergillus were tested for their ability to produce OTA on Yeast extract sucrose medium (YES), as it was tested as an optimal substrate for the evaluation of OTA production by black aspergilli. Out of 356 isolates, 63 (17.7%) isolates produced OTA ranging from 0.05 to 3.0 \u00b5g mL(-1). Most of the ochratoxigenic isolates were A. carbonarius (46) in both years, but also some strains of A. tubingensis (11) and A. japonicus (6) produced lower amounts of OTA."}
{"id": "22473419", "title": "Detection of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in haematological malignancy patients by using lateral-flow technology.", "content": "Detection of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in haematological malignancy patients by using lateral-flow technology. Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in haematological malignancy patients and hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients(1). Detection of IPA represents a formidable diagnostic challenge and, in the absence of a 'gold standard', relies on a combination of clinical data and microbiology and histopathology where feasible. Diagnosis of IPA must conform to the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer and the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases Mycology Study Group (EORTC/MSG) consensus defining \"proven\", \"probable\", and \"possible\" invasive fungal diseases(2). Currently, no nucleic acid-based tests have been externally validated for IPA detection and so polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is not included in current EORTC/MSG diagnostic criteria. Identification of Aspergillus in histological sections is problematic because of similarities in hyphal morphologies with other invasive fungal pathogens(3), and proven identification requires isolation of the etiologic agent in pure culture. Culture-based approaches rely on the availability of biopsy samples, but these are not always accessible in sick patients, and do not always yield viable propagules for culture when obtained. An important feature in the pathogenesis of Aspergillus is angio-invasion, a trait that provides opportunities to track the fungus immunologically using tests that detect characteristic antigenic signatures molecules in serum and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluids. This has led to the development of the Platelia enzyme immunoassay (GM-EIA) that detects Aspergillus galactomannan and a 'pan-fungal' assay (Fungitell test) that detects the conserved fungal cell wall component (1 \u21923)-\u03b2-D-glucan, but not in the mucorales that lack this component in their cell walls(1,4). Issues surrounding the accuracy of these tests(1,4-6) has led to the recent development of next-generation monoclonal antibody (MAb)-based assays that detect surrogate markers of infection(1,5). Thornton(5) recently described the generation of an Aspergillus-specific MAb (JF5) using hybridoma technology and its use to develop an immuno-chromatographic lateral-flow device (LFD) for the point-of-care (POC) diagnosis of IPA. A major advantage of the LFD is its ability to detect activity since MAb JF5 binds to an extracellular glycoprotein antigen that is secreted during active growth of the fungus only(5). This is an important consideration when using fluids such as lung BAL for diagnosing IPA since Aspergillus spores are a common component of inhaled air. The utility of the device in diagnosing IPA has been demonstrated using an animal model of infection, where the LFD displayed improved sensitivity and specificity compared to the Platelia GM and Fungitell (1 \u2192 3)-\u03b2-D-glucan assays(7). Here, we present a simple LFD procedure to detect Aspergillus antigen in human serum and BAL fluids. Its speed and accuracy provides a novel adjunct point-of-care test for diagnosis of IPA in haematological malignancy patients."}
{"id": "22455842", "title": "[Application of PCR combined with reverse line blot assay in detection and identification of common pathogenic Aspergillus in fungal sinusitis].", "content": "[Application of PCR combined with reverse line blot assay in detection and identification of common pathogenic Aspergillus in fungal sinusitis]. To evaluate the feasibility of PCR/reverse line blot hybridization (RLB) assay in the detection and identification of clinical pathogens in fungal sinusitis (FS). Twenty-six formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissues and 8 fresh tissues of FS were collected from Beijing Tongren Hospital, Capital Medical University from May 2009 to February 2010. Pathological examination, fungal culture and ITS2 region sequencing were carried out. The DNA of all samples was extracted by standard procedure and fungal universal primers ITS3 and ITS4 were used for PCR amplification of all tissues. Then the amplified products were used for RLB with five fungal species-specific probes. The results of PCR/RLB were compared with ITS region sequencing, fungal culture and pathological examination. For the biopsy tissues, fungal cultures were positive in 14 cases (41.2%); pathologic examination demonstrated fungal hyphae in all cases; ITS2 region sequencing was successful in 16 cases (47.1%); PCR/RLB showed A. flavus in 14 cases, A. fumigatus in 10 cases, A. niger in four cases, A. nidulans in one case, A. flavus and A. fumigatus in three cases, and A. fumigatus and A. niger in two cases. The PCR/RLB assay is suitable for rapid and accurate detection and identification of the pathogenic fungus of FS. Compared with the conventional fungal culture and microscopy, pathologic examination and DNA sequencing, the PCR/RLB has the advantages of more economy, time saving, and higher sensitivity, specificity and throughput."}
{"id": "22453123", "title": "Chemotypic and genotypic diversity in the ergot alkaloid pathway of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Chemotypic and genotypic diversity in the ergot alkaloid pathway of Aspergillus fumigatus. Aspergillus fumigatus is an opportunistic human pathogen that synthesizes a group of mycotoxins via a branch of the ergot alkaloid pathway. This fungus is globally distributed, and genetic data indicate that isolates recombine freely over that range; however, previous work on ergot alkaloids has focused on a limited number of isolates. We hypothesized that A. fumigatus harbors variation in the chemotype of ergot alkaloids and genotype of the ergot alkaloid gene cluster. Analysis of 13 isolates by high performance liquid chromatography revealed four distinct ergot alkaloid profiles or chemotypes. Five isolates completed the A. fumigatus branch of the ergot alkaloid pathway to fumigaclavine C. Six independent isolates accumulated fumigaclavine A, the pathway intermediate immediately before fumigaclavine C. One isolate accumulated only the early pathway intermediates chanoclavine-i and chanocla-vine-i aldehyde, and one isolate lacked ergot alkaloids altogether. A genetic basis for each of the observed chemotypes was obtained either by PCR analysis of the ergot alkaloid gene cluster or through sequencing of easL, the gene encoding the prenyl transferase that reverse prenylates fumigaclavine A to fumigaclavine C. Isolates also exhibited differences in pigmentation and sporulation. The ergot alkaloid chemotypes were widely distributed geographically and among substrate of origin."}
{"id": "22450569", "title": "Codon-optimized glucoamylase sGAI of Aspergillus awamori improves starch utilization in an industrial yeast.", "content": "Codon-optimized glucoamylase sGAI of Aspergillus awamori improves starch utilization in an industrial yeast. The development of a yeast that converts raw starch to ethanol in one step (called consolidated bioprocessing) could yield large cost reductions in the bioethanol industry. The aim of this study was to develop an efficient amylolytic Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain suitable for industrial bioethanol production. A native and codon-optimized variant of the Aspergillus awamori glucoamylase gene were expressed in the S. cerevisiae Y294 laboratory strain. Codon optimization resulted to be effective and the synthetic sequence sGAI was then \u03b4-integrated into a S. cerevisiae strain with promising industrial fermentative traits. The mitotically stable recombinant strains showed high enzymatic capabilities both on soluble and raw starch (2425 and 1140 nkat/g dry cell weight, respectively). On raw corn starch, the engineered yeasts exhibited improved fermentative performance with an ethanol yield of 0.42 (g/g), corresponding to 75\u00a0% of the theoretical maximum yield."}
{"id": "22445201", "title": "PCR detection of aflatoxin producing fungi and its limitations.", "content": "PCR detection of aflatoxin producing fungi and its limitations. Unlike bacterial toxins that are primarily peptides and are therefore encoded by a single gene, fungal toxins such as the aflatoxins are multi-ring structures and therefore require a sequence of structural genes for their biological synthesis. There is therefore no specific PCR for any one of the four biologically produced aflatoxins. Unfortunately, the structural genes presently in use for PCR detection of aflatoxin producing fungi are also involved in the synthesis of other fungal toxins such as sterigmatocystin by Aspergillus versicolor and Aspergillus nidulans and therefore lack absolute specificity for aflatoxin producing fungi (Table\u00a01). In addition, the genomic presence of several structural genes involved in aflatoxin biosynthesis does not guarantee the production of aflatoxin by all isolates of Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus. The most widely used DNA target regions for discriminating Aspergillus species are those of the rDNA complex, mainly the internal transcribed spacer regions 1 and 2 (ITS1 and ITS2) and the variable regions in the 5'-end of the 28S rRNA gene. Since these sequence regions are unrelated to the structural genes involved in aflatoxin biosynthesis there successful amplification can be used for species identification but do not confirm aflatoxin production. This review therefore presents the various approaches and limitations in the use of the PCR in attempting to detect aflatoxin producing fungi."}
{"id": "22440310", "title": "[Chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis following an infection by Mycobacterium malmoense].", "content": "[Chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis following an infection by Mycobacterium malmoense]. Pneumonia due to Mycobacterium malmoense is rare and usually occurs in damaged lung as is the case with Aspergillus infections. We report the case of a patient who developed chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis following an infection by atypical mycobacteria. A 53-year-old woman was hospitalized because of weight loss and fever. Direct examination of sputum smear was positive for acid fast bacilli and PCR and culture led to the diagnosis of infection with M. malmoense. Treatment was begun with clarithromycin, rifampicin and ethambutol. Despite initial improvement and excellent adherence to treatment, fever and weight loss recurred 6 months later. Relapse of the mycobacterial infection was excluded and the final diagnosis was necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis. Infection with A. fumigatus complicating the treatment of M. malmoense is unusual. The management is challenging because of strong interactions between voriconazole and rifampicin, and thus requires a multidisciplinary and specialized approach."}
{"id": "22439693", "title": "Impact of velvet complex on transcriptome and penicillin G production in glucose-limited chemostat cultures of a \u03b2-lactam high-producing Penicillium chrysogenum strain.", "content": "Impact of velvet complex on transcriptome and penicillin G production in glucose-limited chemostat cultures of a \u03b2-lactam high-producing Penicillium chrysogenum strain. The multicomponent global regulator Velvet complex has been identified as a key regulator of secondary metabolite production in Aspergillus and Penicillium species. Previous work indicated a massive impact of PcvelA and PclaeA deletions on penicillin production in prolonged batch cultures of P. chrysogenum, as well as substantial changes in transcriptome. The present study investigated the impact of these mutations on product formation and genome-wide transcript profiles under glucose-limited aerobic conditions, relevant for industrial production of \u03b2-lactams. Predicted amino acid sequences of PcVelA and PcLaeA in this strain were identical to those in its ancestor Wisconsin54-1255. Controls were performed to rule out transformation-associated loss of penicillin-biosynthesis clusters. The correct PcvelA and PclaeA deletion strains revealed a small reduction of penicillin G productivity relative to the reference strain, which is a much smaller reduction than previously reported for prolonged batch cultures of similar P. chrysogenum mutants. Chemostat-based transcriptome analysis yielded only 23 genes with a consistent differential response in the PcvelA\u0394 and PclaeA\u0394 mutants when grown in the absence of the penicillin G side-chain precursor phenylacetic acid. Eleven of these genes belonged to two small gene clusters, one of which contained a gene with high homology to the aristolochene synthase. These results provide a clear caveat that the impact of the Velvet complex on secondary metabolism in filamentous fungi is strongly context dependent."}
{"id": "22435876", "title": "Evaluation of multiplexed PCR and liquid-phase array for identification of respiratory fungal pathogens.", "content": "Evaluation of multiplexed PCR and liquid-phase array for identification of respiratory fungal pathogens. Invasive fungal infections are the cause of serious morbidity and high mortality in immunocompromised patients. Early laboratory diagnostic options remain limited; however, rapid detection and accurate identification may improve outcome. Herein, multiplexed PCR followed by liquid-phase array was evaluated for detection and identification of common respiratory fungal pathogens, including Aspergillus fumigatus, Rhizopus microsporus, Scedosporium apiospermum and Fusarium solani. The limit of detection ranged 0.1-1 ng of DNA, depending on the fungus being tested. Primer cross-reactivity was seen for some fungi: Aspergillus flavus primers detected Aspergillus oryzae; Scedosporium apiospermum primers detected Paecilomyces lilacinus, and Aspergillus terreus primers detected S. apiospermum. PCR followed by liquid-phase array is potentially useful for the identification of clinically relevant fungal pathogens."}
{"id": "22432007", "title": "Disinfection of ocular cells and tissues by atmospheric-pressure cold plasma.", "content": "Disinfection of ocular cells and tissues by atmospheric-pressure cold plasma. Low temperature plasmas have been proposed in medicine as agents for tissue disinfection and have received increasing attention due to the frequency of bacterial resistance to antibiotics. This study explored whether atmospheric-pressure cold plasma (APCP) generated by a new portable device that ionizes a flow of helium gas can inactivate ocular pathogens without causing significant tissue damage. We tested the APCP effects on cultured Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Candida albicans, Aspergillus fumigatus and Herpes simplex virus-1, ocular cells (conjunctival fibroblasts and keratocytes) and ex-vivo corneas. Exposure to APCP for 0.5 to 5 minutes significantly reduced microbial viability (colony-forming units) but not human cell viability (MTT assay, FACS and Tunel analysis) or the number of HSV-1 plaque-forming units. Increased levels of intracellular reactive oxygen species (ROS) in exposed microorganisms and cells were found using a FACS-activated 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein diacetate probe. Immunoassays demonstrated no induction of thymine dimers in cell cultures and corneal tissues. A transient increased expression of 8-OHdG, genes and proteins related to oxidative stress (OGG1, GPX, NFE2L2), was determined in ocular cells and corneas by HPLC, qRT-PCR and Western blot analysis. A short application of APCP appears to be an efficient and rapid ocular disinfectant for bacteria and fungi without significant damage on ocular cells and tissues, although the treatment of conjunctival fibroblasts and keratocytes caused a time-restricted generation of intracellular ROS and oxidative stress-related responses."}
{"id": "22428072", "title": "Phage display against corneal epithelial cells produced bioactive peptides that inhibit Aspergillus adhesion to the corneas.", "content": "Phage display against corneal epithelial cells produced bioactive peptides that inhibit Aspergillus adhesion to the corneas. Dissection of host-pathogen interactions is important for both understanding the pathogenesis of infectious diseases and developing therapeutics for the infectious diseases like various infectious keratitis. To enhance the knowledge about pathogenesis infectious keratitis, a random 12-mer peptide phage display library was screened against cultured human corneal epithelial cells (HCEC). Fourteen sequences were obtained and BLASTp analysis showed that most of their homologue counterparts in GenBank were for defined or putative proteins in various pathogens. Based on known or predicted functions of the homologue proteins, ten synthetic peptides (Pc-A to Pc-J) were measured for their affinity to bind cells and their potential efficacy to interfere with pathogen adhesion to the cells. Besides binding to HCEC, most of them also bound to human corneal stromal cells and umbilical endothelial cells to different extents. When added to HCEC culture, the peptides induced expression of MyD88 and IL-17 in HCEC, and the stimulated cell culture medium showed fungicidal potency to various extents. While peptides Pc-C and Pc-E inhibited Aspergillus fumigatus (A.f) adhesion to HCEC in a dose-dependent manner, the similar inhibition ability of peptides Pc-A and Pc-B required presence of their homologue ligand Alb1p on A.f. When utilized in an eyeball organ culture model and an in vivo A.f keratitis model established in mouse, Pc-C and Pc-E inhibited fungal adhesion to corneas, hence decreased corneal disruption caused by inflammatory infiltration. Affinity pull-down of HCEC membrane proteins with peptide Pc-C revealed several molecules as potential receptors for this peptide. In conclusion, besides proving that phage display-selected peptides could be utilized to interfere with adhesion of pathogens to host cells, hence could be exploited for managing infectious diseases including infectious keratitis, we also proposed that the phage display technique and the resultant peptides could be used to explore host-pathogen interactions at molecular levels."}
{"id": "22420668", "title": "Diagnosis of invasive fungal infections using real-time PCR assay in paediatric acute leukaemia induction.", "content": "Diagnosis of invasive fungal infections using real-time PCR assay in paediatric acute leukaemia induction. Invasive fungal infections (IFI) lead to morbidity and mortality in neutropenic patients and in allogenic stem cell transplantation. Serum-based fungal detection assays have limitation of specificity or sensitivity. Studies on fungal DNA detection using real-time PCR in childhood leukaemia are lacking. The aim of this study was to develop sensitive and specific diagnostic tools for IFI in paediatric acute leukaemia patients using real-time PCR. Of 100 randomised paediatric acute leukaemia patients receiving antifungal prophylaxis with voriconazole/amphotericin B, single peripheral whole blood sample in EDTA was used for Pan-AC real-time PCR assay (detects nine Candida and six Aspergillus species) in patients who failed prophylaxis due to proven, probable, possible or suspected fungal infections. PCR results were retrospectively correlated with clinical profile. Real-time PCR test was positive in 18/29 (62%) patients who failed prophylaxis. The only patient with proven IFI (mucormycosis), real-time PCR assay was negative. Real-time PCR was positive in 2/4 (50%) patients with possible and 16/24 (66.6%) suspected IFI and 5/10 (50%) patients with pneumonia. By applying method A/B, sensitivity and positive predictive value could not be commented due to unproven Aspergillus or Candida infections; specificity and negative predictive values (NPV) were 41% and 100% respectively; by method C (included episodes of possible IFI as true positive), sensitivity, specificity, PPV and NPV were 50%, 36%, 11% and 81% respectively. In those with suspected IFI, 8/24 (33.3%) were PCR negative and unnecessarily received empirical antifungal therapy (EAFT). Real-time PCR is a practical, rapid, non-invasive screening test for excluding IFI in paediatric leukaemia. The high NPV makes real-time PCR a promising tool to use this prior to initiating EAFT in antibiotic-resistant febrile neutropenic patients; this would avoid toxicity, cost and hospitalisation for EAFT (ClinicalTrials.gov identifier:NCT00624143)."}
{"id": "22414380", "title": "Enhanced fungal DNA-extraction from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue specimens by application of thermal energy.", "content": "Enhanced fungal DNA-extraction from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue specimens by application of thermal energy. Determining the etiology of invasive fungal infections (IFI) is critical for patient management as fungi vary in their susceptibility to antifungals. However, the etiology remains obscure in many cases due to negative culture results. The identification of fungal DNA by PCR in pathology blocks and sequencing it is an alternative approach to determine the cause of IFI. Previous studies identified fungal DNA in only 50% of samples with positive histopathology results, probably due to DNA damage by tissue fixation. We used realtime PCR to quantify human and fungal DNA from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue specimens in order to study the effect of thermal energy during extraction on the yield of amplifiable DNA and subsequent identification of fungal DNA. Tissue sections from eight patients with proven IFI were subjected to DNA extraction with varying exposure to thermal energy. Amplifiable DNA increased up to 76-fold by increasing the incubation temperature from 65\u00b0C to 90\u00b0C and an additional increase was documented by incubating samples for up to 6 hours at this temperature. The augmented amplification of fungal DNA was associated with improved species identification by the sequencing of the PCR amplicons. This may help illuminate the etiology of IFI and thereby improve patient management by guiding antifungal therapy."}
{"id": "22399173", "title": "[Identification of filamentous fungi isolated from clinical samples by two different methods and their susceptibility results].", "content": "[Identification of filamentous fungi isolated from clinical samples by two different methods and their susceptibility results]. Molds are widely distributed in nature. Aspergillus spp. represent the most frequently observed causative agents, however less frequent pathogens Fusarium, Scedosporium and Zygomycetes have also been considered the most important causes of morbidity and mortality in profoundly immunosuppressed hosts. The aims of this study were to identify filamentous fungi isolated from clinical specimens by conventional and molecular methods, and to detect their antifungal susceptibilities. A total of 6742 clinical specimens obtained from hospitalized patients at critical units of Mersin University Medical Faculty Hospital and sent to our laboratory between April 2008-January 2010 were included in the study. The isolates were identified by classical mycological methods and polymerase chain reaction-based DNA sequencing. Susceptibilities to fluconazole and voriconazole were tested by disk diffusion method and to fluconazole, voriconazole, amfoterisin B, caspofungin and posaconazole by E-test. Filamentous fungi were isolated from 71 (1.05%) samples (13 sputum, 4 wound, 4 peritoneal fluid, 3 extrenal ear discharge, 3 abscess and one of each cerebrospinal fluid, blood, tissue biopsy, nasal swab and conjunctival swab) which belonged to 32 patients (13 female, 19 male; age range 7 months-77 years, mean age: 46.6 years). Of the patients 62.3% presented one or more risk factors such as chronic renal failure (n= 8), chronic obstructive lung disease (n= 6), malignancy (n= 6), diabetes mellitus (n= 5) and peripheral vascular disease (n= 5). Of the isolates six were identified as Aspergillus niger, six as Aspergillus flavus, five as Aspergillus fumigatus, four as Aspergillus terreus, five as Fusarium spp., two as Bipolaris spp., and one of each as Acremonium spp., Aurebasidium spp., Mucor spp., and Scedosporium spp. By conventional methods. Three isolates exhibited different identities by DNA sequencing. All Aspergillus isolates were correctly identified at species level by both methods, Other fungi were identified at genus level by conventional methods and at species level by DNA sequencing. Fluconazole minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) values were determined as > 256 mg/L in all strains, except Scedosporium; voriconazole MIC values were < 0.38 mg/L in all Aspergillus spp. Caspofungin MIC values were > 32 mg/L for Fusarium, Scedosporium, Rhizopus and Bipolaris strains and \u2264 0.006-0.125 mg/L in all Aspergillus isolates, In three strains (Fusarium equiseti, Cylindrocarpon lichenicola and Rhizopus oryzae) posaconazole minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) values were > 32 mg/L, however it was < 1.5 mg/L, for the other strains. Amphotericin B MIC values were > 32 mg/L for Fusarium, Scedosporium, Rhizopus and all A.terreus strains and < 2 mg/L for the others. E-test and disk diffusion test results were compatible with each other for all the antifungal agents tested. In conclusion, the identification of filamentous fungi such as Aspergillus and Fusarium spp. is easily and reliably achieved by conventional methods. Since the rate of invasive fungal infections is increasing currently, filamentous molds should be searched especially in the clinical specimens of immunocompromised patients for accurate and prompt diagnosis of such infections and to decrease the related mortality risk."}
{"id": "22389879", "title": "Identification of clinical mold isolates by sequence analysis of the internal transcribed spacer region, ribosomal large-subunit D1/D2, and \u03b2-tubulin.", "content": "Identification of clinical mold isolates by sequence analysis of the internal transcribed spacer region, ribosomal large-subunit D1/D2, and \u03b2-tubulin. The identification of molds in clinical laboratories is largely on the basis of phenotypic criteria, the classification of which can be subjective. Recently, molecular methods have been introduced for identification of pathogenic molds in clinical settings. Here, we employed comparative sequence analysis to identify molds. A total of 47 clinical mold isolates were used in this study, including Aspergillus and Trichophyton. All isolates were identified by phenotypic properties, such as growth rate, colony morphology, and reproductive structures. PCR and direct sequencing, targeting the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region, the D1/D2 region of the 28S subunit, and the \u03b2-tubulin gene, were performed using primers described previously. Comparative sequence analysis by using the GenBank database was performed with the basic local alignment search tool (BLAST) algorithm. For Aspergillus, 56% and 67% of the isolates were identified to the species level by using ITS and \u03b2-tubulin analysis, respectively. Only D1/D2 analysis was useful for Trichophyton identification, with 100% of isolates being identified to the species level. Performances of ITS and D1/D2 analyses were comparable for species-level identification of molds other than Aspergillus and Trichophyton. In contrast, the efficacy of \u03b2-tubulin analysis was limited to genus identification because of the paucity of database information for this gene. The molecular methods employed in this study were valuable for mold identification, although the different loci used had variable usefulness, according to mold genus. Thus, a tailored approach is recommended when selecting amplification targets for molecular identification of molds."}
{"id": "22385627", "title": "Phylogeography of the cosmopolitan fungus Aspergillus flavus: is everything everywhere?", "content": "Phylogeography of the cosmopolitan fungus Aspergillus flavus: is everything everywhere? Aspergillus flavus is one of the most common fungal eukaryotes on the planet. It is notorious for production of aflatoxins, for causing aspergillosis in humans and animals, and as an opportunistic pathogen of animals and plants. Its role in marine habitats is unclear. Until now, little phylogeographic structure has been detected for the species, except at very local scales, and it appears to fit the classic dictum of microbial biogeography: Everything is everywhere. Here we use genetic relationships among isolates to determine phylogeographic structure, mating types, and differences in preferences for: marine vs.\u00a0terrestrial habitats, various substrates, and clinical vs. nonclinical environments. Phylogenetic relationships among isolates were estimated using amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs) and mating types were determined for a worldwide sample of A.\u00a0flavus isolates from diverse substrates and geographic locations. All isolates composed a single population, with no significant differentiation of marine vs. terrestrial isolates, clinical vs. environmental isolates, or association with substrate or geographic origin. There was evidence for local dominance of a single clade, probably clonal in origin and short-lived. The proportion of mating types was 1:1, supporting the hypothesis of recombination in natural populations. However, a high proportion of clinical isolates were MAT1-1 (85%), suggesting that a gene linked to the MAT1-1 idiomorph could play a role in pathogenicity. This study suggests that a more appropriate description of the phylogeography of A.\u00a0flavus is 'everything is everywhere, but not all the time.'"}
{"id": "22384201", "title": "Dectin-1 and DC-SIGN polymorphisms associated with invasive pulmonary Aspergillosis infection.", "content": "Dectin-1 and DC-SIGN polymorphisms associated with invasive pulmonary Aspergillosis infection. The recognition of pathogen-derived structures by C-type lectins and the chemotactic activity mediated by the CCL2/CCR2 axis are critical steps in determining the host immune response to fungi. The present study was designed to investigate whether the presence of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) within DC-SIGN, Dectin-1, Dectin-2, CCL2 and CCR2 genes influence the risk of developing Invasive Pulmonary Aspergillosis (IPA). Twenty-seven SNPs were selected using a hybrid functional/tagging approach and genotyped in 182 haematological patients, fifty-seven of them diagnosed with proven or probable IPA according to the 2008 EORTC/MSG criteria. Association analysis revealed that carriers of the Dectin-1(rs3901533 T/T) and Dectin-1(rs7309123 G/G) genotypes and DC-SIGN(rs4804800 G), DC-SIGN(rs11465384 T), DC-SIGN(7248637 A) and DC-SIGN(7252229 C) alleles had a significantly increased risk of IPA infection (OR = 5.59 95%CI 1.37-22.77; OR = 4.91 95%CI 1.52-15.89; OR = 2.75 95%CI 1.27-5.95; OR = 2.70 95%CI 1.24-5.90; OR = 2.39 95%CI 1.09-5.22 and OR = 2.05 95%CI 1.00-4.22, respectively). There was also a significantly increased frequency of galactomannan positivity among patients carrying the Dectin-1(rs3901533_T) allele and Dectin-1(rs7309123_G/G) genotype. In addition, healthy individuals with this latter genotype showed a significantly decreased level of Dectin-1 mRNA expression compared to C-allele carriers, suggesting a role of the Dectin-1(rs7309123) polymorphism in determining the levels of Dectin-1 and, consequently, the level of susceptibility to IPA infection. SNP-SNP interaction (epistasis) analysis revealed significant interactions models including SNPs in Dectin-1, Dectin-2, CCL2 and CCR2 genes, with synergistic genetic effects. Although these results need to be further validated in larger cohorts, they suggest that Dectin-1, DC-SIGN, Dectin-2, CCL2 and CCR2 genetic variants influence the risk of IPA infection and might be useful in developing a risk-adapted prophylaxis."}
{"id": "22382738", "title": "The performance of real-time PCR, galactomannan, and fungal culture in the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in ventilated patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).", "content": "The performance of real-time PCR, galactomannan, and fungal culture in the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in ventilated patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Emerging reports have associated chronic pulmonary obstructive disease (COPD) with invasive aspergillosis (IA), particularly in patients treated with mechanical ventilation and/or corticosteroids. This is a multicentre study in which COPD patients demonstrating a new lung infiltrate while being mechanically ventilated were prospectively evaluated for the presence of IA. From the 47 patients studied, Aspergillus fumigatus was recovered in culture in two patients (4.2%). While serum galactomannan (GM) was negative for 94% of patients, GM levels in respiratory samples were >0.5, >1.0 and >1.5 for 74.5, 40.5, and 21.3% of patients, respectively. PCR was positive for 10 patients in the study but did not differentiate Aspergillus colonization from infection. The combination of PCR and GM in respiratory samples may be an interesting alternative to diagnose IA in COPD patients."}
{"id": "22378557", "title": "Early diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in a young immunocompetent patient.", "content": "Early diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in a young immunocompetent patient. A 22-year-old insulin-dependent diabetic male was admitted for diabetic ketoacidosis. He developed hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP) for which empirical antibiotic and antifungal therapy was started on the ward. On day 6, clinical and laboratory findings worsened, and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) was performed. Serum real time-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) indicated invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) and led to antifungal therapy being initiated 48 hours before the results of the BAL culture were available. Despite early appropriate antifungal therapy, however, the patient died on day 22 while being supported by venovenous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation."}
{"id": "22371227", "title": "XlnR-independent signaling pathway regulates both cellulase and xylanase genes in response to cellobiose in Aspergillus aculeatus.", "content": "XlnR-independent signaling pathway regulates both cellulase and xylanase genes in response to cellobiose in Aspergillus aculeatus. The expression levels of the cellulase and xylanase genes between the host strain and an xlnR disruptant were compared by quantitative RT-PCR (qPCR) to identify the genes controlled by XlnR-independent signaling pathway. The cellulose induction of the FI-carboxymethyl cellulase (cmc1) and FIb-xylanase (xynIb) genes was controlled by XlnR; in contrast, the cellulose induction of the FIII-avicelase (cbhI), FII-carboxymethyl cellulase (cmc2), and FIa-xylanase (xynIa) genes was controlled by an XlnR-independent signaling pathway. To gain deeper insight into the XlnR-independent signaling pathway, the expression profile of cbhI was analyzed as a representative target gene. Cellobiose together with 1-deoxynojirimycin (DNJ), a glucosidase inhibitor, induced cbhI the most efficiently among disaccharides composed of \u03b2-glucosidic bonds. Furthermore, cellobiose with DNJ induced the transcription of cmc2 and xynIa, whereas cmc1 and xynIb were not induced. GUS reporter fusion analyses of truncated and mutated cbhI promoters revealed that three regions were necessary for effective cellulose-induced transcription, all of which contained the conserved sequence 5'-CCGN(2)CCN(7)G(C/A)-3' within the CeRE, which has been identified as the upstream activating element essential for expression of eglA in A. nidulans (Endo et al. 2008). The data therefore delineate a pathway in which A. aculeatus perceives the presence of cellobiose, thereby activating a signaling pathway that drives cellulase and hemicellulase gene expression under the control of the XlnR-independent regulation through CeRE."}
{"id": "22341916", "title": "Strain-specific polyketide synthase genes of Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Strain-specific polyketide synthase genes of Aspergillus niger. In silico comparison of 34 putative pks genes in Aspergillus niger strain CBS 513.88 versus A. niger strain ATCC 1015 genome revealed significant nucleotide identity (>95% covering a minimum of 99% of the gene sequence) for 31 of these genes (approximately 91%). A. niger CBS 513.88 harbors three putative pks genes (An01g01130, An11g05940, and An15g07920), for which nucleotide identity was not found in A. niger ATCC 1015. To compare the results of the in silico analysis with the in vivo situation, experimental data were obtained for a large number of A. niger strains obtained from different substrates and geographical regions. Three putative pks genes that were found to be variable between the two A. niger strains using bioinformatics tools were in fact strain-specific genes based on experimental data. The PCR amplification signals for the An01g01130, An11g05940, and An15g07920 pks genes were detected in only 97%, 71%, and 26% of the strains, respectively. Southern blot analyses confirmed the PCR data. Because one of the strain-specific pks genes (An15g07920) is located in a putative ochratoxin cluster, we focused our investigation on that region. We assessed the ochratoxin production capability of the 119 A. niger strains and found a positive association between the presence of this pks gene and the capability of the respective strain to produce ochratoxin."}
{"id": "22328370", "title": "Gene disruption in Aspergillus fumigatus using a PCR-based strategy and in vivo recombination in yeast.", "content": "Gene disruption in Aspergillus fumigatus using a PCR-based strategy and in vivo recombination in yeast. Aspergillus fumigatus is a ubiquitous, filamentous fungal saprophyte and is the causative agent of the vast majority of aspergillosis in that invasive aspergillosis is the life-threatening form of infection by this fungus. The study of gene function using null mutants in this organism can be achieved through DNA-mediated transformation with an engineered deletion cassette containing about 2 kb of the 5'- and 3'-flanking region of the target gene and a selectable marker. Here, we describe the use of a PCR-based strategy and \"in vivo\" recombination in Saccharomyces cerevisiae to produce gene deletion cassettes for A. fumigatus, using an auxotrophic marker for gene replacement. This protocol produces highly effective deletion cassettes and permits the rapid disruption of genes identified in the recently available A. fumigatus genome."}
{"id": "22327593", "title": "Presence and functionality of mating type genes in the supposedly asexual filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Presence and functionality of mating type genes in the supposedly asexual filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae. The potential for sexual reproduction in Aspergillus oryzae was assessed by investigating the presence and functionality of MAT genes. Previous genome studies had identified a MAT1-1 gene in the reference strain RIB40. We now report the existence of a complementary MAT1-2 gene and the sequencing of an idiomorphic region from A. oryzae strain AO6. This allowed the development of a PCR diagnostic assay, which detected isolates of the MAT1-1 and MAT1-2 genotypes among 180 strains assayed, including industrial tane-koji isolates. Strains used for sake and miso production showed a near-1:1 ratio of the MAT1-1 and MAT1-2 mating types, whereas strains used for soy sauce production showed a significant bias toward the MAT1-2 mating type. MAT1-1 and MAT1-2 isogenic strains were then created by genetic manipulation of the resident idiomorph, and gene expression was compared by DNA microarray and quantitative real-time PCR (qRT-PCR) methodologies under conditions in which MAT genes were expressed. Thirty-three genes were found to be upregulated more than 10-fold in either the MAT1-1 host strain or the MAT1-2 gene replacement strain relative to each other, showing that both the MAT1-1 and MAT1-2 genes functionally regulate gene expression in A. oryzae in a mating type-dependent manner, the first such report for a supposedly asexual fungus. MAT1-1 expression specifically upregulated an \u03b1-pheromone precursor gene, but the functions of most of the genes affected were unknown. The results are consistent with a heterothallic breeding system in A. oryzae, and prospects for the discovery of a sexual cycle are discussed."}
{"id": "22305540", "title": "Improved production of heterologous lipase in Trichoderma reesei by RNAi mediated gene silencing of an endogenic highly expressed gene.", "content": "Improved production of heterologous lipase in Trichoderma reesei by RNAi mediated gene silencing of an endogenic highly expressed gene. A lipase gene (Lip) of the Aspergillus niger was de novo synthesized and expressed in the Trichoderma reesei under the promoter of the cellobiohydrolase I gene (cbh1). RNAi-mediated gene silencing was successfully used to further improve the recombinant lipase production via down-regulation of CBHI which comprised more than 60% of the total extracellular proteins in T. reesei. The gene and protein expression of CBHI and recombinant lipase were analyzed by real-time PCR, SDS-PAGE and activity assay. The results demonstrated that RNAi-mediated gene silencing could effectively suppress cbh1 gene expression and the reduction of CBHI could result in obvious improvement of heterologous lipase production. The reconstructed strains with decreased CBHI production exhibited 1.8- to 3.2-fold increase in lipase activity than that of parental strain. The study herein provided a feasible and advantageous method of increasing heterologous target gene expression in T. reesei through preventing the high expression of a specific endogenenous gene by RNA interference."}
{"id": "22305239", "title": "Use of 18S ribosomal DNA polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis to study composition of fungal community in 2 patients with intestinal transplants.", "content": "Use of 18S ribosomal DNA polymerase chain reaction-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis to study composition of fungal community in 2 patients with intestinal transplants. Fungi form a diverse microbial community in the human intestine. Little is known about the succession of species after intestinal transplantation. We investigated the alterations of the gut fungal population in 2 patients with intestinal allografts. The ileal effluent and feces were fingerprinted using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis, with confirmation by DNA sequencing. Analysis of 18S ribosomal DNA indicated that the phylogenetic diversity of the fungal communities was higher soon after transplantation; less diversity was observed at the later time points in patient 1. The shifts in the denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis banding patterns over time were similar in the effluent and feces in this patient. Similar changes in the fungi in the effluent and feces also were observed in patient 2. Sequence analysis of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis bands showed that Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Kluyveromyces waltii dominated the fungal microbiota in both patients. Some species, including Candida spp, Cryptococcus neoformans, Fusarium oxysporum, Aspergillus clavatus, and Trichophyton verrucosum, were present early. We report for the first time the temporal alterations in fungal communities in patients with an intestinal allograft. This information may provide novel insight into the roles of the fungal microbiota in the pathophysiology of the transplanted intestine."}
{"id": "22265982", "title": "Display of cellulases on the cell surface of Saccharomyces cerevisiae for high yield ethanol production from high-solid lignocellulosic biomass.", "content": "Display of cellulases on the cell surface of Saccharomyces cerevisiae for high yield ethanol production from high-solid lignocellulosic biomass. Economically feasible processes for industrial cellulosic ethanol production requires increasing the final ethanol titer during fermentation due to the high energy demands of the subsequent ethanol distillation. In the present study, high-yield ethanol production was achieved by short-term liquefaction and fermentation of lignocellulose biomass in a novel drum-type rotary fermentation system using a yeast strain developed for cell-surface display of fungal endoglucanase, cellobiohydrolase, and \u03b2-glucosidase. In the presence of 10 FPU/g-biomass cellulase added, the recombinant cellulolytic strain produced 1.4-fold higher ethanol (89% of theoretical yield) from high-solid (200 g-dry weight/L) rice straw within 72 h of fermentation than wild type strain. Cell-surface engineering successfully reduced the amount of commercial enzyme required for the fermentation of cellulose. This study demonstrates that cellulases displayed on the yeast cell surface are capable of hydrolyzing cellulose that was not hydrolyzed by commercial cellulases, leading to increased sugar utilization for improved ethanol production."}
{"id": "22263641", "title": "RT-qPCR detection of Aspergillus fumigatus RNA in vitro and in a murine model of invasive aspergillosis utilizing the PAXgene\u00ae and Tempus\u2122 RNA stabilization systems.", "content": "RT-qPCR detection of Aspergillus fumigatus RNA in vitro and in a murine model of invasive aspergillosis utilizing the PAXgene\u00ae and Tempus\u2122 RNA stabilization systems. Molecular diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) is a potentially life-saving tool in the care of at-risk individuals. To date, the development of PCR-based diagnostic tests has been hampered by the lack of standardization in the methods for such critical activities. In this study, we used both spiked volunteer blood samples and a murine model of IA to test the utility of the PAXgene and Tempus systems for stabilization and isolation of fungal RNA from blood as part of an evaluation of a new diagnostic strategy. In spiking experiments, RNA isolation followed by RT-qPCR that targeted the 18S gene was compared to a standard DNA isolation and qPCR assay that targeted the ITS ribosomal region. We demonstrated that both PAXgene and Tempus RNA stabilization and extraction systems followed by RT-qPCR had similar performance in detecting fungal RNA in blood samples from Aspergillus fumigates-infected mice. In spiked samples, the Tempus system performed better than the PAXgene system as it detected 100% of all samples spiked with 10 or 20 germinated Aspergillus conidia/ml blood sample as compared to the PAXgene system which detected 33% and 56% of the samples spiked with 10 or 20 conidia/ml, respectively. The stabilization of fungal nucleic acids in blood samples and its efficient isolation by a commercial method is an important step in the development of standardized molecular diagnostic tools that are needed to improve the outcomes for individuals with IA."}
{"id": "22248125", "title": "Interlaboratory comparison of PCR-based identification of Candida and Aspergillus DNA in spiked blood samples.", "content": "Interlaboratory comparison of PCR-based identification of Candida and Aspergillus DNA in spiked blood samples. Despite PCR per se being a powerful and sensitive technique, regarding the detection of fungi in patients' blood, no consensus for a standardised PCR protocol yet exists. To complement other ongoing or accomplished studies which tackle this problem, the German Reference Center for Systemic Mycoses conducted an interlaboratory comparison starting with blood samples spiked with fungal cell elements. Altogether, six laboratories using in-house PCR-protocols from Germany and Austria participated in the trial. Blood samples were spiked with vital cells of Candida albicans or Aspergillus fumigatus. Candida was used in the yeast form, whereas Aspergillus cells were either spiked as conidia or as very young germlings, also known as smoo cells. Spiked blood samples contained between 10 and 10 000 cells ml(-1). Depending on the techniques used for fungal cell disruption and DNA-amplification, detection quality was variable between laboratories, but also differed within single laboratories in different trials particularly for samples spiked with less than 100 cells ml(-1). Altogether, at least regarding the detection of A. fumigatus, two of six laboratories showed constant reliable test results also with low fungal cell number spiked samples. Protocols used by these labs do not differ substantially from others. However, as particularities, one protocol included a conventional phenol chloroform extraction during the DNA preparation process and the other included a real time PCR-protocol based on FRET probes. Other laboratory comparisons on the basis of clinical samples should follow to further evaluate the procedures. The difficulties and problems of such trials in general are discussed."}
{"id": "22230933", "title": "Comparison of DNA extraction methodologies used for assessing fungal diversity via ITS sequencing.", "content": "Comparison of DNA extraction methodologies used for assessing fungal diversity via ITS sequencing. Traditional methods of assessing fungal exposure have been confounded by a number of limiting variables. The recent utilization of molecular methods such as internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequencing of ribosomal RNA genes has provided improved insight into the diversity of fungal bioaerosols in indoor, outdoor and occupational environments. However, ITS analyses may also be confounded by a number of methodological limitations. In this study, we have optimized this technology for use in occupational or environmental studies. Three commonly used DNA extraction methodologies (UltraClean Soil kit, High Pure PCR Template kit, and EluQuik/DNeasy kit) were compared in terms of sensitivity and susceptibility to PCR inhibitors in dust for three common fungal bioaerosols, Aspergillus versicolor, Rhizopus microsporus and Wallemia sebi. Environmental dust samples were then studied using each extraction methodology and results were compared to viable culture data. The extraction methods differed in terms of their ability to efficiently extract DNA from particular species of fungi (e.g. Aspergillus versicolor). In addition, the ability to remove PCR inhibitors from dust samples was most effective using the soil DNA extraction kit. The species composition varied greatly between ITS clone libraries generated with the different DNA extraction kits. However, compared to viable culture data, ITS clone libraries included additional fungal species that are incapable of growth on solid culture medium. Collectively, our data indicated that DNA extraction methodologies used in ITS sequencing studies of occupational or environmental dust samples can greatly influence the fungal species that are detected."}
{"id": "22227105", "title": "Influence of sub-lethal antioxidant doses, water potential and temperature on growth, sclerotia, aflatoxins and aflD (=nor-1) expression by Aspergillus flavus RCP08108.", "content": "Influence of sub-lethal antioxidant doses, water potential and temperature on growth, sclerotia, aflatoxins and aflD (=nor-1) expression by Aspergillus flavus RCP08108. Effects of interacting conditions of sub-lethal levels of antioxidants, water potential (\u03a8) and temperature were evaluated on growth, sclerotial characteristics, aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1)) production and aflD (=nor-1) gene expression by Aspergillus flavus strain RCP08108. These studies were carried out on peanut meal extract agar osmotically modified to -2.8,-7.1, -9.9 and -16.0 MPa and incubated at 28 and 20\u00b0C. The food grade antioxidants added were butylated hydroxyanisole (BHA) and butylated hydroxytoluene (BHT) at (1+1 mM-M1) and (5+5 mM-M2). To relate the aflD expression after toxigenic A. flavus grew under interacting stress conditions, real-time PCR was used. Antioxidant mixtures caused a higher and significant (p<0.001) reduction in growth rate. The major impact on size and volume sclerotia was produced by \u03a8; followed by antioxidant mixtures. High AFB(1) levels were observed in response to the M1 applied at -7.1 MPa. Induction of the aflD gene was observed in response to the M1 treatment at -2.8, -7.1 and -9.9 MPa; but significant decreases of AFB(1) production and aflD transcripts were observed; when the fungus grew in the presence of the M2 treatment. These results showed that it is necessary to apply food-grade antioxidants into the peanut storage system at levels higher than 5 mM. This is an important tool to avoid sub-lethal antioxidant doses that can lead to fungal growth, increase resistance structures, and stimulate aflD gene expression and AFB(1) accumulation in this substrate."}
{"id": "22221359", "title": "Development of a PCR protocol to detect aflatoxigenic molds in food products.", "content": "Development of a PCR protocol to detect aflatoxigenic molds in food products. Aflatoxins are secondary metabolites produced mainly by Aspergillus species growing in foodstuffs. Because aflatoxins have important health effects, the detection of early contamination of foods by aflatoxigenic molds should be useful. In the present work, a reliable conventional PCR method for detecting aflatoxigenic molds of various species was developed. Fifty-six aflatoxigenic and nonaflatoxigenic strains commonly reported in foodstuffs were tested. Aflatoxin production was first confirmed by micellar electrokinetic capillary electrophoresis or/and high-pressure liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry. Based on the conserved regions of the O-methyltransferase gene (omt-1) involved in the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway, six primer pairs were designed. With only the designed primer pair AFF1-AFR3, the expected PCR product (381 bp) was obtained in all of the tested aflatoxigenic strains of various species and genera. Amplification products were not obtained with this primer pair for any of the nonaflatoxigenic reference molds. However, an amplicon of 453 bp was obtained for all aflatoxigenic and nonaflatoxigenic mold reference strains with a PCR protocol based on the constitutive fungal \u03b2-tubulin gene, which was used as a positive fungal control. The PCR protocol based on omt-1 detected as little as 15 pg of DNA from aflatoxigenic molds and 10(2) to 10(3) CFU/g in contaminated food samples. This PCR protocol should be used as a routine technique to detect aflatoxigenic molds in foods."}
{"id": "22220187", "title": "A water-damaged home and health of occupants: a case study.", "content": "A water-damaged home and health of occupants: a case study. A family of five and pet dog who rented a water-damaged home and developed multiple health problems. The home was analyzed for species of mold and bacteria. The diagnostics included MRI for chronic sinusitis with ENT and sinus surgery, and neurological testing for neurocognitive deficits. Bulk samples from the home, tissue from the sinuses, urine, nasal secretions, placenta, umbilical cord, and breast milk were tested for the presence of trichothecenes, aflatoxins, and Ochratoxin A. The family had the following diagnosed conditions: chronic sinusitis, neurological deficits, coughing with wheeze, nose bleeds, and fatigue among other symptoms. An infant was born with a total body flare, developed multiple Cafe-au-Lait pigmented skin spots and diagnoses with NF1 at age 2. The mycotoxins were detected in bulk samples, urine and nasal secretions, breast milk, placenta, and umbilical cord. Pseudomonas aueroginosa, Acinetobacter, Penicillium, and Aspergillus fumigatus were cultured from nasal secretions (father and daughter). RT-PCR revealed A. fumigatus DNA in sinus tissues of the daughter. The dog had 72 skin lesions (sebaceous glands and lipomas) from which trichothecenes and ochratoxin A. were detected. The health of the family is discussed in relation to the most recent published literature regarding microbial contamination and toxic by-products present in water-damaged buildings."}
{"id": "22219607", "title": "Real-time nucleic acid sequence-based amplification to predict the clinical outcome of invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Real-time nucleic acid sequence-based amplification to predict the clinical outcome of invasive aspergillosis. Monitoring the response to therapy for invasive aspergillosis (IA) is essential for the management of patients with hematologic diseases. We evaluated the correlation between the outcome of real-time nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (RTi-NASBA) for Aspergillus 18S rRNA and the clinical outcome of IA. A total of 157 serum samples from 29 patients with IA were tested for RTi-NASBA. The treatment response and mortality were compared with the NASBA outcome (whether the NASBA value was converted to negative or not) at 12 weeks after the start of antifungal therapy. At 12 weeks, there was a moderate correlation between the treatment failure and persistently positive NASBA (\u03ba = 0.482; P = 0.019). Deaths attributable to IA were more prevalent in patients without negative conversion of NASBA than in those with negative conversion (50% vs 5%; P = 0.013). Significant factors of treatment failure at 12 weeks were the status of hematologic disease (nonremission; P = 0.041) and the NASBA outcome (failure of negative conversion; P = 0.024). Survival was significantly better in patients with negative conversion of NASBA than those with persistently positive values (P = 0.036). This study suggests that the serial monitoring of RTi-NASBA could be useful for prediction of the clinical outcome in hematologic patients with IA."}
{"id": "22207035", "title": "A further study on chromosome minimization by protoplast fusion in Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "A further study on chromosome minimization by protoplast fusion in Aspergillus oryzae. Our goal in this work was to develop a method to minimize the chromosomes of Aspergillus oryzae, to arrive at a deeper understanding of essential gene functions that will help create more efficient industrially useful strains. In a previous study, we successfully constructed a highly reduced chromosome 7 using multiple large-scale chromosomal deletions (Jin et al. in Mol Genet Genomics 283:1-12, 2010). Here, we have created a further reduced chromosome A. oryzae mutant harboring a reduced chromosome 7 and a reduced chromosome 8 both of which contain a large number of non-syntenic blocks. These are the smallest A. oryzae chromosomes that have been reported. Protoplast fusion between the two distinct chromosome-reduced mutants produced a vigorous and stable fusant which was isolated. PCR and flow cytometry confirmed that two kinds of nuclei, derived from the parent strains, existed in this fusant and that the chromosome DNA per nucleus was doubled, suggesting that the fusant was a heterozygous diploid strain. By treating the cell with 1 \u03bcg/ml benomyl, cell nuclei haploidization was induced in the stable diploid strain. Array comparative genomic hybridization and pulsed-field gel electrophoresis confirmed that the reduced chromosomes 7 and 8 co-existed in the haploid fusant and that no other chromosomal modifications had occurred. This method provides a useful tool for chromosome engineering in A. oryzae to construct an industry-useful strain."}
{"id": "22196205", "title": "Invasive mycoses: diagnostic challenges.", "content": "Invasive mycoses: diagnostic challenges. Despite the availability of newer antifungal drugs, outcomes for patients with invasive fungal infections (IFIs) continue to be poor, in large part due to delayed diagnosis and initiation of appropriate antifungal therapy. Standard histopathologic diagnostic techniques are often untenable in at-risk patients, and culture-based diagnostics typically are too insensitive or nonspecific, or provide results after too long a delay for optimal IFI management. Newer surrogate markers of IFIs with improved sensitivity and specificity are needed to enable earlier diagnosis and, ideally, to provide prognostic information and/or permit therapeutic monitoring. Surrogate assays should also be accessible and easy to implement in the hospital. Several nonculture-based assays of newer surrogates are making their way into the medical setting or are currently under investigation. These new or up-and-coming surrogates include antigens/antibodies (mannan and antimannan antibodies) or fungal metabolites (d-arabinitol) for detection of invasive candidiasis, the Aspergillus cell wall component galactomannan used to detect invasive aspergillosis, or the fungal cell wall component and panfungal marker \u03b2-glucan. In addition, progress continues with use of polymerase chain reaction- or other nucleic acid- or molecular-based assays for diagnosis of either specific or generic IFIs, although the various methods must be better standardized before any of these approaches can be more fully implemented into the medical setting. Investigators are also beginning to explore the possibility of combining newer surrogate markers with each other or with more standard diagnostic approaches to improve sensitivity, specificity, and capacity for earlier diagnosis, at a time when fungal burden is still relatively low and more responsive to antifungal therapy."}
{"id": "22189121", "title": "Development of specific sequence-characterized amplified region markers for detecting Histoplasma capsulatum in clinical and environmental samples.", "content": "Development of specific sequence-characterized amplified region markers for detecting Histoplasma capsulatum in clinical and environmental samples. Sequence-characterized amplified region (SCAR) markers, generated by randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD)-PCR, were developed to detect Histoplasma capsulatum selectively in clinical and environmental samples. A 1,200-bp RAPD-PCR-specific band produced with the 1281-1283 primers was cloned, sequenced, and used to design two SCAR markers, 1281-1283(220) and 1281-1283(230). The specificity of these markers was confirmed by Southern hybridization. To evaluate the relevance of the SCAR markers for the diagnosis of histoplasmosis, another molecular marker (M antigen probe) was used for comparison. To validate 1281-1283(220) and 1281-1283(230) as new tools for the identification of H. capsulatum, the specificity and sensitivity of these markers were assessed for the detection of the pathogen in 36 clinical (17 humans, as well as 9 experimentally and 10 naturally infected nonhuman mammals) and 20 environmental (10 contaminated soil and 10 guano) samples. Although the two SCAR markers and the M antigen probe identified H. capsulatum isolates from different geographic origins in America, the 1281-1283(220) SCAR marker was the most specific and detected the pathogen in all samples tested. In contrast, the 1281-1283(230) SCAR marker and the M antigen probe also amplified DNA from Aspergillus niger and Cryptococcus neoformans, respectively. Both SCAR markers detected as little as 0.001 ng of H. capsulatum DNA, while the M antigen probe detected 0.5 ng of fungal DNA. The SCAR markers revealed the fungal presence better than the M antigen probe in contaminated soil and guano samples. Based on our results, the 1281-1283(220) marker can be used to detect and identify H. capsulatum in samples from different sources."}
{"id": "22160911", "title": "Cloning and expression of hemicellulases from Aspergillus nidulans in Pichia pastoris.", "content": "Cloning and expression of hemicellulases from Aspergillus nidulans in Pichia pastoris. The methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris is increasingly used for heterologous expression of high quality proteins in laboratory-scale (milligram) quantities. Commercially available polysaccharide-active enzyme preparations have limited applications in plant cell wall research due to their heterogeneous mix of hydrolytic activities. P. pastoris provides an ideal in vitro expression system for producing monocomponent enzymes, since it lacks endogenous plant cell wall-active enzymes and can perform eukaryotic post-translational modifications (i.e., glycosylation). We have routinely prepared cDNA constructs from Aspergillus nidulans encoding a broad array of hydrolases active on various linkages contained in plant cell wall polysaccharides. The cDNAs were inserted into the pPICZ\u03b1 C shuttle vector (Invitrogen) in-frame with the Saccharomyces cerevisiae \u03b1-secretion factor and expressed under the transcriptional control of the highly inducible alcohol oxidase 1 (AOX1) promoter. The enzyme products were efficiently secreted into buffered complex methanol medium (BMMY) as C-terminal his-tagged proteins for simple one-step affinity purification. The insertion of the c-Myc epitope enabled easy immunodetection. Here we present the detailed protocols for primer design, cloning, expression, and activity assays for a representative set of xylan-acting hemicellulases produced in P. pastoris."}
{"id": "22160328", "title": "High-level expression and characterization of a highly thermostable chitosanase from Aspergillus fumigatus in Pichia pastoris.", "content": "High-level expression and characterization of a highly thermostable chitosanase from Aspergillus fumigatus in Pichia pastoris. The sequence of an endo-chitosanase gene (CSN) from Aspergillus fumigatus was optimized based on the preferred codons of Pichia pastoris and synthesized in vitro through overlapping PCR (CSN-P). The gene was cloned into a yeast expression vector, pHBM905A, and secretorily expressed in Pichia pastoris GS115. The yield of CSN-P reached ~3 mg/ml with a high-density fermentation in a 14 l fermenter and the enzyme activity was ~25,000 U/ml. The enzyme had half-lives of 2.5 h at 80\u00b0C, 1 h at 90\u00b0C and 32 min at 100\u00b0C. It retained 70% activity after incubation with 10 M urea at room temperature for 30 min. This enzyme was used for a large-scale preparation of oligosaccharides: 3 g enzyme converted 200 kg chitosan into oligosaccharides in 24 h at 60\u00b0C."}
{"id": "22151280", "title": "A real-time PCR for the detection and characterisation of Aspergillus species.", "content": "A real-time PCR for the detection and characterisation of Aspergillus species. An early diagnosis of an invasive fungal infection is essential for the initiation of a specific antifungal therapy and to avoid unnecessary discontinuation of a baseline therapy for haematological or oncological diseases. A real-time PCR assay for the detection and strain identification of Aspergillus species from culture strains was evaluated. DNA preparation was evaluated in contaminated culture media, urine and serum. A LightCycler PCR to differentiate various Aspergillus species was established. A real-time PCR assay for the detection of Aspergillus species was improved and was able to detect and differentiate medically important Aspergillus spp. The sensitivity of the test was <10 plasmid equivalents/assay. The real-time PCR assay is a useful tool for the rapid identification of Aspergillus species and might be useful as an early diagnostic tool to detect an invasive fungal infection. A real-time PCR protocol was improved by generating plasmid standards, additional generation of melting curves for species identification and the correlation between the melting temperature and the nucleotide exchanges within the used 18S rRNA gene region."}
{"id": "22150297", "title": "Contribution of a cyclonic-based liquid air collector for detecting Aspergillus fumigatus by QPCR in air samples.", "content": "Contribution of a cyclonic-based liquid air collector for detecting Aspergillus fumigatus by QPCR in air samples."}
{"id": "22143434", "title": "Recurrent Aspergillus contamination in a biomedical research facility: a case study.", "content": "Recurrent Aspergillus contamination in a biomedical research facility: a case study. Fungal contamination of biomedical processes and facilities can result in major revenue loss and product delay. A biomedical research facility (BRF) culturing human cell lines experienced recurring fungal contamination of clean room incubators over a 3-year period. In 2010, as part of the plan to mitigate contamination, 20 fungal specimens were isolated by air and swab samples at various locations within the BRF. Aspergillus niger and Aspergillus fumigatus were isolated from several clean-room incubators. A. niger and A. fumigatus were identified using sequence comparison of the 18S rRNA gene. To determine whether the contaminant strains isolated in 2010 were the same as or different from strains isolated between 2007 and 2009, a novel forensic approach to random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) PCR was used. The phylogenetic relationship among isolates showed two main genotypic clusters, and indicated the continual presence of the same A. fumigatus strain in the clean room since 2007. Biofilms can serve as chronic sources of contamination; visual inspection of plugs within the incubators revealed fungal biofilms. Moreover, confocal microscopy imaging of flow cell-grown biofilms demonstrated that the strains isolated from the incubators formed dense biofilms relative to other environmental isolates from the BRF. Lastly, the efficacies of various disinfectants employed at the BRF were examined for their ability to prevent spore germination. Overall, the investigation found that the use of rubber plugs around thermometers in the tissue culture incubators provided a microenvironment where A. fumigatus could survive regular surface disinfection. A general lesson from this case study is that the presence of microenvironments harboring contaminants can undermine decontamination procedures and serve as a source of recurrent contamination."}
{"id": "22134599", "title": "Estimating biodiversity of fungi in activated sludge communities using culture-independent methods.", "content": "Estimating biodiversity of fungi in activated sludge communities using culture-independent methods. Fungal diversity of communities in several activated sludge plants treating different influent wastes was determined by comparative sequence analyses of their 18S rRNA genes. Methods for DNA extraction and choice of primers for PCR amplification were both optimised using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis profile patterns. Phylogenetic analysis revealed that the levels of fungal biodiversity in some communities, like those treating paper pulp wastes, were low, and most of the fungi detected in all communities examined were novel uncultured representatives of the major fungal subdivisions, in particular, the newly described clade Cryptomycota. The fungal populations in activated sludge revealed by these culture-independent methods were markedly different to those based on culture-dependent data. Members of the genera Penicillium, Cladosporium, Aspergillus and Mucor, which have been commonly identified in mixed liquor, were not identified in any of these plant communities. Non-fungal eukaryotic 18S rRNA genes were also amplified with the primer sets used. This is the first report where culture-independent methods have been applied to flocculated activated sludge biomass samples to estimate fungal community composition and, as expected, the data obtained gave a markedly different view of their population biodiversity compared to that based on culture-dependent methods."}
{"id": "22124127", "title": "Luminescent-activated transfected killer cells to monitor leukocyte trafficking during systemic bacterial and fungal infection.", "content": "Luminescent-activated transfected killer cells to monitor leukocyte trafficking during systemic bacterial and fungal infection. Activated transfected killer (ATAK) cells are immortal phagocytes transfected with a luminescence reporter that effectively treat lethal infections in neutropenic mice. Their in vivo trafficking, lifespan, and immunogenicity are unknown. Mice were made neutropenic; infected or not with Staphylococcus aureus, Acinetobacter baumannii, Candida albicans, or Aspergillus fumigatus; and treated intraperitoneally with ATAK cells. Cell trafficking and lifespan were assessed by in vivo imaging and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. In uninfected neutropenic mice, ATAK cells spread from the mesentery into visceral organs on days 1-3. Splenic accumulation of ATAK cells increased at day 1 after infection with S. aureus and A. baumannii, and kidney accumulation increased in mice infected with C. albicans. Lung accumulation was seen at day 3 in mice infected by inhalation with A. fumigatus. By day 8, coincident with increasing anti-ATAK antibodies, luminescence signal was lost and there was no detectable mRNA transcription from ATAK cells. ATAK cells accumulated in target organs with distinct profiles, depending on the microbial etiology of infection. Finally, generation of an anti-ATAK immune response may provide an important safety mechanism that helps clear the cells from the host as the marrow recovers."}
{"id": "22101445", "title": "Improving phytase enzyme activity in a recombinant phyA mutant phytase from Aspergillus niger N25 by error-prone PCR.", "content": "Improving phytase enzyme activity in a recombinant phyA mutant phytase from Aspergillus niger N25 by error-prone PCR. The mutant acid phytase (phyA ( m )) gene was modified by random mutagenesis to improve enzymatic activity by using an error-prone PCR (ep-PCR) strategy. The mutated gene was linearized and inserted into plasmid vector pPIC9K and transformed by electroporation into Pichia pastoris GS115. A single transformant, PP-NP(ep)-6A, showing the strongest phytase activity from among the 5,500 transformants, was selected for detailed analyses. Southern blot analysis of the mutant yeast transformant showed that phyA ( ep ) gene was integrated into the chromosome genome through single crossover with one copy of phyA. The kinetic parameters indicated that the mutant one showed 61% higher specific activity and 53% lower k (m) value than that of PP-NP(m)-8 (P\u2009<\u20090.05). In addition, the overall catalytic efficiency (k (cat)/k (m)) of the mutant one was 84% higher (P\u2009<\u20090.05) than that of PP-NP(m)-8. Nine bases were altered in the mutant sequences, which resulted in three amino acid changes, namely, Glu156Gly, Thr236Ala, and Gln396Arg. The structural predictions indicated that the mutations generated by ep-PCR somehow reorganized or remodeled the active site, which could lead to increasing catalytic efficiency."}
{"id": "22082828", "title": "Aspergillus hazardous problem in ceramic workers.", "content": "Aspergillus hazardous problem in ceramic workers. Ceramic workers are at a high risk of developing respiratory problems as they are exposed to high levels of respirable dust containing silica and high microbial counts, including high Aspergillus counts. The aim of the study was to study the percentage of ceramic workers with positive Aspergillus (A.) through polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and specific IgE (sIgE) for the different Aspergillus species. PCR and specific IgE (sIgE) for the different Aspergillus species (A. flavus, A. fumigatus and A. niger) were estimated in 40 ceramic workers and 56 control subjects. Results revealed that 32.5% of the workers' sputum was PCR positive for Aspergillus. About 69.2% of them were A. flavus positive, 15.4% A. niger positive, 7.7% A. fumigatus positive and 7.7% A. flavus and A. fumigatus positive. The percentage change in sIgE for A. fumigatus between the workers and their controls was over 100%, while less than 50% for the other two species. The sIgE levels for the three Aspergillus species were not significantly correlated with the duration of exposure. Fungal exposure could be considered potential hazardous problem in ceramic industry. There were no significant correlations between the duration of exposure and the sIgE for the different Aspergillus species."}
{"id": "22038601", "title": "Heme-biosynthetic porphobilinogen deaminase protects Aspergillus nidulans from nitrosative stress.", "content": "Heme-biosynthetic porphobilinogen deaminase protects Aspergillus nidulans from nitrosative stress. Microorganisms have developed mechanisms to combat reactive nitrogen species (RNS); however, only a few of the fungal genes involved have been characterized. Here we screened RNS-resistant Aspergillus nidulans strains from fungal transformants obtained by introducing a genomic DNA library constructed in a multicopy vector. We found that the AN0121.3 gene (hemC) encodes a protein similar to the heme biosynthesis enzyme porphobilinogen deaminase (PBG-D) and facilitates RNS-tolerant fungal growth. The overproduction of PBG-D in A. nidulans promoted RNS tolerance, whereas PBG-D repression caused growth that was hypersensitive to RNS. PBG-D levels were comparable to those of cellular protoheme synthesis as well as flavohemoglobin (FHb; encoded by fhbA and fhbB) and nitrite reductase (NiR; encoded by niiA) activities. Both FHb and NiR are hemoproteins that consume nitric oxide and nitrite, respectively, and we found that they are required for maximal growth in the presence of RNS. The transcription of hemC was upregulated by RNS. These results demonstrated that PBG-D is a novel NO-tolerant protein that modulates the reduction of environmental NO and nitrite levels by FHb and NiR."}
{"id": "22037818", "title": "[Fungal nail infections - an update. Part 2 - From the causative agent to diagnosis - conventional and molecular procedures].", "content": "[Fungal nail infections - an update. Part 2 - From the causative agent to diagnosis - conventional and molecular procedures]. Trichophyton (T.) rubrum is the most frequently isolated dermatophyte in onychomycosis, both in Germany and worldwide. T. interdigitale (formerly T. mentagrophytes var. interdigitale) follows in second place. A further however rarely isolated dermatophyte in onychomycosis is Epidermophyton floccosum. Candida parapsilosis, Candida guilliermondii, and Candida albicans, followed by Trichosporon spp. are the most important yeasts which are found in onychomycosis. The molds most often responsible include Scopulariopsis brevicaulis, and several Aspergillus species, e.\u00a0g. Aspergillus versicolor, and Fusarium spp. These so called non-dermatophyte molds (NDM) are increasingly isolated as emerging pathogens in onychomycosis. The diagnosis of onychomycosis should be verified in the mycology laboratory. Conventional diagnostic methods include the direct examination, ideally using fluorescence staining with Calcofluor\u00ae or Blancophor\u00ae, and culture. However, new molecular biological methods primarily employing the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for direct detection of dermatophyte DNA in skin scrapings and nail samples have been introduced into routine mycological diagnostics. The diagnostic sensitivity is higher when both conventional and molecular procedures are combined."}
{"id": "22028200", "title": "Isolation of multiple-triazole-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus strains carrying the TR/L98H mutations in the cyp51A gene in India.", "content": "Isolation of multiple-triazole-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus strains carrying the TR/L98H mutations in the cyp51A gene in India. Azole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus isolates impacts on the management of aspergillosis since azoles are primary agents used for prophylaxis and therapy. We report the emergence of resistance to triazoles in two A. fumigatus isolates from patients in Delhi, India. One hundred and three A. fumigatus isolates, collected from 85 patients suspected of bronchopulmonary aspergillosis during 2005-10, were investigated for susceptibility to itraconazole, voriconazole, posaconazole and isavuconazole. We undertook a mixed-format real-time PCR assay for the detection of mutations leading to triazole resistance in A. fumigatus. The resistant isolates were compared with 25 Dutch TR/L98H-positive isolates by microsatellite analysis. Of the 103 A. fumigatus isolates tested, only 2 had high MIC values of itraconazole (>16 mg/L), voriconazole (2 mg/L), posaconazole (2 mg/L) and isavuconazole (8 mg/L). The resistant A. fumigatus isolates exhibited the TR/L98H genotype and showed identical patterns by microsatellite typing, but were different from 25 Dutch TR/L98H isolates. We report for the first time from India the occurrence of TR/L98H mutations in the cyp51A gene (responsible for reduced azole susceptibility) in two A. fumigatus isolates from patients with chronic respiratory disease who had not previously been exposed to azoles. The presence of TR/L98H is consistent with a route of resistance development through exposure to azole compounds in the environment. Given the emergence of azole resistance in environmental strains, continued surveillance of resistance in clinical A. fumigatus strains is desirable for successful therapy of aspergillosis."}
{"id": "22006005", "title": "SREBP-dependent triazole susceptibility in Aspergillus fumigatus is mediated through direct transcriptional regulation of erg11A (cyp51A).", "content": "SREBP-dependent triazole susceptibility in Aspergillus fumigatus is mediated through direct transcriptional regulation of erg11A (cyp51A). As triazole antifungal drug resistance during invasive Aspergillus fumigatus infection has become more prevalent, the need to understand mechanisms of resistance in A. fumigatus has increased. The presence of two erg11 (cyp51) genes in Aspergillus spp. is hypothesized to account for the inherent resistance of this mold to the triazole fluconazole (FLC). Recently, an A. fumigatus null mutant of a transcriptional regulator in the sterol regulatory element binding protein (SREBP) family, the \u0394srbA strain, was found to have increased susceptibility to FLC and voriconazole (VCZ). In this study, we examined the mechanism engendering the observed increase in A. fumigatus triazole susceptibility in the absence of SrbA. We observed a significant reduction in the erg11A transcript in the \u0394srbA strain in response to FLC and VCZ. Transcript levels of erg11B were also reduced but not to the extent of erg11A. Interestingly, erg11A transcript levels increased upon extended VCZ, but not FLC, exposure. Construction of an erg11A conditional expression strain in the \u0394srbA strain was able to restore erg11A transcript levels and, consequently, wild-type MICs to the triazole FLC. The VCZ MIC was also partially restored upon increased erg11A transcript levels; however, total ergosterol levels remained significantly reduced compared to those of the wild type. Induction of the erg11A conditional strain did not restore the hypoxia growth defect of the \u0394srbA strain. Taken together, our results demonstrate a critical role for SrbA-mediated regulation of ergosterol biosynthesis and triazole drug interactions in A. fumigatus that may have clinical importance."}
{"id": "21947326", "title": "Detection of Candida and Aspergillus species DNA using broad-range real-time PCR for fungal endophthalmitis.", "content": "Detection of Candida and Aspergillus species DNA using broad-range real-time PCR for fungal endophthalmitis. The goal of this work is to establish a broad-range real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) diagnostic system for ocular fungal infection and to measure Candida and Aspergillus DNA in the ocular fluids obtained from unknown uveitis/endophthalmitis patients. After obtaining informed consent, intraocular fluids (aqueous humor and vitreous fluid samples) were collected from 54 patients with idiopathic uveitis or endophthalmitis. Samples were assayed for Candida or Aspergillus DNA using broad-range (18S rRNA sequences) quantitative real-time PCR. Candida or Aspergillus DNA was detected in seven out of 54 patient ocular samples (13%). These PCR-positive samples showed significantly high copy numbers of Candida or Aspergillus DNA. On the other hand, fungal DNA was not detected in any of the other 46 samples collected from these idiopathic uveitis or endophthalmitis patients. In the one PCR-negative case, PCR did not detect any fungal genome in the sample, even though this patient was clinically suspected of having Candida endophthalmitis. Real-time PCR results were negative for fungal DNA in the bacterial endophthalmitis patients and in various uveitis patients. In addition, fungal DNA was also not detected in patients without ocular inflammation (controls). Analysis of ocular samples by this broad-range real-time PCR method can be utilized for rapid diagnosis of patients suffering from unknown intraocular disorders such as idiopathic uveitis/endophthalmitis."}
{"id": "21935697", "title": "Cloning and bioinformatics analysis of an endoglucanase gene (Aucel12A) from Aspergillus usamii and its functional expression in Pichia pastoris.", "content": "Cloning and bioinformatics analysis of an endoglucanase gene (Aucel12A) from Aspergillus usamii and its functional expression in Pichia pastoris. Using 3' and 5' rapid amplification of cDNA ends methods, the full-length cDNA sequence encoding an endo-1,4-\u03b2-glucanase of Aspergillus usamii E001 (abbreviated as AuCel12A) was amplified from the total RNA. The clone cDNA sequence of the gene encoding the AuCel12A, named as Aucel12A, is 1,027 bp in length harboring 5' and 3' non-coding regions, as well as a 720 bp of open reading frame that encodes a 16-aa signal peptide, and a 223-aa mature AuCel12A with a theoretical M.W. of 24,294 Da, a calculated pI of 4.15, and one putative N-glycosylation site. The complete DNA sequence of the gene Aucel12A was amplified from the genomic DNA of A. usamii E001 by using the conventional PCR and pUCm-T vector-mediated PCR initially developed in our lab. The clone DNA sequence is 1,576 bp in length, consisting of a 5' flanking regulatory region, three exons, and two introns with sizes of 50 and 66 bp. The cDNA fragment encoding the mature AuCel12A was expressed in a fully active form in Pichia pastoris. One P. pastoris transformant expressing the highest recombinant AuCel12A (rAuCel12A) activity, labeled as P. pastoris GSCel2-1, was chosen for subsequent studies. Integration of the Aucel12A into P. pastoris genome was confirmed by PCR analysis using 5'- and 3'-AOX1 primers. SDS-PAGE and enzyme activity assays demonstrated that the rAuCel12A, a glycosylated protein with an apparent M.W. of 27.0 kDa and a carbohydrate content of 4.82%, was secreted into the culture medium. The purified rAuCel12A displayed the highest activity at pH 5.0 and 60\u00b0C. It was highly stable at a pH range of 3.5-7.0, and at a temperature of 55\u00b0C or below. Its activity was not significantly affected by an array of metal ions and EDTA, but inhibited by Ag\u207a, Hg\u00b2\u207a and Fe\u00b2\u207a. The K(m) and V(max) of the rAuCel12A, towards carboxymethylcellulose-Na (CMC-Na) at pH 5.0 and 50\u00b0C were 4.85 mg/ml and 160.5 U/mg, respectively."}
{"id": "21929560", "title": "Genetic re-identification and antifungal susceptibility testing of Aspergillus section Nigri strains of the BCCM/IHEM collection.", "content": "Genetic re-identification and antifungal susceptibility testing of Aspergillus section Nigri strains of the BCCM/IHEM collection. Black Aspergilli are widely distributed in the environment and are frequently reported as causative agents of different types of mycoses. Many taxonomical revisions have been made, and presently 19 different species are accepted. In this study we (re-) identified 123 strains of the Aspergillus niger group of the BCCM/IHEM collection to check for the presence of species other than A. niger in both environmental and clinical samples. The susceptibility for antifungal drugs was compared between A. niger and Aspergillus tubingensis. Strains were identified based on morphological and molecular data and neighbour joining analysis. We revealed the presence of eight different species of this group in our collection. Our results suggest that Aspergillus foetidus, previously shown to be a species closely related to A. niger should not be considered as a separate species, but rather as a variety of A. niger. Furthermore, we found A. tubingensis at the same prevalence than A. niger in clinical samples. Interestingly, A. niger was shown to have a twofold higher sensitivity to treatment with voriconazole and itraconazole than A. tubingensis. These findings underline once more the importance of correct identification up to the species level in clinical isolates."}
{"id": "21927034", "title": "ECIL recommendations for the use of biological markers for the diagnosis of invasive fungal diseases in leukemic patients and hematopoietic SCT recipients.", "content": "ECIL recommendations for the use of biological markers for the diagnosis of invasive fungal diseases in leukemic patients and hematopoietic SCT recipients. As culture-based methods for the diagnosis of invasive fungal diseases (IFD) in leukemia and hematopoietic SCT patients have limited performance, non-culture methods are increasingly being used. The third European Conference on Infections in Leukemia (ECIL-3) meeting aimed at establishing evidence-based recommendations for the use of biological tests in adult patients, based on the grading system of the Infectious Diseases Society of America. The following biomarkers were investigated as screening tests: galactomannan (GM) for invasive aspergillosis (IA); \u03b2-glucan (BG) for invasive candidiasis (IC) and IA; Cryptococcus Ag for cryptococcosis; mannan (Mn) Ag/anti-mannan (A-Mn) Ab for IC, and PCR for IA. Testing for GM, Cryptococcus Ag and BG are included in the revised EORTC/MSG (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer/Mycoses Study Group) consensus definitions for IFD. Strong evidence supports the use of GM in serum (A II), and Cryptococcus Ag in serum and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) (A II). Evidence is moderate for BG detection in serum (B II), and the combined Mn/A-Mn testing in serum for hepatosplenic candidiasis (B III) and candidemia (C II). No recommendations were formulated for the use of PCR owing to a lack of standardization and clinical validation. Clinical utility of these markers for the early management of IFD should be further assessed in prospective randomized interventional studies."}
{"id": "21850431", "title": "Identification, cloning, and characterization of \u03b2-glucosidase from Ustilago esculenta.", "content": "Identification, cloning, and characterization of \u03b2-glucosidase from Ustilago esculenta. Hydrolytic enzymes responsible for laminarin degradation were found to be secreted during growth of Ustilago esculenta on laminarin. An enzyme involved in laminarin degradation was purified by assaying release of glucose from laminaribiose. Ion-exchange chromatography of the culture filtrate followed by size-exclusion chromatography yielded a 110-kDa protein associated with laminaribiose hydrolysis. LC/MS/MS analysis of the 110-kDa protein identified three peptide sequences that shared significant similarity with a putative glucoside hydrolase family (GH) 3 \u03b2-glucosidase in Ustilago maydis. Based on the DNA sequence of the U. maydis GH3 \u03b2-glucosidase, a gene encoding a putative GH3 \u03b2-glucosidase in U. esculenta (Uebgl3A) was cloned by PCR. Based on the deduced amino acid sequence, the protein encoded by Uebgl3A has a molecular mass of 91\u00a0kDa and shares 90% identity with U. maydis GH3 \u03b2-glucosidase. Recombinant UeBgl3A expressed in Aspergillus oryzae released glucose from \u03b2-1,3-, \u03b2-1,4-, and \u03b2-1,6-linked oligosaccharides, and from 1,3-1,4-\u03b2-glucan and laminarin polysaccharides, indicating that UeBgl3A is a \u03b2-glucosidase. Kinetic analysis showed that UeBgl3A preferentially hydrolyzed laminaritriose and laminaritetraose. These results suggest that UeBgl3A is a key enzyme that produces glucose from laminarioligosaccharides during growth of U. esculenta on laminarin."}
{"id": "21834667", "title": "Ochratoxin A induces CYP3A4, 2B6, 3A5, 2C9, 1A1, and CYP1A2 gene expression in primary cultured human hepatocytes: a possible activation of nuclear receptors.", "content": "Ochratoxin A induces CYP3A4, 2B6, 3A5, 2C9, 1A1, and CYP1A2 gene expression in primary cultured human hepatocytes: a possible activation of nuclear receptors. Ochratoxin A (OTA) is a mycotoxin produced by fungi of two genera: Penicillium and Aspergillus. OTA has been shown to be nephrotoxic, hepatotoxic, teratogenic, and immunotoxic to several species of animals and to cause kidney and liver tumors in mice and rats. Biotransformation of OTA has not been entirely elucidated. Several metabolites have been characterized in vitro and/or in vivo, whereas other metabolites remain to be characterized. At present, data available regarding OTA metabolism and cytochrome inductions concern only rodents or in vitro systems. The aim of the present study was to explore the effect of OTA on mRNA expression of some cytochromes known to be regulated by pregnane X receptor (PXR), constitutive androstane receptor (CAR), and aryl hydrocarbon receptor (AhR), using primary cultures of human hepatocytes. Our results showed that OTA reduced hepatocyte viability in a dose-dependent manner. Using quantitative real-time reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction, our study showed that treatment of primary cultured human hepatocytes with noncytotoxic increasing concentrations of OTA for 24 hours caused a significant upregulation of CYP3A4, CYP2B6, and, to a lesser extent, CYP3A5 and CYP2C9. PXR mRNA expression increased in only 1 treated liver, whereas CAR mRNA expression was not affected. OTA was found also to induce an overexpression of CYP1A1 and CYP1A2 genes accompanied by an increase in AhR mRNA expression. These findings suggest that OTA could activate PXR and AhR; however, further investigations are needed to confirm nuclear-receptor activation by OTA."}
{"id": "21788229", "title": "Aspergillus affinis sp. nov., a novel ochratoxin A-producing Aspergillus species (section Circumdati) isolated from decomposing leaves.", "content": "Aspergillus affinis sp. nov., a novel ochratoxin A-producing Aspergillus species (section Circumdati) isolated from decomposing leaves. Two ochratoxin A (OTA)-producing Aspergillus isolates, recently collected from submerged riparian decomposing leaves in Italy, were found to have a similar morphology to Aspergillus cretensis (subgenus Circumdati, section Circumdati). However, marked differences emerged between these two novel isolates and A. cretensis as the former displayed different colony features and had larger vesicles, metulae, phialides and conidia, as well as a distinct sclerotial form and size. In order to determine the taxonomic status and to infer the evolutionary relationships of these two morphologically identical isolates, a molecular phylogenetic analysis was performed on all the officially recognized lineages in the section Circumdati. The DNA sequences and the deduced amino acid residues from the nuclear loci were analysed. Both rRNA and protein coding genes were assessed, which are widely used to differentiate taxa belonging to genus Aspergillus at various evolutionary levels. The 5.8S rDNA gene and internal transcribed spacers (ITS), the D1/D2 domains of the 28S rDNA gene, a region of the tubulin beta chain gene (benA) and part of the calmodulin gene (cmd) were amplified by PCR and then sequenced. The analysis of the rRNA regions and of the benA and cmd sequence data indicated that the two isogenic isolates belonged to a genetically distinct OTA-producing species of the genus Aspergillus. The isolates are proposed as representing a novel species, Aspergillus affinis sp. nov., with the type strain ATCC MYA-4773T=CBS 129190=417). Phylogenetically, A. affinis sp. nov. appeared to be very closely related to A. cretensis, from which it could be distinguished by means of a morphological trait analysis."}
{"id": "21689797", "title": "Fungi isolated from olive ecosystems and screening of their potential biotechnological use.", "content": "Fungi isolated from olive ecosystems and screening of their potential biotechnological use. This study investigated the fungi diversity of fresh olive (Olea europaea L.) fruits, olive paste (crushed olives) and olive pomace (solid waste) and screened and quantified enzymatic activities with biotechnological applications. Fungi were randomly isolated from olive cultivars from Castilla La Mancha region (Spain). Identification included comparison of their polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplicons of the ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 ribosomal DNA region, followed by nucleotide sequence analysis. Fourteen different species with DNA sequences of different similarities were identified, belonging to seven different genera (Aspergillus, Penicillium, Rhizomucor, Mucor, Rhizopus, Lichtheimia and Galactomyces). Aspergillus fumigatus, followed by Galactomyces geotrichum, Penicillium commune and Rhizomucor variabilis var. regularior were the most frequent species. Specific enzyme screening was assayed on agar plates, using cellobiose, carboxymethylcellulose (CMC), polygalacturonic acid and CaCl(2)/Tween 80 as substrates for \u03b2-glucosidase, carboxymethylcellulase (CMCase), polygalacturonase and lipase, respectively. Species exhibiting the best activities were: Aspergillus fumigatus (for \u03b2-glucosidase, CMCase and lipase); Rhizopus oryzae (for \u03b2-glucosidase and lipase); Rhizomucor variabilis (for \u03b2-glucosidase, CMCase and polygalacturonase); Mucor fragilis (\u03b2-glucosidase, CMCase and lipase); Galactomyces geotrichum (for \u03b2-glucosidase, polygalacturonase and lipase) and Penicillium commune and Penicillium crustosum (for lipase). The species that had shown the best enzymatic activities were grown on hemicellulose, cellulose and pectin and some activities were quantified (xylanase, cellulase, \u03b2-glucosidase and pectinase). An isolate of A. fumigatus and one of A. niger showed the best cellulase and xylanase activities, while no species presented good pectinase and \u03b2-glucosidase activities. The selected species with potential enzymatic activities could be used for future applications of industrial interest."}
{"id": "21554421", "title": "Antifungal treatment strategies in patients with haematological diseases or cancer: from prophylaxis to empirical, pre-emptive and targeted therapy.", "content": "Antifungal treatment strategies in patients with haematological diseases or cancer: from prophylaxis to empirical, pre-emptive and targeted therapy. Immunocompromised patients have a high risk for invasive fungal diseases (IFDs). These infections are mostly life-threatening and an early diagnosis and initiation of appropriate antifungal therapy are essential for the clinical outcome. Empirical treatment is regarded as the standard of care for granulocytopenic patients who remain febrile despite broad-spectrum antibiotics. However, this strategy can bear a risk of overtreatment and subsequently induce toxicities and unnecessary treatment costs. Pre-emptive antifungal therapy is now increasingly used to close the time gap between delayed initiation for proven disease and empirical treatment for anticipated infection without further laboratory or radiological evidence of fungal disease. Currently, some new non-invasive microbiological and laboratory methods, like the Aspergillus-galactomannan sandwich-enzyme immunoassay (Aspergillus GM-ELISA), 1,3-\u03b2-D-glucan assay or PCR techniques have been developed for a better diagnosis and determination of target patients. The current diagnostic approaches to fungal infections and the role of the revised definitions for invasive fungal infections, now IFDs, will be discussed in this review as well as old and emerging approaches to empirical, pre-emptive and targeted antifungal therapies in patients with haemato-oncological malignancies."}
{"id": "21423120", "title": "Standardization of Aspergillus PCR diagnosis.", "content": "Standardization of Aspergillus PCR diagnosis."}
{"id": "22417364", "title": "Differentiation between Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus from pure culture and aflatoxin-contaminated grapes using PCR-RFLP analysis of aflR-aflJ intergenic spacer.", "content": "Differentiation between Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus from pure culture and aflatoxin-contaminated grapes using PCR-RFLP analysis of aflR-aflJ intergenic spacer. Aflatoxins (AFs) represent the most important single mycotoxin-related food safety problem in developed and developing countries as they have adverse effects on human and animal health. They are produced mainly by Aspergillus flavus and A. parasiticus. Both species have different aflatoxinogenic profile. In order to distinguish between A. flavus and A. parasiticus, gene-specific primers were designed to target the intergenic spacer (IGS) for the AF biosynthesis genes, aflJ and aflR. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products were subjected to restriction endonuclease analysis using BglII to look for restriction fragment length polymorphisms (RFLPs). Our result showed that both species displayed different PCR-based RFLP (PCR-RFLP) profile. PCR products from A. flavus cleaved into 3 fragments of 362, 210, and 102 bp. However, there is only one restriction site for this enzyme in the sequence of A. parasiticus that produced only 2 fragments of 363 and 311 bp. The method was successfully applied to contaminated grapes samples. This approach of differentiating these 2 species would be simpler, less costly, and quicker than conventional sequencing of PCR products and/or morphological identification."}
{"id": "22286039", "title": "Heterologous expression of manganese peroxidase in Aspergillus niger and its effect on phenanthrene removal from soil.", "content": "Heterologous expression of manganese peroxidase in Aspergillus niger and its effect on phenanthrene removal from soil. A strain of Aspergillus niger, previously isolated from sugarcane bagasse because of its capacity to degrade phenanthrene in soil by solid culture, was used to express a manganese peroxidase gene (mnp1) from Phanerochaete chrysosporium, aiming at increasing its polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons degradation capacity. Transformants were selected based on their resistance to hygromycin B and the discoloration induced on Poly R-478 dye by the peroxidase activity. The recombinant A. niger SBC2-T3 strain developed MnP activity and was able to remove 95% of the initial phenanthrene (400 ppm) from a microcosm soil system after 17 days, whereas the wild strain removed 72% under the same conditions. Transformation success was confirmed by PCR amplification using gene-specific primers, and a single fragment (1,348 bp long, as expected) of the recombinant mnp1 was amplified in the DNA from transformants, which was absent from the parental strain."}
{"id": "22263426", "title": "Concentrations and diversity of microbes from four local bioaerosol emission sources in Finland.", "content": "Concentrations and diversity of microbes from four local bioaerosol emission sources in Finland. Microbial particles can readily be released into the air from different types of man-made sources such as waste operations. Microbiological emissions from different biological sources and their dispersion may be an issue of concern for area planning and for nearby residents. This study was designed to determine the concentrations and diversity of microbiological emissions from four different man-made source environments: waste center with composting windrows, sewage treatment plant, farming environment, and cattle manure spreading. Samples of airborne particles were collected onto polyvinyl chloride filters at three distances along the prevailing downwind direction, from each source environment during a period of approximately 1 week. These samples were analyzed for 13 species or assay groups of fungi, bacterial genus Streptomyces, and Gram-positive and -negative bacteria using quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Samples for determining the concentrations of viable fungi and bacteria were collected from all environments using a six-stage impactor. The results show that there were variations in the microbial diversity between the source environments. Specifically, composting was a major source for the fungal genera Aspergillus and Penicillium, particularly for Aspergillus fumigatus, and for the bacterial genus Streptomyces. Although the microbial concentrations in the sewage treatment plant area were significantly higher than those at 50 or 200 m distance from the plant area, in the farming environment or cattle manure spreading area, no significant difference was observed between different distances from the source. In summary, elevated concentrations of microbes that differ from background can only be detected within a few hundred meters from the source. This finding, reported earlier for culturable bacteria and fungi, could thus be confirmed using molecular methods that cover both culturable and nonculturable microbial material."}
{"id": "22168015", "title": "Molecular identification of Aspergillus and Eurotium species isolated from rice and their toxin-producing ability.", "content": "Molecular identification of Aspergillus and Eurotium species isolated from rice and their toxin-producing ability. Thirty milled rice samples were collected from retailers in 4 provinces of Malaysia. These samples were evaluated for Aspergillus spp. infection by direct plating on malt extract salt agar (MESA). All Aspergillus holomorphs were isolated and identified using nucleotide sequences of ITS 1 and ITS 2 of rDNA. Five anamorphs (Aspergillus flavus, A. oryzae, A. tamarii, A. fumigatus and A. niger) and 5 teleomorphs (Eurotium rubrum, E. amstelodami, E. chevalieri, E. cristatum and E. tonophilum) were identified. The PCR-sequencing based technique for sequences of ITS 1 and ITS 2 is a fast technique for identification of Aspergillus and Eurotium species, although it doesn't work flawlessly for differentiation of Eurotium species. All Aspergillus and Eurotium isolates were screened for their ability to produce aflatoxin and ochratoxin A (OTA) by HPLC and TLC techniques. Only A. flavus isolate UPM 89 was able to produce aflatoxins B1 and B2."}
{"id": "22164295", "title": "Evaluation of PCR on bronchoalveolar lavage fluid for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis: a bivariate metaanalysis and systematic review.", "content": "Evaluation of PCR on bronchoalveolar lavage fluid for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis: a bivariate metaanalysis and systematic review. Nucleic acid detection by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is emerging as a sensitive and rapid diagnostic tool. PCR assays on serum have the potential to be a practical diagnostic tool. However, PCR on bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) has not been well established. We performed a systematic review of published studies to evaluate the diagnostic accuracy of PCR assays on BALF for invasive aspergillosis (IA). Relevant published studies were shortlisted to evaluate the quality of their methodologies. A bivariate regression approach was used to calculate pooled values of the method sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative likelihood ratios. Hierarchical summary receiver operating characteristic curves were used to summarize overall performance. We calculated the post-test probability to evaluate clinical usefulness. Potential heterogeneity among studies was explored by subgroup analyses. Seventeen studies comprising 1191 at-risk patients were selected. The summary estimates of the BALF-PCR assay for proven and probable IA were as follows: sensitivity, 0.91 (95% confidence interval (CI), 0.79-0.96); specificity, 0.92 (95% CI, 0.87-0.96); positive likelihood ratio, 11.90 (95% CI, 6.80-20.80); and negative likelihood ratio, 0.10 (95% CI, 0.04-0.24). Subgroup analyses showed that the performance of the PCR assay was influenced by PCR assay methodology, primer design and the methods of cell wall disruption and DNA extraction. PCR assay on BALF is highly accurate for diagnosing IA in immunocompromised patients and is likely to be a useful diagnostic tool. However, further efforts towards devising a standard protocol are needed to enable formal validation of BALF-PCR."}
{"id": "22142041", "title": "Invasive fungal infections in renal transplant recipients.", "content": "Invasive fungal infections in renal transplant recipients. Invasive fungal infections are a significant and often lethal problem in transplant patients. Infections caused by geographically limited endemic fungi are infrequent, and Aspergillus species, Mucorales species, Candida species, and Cryptococcus neoformans are the opportunistic fungi responsible for most such infections. The symptoms of systemic fungal infections are nonspecific, particularly in their early stages. The high rates of mortality and graft loss owing to fungal infections render early diagnosis and treatment imperative in immunosuppressed patients. Current methods for the diagnosis of systemic fungal infections include imaging procedures, endoscopic methods and biopsies, microscopic and culture techniques, antibody and antigen-based serologic testing, and the detection (via polymerase chain reaction) of fungal deoxyribonucleic acid in blood or bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, as well as the careful analysis of signs and symptoms. Antifungal therapy should be initiated early in patients with a suspected fungal infection (even before laboratory findings have confirmed that diagnosis) and should be administered with appropriate adjustment of immunosuppressive regimens. To manage fungal infections in patients with renal failure, optimizing the pharmacokinetics of antifungal drugs to reduce the risk of nephrotoxicity is crucial."}
{"id": "22128236", "title": "Expression of genes of the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway in Aspergillus flavus isolates from keratitis.", "content": "Expression of genes of the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway in Aspergillus flavus isolates from keratitis. To document transcriptional activation (expression) of key aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway genes in corneal isolates of Aspergillus flavus. The expression of certain regulatory (aflatoxin regulatory [aflR] and aflatoxin J [aflJ]) and structural (polyketide synthase acetate [pksA] and norsolonic acid-1 [nor-1]) genes in four corneal A. flavus isolates was evaluated by reverse transcription PCR. The aflatoxin-producing potential of each strain was determined by thin-layer chromatography and quantified by spectrophotometry. Four environmental isolates were used for comparison. The mean expression levels of these genes were compared in the corneal and environmental A. flavus isolates. In addition, the mean expression levels were also correlated with the aflatoxin production levels. All isolates expressed aflJ, nor-1, and pksA, while all but one expressed aflR. Overall, significantly higher mean expression levels occurred in aflatoxigenic than in non-aflatoxigenic corneal isolates. A significant positive correlation was noted between the mean expression level of aflR and the quantum of aflatoxin production by the corneal isolates. Essentially similar patterns of expression of these genes were noted in four environmental A. flavus isolates used for comparison. For the first time, isolates of A. flavus from human keratitis patients have been shown to express regulatory and structural aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway genes. Further studies are needed to clarify the precise influence of the corneal microenvironment on expression of these genes and aflatoxin production by A. flavus infecting the cornea."}
{"id": "22120803", "title": "Standardization of fungal polymerase chain reaction for the early diagnosis of invasive fungal infection.", "content": "Standardization of fungal polymerase chain reaction for the early diagnosis of invasive fungal infection. An early initiation of antifungal therapy in invasive fungal infections (IFIs) is critical in reducing the high mortality rate. Current diagnosis of fungal infection relies on microscopy, culture, antigen, antibody specific tests and histological diagnosis. However, these tests either lack sensitivity or specificity. There is thus the need for a rapid, specific and accurate diagnostic method. The aim of our study was to establish PCR for the rapid detection of Candida and Aspergillus species in clinical specimens with improved sensitivity and specificity. A total of 71 proven cases of IFI (confirmed by culture) were collected. A total of 15 healthy, 15 patients suffering from bacterial sepsis and 15 patients with HIV, HBV viral infections were included as controls. Clinical specimens were subjected to a standardized nested amplification to produce Round I (504 bp) and Round II (150 bp) amplicons. Restriction digestion was performed on these products for further identification. Analytical sensitivity was determined using 10\u2076-10 CFU/ml of cell suspension. The lower detection limit of the assay was 10 CFU/ml of blood. This test was 100% sensitive and specific with a positive predictive value of 100% and a negative predictive value of 96.7%. The assay was found to be effective for the rapid detection of Candida and Aspergillus in clinical specimens."}
{"id": "22114731", "title": "Genetically-determined hyperfunction of the S100B/RAGE axis is a risk factor for aspergillosis in stem cell transplant recipients.", "content": "Genetically-determined hyperfunction of the S100B/RAGE axis is a risk factor for aspergillosis in stem cell transplant recipients. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is a major threat to the successful outcome of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), although individual risk varies considerably. Recent evidence has established a pivotal role for a danger sensing mechanism implicating the S100B/receptor for advanced glycation end products (RAGE) axis in antifungal immunity. The association of selected genetic variants in the S100B/RAGE axis with susceptibility to IA was investigated in 223 consecutive patients undergoing HSCT. Furthermore, studies addressing the functional consequences of these variants were performed. Susceptibility to IA was significantly associated with two distinct polymorphisms in RAGE (-374T/A) and S100B (+427C/T) genes, the relative contribution of each depended on their presence in both transplantation counterparts [patient SNP(RAGE), adjusted hazard ratio (HR), 1.97; P\u200a=\u200a0.042 and donor SNP(RAGE), HR, 2.03; P\u200a=\u200a0.047] or in donors (SNP(S100B), HR, 3.15; P\u200a=\u200a7.8e-(4)) only, respectively. Functional assays demonstrated a gain-of-function phenotype of both variants, as shown by the enhanced expression of inflammatory cytokines in RAGE polymorphic cells and increased S100B secretion in vitro and in vivo in the presence of the S100B polymorphism. These findings point to a relevant role of the danger sensing signaling in human antifungal immunity and highlight a possible contribution of a genetically-determined hyperfunction of the S100B/RAGE axis to susceptibility to IA in the HSCT setting."}
{"id": "22112821", "title": "Construction of Aspergillus niger lipase mutants with oil-water interface independence.", "content": "Construction of Aspergillus niger lipase mutants with oil-water interface independence. Based on previous bioinformational analytical results [Shu ZY, et al. Biotechnol Prog 2009;25:409-16], four A. niger lipase (ANL) mutants, ANL-Ser84Gly, ANL-Asp99Pro, ANL-Lys108Glu and ANL-E\u03b1H (obtained by replacing the lid domain of ANL with the corresponding domain from A. niger feruloyl esterase), were constructed to screen out ANL mutants with oil-water interface independence. ANL-S84G displayed a pronounced interfacial activation, while ANL-D99P and ANL-K108E displayed no interfacial activation. The specific activity of ANL-S84G towards p-nitrophenyl esters decreased from 29.8% to 76.5% compared with that of ANL, while the specific activity of ANL-D99P towards p-nitrophenyl palmitate increased 2.2-fold. The thermostability of ANL-K108E was almost unchanged, while the thermostability of ANL-S84G and ANL-D99P significantly decreased compared with that of ANL. The construction of oil-water interface-independent ANL mutants would help to further understand the mechanism of lipase interfacial activation."}
{"id": "22075290", "title": "Molecular assay to detect nosocomial fungal infections in intensive care units.", "content": "Molecular assay to detect nosocomial fungal infections in intensive care units. The aims of this study were to determine the incidence of fungal infections in hospital intensive care units and to evaluate a molecular method to detect these infections. The participants in this study were patients admitted to any of the 10 intensive care units at Nemazi Hospital (Shiraz, southern Iran) between March 2009 and January 2010. Oral and rectal swabs, urine, and sputum samples from patients were checked for fungal colonization. If a nosocomial fungal infection was suspected, clinical samples were examined for fungal infection by culture, direct microscopic examination and real-time PCR. Blood samples were cultured by bedside inoculation onto BACTEC medium. Susceptibility of the isolates to antifungal agents was also determined. Of 870 patients, 550 (63.2%) had Candida colonization in different body sites and 17 (1.9%) had fungal infections. The mortality rate in patients with fungal infections was 58.8% (10 cases). The etiologic agents were Candida albicans, Candida glabrata, Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus spp. Three C. albicans were found to be resistant to amphotericin B and itraconazole, and one A. fumigatus and two A. flavus were resistant to amphotericin B, ketoconazole and itraconazole. One A. fumigatus was additionally resistant to caspofungin. Considering the incidence of fungal infections and their high mortality rate, early detection, prompt diagnosis and treatment are critical. Molecular assays can serve as a diagnostic tool to manage patients admitted to the intensive care unit. Antifungal susceptibility testing in different geographical regions can support the choice of prophylaxis and treatment for these patients."}
{"id": "22069739", "title": "Transcriptional profiles uncover Aspergillus flavus-induced resistance in maize kernels.", "content": "Transcriptional profiles uncover Aspergillus flavus-induced resistance in maize kernels. Aflatoxin contamination caused by the opportunistic pathogen A. flavus is a major concern in maize production prior to harvest and through storage. Previous studies have highlighted the constitutive production of proteins involved in maize kernel resistance against A. flavus' infection. However, little is known about induced resistance nor about defense gene expression and regulation in kernels. In this study, maize oligonucleotide arrays and a pair of closely-related maize lines varying in aflatoxin accumulation were used to reveal the gene expression network in imbibed mature kernels in response to A. flavus' challenge. Inoculated kernels were incubated 72 h via the laboratory-based Kernel Screening Assay (KSA), which highlights kernel responses to fungal challenge. Gene expression profiling detected 6955 genes in resistant and 6565 genes in susceptible controls; 214 genes induced in resistant and 2159 genes induced in susceptible inoculated kernels. Defense related and regulation related genes were identified in both treatments. Comparisons between the resistant and susceptible lines indicate differences in the gene expression network which may enhance our understanding of the maize-A. flavus interaction."}
{"id": "22069731", "title": "Control of aflatoxin production of Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus using RNA silencing technology by targeting aflD (nor-1) gene.", "content": "Control of aflatoxin production of Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus using RNA silencing technology by targeting aflD (nor-1) gene. Aspergillus \ufb02avus and Aspergillus parasiticus are important pathogens of cotton, corn, peanuts and other oil-seed crops, producing toxins both in the field and during storage. We have designed three siRNA sequences (Nor-Ia, Nor-Ib, Nor-Ic) to target the mRNA sequence of the aflD gene to examine the potential for using RNA silencing technology to control aflatoxin production. Thus, the effect of siRNAs targeting of two key genes in the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway, aflD (structural) and aflR (regulatory gene) and on aflatoxin B(1 )(AFB(1)), and aflatoxin G(1) (AFG(1)) production was examined. The study showed that Nor-Ib gave a significant decrease in aflD mRNA, aflR mRNA abundance, and AFB(1) production (98, 97 and 97% when compared to the controls) in A. flavus NRRL3357, respectively. Reduction in aflD and aflR mRNA abundance and AFB(1 )production increased with concentration of siRNA tested. There was a significant inhibition in aflD and AFB(1) production by A. flavus EGP9 and AFG(1 )production by A. parasiticus NRRL 13005. However, there was no significant decrease in AFG(1) production by A. parasiticus SSWT 2999. Changes in AFB(1) production in relation to mRNA levels of aflD showed a good correlation (R = 0.88; P = 0.00001); changes in aflR mRNA level in relation to mRNA level of aflD also showed good correlation (R = 0.82; P = 0.0001). The correlations between changes in aflR and aflD gene expression suggests a strong relationship between these structural and regulatory genes, and that aflD could be used as a target gene to develop efficient means for aflatoxin control using RNA silencing technology."}
{"id": "22069724", "title": "Expression analysis of stress-related genes in kernels of different maize (Zea mays L.) inbred lines with different resistance to aflatoxin contamination.", "content": "Expression analysis of stress-related genes in kernels of different maize (Zea mays L.) inbred lines with different resistance to aflatoxin contamination. This research examined the expression patterns of 94 stress-related genes in seven maize inbred lines with differential expressions of resistance to aflatoxin contamination. The objective was to develop a set of genes/probes associated with resistance to A. flavus and/or aflatoxin contamination. Ninety four genes were selected from previous gene expression studies with abiotic stress to test the differential expression in maize lines, A638, B73, Lo964, Lo1016, Mo17, Mp313E, and Tex6, using real-time RT-PCR. Based on the relative-expression levels, the seven maize inbred lines clustered into two different groups. One group included B73, Lo1016 and Mo17, which had higher levels of aflatoxin contamination and lower levels of overall gene expression. The second group which included Tex6, Mp313E, Lo964 and A638 had lower levels of aflatoxin contamination and higher overall levels of gene expressions. A total of six \"cross-talking\" genes were identified between the two groups, which are highly expressed in the resistant Group 2 but down-regulated in susceptible Group 1. When further subjected to drought stress, Tex6 expressed more genes up-regulated and B73 has fewer genes up-regulated. The transcript patterns and interactions measured in these experiments indicate that the resistant mechanism is an interconnected process involving many gene products and transcriptional regulators, as well as various host interactions with environmental factors, particularly, drought and high temperature."}
{"id": "22069691", "title": "Loss of msnA, a putative stress regulatory gene, in Aspergillus parasiticus and Aspergillus flavus increased production of conidia, aflatoxins and kojic acid.", "content": "Loss of msnA, a putative stress regulatory gene, in Aspergillus parasiticus and Aspergillus flavus increased production of conidia, aflatoxins and kojic acid. Production of the harmful carcinogenic aflatoxins by Aspergillus parasiticus and Aspergillus flavus has been postulated to be a mechanism to relieve oxidative stress. The msnA gene of A. parasiticus and A. flavus is the ortholog of Saccharomyces cerevisiae MSN2 that is associated with multi-stress response. Compared to wild type strains, the msnA deletion (\u2206msnA) strains of A. parasiticus and A. flavus exhibited retarded colony growth with increased conidiation. The \u2206msnA strains also produced slightly higher amounts of aflatoxins and elevated amounts of kojic acid on mixed cereal medium. Microarray assays showed that expression of genes encoding oxidative stress defense enzymes, i.e., superoxide dismutase, catalase, and cytochrome c peroxidase in A. parasiticus \u2206msnA, and the catalase A gene in A. flavus \u2206msnA, was up-regulated. Both A. parasiticus and A. flavus \u2206msnA strains produced higher levels of reactive oxygen species (ROS), and ROS production of A. flavus msnA addback strains was decreased to levels comparable to that of the wild type A. flavus. The msnA gene appears to be required for the maintenance of the normal oxidative state. The impairment of msnA resulted in the aforementioned changes, which might be used to combat the increased oxidative stress in the cells."}
{"id": "22039841", "title": "Assessment of a real-time PCR method to detect human non-cryptococcal fungal meningitis.", "content": "Assessment of a real-time PCR method to detect human non-cryptococcal fungal meningitis. The signs and symptoms associated with fungal meningitis are similar to those seen with more common bacterial infections. In this study, we investigate whether Aspergillus or Candida DNA can be detected in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from patients suspected of fungal meningitis using real-time PCR assay. From April 2007 to November 2009, we evaluated CSF samples and sera from patients with risk factors for cerebral fungal meningitis in Nemazi Hospital, Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, Iran, by real-time PCR assay and routine mycological studies (direct microscopy examination and culture). Two CSF and two serum samples from each patient were examined.\u00a0 CSF and serum samples from 38 patients (total: 152) suspected of fungal meningitis were examined. India ink staining and KOH smear were negative for all patients. C. albicans was isolated from two CSF samples. There were ten patients with positive real-time PCR results in their CSF samples: three patients had C. albicans, one with C. glabrata, four with Aspergillus species and two with both C. albicans and Aspergillus species DNA. Four patients had positive serum results for Aspergillus or Candida infections. Considering the findings, it seems that molecular examination can help in the diagnosis of fungal meningitis in patients with clinical and radiological presentations. Further studies should be conducted in other regions and settings to confirm these findings."}
{"id": "22036292", "title": "Aspergillus niger contains the cryptic phylogenetic species A. awamori.", "content": "Aspergillus niger contains the cryptic phylogenetic species A. awamori. Aspergillus section Nigri is an important group of species for food and medical mycology, and biotechnology. The Aspergillus niger 'aggregate' represents its most complicated taxonomic subgroup containing eight morphologically indistinguishable taxa: A. niger, Aspergillus tubingensis, Aspergillus acidus, Aspergillus brasiliensis, Aspergillus costaricaensis, Aspergillus lacticoffeatus, Aspergillus piperis, and Aspergillus vadensis. Aspergillus awamori, first described by Nakazawa, has been compared taxonomically with other black aspergilli and recently it has been treated as a synonym of A. niger. Phylogenetic analyses of sequences generated from portions of three genes coding for the proteins \u03b2-tubulin (benA), calmodulin (CaM), and the translation elongation factor-1 alpha (TEF-1\u03b1) of a population of A. niger strains isolated from grapes in Europe revealed the presence of a cryptic phylogenetic species within this population, A. awamori. Morphological, physiological, ecological and chemical data overlap occurred between A. niger and the cryptic A. awamori, however the splitting of these two species was also supported by AFLP analysis of the full genome. Isolates in both phylospecies can produce the mycotoxins ochratoxin A and fumonisin B\u2082, and they also share the production of pyranonigrin A, tensidol B, funalenone, malformins, and naphtho-\u03b3-pyrones. In addition, sequence analysis of four putative A. awamori strains from Japan, used in the koji industrial fermentation, revealed that none of these strains belong to the A. awamori phylospecies."}
{"id": "22018204", "title": "Clinical characteristics of patients with Epstein Barr virus in cerebrospinal fluid.", "content": "Clinical characteristics of patients with Epstein Barr virus in cerebrospinal fluid. The role of Epstein-Barr (EBV) virus in central nervous system (CNS) infections is not fully resolved. It is clearly associated with lymphoproliferative disease of immunosuppressed persons, and may cause encephalitis. We reviewed the medical records, imaging and laboratory findings of all patients EBV DNA PCR positive in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) during 2000 to 2009 in the Helsinki University Central Hospital. We identified 32 patients with EBV DNA in CSF. 11 had history of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation, 7 solid organ transplantation and 5 HIV/AIDS. 5 patients had no preceding immunodeficiency.In 8 of the cases, another pathogen was identified in CSF. These were M. tuberculosis (2), T. gondii (2), Aspergillus (1), Herpes simplex virus 1 (1), C. neoformans (1) and Human herpesvirus 6 (1). Altogether in 15/32 (47%) of the cases the clinician had a strong suspicion of cause other than EBV for the patients' CNS symptoms/findings.Of note, 7 of 11 (64%) patients with stem cell transplantation had encephalitis (univariate odds ratio 5.6; confidence Interval 1.1-27.4). Of these 6 had no other pathogen identified. EBV DNA was often found together with other microbial findings in CSF of immunocompromised patients. EBV seems to be associated with encephalitis in stem cell transplant recipients."}
{"id": "22012015", "title": "Diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis by a commercial real-time PCR assay for Aspergillus DNA in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples from high-risk patients compared to a galactomannan enzyme immunoassay.", "content": "Diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis by a commercial real-time PCR assay for Aspergillus DNA in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples from high-risk patients compared to a galactomannan enzyme immunoassay. Culture-independent molecular techniques such as real-time PCRs offer the potential for early diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA), thereby reducing the disease-associated mortality rate. PCR-based testing is presently excluded from disease-defining consensus criteria due to lack of standardization and clinical validation. A single-center prospective study was conducted to investigate the performance of the commercially available MycAssay Aspergillus test for detecting Aspergillus DNA in patients with suspicion of IA. To this end, a total of 158 bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid specimens that were consecutively collected from hematology (n = 68) and intensive care unit (n = 90) patients were examined. Sixteen of 17 (94.1%) specimens from patients with proven/probable IA were MycAssay positive, and 15 of these 16 patients were also positive by an \"in-house\" PCR assay. A total of 139 of 141 (98.6%) specimens from patients without proven/probable IA were MycAssay negative. Fifteen of 16 (94.1%) MycAssay-positive patients were also positive for BAL fluid galactomannan (GM) at an index cutoff of \u22651.0 (index range, 1.1 to 8.3), as were 3 patients without IA but with pulmonary fusariosis. Interestingly, in seven of the PCR-positive BAL specimens that tested culture positive for Aspergillus species, cycle threshold values were earlier than those of specimens with a culture-negative result. In conclusion, the MycAssay Aspergillus PCR appears to be a sensitive and specific molecular test for the diagnosis of IA, and its performance is comparable to that of the GM assay. However, more large studies are necessary to firmly establish its clinical utility in high-risk settings."}
{"id": "22008745", "title": "Identification and characterization of a putative basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor involved in the early stage of conidiophore development in Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Identification and characterization of a putative basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor involved in the early stage of conidiophore development in Aspergillus oryzae. The helix-loop-helix (HLH) family of transcriptional factors is a key player in a wide range of developmental processes. HLH proteins form homo- and/or heterodimers with other HLH proteins and bind to E-box motifs. The regulation and functions of these proteins can be complex due to their bifunctional roles as activators and repressors of gene transcription. In this study, we isolated and characterized a novel predicted bHLH protein-encoding gene, AO090023000902, designated ecdR (early conidiophore development regulator), in Aspergillus oryzae. The ecdR gene disruptant produced very few conidia. Conversely, the overexpression of ecdR resulted in the formation of a large number of conidia at an early stage, suggesting that the EcdR protein is required for early asexual development. Additionally, when serially diluted conidia were spread-cultivated onto malt agar medium, we found that conidial number of the control strain depended on the cultivated conidium density, while the ecdR-overexpressing strain showed no significant change in conidiation. These phenotypes of ecdR-disruptant and ecdR-overexpressing strains are partially similar to those of the sclR-overexpressing strain and sclR-disruptant, respectively. Yeast two-hybrid assays and sclR, ecdR-double deletion experiment indicated that EcdR plays a major role in conidiation, and SclR represses this function by competitively interacting with EcdR in A. oryzae."}
{"id": "21985967", "title": "Transcription of Aspergillus nidulans pacC is modulated by alternative RNA splicing of palB.", "content": "Transcription of Aspergillus nidulans pacC is modulated by alternative RNA splicing of palB. Fungi have evolved elaborate signal transduction networks for remodeling metabolic pathways to scavenge nutrients, including the secretion of nutritional enzymes. This adaptive response involves the conserved PacC/Pal signal transduction pathway, which mediates the transcriptional response to ambient pH. In this study, we show that transcription of the gene for PacC is modulated in response to nutrient changes, phosphate and carbon sources, and pH. In addition, we show that transcription of pacC is modulated in response to alternative RNA splicing of the palB gene. These results reveal novel aspects of the complex network involved in modulation of pacC."}
{"id": "21940479", "title": "Evaluation of Aspergillus PCR protocols for testing serum specimens.", "content": "Evaluation of Aspergillus PCR protocols for testing serum specimens. A panel of human serum samples spiked with various amounts of Aspergillus fumigatus genomic DNA was distributed to 23 centers within the European Aspergillus PCR Initiative to determine analytical performance of PCR. Information regarding specific methodological components and PCR performance was requested. The information provided was made anonymous, and meta-regression analysis was performed to determine any procedural factors that significantly altered PCR performance. Ninety-seven percent of protocols were able to detect a threshold of 10 genomes/ml on at least one occasion, with 83% of protocols reproducibly detecting this concentration. Sensitivity and specificity were 86.1% and 93.6%, respectively. Positive associations between sensitivity and the use of larger sample volumes, an internal control PCR, and PCR targeting the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region were shown. Negative associations between sensitivity and the use of larger elution volumes (\u2265100 \u03bcl) and PCR targeting the mitochondrial genes were demonstrated. Most Aspergillus PCR protocols used to test serum generate satisfactory analytical performance. Testing serum requires less standardization, and the specific recommendations shown in this article will only improve performance."}
{"id": "21935789", "title": "[Fatal sino-orbital aspergillosis in an immunocompetent case].", "content": "[Fatal sino-orbital aspergillosis in an immunocompetent case]. The paranasal sinus infections caused by Aspergillus spp. are usually presented clinically with mild symptoms, however they may lead to invasive disease and mortality especially in immunocompromised individuals. In this report a fatal case of sino-orbital aspergillosis developed in an immunocompetent patient has been presented. Seventy-four years old female patient was admitted to the hospital with the complaints of fever and progressively increasing headache that continued for 15 days. Due to the development of nausea, vomiting, loss of consciousness and stiff neck in the following days, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) sample was obtained. Direct microscopic examination of the Gram and acidfast staining of the CSF sample revealed no microorganisms, no growth was detected in CSF culture and PCR amplification was negative for Herpes simplex virus and Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Since no response was achieved by empirical ceftriaxone, ampicillin and conventional anti-tuberculosis treatment and tachypnea, proptosis and progressive respiratory failure developed in the patient, she was transferred to the intensive care unit. The radiological examination revealed soft tissue lesion filling the sphenoid sinus, extending to the nasal cavity and suprasellar cistern, destruction of bones, dilated orbital vein, cavernous sinus thrombosis and infarction on left cerebral peduncule. Patient was operated and pus and fungus ball were aspirated from the openings of both sphenoid sinuses. Gomori methenamine silver, periodic acid-Schiff and haematoxylin-eosine staining of the operational material exhibited dichotomously branching hyphae. The patient was diagnosed as invasive sino-orbital aspergillosis based on the clinical, radiological and histopathological findings. Despite antifungal therapy and surgical debridement, the patient died. It should always be kept in mind that aspergillosis can develop in immuncompetent individuals. Delay in diagnosis and treatment may lead to fatality. Thus multidiciplinary approach is necessary for early diagnosis and successful treatment of aspergillus infections."}
{"id": "21923908", "title": "Global population structure of Aspergillus terreus inferred by ISSR typing reveals geographical subclustering.", "content": "Global population structure of Aspergillus terreus inferred by ISSR typing reveals geographical subclustering. Aspergillus terreus causes invasive aspergillosis (IA) in immunocompromised individuals and can be the leading cause of IA in certain medical centers. We examined a large isolate collection (n = 117) for the presence of cryptic A. terreus species and employed a genome scanning method, Inter-Simple Sequence Repeat (ISSR) PCR to determine A. terreus population structure. Comparative sequence analyses of the calmodulin locus revealed the presence of the recently recognized species A. alabamensis (n = 4) in this collection. Maximum parsimony, Neighbor joining, and Bayesian clustering of the ISSR data from the 113 sequence-confirmed A. terreus isolates demonstrated that one clade was composed exclusively of isolates from Europe and another clade was enriched for isolates from the US. This study provides evidence of a population structure linked to geographical origin in A. terreus."}
{"id": "21899908", "title": "Mechanisms involved in reduction of ochratoxin A produced by Aspergillus westerdijkiae using Debaryomyces hansenii CYC 1244.", "content": "Mechanisms involved in reduction of ochratoxin A produced by Aspergillus westerdijkiae using Debaryomyces hansenii CYC 1244. Aspergillus westerdijkiae is one of the most relevant ochratoxin A (OTA) producing species within the Section Circumdati contaminating a number of agroproducts. The yeast Debaryomyces hansenii CYC 1244 was previously reported to be able to reduce growth and extracellular OTA produced by A. westerdijkiae. In this work, we examined several mechanisms possibly involved in this OTA reduction in in vitro experiments. OTA biosynthesis was evaluated by quantitation of expression levels of pks (polyketide synthase) and p450-B03 (cytochrome p450 monooxygenase) genes using newly developed and specific real time RT-PCR protocols. Both genes showed significant lower levels in presence of D. hansenii CYC 1244 suggesting an effect on regulation of OTA biosynthesis at transcriptional level. High levels of removal of extracellular OTA were observed by adsorption to yeast cell walls, particularly at low pH (98% at pH 3). On the contrary, no evidences were obtained of absorption of OTA into yeast cells or the production of constitutively expressed enzymes that degrade OTA by D. hansenii CYC 1244. These results described the potential of this yeast strain as a safe and efficient biocontrol agent to decrease OTA in A. westerdijkiae and two important mechanisms involved which may permit its application at different points of the food chain."}
{"id": "21897974", "title": "Fungal DNA in hotel rooms in Europe and Asia--associations with latitude, precipitation, building data, room characteristics and hotel ranking.", "content": "Fungal DNA in hotel rooms in Europe and Asia--associations with latitude, precipitation, building data, room characteristics and hotel ranking. There is little information on the indoor environment in hotels. Analysis of fungal DNA by quantitative PCR (qPCR) is a new method which can detect general and specific sequences. Dust was collected through swab sampling of door frames in 69 hotel rooms in 20 countries in Europe and Asia (2007-2009). Five sequences were detected by qPCR: total fungal DNA, Aspergillus and Penicillium DNA (Asp/Pen DNA), Aspergillus versicolor (A. versicolor DNA), Stachybotrys chartarum (S. chartarum DNA) and Streptomyces spp. (Streptomyces DNA). Associations were analysed by multiple linear regression. Total fungal DNA (GM = 1.08 \u00d7 10(8) cell equivalents m(-2); GSD = 6.36) and Asp/Pen DNA (GM = 1.79 \u00d7 10(7) cell equivalents m(-2); GSD = 10.12) were detected in all rooms. A. versicolor DNA, S. chartarum DNA and Streptomyces DNA were detected in 84%, 28% and 47% of the samples. In total, 20% of the rooms had observed dampness/mould, and 30% had odour. Low latitude (range 1.5-64.2 degrees) was a predictor of Asp/Pen DNA. Seaside location, lack of mechanical ventilation, and dampness or mould were other predictors of total fungal DNA and Asp/Pen DNA. Hotel ranking (Trip Advisor) or self-rated quality of the interior of the hotel room was a predictor of total fungal DNA, A. versicolor DNA and Streptomyces DNA. Odour was a predictor of S. chartarum DNA. In conclusion, fungal DNA in swab samples from hotel rooms was related to latitude, seaside location, ventilation, visible dampness and indoor mould growth. Hotels in tropical areas may have 10-100 times higher levels of common moulds such as Aspergillus and Penicillium species, as compared to a temperate climate zone."}
{"id": "21897021", "title": "Aspergillus oryzae laeA regulates kojic acid synthesis genes.", "content": "Aspergillus oryzae laeA regulates kojic acid synthesis genes. Kojic acid synthesis genes regulation was investigated in Aspergillus oryzae. Our results indicate that kojic acid production was lost in the laeA disruption strain, but was recovered in the LaeA complement strain. Real-time PCR also confirmed that expression of kojic acid biosynthesis genes decreased in the laeA disruption strain, indicating that these genes are under the control of LaeA."}
{"id": "21889911", "title": "Assessment of efficacy of antifungals in experimental models of invasive aspergillosis in an era of emerging resistance: the value of real-time quantitative PCR.", "content": "Assessment of efficacy of antifungals in experimental models of invasive aspergillosis in an era of emerging resistance: the value of real-time quantitative PCR. Experimental models of invasive aspergillosis (IA) have been used to explore pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic (PK/PD) properties of antifungal agents. Survival is still considered the golden standard effect measure but has the disadvantage that a large number of animals are needed to determine the dose-response relationships and PK/PD of antifungals. The feasibility of using fungal load by real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) as an effect measure has been explored recently. The majority of studies reported convincingly demonstrate a larger dynamic range for qPCR compared to conventional assays. However interpretation and translating the results to guidance in clinical decision making need further study. It is expected that the use of qPCR will become the primary outcome measure for assessment of PK/PD relationships of antifungals in experimental models of IA."}
{"id": "21882662", "title": "Characterization in the archaeological excavation site of heterotrophic bacteria and fungi of deteriorated wall painting of Herculaneum in Italy.", "content": "Characterization in the archaeological excavation site of heterotrophic bacteria and fungi of deteriorated wall painting of Herculaneum in Italy. Microbiological characterization of frescos in four different locations (Collegio degli Augustali, Casa del Colonnato Tuscanico, Casa dello Scheletro and Casa del Gran Portale) of excavation sites of Herculaneum was carried out. The use of infrared thermography allowed detecting sample points on frescos with greatest moisture not visible to the naked eye, resulting in structural damage. The microclimatic conditions provided perfect habitat for bacteria and fungi, particularly of spore forming and mould. In fact, heterotrophic bacteria were prevalent in all wall paintings monitored (ranging from 18 +/- 2 CFU 100 cm(-2) to 68 +/- 4 CFU 100 cm(-2)), whereas fungi were also detected but at lower levels (ranging from 9 +/- 2 CFU 100 cm(-2) to 45 +/- 3 CFU 100 cm(-2)). Cultural-based method allow us to identify by 16S and 26S rRNA partial sequence analysis heterotrophic microorganisms belonging to different genera of Bacillus and Aspergillus, Penicillium and Fusarium together with the unusual genera as Microascus and Coprinus. By using this approach, Bacillus-related species (B. cereus/B. thuringiensis group, B. simplex/B. muralis group, B. megaterium and B. subtilis) were isolated in all sample points analysed with the exception of the Casa dello Scheletro in which Micrococcus luteus/Arthrobactersp. group and Streptomyces fragilis were found. DGGE analysis of PCR amplified V3 region of rDNA from DNA directly recovered from frescos samples, enabled identification of bacterial species not identified using culturable technology asthose closest related to Microbacterium group, often associated with Brevibacterium, Streptomyces and Stenotrophomonas. Combination of culture-dependent and independent methods provided better microbiology characterization of heterotrophic microbiota present on the surface of ancient frescos of this important archaeological site."}
{"id": "21861765", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus in lung and other tissue samples using the MycAssay Aspergillus real-time PCR kit.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus in lung and other tissue samples using the MycAssay Aspergillus real-time PCR kit. The MycAssay\u2122 Aspergillus real-time PCR kit was tested on tissues from patients with invasive fungal infections. Tissue samples from nine organ transplant recipients and 33 patients with haematological malignancy were from lung (n = 30), skin (n = 4), and others. Samples were preprocessed with proteinase K and lyticase, followed by DNA extraction and real-time PCR. For all samples, the sensitivity of the MycAssay Aspergillus test was 82% and specificity 79% relative to microscopy and 90% and 64%, respectively, compared with Aspergillus culture. The positive predictive value and negative predictive values compared with culture were 69% and 88% and were 88% and 69% compared with microscopy, respectively. The MycAssay Aspergillus test detected tissue invasive infections with Aspergillus fumigatus , Aspergillus flavus , and Aspergillus terreus."}
{"id": "21858538", "title": "Polyphasic characterization of \"Aspergillus nidulans var. roseus\" ATCC 58397.", "content": "Polyphasic characterization of \"Aspergillus nidulans var. roseus\" ATCC 58397. Polyphasic characterization of the echinocandin B producer Aspergillus nidulans var. roseus ATCC 58397 strain was carried out to elucidate its taxonomical status. According to its carbon source utilization and secondary metabolite spectrum as well as the partial \u03b2-tubulin, calmodulin, and \u03b3-actin gene sequences, A. nidulans var. roseus belongs to the Emericella rugulosa species. Auxotroph mutants of A. nidulans var. roseus ATCC 58397 and E. rugulosa CBS 171.71 and CBS 133.60 formed stable heterokaryons on minimal medium with several A. nidulans strains, and in the case of A. nidulans var. roseus, even cleistothecia were developed."}
{"id": "21849696", "title": "Analysis of performance of a PCR-based assay to detect DNA of Aspergillus fumigatus in whole blood and serum: a comparative study with clinical samples.", "content": "Analysis of performance of a PCR-based assay to detect DNA of Aspergillus fumigatus in whole blood and serum: a comparative study with clinical samples. The performance of a real-time PCR-based assay was retrospectively analyzed (according to European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer/Mycosis Study Group criteria) in the samples of patients with invasive aspergillosis. A total of 711 serial samples (356 whole-blood and 355 serum samples) from 38 adult patients were analyzed. The Aspergillus fumigatus PCR assay results were positive for 89 of 356 (25%) whole-blood samples and 90 of 355 (25.35%) serum samples. Positive PCR results were seen in 29 of 31 (93.5%) patients for which serum was analyzed and in 31 of 33 (93.9%) cases with whole-blood specimens. Both blood and serum samples were available in 26 cases, and significant differences were not observed in this subgroup of cases. The average number of threshold cycles (C(T)) for positive blood samples was 37.6, and the average C(T) for serum was 37.4. The DNA concentration ranged between 2 and 50 fg per \u03bcl of sample, with average DNA concentrations of 10.2 and 11.7 fg in positive blood and serum samples, respectively (P > 0.01). The performance of this PCR-based quantitative assay was similar for both serum and blood samples. We recommend serum samples as the most convenient hematological sample to use for Aspergillus DNA quantification when serial determinations are done."}
{"id": "21840384", "title": "Sequential air-liquid exposure of human respiratory cells to chemical and biological pollutants.", "content": "Sequential air-liquid exposure of human respiratory cells to chemical and biological pollutants. Although indoor air has wide ranging effects on human health, the effects of environmental, chemical, and biological pollutants on the respiratory system are not fully understood. In order to clarify the health effects of airborne pollutant exposure, it would appear that toxicological evidence is needed to complement epidemiological observations to support by providing biological plausibility. The aim of this study is to manage air-liquid successive exposures to different pollutants such as a chemical pollutant (formaldehyde--FA), and a biological contaminant (Aspergillus fumigatus--Asp) using our in vitro model. Human alveolar cells (A549) were exposed at the air-liquid interface in an exposure module, firstly to an environmental level of FA (50 \u03bcg/m\u00b3) (or air) for 30 min, and 14 h later to Asp (7\u00d710\u2078 spores/m\u00b3) (or air) for 30 min. After 10 h post-incubation, cellular viability was assessed. Inflammation biomarkers (IL-8, MCP-1) were assayed by ELISA and by RT-PCR. Whatever the conditions, no cytotoxic effect was observed. FA followed by air exposure did not induce modification of production and expression of cytokines, confirming results with a unique FA exposure. Air followed by Asp exposure tended to induce IL-8 expression whereas IL-8 production tended to increase after FA and Asp exposure compared to FA and air exposure. The reaction of cells to sequential exposure to FA and Asp was moderate. These results show the feasibility of our model for sequential exposures to different types of environmental pollutants, allowing using it for preliminary assessment of cellular activity modification induced by airborne contaminants."}
{"id": "21839392", "title": "Multiplex PCR assay for the detection of aflatoxigenic and non-aflatoxigenic fungi in meju, a Korean fermented soybean food starter.", "content": "Multiplex PCR assay for the detection of aflatoxigenic and non-aflatoxigenic fungi in meju, a Korean fermented soybean food starter. Aflatoxins are toxic secondary metabolites produced commonly by Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus. In this study, the possibility of using multiplex PCR was investigated to speed up and specify the detection of aflatoxigenic Aspergillus species in meju, a traditional Korean fermented soybean food starter. Two different sets of three primers were designed specifically for the omtB, ver-1, aflR, and omtA genes present in the aflatoxin biosynthesis cluster. The optimized multiplex PCR showed that only aflatoxigenic Aspergillus species gave three band patterns in both primer sets. The detection limits were determined as 125\u00a0pg/\u03bcl for genomic DNA from aflatoxigenic A.\u00a0parasiticus KCCM 35078, and 10(5) spores/g of meju sample for DNA extracted directly from meju. A total of 65 Aspergillus isolates from meju were tested for the presence of aflatoxigenic fungi by the application of multiplex PCR, and were analyzed by TLC and HPLC for the aflatoxin production in the culture filtrates. Results showed a good correlation between the presence of the aflatoxin biosynthesis genes analyzed by multiplex PCR and aflatoxin production by TLC and HPLC. This suggests that this multiplex PCR method may provide an accurate and specific detection of aflatoxigenic Aspergillus species in fermented soybean foods."}
{"id": "21836343", "title": "Molecular characterization of drug-resistant and drug-sensitive Aspergillus isolates causing infectious keratitis.", "content": "Molecular characterization of drug-resistant and drug-sensitive Aspergillus isolates causing infectious keratitis. To study the susceptibilities of Aspergillus species against amphotericin B in infectious keratitis and to find out if drug resistance had any association with the molecular characteristics of the fungi. One hundred and sixty Aspergillus isolates from the corneal scrapings of patients with keratitis were tested for susceptibilities to amphotericin B by broth microdilution method. These included Aspergillus flavus (64 isolates), A. fumigatus (43) and A. niger (53). Fungal DNA was extracted by glass bead vertexing technique. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay was standardized and used to amplify the 28S rRNA gene. Single-stranded conformational polymorphism (SSCP) of the PCR product was performed by the standard protocol. Of the 160 isolates, 84 (52.5%) showed low minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) values (\u2264 1.56 \u03bcg/ml) and were designated as amphotercin B-sensitive. Similarly, 76 (47.5%) had high MICs (\u2265 3.12 \u03bcg/ml) and were categorized as amphotericin B-resistant. MIC 50 and MIC 90 values ranged between 3.12-6.25 \u03bcg/ml and 3.12-12.5 \u03bcg/ml respectively. A. flavus and A. niger showed higher MIC 50 and MIC 90 values than A. fumigatus. The SSCP pattern exhibited three extra bands (150 bp, 200 bp and 250 bp each) in addition to the 260 bp amplicon. Strains (lanes 1 and 7) lacking the 150 bp band showed low MIC values (\u2264 1.56 \u03bcg/ml). A. niger and A. flavus isolates had higher MICs compared to A. fumigatus, suggesting a high index of suspicion for amphotericin B resistance. PCR-SSCP was a good molecular tool to characterize Aspergillus phenotypes in fungal keratitis."}
{"id": "21828275", "title": "Expression of innate and adaptive immune mediators in human corneal tissue infected with Aspergillus or fusarium.", "content": "Expression of innate and adaptive immune mediators in human corneal tissue infected with Aspergillus or fusarium. Filamentous fungi of the genera Aspergillus and Fusarium are major causes of corneal ulcers in the United States and in the developing world and result in significant visual impairment and blindness. RNA was extracted from 110 patients with corneal ulcers in southern India within 1 week of infection with either Fusarium solani or Aspergillus flavus, and gene expression was determined by quantitative polymerase chain reaction. Posttransplant corneas from later stage disease (>2 weeks after infection) were also examined. Expression of Dectin-1, Toll-like receptor 2 (TLR2), TLR4, TLR9, and NOD-like receptor protein (NLRP)3 messenger RNA was elevated >1000-fold compared with uninfected donor corneas, whereas Dectin-2 was constitutively expressed in uninfected corneas. Furthermore, interleukin 1\u03b2 (IL-1\u03b2) expression was elevated >1000-fold, whereas IL-1\u03b1 expression was not increased. Expression of IL-8, IL-17, and tumor necrosis factor \u03b1 was also elevated. CD3(+)and CD4(+) T cells were detected in infected posttransplant corneas. Expression of IL-17 and interferon \u03b3 was elevated but not that of IL-4. There were no significant differences in the host response between Aspergillus- and Fusarium-infected corneas at any time point. There is a common innate and adaptive immune response to these filamentous fungi, which includes the generation of T-helper 1 and T-helper 17 cells."}
{"id": "21824758", "title": "Identification of fungal DNA in BALF from patients with home-related hypersensitivity pneumonitis.", "content": "Identification of fungal DNA in BALF from patients with home-related hypersensitivity pneumonitis. In Japan, a major type of home-related hypersensitivity pneumonitis (HP) is summer-type HP, which is caused by Trichosporon asahii (T. asahii) or Trichosporon mucoides. Some patients with home-related HP test negative for antibodies against Trichosporon; yet, a causative mold antigen cannot be identified. We analyzed 19 patients with home-related HP, 8 healthy volunteers, and 35 patients with other diseases. We extracted DNA from cell pellets of bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF), amplified the DNA by PCR using Trichosporon-specific primers or other fungus-specific primers, and cloned as well as sequenced the PCR amplicon. Other primers used were specific for Acremonium chrysogenum, Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus niger, Fusarium napiforme, Humicola fuscoatra, Penicillium corylophilum, and Pezizia domiciliana. We detected Trichosporon DNA (n = 17) and F. napiforme DNA (n = 2) by PCR in 19 patients with home-related HP; however, these species were not identified in healthy volunteers. After sequencing of the PCR amplicon for Trichosporon species, we identified T. asahii (n = 11), Trichosporon japonicum (n = 1), and Cryptococcus uzbekistanesis (n = 4). We could detect fungal DNA in BALF cell pellets from patients with home-related HP. These data suggest that this method might be useful to detect antigens responsible for home-related HP."}
{"id": "21821764", "title": "Microbial dynamics during aerobic exposure of corn silage stored under oxygen barrier or polyethylene films.", "content": "Microbial dynamics during aerobic exposure of corn silage stored under oxygen barrier or polyethylene films. The aims of this study were to compare the effects of sealing forage corn with a new oxygen barrier film with those obtained by using a conventional polyethylene film. This comparison was made during both ensilage and subsequent exposure of silage to air and included chemical, microbiological, and molecular (DNA and RNA) assessments. The forage was inoculated with a mixture of Lactobacillus buchneri, Lactobacillus plantarum, and Enterococcus faecium and ensiled in polyethylene (PE) and oxygen barrier (OB) plastic bags. The oxygen permeability of the PE and OB films was 1,480 and 70 cm\u00b3 m\u207b\u00b2 per 24 h at 23\u00b0C, respectively. The silages were sampled after 110 days of ensilage and after 2, 5, 7, 9, and 14 days of air exposure and analyzed for fermentation characteristics, conventional microbial enumeration, and bacterial and fungal community fingerprinting via PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) and reverse transcription (RT)-PCR-DGGE. The yeast counts in the PE and OB silages were 3.12 and 1.17 log\u2081\u2080 CFU g\u207b\u00b9, respectively, with corresponding aerobic stabilities of 65 and 152 h. Acetobacter pasteurianus was present at both the DNA and RNA levels in the PE silage samples after 2 days of air exposure, whereas it was found only after 7 days in the OB silages. RT-PCR-DGGE revealed the activity of Aspergillus fumigatus in the PE samples from the day 7 of air exposure, whereas it appeared only after 14 days in the OB silages. It has been shown that the use of an oxygen barrier film can ensure a longer shelf life of silage after aerobic exposure."}
{"id": "21818610", "title": "Production of lipopeptides among Bacillus strains showing growth inhibition of phytopathogenic fungi.", "content": "Production of lipopeptides among Bacillus strains showing growth inhibition of phytopathogenic fungi. The biological activity and the presence of genes sfp and ituD (surfactin and iturin A) among Bacillus strains isolated from the Amazon basin were determined. Bacillus spp. were tested for hemolytic activity and inhibition of fungal growth by agar plate assays in parallel with PCR for identification of sfp and ituD genes. All strains tested produced surface-active compounds, giving evidence by lysis of erythrocytes and emulsifying activity on mineral oil and soybean oil. These strains of Bacillus caused growth inhibition of several phytopathogenic fungi, including Fusarium spp., Aspergillus spp., and Bipolaris sorokiniana. The presence of genes ituD and sfp was confirmed by PCR and sequence analysis. The only exception was Bacillus sp. P34 that lacks sfp gene. Lipopeptides were isolated from culture supernatants and analyzed by mass spectrometry. Characteristic m/z peaks for surfactin and iturin were observed, and some strains also produced fengycin and bacillomycin. The remarkable antifungal activity showed by the strains could be associated with the co-production of three or more lipopeptide antibiotics. Screening for novel bacteria producing useful biosurfactants or biocontrol agents for agriculture is a topic of greatest importance to eliminate chemical pollutants."}
{"id": "21802757", "title": "Quantification of ochratoxin A-producing molds in food products by SYBR Green and TaqMan real-time PCR methods.", "content": "Quantification of ochratoxin A-producing molds in food products by SYBR Green and TaqMan real-time PCR methods. Ochratoxin A (OTA) is a mycotoxin synthesized by a variety of different fungi, most of them from the genera Penicillium and Aspergillus. Early detection and quantification of OTA producing species is crucial to improve food safety. In the present work, two protocols of real-time qPCR based on SYBR Green and TaqMan were developed, and their sensitivity and specificity were evaluated. Primers and probes were designed from the non-ribosomal peptide synthetase (otanpsPN) gene involved in OTA biosynthesis. Seventy five mold strains representing OTA producers and non-producers of different species, usually reported in food products, were used as references. All strains were tested for OTA production by mycellar electrokinetic capillary electrophoresis (MECE) and high-pressure liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS). The ability of the optimized qPCR protocols to quantify OTA-producing molds was evaluated in different artificially inoculated foods. A good linear correlation was obtained over the range 1x10(4) to 10conidia/g per reaction for all qPCR assays in the different food matrices (cooked and cured products and fruits). The detection limit in all inoculated foods ranged between 1 and 10conidia/g for SYBR Green assay and TaqMan. No significant differences were found between the Ct values obtained from pure mold DNA and pure mold DNA mixed with food DNA. The ability of the designed qPCR methods to quantify two known conidial suspensions inoculated on several foods was evaluated. The amount of conidia assessed by both qPCR methods was close to the inoculated amount for most foods and indicates that the described procedure holds potential for use for the detection and quantification of OTA producing molds in foods."}
{"id": "21796487", "title": "The role of sho1 in polarized growth of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "The role of sho1 in polarized growth of Aspergillus fumigatus. Aspergillus fumigatus is an opportunistic pathogen that may cause severe invasive disease in immunocompromised patients. The filamentous fungi undergo polarized growth, searching for nutrients in the environment and causing invasive growth in tissue. Sho1 is a sensor of the high osmolarity glycerol pathway, and the sho1 mutant showed a decrease in growth rate. We found that sho1 is involved in the polarized growth of A. fumigatus. The sho1 mutation resulted in extended isotropic growth of germinating conidia followed by multiple germ tubes and wide hyphae with short intercalary cells by calcofluor white staining. The mechanism by which sho1 gene affected polarized growth is investigated. A reduced number of apical vesicles with greater dispersion were observed by transmission electron microscopy in the Spitzenk\u00f6rper body of the sho1 mutant. Actin patches were distributed randomly at low density at early stages of mutant strain fungal development and reaggregated to the hyphal tip of later stages when long filamentous fungi formed. Actin patches located at the tip of polarized wild-type cells. RNA levels of polarized growth-related genes Rho GTPases were detected by real-time PCR. The sho1 gene did not affect the RNA expression when strains were cultured at 37\u00b0C for 6 h. At 17 h, the RNA expression of rho1, rho3 and CDC42 in the sho1 mutant were 0.18-, 0.18- and 0.33-fold of that in the wild type. The sho1 gene affected the polarized growth through affecting the expression of Rho GTPases, the distribution of actin cytoskeleton, vesicle quantity and distribution."}
{"id": "21793657", "title": "Molecular characterization of ochratoxigenic fungi associated with raisins.", "content": "Molecular characterization of ochratoxigenic fungi associated with raisins. Dried grapes (raisin) may carry a significant mycological load contaminated via cultivation, postharvest processing practices, and drying processing. The contamination of raisin with fungi can accelerate spoilage or illness, if pathogens are present. Since raisins are used as food additives in many dishes in Saudi kitchen, there are healthy concerns on the safety of raisins consumed. In this article, the mycological profile of raisins sold in different markets at Jeddah, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, was studied. The black raisin samples showed high fungal load compared with the white samples. Aspergillus, Alternaria, Cladosporium, Epicoccum Fusarium, and Rhizopus were the most prevalent genera isolated from raisin samples. Among six Aspergillus species isolated in this study, As. carbonarius and As. niger were the most frequently isolated species. Ochratoxin A (OTA) production in raisins was investigated using a combination of chromatographical (thin layer) and molecular (random amplified polymorphic DNA and Multiplex polymerase chain reaction) techniques. The OTA was detected in 70% of the raisin samples. Also, As. carbonarius (14 out of 19 isolates) and As. niger (2 isolates out of 9) were recognized as potential producers for OTA. Also, some molecular markers for detecting the contamination of raisin samples with OTA directly without isolating the producers were tested."}
{"id": "21791040", "title": "Comparison of quantitative real time PCR with Sequencing and ribosomal RNA-FISH for the identification of fungi in formalin fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue specimens.", "content": "Comparison of quantitative real time PCR with Sequencing and ribosomal RNA-FISH for the identification of fungi in formalin fixed, paraffin-embedded tissue specimens. Identification of the causative agents of invasive fungal infections (IFI) is critical for guiding antifungal therapy. Cultures remain negative in a substantial number of IFI cases. Accordingly, species identification from formalin fixed, paraffin embedded (FFPE) tissue specimens by molecular methods such as fluorescence in situ hybridisation (FISH) and PCR provides an appealing approach to improve management of patients. We designed FISH probes targeting the 28S rRNA of Aspergillus and Candida and evaluated them with type strains. Fluorescence microscopy (FM), using FISH probes and quantitative broad-range fungal PCR targeting the rRNA gene were applied to FFPE tissue specimens from patients with proven IFI in order to explore benefits and limitations of each approach. PCR followed by sequencing identified a broad spectrum of pathogenic fungi in 28 of 40 evaluable samples (70%). Hybridisation of FISH probes to fungal rRNA was documented in 19 of 40 tissue samples (47.5%), including 3 PCR negative samples with low fungal burden. The use of FISH was highly sensitive in invasive yeast infections, but less sensitive for moulds. In samples with hyphal elements, the evaluation of hybridisation was impaired due to autofluorescence of hyphae and necrotic tissue background. While PCR appears to be more sensitive in identifying the causative agents of IFI, some PCR negative and FISH positive samples suggest that FISH has some potential in the rapid identification of fungi from FFPE tissue samples."}
{"id": "21788730", "title": "Voriconazole pre-exposure selects for breakthrough mucormycosis in a mixed model of Aspergillus fumigatus-Rhizopus oryzae pulmonary infection.", "content": "Voriconazole pre-exposure selects for breakthrough mucormycosis in a mixed model of Aspergillus fumigatus-Rhizopus oryzae pulmonary infection. Mucormycosis is an uncommon fungal infection that has been increasingly reported in severely immunocompromised patients receiving Aspergillus-active antifungals. Although clinical studies and pre-clinical animal models have suggested a unique predisposition for breakthrough mucormycoses in patients receiving voriconazole, no study has specifically evaluated the selection dynamics of various Aspergillus -active antifungal classes in vivo. We utilized an Aspergillus fumigatus:Rhizopus oryzae (10:1) model of mixed fungal pneumonia in corticosteroid-immunosuppressed mice to compare the selection dynamics of daily liposomal-amphotericin B (L-AMB), micafungin (MCFG) and voriconazole (VRC) therapy. A. fumigatus and R. oryzae lung fungal burden were serially monitored in parallel using non-cross-amplifying quantitative real-time PCR assays for each fungal genus. Additionally, experiments were performed where the R. oryzae component of the mixed inoculum was serially-passed on VRC-containing agar before animal infection. We found prior exposure to voriconazole in vitro, consistently resulted in a 1.5-2 log 10 increase in R. oryzae fungal burden by day +5 in vivo relative to animals infected with the non-VRC preexposed inoculum, irrespective of the antifungal-treatment administered in mice (P\u00a0\u2264\u00a00.02 all treatment groups). Mice infected with the VRC-preexposed inoculum and subsequently treated with saline or VRC had the highest mortality rates (82-86%), followed by MCFG (55%) then L-AMB (39%, P = 0.04 vs. control). However, in vivo treatment alone with voriconazole alone did not consistently increase the virulence of non- voriconazole preexposed R. oryzae versus controls. We conclude that exposure of R. oryzae sporangiospores to voriconazole in vitro modulates the subsequent growth rate and/or virulence of the fungus in vivo, which reduces effectiveness of Mucorales-active antifungals. The mechanisms underlying this phenotypic change are unknown."}
{"id": "21771406", "title": "Increasing secondary bacterial infections with Enterobacteriaceae harboring bla(CTX-M-15) and bla(CMY-6) in patients with bronchogenic carcinoma: an emerging point of concern.", "content": "Increasing secondary bacterial infections with Enterobacteriaceae harboring bla(CTX-M-15) and bla(CMY-6) in patients with bronchogenic carcinoma: an emerging point of concern. To look for secondary bacterial infections in bronchogenic carcinoma (BC(A)) with resistant organisms harboring bla genes considering the paucity of relevant studies. A total of 137 confirmed cases of BC(A) and 34 healthy volunteers were studied for the occurrence and prevalence of bla(CTX-M) and and bla(AmpC) harboring-enterobacteriaceae. A subset of these patients (n=69) was previously reported for the secondary infection with the Aspergillus species. Bronchoalveolar lavages (BAL) were subjected for bacterial and fungal cultures and the bacterial isolates were screened by multiplex PCRs for the presence of bla(CTX-M) and bla(AmpC). The isolates were also screened for the association of insertion sequence (IS26) by PCR and characterized by RAPD for any clonal relatedness. A total of 143 bacterial isolates were obtained from 137 BAL specimens of BC(A) patients. The Enterobacteriaceae-isolates were multidrug-resistant showing concomitant resistance to fluoroquinolones and aminoglycosides. Both bla(CTX-M) and bla(AmpC) of CIT family were detected in 77.4% and 27.4% isolates, respectively. Sequencing revealed the presence of bla(CTX-M-15) and bla(CMY-6). Twenty one percent of the isolates were simultaneously harboring bla(ampC) and bla(CTX-M-15). IS26 PCR and RAPD typing revealed the presence of diverse bacterial population but no predominant clone was identified. The present study also suggests strong association of aspergillosis with lung cancer and further strengthens the potential use of non-validated serological tests suggested earlier. We emphasize that all patients of bronchogenic carcinoma should also be screened for secondary bacterial infections, along with secondary fungal infections, so as to introduce early and specific antimicrobial therapy and to prevent unwanted deaths."}
{"id": "21761713", "title": "[Experimental and clinical study on the diagnosis for pathogenic fungi of fungal rhinosinusitis by multiplex PCR].", "content": "[Experimental and clinical study on the diagnosis for pathogenic fungi of fungal rhinosinusitis by multiplex PCR]. To develop a multiplex PCR method used to fast diagnose pathogenic fungi of fungal rhinosinusitis. Three pairs of primers (universal fungus-specific primers, aspergillus specific primers, mucor specific primers)were used to establish multiplex PCR system. Detected six important medical fungi species strains to examine the applicability of the system and explore the optimum conditions. Multiplex PCR system was also used to identify pathogenic fungi of fungal rhinosinusitis, and used to compare the sensitivity with fungal culture. Three pairs of primers of the multiplex PCR system had high versatility and specificity, and could amplify the corresponding DNA fragments in the appropriate conditions. Sensitivity of the reaction system was 10 microg/L. Twenty clinical specimens of fungal sinusitis were tested by fungal culture and the multiplex PCR system, 7 (35%) cases were culture positive whereas 15 (75%) cases were positive by the multiplex PCR system, the difference was statistically significant between the two methods (P < 0.05). The multiplex PCR system was proved to be a rapid, sensitive and specific technology, it could be used to detect and identify clinical pathogenic fungi of fungal rhinosinusitis."}
{"id": "21756800", "title": "[Performance of locked nucleic acid probe real-time polymerase chain reaction in the detection of Aspergillus fumigatus].", "content": "[Performance of locked nucleic acid probe real-time polymerase chain reaction in the detection of Aspergillus fumigatus]. To evaluate the performance of locked nucleic acid (LNA) probe Real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in the detection of Aspergillus fumigatus (A. fumigatus). All clinically cultured isolates of Aspergillus at our hospital were identified by morphology and DNA sequencing assay. The experimental group consists of A. fumigatus (n = 48) while the control group was made up of A. flavus (n = 55), A. versicolor (n = 16), A. nidulans (n = 10), A. sydowii (n = 5) and A. parasiticus (n = 1). The clinical samples consisted of A. fumigatus sinusitis tissue (n = 20) and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (n = 1). DNA was extracted from all samples. A. fumigatus \u03b2-tubulin gene was targeted with LNA probe Real-time PCR assay. LNA probe Real-time PCR was evaluated with regards to specificity, efficiency, linear dynamic range in PCR amplification and limits of detection. All clinical samples were positively amplified. The specificity was 100% and the PCR efficiency 98.2%. Linear dynamic range was at least six orders of magnitude and the limit of detection 2.5 pg. LNA probe Real-time PCR is a promisingly accurate assay of rapidly detecting A. fumigatus practically and cost-efficiently."}
{"id": "21755315", "title": "Transcriptomic and proteomic profile of Aspergillus fumigatus on exposure to artemisinin.", "content": "Transcriptomic and proteomic profile of Aspergillus fumigatus on exposure to artemisinin. Artemisinin, an antimalarial drug, and its derivatives are reported to have antifungal activity against some fungi. We report its antifungal activity against Aspergillus fumigatus (A. fumigatus), a pathogenic filamentous fungus responsible for allergic and invasive aspergillosis in humans, and its synergistic effect in combination with itraconazole (ITC), an available antifungal drug. In order to identify its molecular targets, we further analyzed transcript and proteomic profiles of the fungus on exposure to the artemisinin. In transcriptomic analysis, a total of 745 genes were observed to be modulated on exposure to artemisinin, and some of them were confirmed by real-time polymerase chain reaction analysis. Proteomic profiles of A. fumigatus treated with artemisinin showed modulation of 175 proteins (66 upregulated and 109 downregulated) as compared to the control. Peptide mass fingerprinting led to the identification of 85 proteins-29 upregulated and 56 downregulated, 65 of which were unique proteins. Consistent with earlier reports of molecular mechanisms of artemisinin and that of other antifungal drugs, we believe that oxidative phosphorylation pathway (64 kDa mitochondrial NADH dehydrogenase), cell wall-associated proteins and enzymes (conidial hydrophobin B protein, cell wall phiA protein, extracellular thaumatin domain protein, 1,3-beta-glucanosyltransferase Gel2) and genes involved in ergosterol biosynthesis (ERG6 and coproporphyrinogen III oxidase, HEM13) are potential targets of artemisinin for further investigations."}
{"id": "21750945", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus keratitis in ocular infections by culture and molecular method.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus keratitis in ocular infections by culture and molecular method. The incidence of fungal keratitis has increased in recent years. Since accurate and rapid diagnosis is important for the proper management of this infection, we evaluated the use of nested PCR to detect Aspergillus-specific DNA in corneal scrapings for the diagnosis of Aspergillus keratitis. From April 2005 to September 2008, patients with eye findings suspicious for fungal keratitis were enrolled for corneal sampling. After ocular examination, we carried out laboratory testing including direct microscopy and culture examination of corneal scrapings, nested PCR and histopathological examination of the corneal tissues obtained at surgery. Of the 57 infected eyes suspicious for fungal keratitis, 32 (56.14%) were reported as Aspergillus keratitis by PCR assay, from which 12 (37.5%) were positive in culture and direct smear for Aspergillus keratitis, and 20 (62.5%) had clinical signs of fungal keratitis (probable). All PCR-positive cases were judged to have fungal infections, based on their responses to the antifungal treatment. The use of molecular methods in high-risk patients can be helpful in diagnosis of fungal infections and can have important public health implications for both the treatment and prevention of suppurative corneal ulcerations. The significance of this study lies in the analysis of the proven cases in terms of both laboratory findings and responses to the treatment."}
{"id": "21741477", "title": "Osmotic stabilizer-coupled suppression of NDR defects is dependent on the calcium-calcineurin signaling cascade in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Osmotic stabilizer-coupled suppression of NDR defects is dependent on the calcium-calcineurin signaling cascade in Aspergillus nidulans. Establishment and maintenance of cell polarity are coordinated by signaling pathways such as NDR (nuclear Dbf2-related) protein-kinase signaling and calcium signaling pathway. The NDR family of kinase is structurally related to the human myotonic dystrophy kinase, which, when impaired, confers a disease that involves changes in cytoarchitecture and ion homeostasis. CotA kinase, a member of the NDR protein kinase family, forms a complex with MobB to regulate cell polarized growth in Aspergillus nidulans. Our previous study demonstrated that mobB/cotA defects could be suppressed by the osmotic stress in the presence of external calcium. In this study, via the genetic and molecular approach, we further demonstrated that Ca(2+)-permeable stretch-activated nonselective cation channel-MidA, calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase catalatic subunit-CnaA and external calcium, but not voltage-gated calcium channel homolog-CchA, were required for the osmotic stabilizer-coupled suppression. The up-regulation of calcium/calcineurin signaling pathway induced by osmotic stress might be the reason for bypassing the requirements of NDR kinase complex, which is otherwise necessary for polar morphogenesis. Our results suggest that calcium-calcineurin signaling pathway coordinates with MobB/CotA kinase complex in regulating polarity growth via maintaining cellular calcium homeostasis. However, CchA may act differently as other components in calcium signaling pathway in Aspergillus nidulans. These findings provide an excellent opportunity to identify the potential pathway linking NDR protein-kinase network to calcium signaling pathway."}
{"id": "21741104", "title": "Aflatoxins and ochratoxin A in stored barley grain in Spain and impact of PCR-based strategies to assess the occurrence of aflatoxigenic and ochratoxigenic Aspergillus spp.", "content": "Aflatoxins and ochratoxin A in stored barley grain in Spain and impact of PCR-based strategies to assess the occurrence of aflatoxigenic and ochratoxigenic Aspergillus spp. Contamination of barley by moulds and mycotoxins results in quality and nutritional losses and represents a significant hazard to the food chain. The presence of aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), B2 (AFB2), G1 (AFG1) and G2 (AFG2) and ochratoxin A (OTA) in stored barley in Spain has been studied. Species-specific PCR assays were used for detection of Aspergillus flavus, A. parasiticus, A. ochraceus, A. steynii, A. westerdijkiae, A. carbonarius and A. niger aggregate in mycotoxin-positive barley samples at different incubation times (0, 1 and 2 days). Classical enumeration techniques (CFU/g) in different culture media for evaluation of Aspergillus in sections Flavi, Circumdati and Nigri were also used. One hundred and five barley kernel samples were collected in Spanish grain stores from 2008 to 2010, and analyzed using a previously optimized method involving accelerated solvent extraction, cleanup by immunoaffinity column, liquid chromatographic separation, post-column derivatization with iodine and fluorescence detection. Twenty-nine samples were contaminated with at least one of the studied mycotoxins. AFB1, AFB2, AFG1, AFG2, and OTA were detected in 12.4%, 2.9%, 4.8%, 2.9%, and 20% of the samples, respectively. Aflatoxins and OTA co-occurred in 4.8% of the samples. Maximum mycotoxin levels (ng/g) were 0.61 (AFB1), 0.06 (AFB2), 0.26 (AFG1), 0.05 (AFG2), and 2.0 (OTA). The results of PCR assays indicated the presence of all the studied species, except A. westerdijkiae. The PCR assays showed high levels of natural contamination of barley with the studied species of Aspergillus which do not correspond to the expected number of CFU/g in the cultures. These results suggest that a high number of non-viable spores or hyphae may exist in the samples. This is the first study carried out on the levels of aflatoxins and OTA in barley grain in Spain. Likewise, this is the first report on the presence of aflatoxigenic and ochratoxigenic Aspergillus spp. in barley grain naturally contaminated with those mycotoxins using a species-specific PCR approach."}
{"id": "21724168", "title": "The allergenicity of Aspergillus fumigatus conidia is influenced by growth temperature.", "content": "The allergenicity of Aspergillus fumigatus conidia is influenced by growth temperature. Common indoor and outdoor environmental fungi such as Aspergillus fumigatus produce asexual spores containing a collection of proteins that can bind IgE antibodies and trigger allergic reactions. We characterized the impact of sporulation temperature on the IgE-binding capacity (allergenicity) of A. fumigatus and explored the links between variable allergenicity\u00a0and temperature-dependant expression of genes encoding these allergenic proteins. A 12-fold increase in A. fumigatus allergenicity per spore was observed when sporulation temperatures were decreased from 32\u00b0C to 17\u00b0C. Per spore protein mass and Asp f 1 allergen mass also followed this trend. Functional gene expression analysis of A. fumigatus sporulating cultures by real-time reverse-transcription PCR and gene expression microarrays revealed that a greater number of genes encoding known, major allergens are more highly expressed at lower sporulation temperatures. The results of this study indicate that environmental conditions at growth significantly influence the allergenicity of this common mould through the differential production of allergenic proteins, and highlight the importance of in vivo or in vitro allergenicity measurements for understanding environmental exposure to airborne allergenic fungi."}
{"id": "21723360", "title": "Infection by mycotoxigenic fungal species and mycotoxin contamination of maize grain in Umbria, central Italy.", "content": "Infection by mycotoxigenic fungal species and mycotoxin contamination of maize grain in Umbria, central Italy. Surveys were carried out in 2006 and 2007 in Umbria (central Italy) to evaluate the presence of mycotoxigenic fungi and mycotoxins in maize grain sampled at harvest. Fusarium spp., were the most abundant species detected in maize kernels, followed by Aspergillus species of sections Flavi and Nigri and by Penicillium spp. Among Fusarium species, F. verticillioides was the most prevalent species, as detected by PCR directly on the kernels and on the fungi isolated from the kernels, followed by F. proliferatum and F. subglutinans. Fumonisins were the predominant mycotoxins with values, on average, of 4.3 and 5.7 mgkg(-1), in 2006 and 2007, respectively, with a maximum of 76.3 mgkg(-1) in the second year. Deoxynivalenol ranged from 0.2 to 3.98 mgkg(-1) in 2006 (average 1.04 mgkg(-1)) and from undetectable levels to 14 mgkg(-1) in 2007 (average 0.86 mgkg(-1)). Aflatoxins, analyzed only in 2007, averaged 26.3 \u03bcgkg(-1), with a maximum of 820 \u03bcgkg(-1). Zearalenone content was always very low. Results indicate that EU legal limits for these mycotoxins were rarely exceeded with low levels across most of the examined area, suggesting that this region could be considered suitable for the production of healthy maize."}
{"id": "21717328", "title": "The MpkB MAP kinase plays a role in post-karyogamy processes as well as in hyphal anastomosis during sexual development in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "The MpkB MAP kinase plays a role in post-karyogamy processes as well as in hyphal anastomosis during sexual development in Aspergillus nidulans. Two genes encoding MAP kinase homologs, designated as mpkB and mpkC, were isolated from Aspergillus nidulans by PCR with degenerate primers. Deletion and over-expression mutants of mpkC showed no detectable phenotypes under any external stress tested. Deletion of mpkB caused pleiotropic phenotypes including a failure in forming cleistothecia under any induction conditions for sexual development, increased H\u00fclle cell production, slow hyphal growth and aberrant conidiophore morphology. Over-expression of mpkB led to increased cleistothecium production. While the transcripts of mpkB and mpkC were constitutively synthesized through the entire life cycle, their size and amount differed with developmental stages. An outcross test using fluorescent protein reporters showed that the mpkB deletion mutant could not form heterokaryons with wild type. Protoplast fusion experiments showed that the fusant of the mpkB mutant with wild type could undergo normal sexual development. However, heterokaryotic mycelia that were produced from a fusant between two mpkB deletion mutants could not form cleistothecia, although they did appear to form diploid nuclei. These results suggest that the MpkB MAP kinase is required for some post-karyogamy process as well as at the hyphal anastomosis stage to accomplish sexual development successfully."}
{"id": "21698107", "title": "Proteomic analysis of the secretory response of Aspergillus niger to D-maltose and D-xylose.", "content": "Proteomic analysis of the secretory response of Aspergillus niger to D-maltose and D-xylose. Fungi utilize polysaccharide substrates through extracellular digestion catalyzed by secreted enzymes. Thus far, protein secretion by the filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger has mainly been studied at the level of individual proteins and by genome and transcriptome analyses. To extend these studies, a complementary proteomics approach was applied with the aim to investigate the changes in secretome and microsomal protein composition resulting from a shift to a high level secretion condition. During growth of A. niger on D-sorbitol, small amounts of D-maltose or D-xylose were used as inducers of the extracellular amylolytic and xylanolytic enzymes. Upon induction, protein compositions in the extracellular broth as well as in enriched secretory organelle (microsomal) fractions were analyzed using a shotgun proteomics approach. In total 102 secreted proteins and 1,126 microsomal proteins were identified in this study. Induction by D-maltose or D-xylose resulted in the increase in specific extracellular enzymes, such as glucoamylase A on D-maltose and \u03b2-xylosidase D on D-xylose, as well as of microsomal proteins. This reflects the differential expression of selected genes coding for dedicated extracellular enzymes. As expected, the addition of extra D-sorbitol had no effect on the expression of carbohydrate-active enzymes, compared to addition of D-xylose or D-maltose. Furthermore, D-maltose induction caused an increase in microsomal proteins related to translation (e.g., Rpl15) and vesicular transport (e.g., the endosomal-cargo receptor Erv14). Millimolar amounts of the inducers D-maltose and D-xylose are sufficient to cause a direct response in specific protein expression levels. Also, after induction by D-maltose or D-xylose, the induced enzymes were found in microsomes and extracellular. In agreement with our previous findings for D-xylose induction, D-maltose induction leads to recruitment of proteins involved in proteasome-mediated degradation."}
{"id": "21686223", "title": "Clinical utility and development of biomarkers in invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Clinical utility and development of biomarkers in invasive aspergillosis. The diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis remains very difficult, and there are limited treatment options for the disease. Pre-clinical models have been used to evaluate the diagnosis and treatment of Aspergillus infection and to assess the pathogenicity and virulence of the organism. Extensive efforts in Aspergillus research have significantly expanded the genomic information about this microorganism. The standardization of animal models of invasive aspergillosis can be used to enhance the evaluation of genomic information about the organism to improve the diagnosis and treatment of invasive aspergillosis. One approach to this process has been the award of a contract by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases of the National Institutes of Health to establish and standardize animal models of invasive aspergillosis for the development of new diagnostic technologies for both pulmonary and disseminated Aspergillus infection. This work utilizes molecular approaches for the genetic manipulation of Aspergillus strains that can be tested in animal-model systems to establish new diagnostic targets and tools. Studies have evaluated the performance characteristics of assays for cell-wall antigens of Aspergillus including galactomannan and beta-D-glucan, as well as for DNA targets in the organism, through PCR. New targets, such as proteomic and genomic approaches, and novel detection methods, such as point-of-care lateral-flow devices, have also been evaluated. The goal of this paper is to provide a framework for evaluating genomic targets in animal models to improve the diagnosis and treatment of invasive aspergillosis toward ultimately improving the outcomes for patients with this frequently fatal infection."}
{"id": "21685325", "title": "Induction of mucin and MUC5AC expression by the protease activity of Aspergillus fumigatus in airway epithelial cells.", "content": "Induction of mucin and MUC5AC expression by the protease activity of Aspergillus fumigatus in airway epithelial cells. Allergic bronchopulmonary mycosis, characterized by excessive mucus secretion, airflow limitation, bronchiectasis, and peripheral blood eosinophilia, is predominantly caused by a fungal pathogen, Aspergillus fumigatus. Using DNA microarray analysis of NCI-H292 cells, a human bronchial epithelial cell line, stimulated with fungal extracts from A. fumigatus, Alternaria alternata, or Penicillium notatum, we identified a mucin-related MUC5AC as one of the genes, the expression of which was selectively induced by A. fumigatus. Quantitative RT-PCR, ELISA, and histochemical analyses confirmed an induction of mucin and MUC5AC expression by A. fumigatus extracts or the culture supernatant of live microorganisms in NCI-H292 cells and primary cultures of airway epithelial cells. The expression of MUC5AC induced by A. fumigatus extracts diminished in the presence of neutralizing Abs or of inhibitors of the epidermal growth factor receptor or its ligand, TGF-\u03b1. We also found that A. fumigatus extracts activated the TNF-\u03b1-converting enzyme (TACE), critical for the cleavage of membrane-bound pro-TGF-\u03b1, and its inhibition with low-molecular weight inhibitors or small interfering RNA suppressed the expression of MUC5AC. The protease activity of A. fumigatus extracts was greater than that of other fungal extracts, and treatment with a serine protease inhibitor, but not with a cysteine protease inhibitor, eliminated its ability to activate TACE or induce the expression of MUC5AC mRNA in NCI-H292. In conclusion, the prominent serine protease activity of A. fumigatus, which caused the overproduction of mucus by the bronchial epithelium via the activation of the TACE/TGF-\u03b1/epidermal growth factor receptor pathway, may be a pathogenetic mechanism of allergic bronchopulmonary mycosis."}
{"id": "21663991", "title": "Development of a green fluorescent tagged strain of Aspergillus carbonarius to monitor fungal colonization in grapes.", "content": "Development of a green fluorescent tagged strain of Aspergillus carbonarius to monitor fungal colonization in grapes. An enhanced green fluorescent protein has been used to tag an OTA-producing strain of Aspergillus carbonarius (W04-40) isolated from naturally infected grape berries. Transformation of the fungus was mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens. The most efficient transformation occurred when the co-cultivation was done with 10(4) conidia due to higher frequency of resistance colonies (894 per 10(4) conidia) and lower background obtained. To confirm the presence of the hph gene in hygromycin resistant colonies, 20 putative transformants were screened by PCR analysis. The hph gene was identified in all the transformants. Variation on the expression levels of the eGFP was detected among the transformants and 50% of them appeared bright green fluorescent under the microscope. Microscopic analysis of all the bright fluorescent transformants revealed homogeneity of the fluorescent signal, which was clearly visible in the hyphae as well as in the conidia. eGFP expression in A. carbonarius was shown to be stable in all transformants. Confocal Laser scanning microscopy images of grape berries infected with the eGFP transformant demonstrated fungal penetration into the berry tissues. OTA production was importantly increased in the eGFP transformant in comparison with the wild type strain and pathogenicity on grape berries was slightly decreased after four days of inoculation. However, no differences in virulence were found after seven days of inoculation, thus allowing utilization of this eGFP mutant for in situ analysis of A. carbonarius infection of grape berries. To our knowledge, this is the first report describing the construction of a GFP-tagged strain belonging to Aspergillus section Nigri for monitoring Aspergillus rot on grape berries."}
{"id": "21655222", "title": "Dual organism transcriptomics of airway epithelial cells interacting with conidia of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Dual organism transcriptomics of airway epithelial cells interacting with conidia of Aspergillus fumigatus. Given the complex nature of the responses that can occur in host-pathogen interactions, dual transcriptomics offers a powerful method of elucidating these interactions during infection. The gene expression patterns of Aspergillus fumigatus conidia or host cells have been reported in a number of previous studies, but each focused on only one of the interacting organisms. In the present study, we profiled simultaneously the transcriptional response of both A. fumigatus and human airway epithelial cells (AECs). 16HBE14o- transformed bronchial epithelial cells were incubated with A. fumigatus conidia at 37\u00b0C for 6 hours, followed by genome-wide transcriptome analysis using human and fungal microarrays. Differentially expressed gene lists were generated from the microarrays, from which biologically relevant themes were identified. Human and fungal candidate genes were selected for validation, using RT-qPCR, in both 16HBE14o- cells and primary AECs co-cultured with conidia. We report that ontologies related to the innate immune response are activated by co-incubation with A. fumigatus condia, and interleukin-6 (IL-6) was confirmed to be up-regulated in primary AECs via RT-qPCR. Concomitantly, A. fumigatus was found to up-regulate fungal pathways involved in iron acquisition, vacuolar acidification, and formate dehydrogenase activity. To our knowledge, this is the first study to apply a dual organism transcriptomics approach to interactions of A. fumigatus conidia and human airway epithelial cells. The up-regulation of IL-6 by epithelia and simultaneous activation of several pathways by fungal conidia warrants further investigation as we seek to better understand this interaction in both health and disease. The cellular response of the airway epithelium to A. fumigatus is important to understand if we are to improve host-pathogen outcomes."}
{"id": "21645819", "title": "Development of real-time PCR methods to quantify patulin-producing molds in food products.", "content": "Development of real-time PCR methods to quantify patulin-producing molds in food products. Patulin is a mycotoxin produced by different Penicillium and Aspergillus strains isolated from food products. To improve food safety, the presence of patulin-producing molds in foods should be quantified. In the present work, two real-time (RTi) PCR protocols based on SYBR Green and TaqMan were developed. Thirty four patulin producers and 28 non-producers strains belonging to different species usually reported in food products were used. The patulin production was tested by mycellar electrokinetic capillary electrophoresis (MECE) and high-pressure liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (HPLC-MS). A primer pair F-idhtrb/R-idhtrb and the probe IDHprobe were designed from the isoepoxydon dehydrogenase (idh) gene, involved in patulin biosynthesis. The functionality of the developed method was demonstrated by the high linear relationship of the standard curves constructed with the idh gene copy number and Ct values for the different patulin producers tested. The ability to quantify patulin producers of the developed SYBR Green and TaqMan assays in artificially inoculated food samples was successful, with a minimum threshold of 10\u00a0conidia\u00a0g(-1) per reaction. The developed methods quantified with high efficiency fungal load in foods. These RTi-PCR protocols, are proposed to be used to quantify patulin-producing molds in food products and to prevent patulin from entering the food chain."}
{"id": "21645813", "title": "PCR ITS-RFLP: A useful method for identifying filamentous fungi isolates on grapes.", "content": "PCR ITS-RFLP: A useful method for identifying filamentous fungi isolates on grapes. Restriction digestion analysis of the ITS products was tested as an easy method to identify isolates of filamentous fungi on grapes. Endonucleases SduI, HinfI, MseI, HaeIII were used. Endonucleases BfmI, Cfr9I, Hpy188I, MaeII or PspGI were used as necessary to complete discrimination. The 43 species studied generated 42 different composite profiles. Only the species P.\u00a0thomii and P.\u00a0glabrum gave the same composite profile. 96.3% strains tested could be differentiated to the species level with only four enzymes. Hundred ninety nine strains of filamentous fungi were isolated from various vineyards in Burgundy and identified by this method. Penicillium (58.5%) was the genus the most frequently isolated and no strains of the genus Aspergillus was isolated. P.\u00a0spinolusum was the most isolated species of Penicillium (22.70%). The species C.\u00a0cladiosporioides, B. cinerea, E.\u00a0nigrum, A.\u00a0alternata, T.\u00a0koningiopsis, P.\u00a0diplodiella, C.\u00a0herbarum, A.\u00a0alternatum, T.\u00a0cucumeris and F.\u00a0oxysporum were also isolated. This technique is a rapid and reliable method appropriate for routine identification of filamentous fungi. This can be used to screen large numbers of isolates from various environments in a short time. This is the first exhaustive study of fungal diversity at species level in vineyard."}
{"id": "21644076", "title": "[Evaluation of the significance of molecular methods in the diagnosis of invasive fungal infections: comparison with conventional methods].", "content": "[Evaluation of the significance of molecular methods in the diagnosis of invasive fungal infections: comparison with conventional methods]. Direct microscopy and culture methods are still valuable standard conventional methods for the diagnosis of infections caused by true or opportunistic fungal pathogens, especially in high risk patients. However, some of the problems concerning the application and interpretation of those methods, indicate a need for more rapid, practical and reliable tests with high sensitivity and specificity. This study was conducted to compare the results obtained by molecular methods with the results of conventional methods performed simultaneously for the detection and identification of causative fungi in clinical samples. Clinical samples [24 bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL); 14 blood; 5 peritoneal, 4 pleural and 1 pericardial fluids; 1 cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), 1 urine] from 50 immunosuppressed patients were included in the study. All of the samples were cultivated on Sabouraud dextrose and brain-heart infusion agar media and incubated at 30\u00b0C and 37\u00b0C for 30 days. Samples other than blood were stained with 10-15% KOH + calcofluor white and examined by direct microscopy. Conventional identification of the isolates were performed by using basic morphological and biochemical characteristics. The isolation of fungal DNAs for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was achieved by classical phenol-chloroform-isoamylalcohol procedure (9-10 hours) and commercial DNA extraction kit (6-7 hours) and general and species-specific primers (multiplex) from ITS1, ITS2, ITS3, ITS4, 5.8S rDNA and 28S rDNA regions were chosen for amplification. In PCR results, 550 base-paired (bp) bands obtained with universal primers were evaluated as fungal DNA positivity, and 273 bp, 320 bp, 423 bp, 357 bp, 136 bp and 385 bp bands with species-specific primers were evaluated as Candida albicans, Candida parapsilosis, Candida glabrata, Candida tropicalis, Cryptococcus neoformans and Aspergillus fumigatus positivities, respectively. Seventeen (34%) of the 50 samples yielded fungal growth on culture (C.albicans in 12 BAL, 3 blood, 1 urine sample, and C.parapsilosis in 1 urine), while seven BAL out of 36 (19.4%) non-blood samples gave positive result by direct microscopy. Of the samples 27 (54%) were found positive by PCR. All of the 17 culture positive samples were also found PCR positive, and all of the 23 culture negative samples were also found PCR negative. However, fungal DNAs were detected by PCR in 10 of the samples (5 BAL, 4 peritoneal fluids, 1 CSF) which were negative by direct microscopy and culture methods. These fungi were identified as C.albicans (n= 8), C.parapsilosis (n= 1, from peritonal fluid) and C.neoformans (n= 1, from CSF) by multiplex PCR. No samples yielded PCR negative, culture positive result. All of those 10 PCR positive, culture negative samples belonged to patients who were under antifungal treatment. The detection of C.neoformans DNA from CSF sample of a patient with suspected cryptococcosis only with PCR provided the chance for rapid therapy. In statistical evaluation, the concordance between culture and PCR methods were found significantly high (k= 0.61; p< 0.001), whereas it was minimal (k= 0.24; p< 0.001) between direct microscopy and PCR. When considering culture as the reference method, the sensitivity and specificity of PCR were estimated as 100% and 69.7%, respectively. In addition, multiplex PCR was as successful as culture and conventional identification methods in the identification of all fungal species. As a result, without disregarding conventional methods, use of PCR might be recommended for the identification of fungal species on the basis of clinical status of the patient and conditions of the laboratory."}
{"id": "21640974", "title": "Targeting ST2L potentiates CpG-mediated therapeutic effects in a chronic fungal asthma model.", "content": "Targeting ST2L potentiates CpG-mediated therapeutic effects in a chronic fungal asthma model. IL-33 and its soluble receptor and cell-associated receptor (ST2L) are all increased in clinical and experimental asthma. The present study addressed the hypothesis that ST2L impairs the therapeutic effects of CpG in a fungal model of asthma. C57BL/6 mice were sensitized to Aspergillus fumigatus and challenged via i.t. instillation with live A. fumigatus conidia. Mice were treated with IgG alone, anti-ST2L monoclonal antibody (mAb) alone, CpG alone, IgG plus CpG, or anti-ST2L mAb plus CpG every other day from day 14 to day 28 and investigated on day 28 after conidia. Lung ST2L and toll-like receptor 9 protein expression levels concomitantly increased in a time-dependent manner during fungal asthma. Therapeutic blockade of ST2L with an mAb attenuated key pathological features of this model. At subtherapeutic doses, neither anti-ST2L mAb nor CpG alone affected fungal asthma severity. However, airway hyperresponsiveness, mucus cell metaplasia, peribronchial fibrosis, and fungus retention were markedly reduced in asthmatic mice treated with the combination of both. Whole lung CXCL9 levels were significantly elevated in the combination group but not in the controls. Furthermore, in asthmatic mice treated with the combination therapy, dendritic cells generated significantly greater IL-12p70 with CpG in vitro compared with control dendritic cells. The combination of anti-ST2L mAb with CpG significantly attenuated experimental asthma, suggesting that targeting ST2L might enhance the therapeutic efficacy of CpG during allergic inflammation."}
{"id": "21637862", "title": "Fungal DNA and pet allergen levels in Swedish day care centers and associations with building characteristics.", "content": "Fungal DNA and pet allergen levels in Swedish day care centers and associations with building characteristics. Pet allergens and mold growth related to damp are common phenomena in day care centers in Sweden but exposure measurements of these factors are lacking. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between building construction and indoor environment quality in Swedish day care centers and the potential for exposure to fungi (analyzed by quantitative PCR) and animal allergens (analyzed by ELISA). Measurements were performed in 21 day care centers (103 rooms) from one municipality in Sweden, which were identified as constructions at risk of dampness (85% of the buildings) and with visible damage and mold growth (54% of the buildings). Dust samples were collected using cotton swab and Petri dishes. Total fungal DNA was detected in 99% and 100%, Aspergillus/Penicillium DNA in 54% and 68%, and Stachybotrys chartarum DNA in 4% and 9% of the investigated rooms in cotton swab and Petri dish samples, respectively. The total fungal DNA levels (Geometric Mean, GM) were 4.2 \u00d7 10(6) cell equivalents per m(2) and 2.9 \u00d7 10(5) cell equivalents per m(2) per day in the swab and Petri dish samples, respectively. The concentrations (GM) of cat (Fel d1), dog (Can f1), and horse (Equ cx) allergens were 9.4, 7.2 ng m(-2) day(-1), and 5.0 unit per m(2) per day, respectively. Total fungal DNA levels were higher in risk construction buildings (p = 0.01), in rooms with linoleum flooring material (p = 0.003), and in buildings with rotating heat exchangers (p = 0.02). There were associations between total fungal DNA levels and cat (p = 0.02), dog (p < 0.001), and horse (p = 0.001) allergens. In conclusion, risk constructions, damp constructions, mould growth, fungal DNA, and animal allergens were common exposure factors in Swedish day care centers. Building constructions that represent a high risk for internal dampness should be avoided in the future, and measures to reduce allergen levels should be considered to protect pet-allergic children from asthmatic problems."}
{"id": "21632240", "title": "A thermotolerant and cold-active mannan endo-1,4-\u03b2-mannosidase from Aspergillus niger CBS 513.88: Constitutive overexpression and high-density fermentation in Pichia pastoris.", "content": "A thermotolerant and cold-active mannan endo-1,4-\u03b2-mannosidase from Aspergillus niger CBS 513.88: Constitutive overexpression and high-density fermentation in Pichia pastoris. The mannan endo-1,4-\u03b2-mannosidase gene man26A from Aspergillus niger CBS 513.88 was optimized according to the codon usage bias in Pichia pastoris and synthesized by splicing overlap extension PCR. It was successfully expressed in P. pastoris using constitutive expression vector pGAPz\u03b1A. The recombinant endo-beta-1,4-mannanase could work in an extremely board temperature range and over 30% relative activity were retained in the temperature range of 5-60\u00b0C. The optimal pH value and temperature for activity were 5.0 and 45\u00b0C, respectively. It was highly thermotolerant with a half-life time of 15min at 90\u00b0C. A novel fed-batch strategy was developed successfully for high cell-density fermentation and mannanase activity reached 5069U/mL after cultivation for 56h in 50L fermenter. The broad working temperature range, high thermotolerance and efficient expression made this enzyme possible to be applied in food, animal feed and the production of biofuels."}
{"id": "21632114", "title": "Characterization of the 41kDa allergen Asp v 13, a subtilisin-like serine protease from Aspergillus versicolor.", "content": "Characterization of the 41kDa allergen Asp v 13, a subtilisin-like serine protease from Aspergillus versicolor. Aspergillus versicolor is common on moldy building materials. Asp v 13, the principal allergen is produced by strains collected from across Canada. In this paper, we report a 1833bp Asp v 13 open reading frame predicted to encode a protein of 403 amino acids in length with three introns. A BLAST search of Asp v 13, a phylogenic tree calculation and alignment with its homologous proteins from other species indicated that Asp v 13 is a secretory, subtilisin-like serine protease widely distributed in Aspergillus species. His-tagged Asp v 13 was over-expressed in Escherichia coli and purified using Ni-NTA columns with a yield of 1mg/L. Based on immuno binding assay of recombinant protein both antibodies developed against the natural protein, and human sera IgE, the recombinant protein was similar to the natural form. Six IgE- and seven IgG-binding epitopes were also identified with selected human sera along the entire amino acid sequence of Asp v 13. Most residues binding these epitopes are exposed on the surface and correspond to charged regions of the molecule."}
{"id": "21623884", "title": "Chronic granulomatous disease of childhood: an unusual cause of recurrent uncommon infections in a 61-year-old man.", "content": "Chronic granulomatous disease of childhood: an unusual cause of recurrent uncommon infections in a 61-year-old man. Chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) is a rare congenital immunodeficiency that affects 1 : 250,000 of the population, which is characterized by recurrent bacterial and fungal infections and by granuloma formation. We investigated a 61-year-old man presented with a 20-year history of a relapsing skin rash appearing as mildly pruritic and erythematous plaques affecting various body regions. Cutaneous biopsies were taken and sent for histology and tissue culture. Leucocyte function was assessed by determining the generation of reactive oxygen species. Bactericidal activity was assessed in the presence of autologous and homologous sera. Western blotting was performed for protein analysis of the reduced nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate oxidase system, and mutation screening was carried out using PCR amplification and sequence analysis. Examination of biopsies obtained from lesional skin indicated a suppurative granulomatous process. Tissue cultures grew Aspergillus nidulans and Aspergillus fumigatus (confirmed by PCR). A. nidulans has often been associated with CGD, and the leucocyte function tests supported this diagnosis. Direct DNA sequencing led to the identification of a hemizygous missense novel mutation in CYBB (c.907C>T), which predicts a p.His303Tyr amino-acid substitution in gp91-phox, thus confirming the diagnosis of CGD. In conclusion, we report a case of a rare inherited immunodeficiency, CGD, in a 61-year-old man, and describe the novel hemizygous missense mutation underlying the condition. Mild forms of usually fatal immunodeficiencies should be considered when assessing the occurrence of unusual infectious diseases in apparently healthy people."}
{"id": "21605027", "title": "Meningoencephalitis with Aspergillus and mycobacterium tuberculosis in a renal transplant recipient.", "content": "Meningoencephalitis with Aspergillus and mycobacterium tuberculosis in a renal transplant recipient. We report a case of central nervous system coinfection with 2 types of opportunistic organisms-Aspergillus and Mycobacterium tuberculosis-in a 33-year-old woman who underwent a renal transplant. She developed a high-grade fever and right-sided weakness 1 month after the transplant while on mycophenolate mofetil, prednisolone, and cyclosporine. Brain magnetic resonance imaging revealed multiple mass lesions with peripheral ring enhancement. Colony-stimulating factor polymerase chain reaction was positive for Aspergillus and Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Broad-spectrum antibiotics, antituberculous agents, and amphotericin were started. Unfortunately, the woman's condition deteriorated, and she died 2 weeks after admission to the hospital."}
{"id": "21598928", "title": "Transformation of isosteviol lactam by fungi and the suppressive effects of its transformed products on LPS-induced iNOS expression in macrophages.", "content": "Transformation of isosteviol lactam by fungi and the suppressive effects of its transformed products on LPS-induced iNOS expression in macrophages. From the screening of 21 microbial strains, Absidia pseudocylindrospora ATCC 24169 and Aspergillus niger BCRC 32720 were found to reproducibly transform isosteviol lactam (4\u03b1-carboxy-13\u03b1-amino-13,16-seco-ent-19-norbeyeran-16-oic acid 13,16-lactam) (3) into various compounds. Preparative-scale transformation of 3 with Abs. pseudocylindrospora yielded two new hydroxylated compounds (4 and 5), with conservation of the lactam ring. Preparative-scale transformation of 3 with Asp. niger afforded seven new compounds, 6 and 9-14, together with the known compounds 7 and 8. A single-crystal X-ray diffraction experiment confirmed the structure of 14. The suppressive effects of compounds 1-14 on the lipopolysaccharide-induced expression of the inducible nitric oxide synthase gene in RAW 264.7 macrophages were examined by a reverse-transcription real-time PCR analysis. With the exception of 7, all other compounds significantly reduced levels of iNOS mRNA relative to control cells, which were induced by LPS alone. Compounds 2, 3, and 5 were similar in activity to dexamethasone, while 9 was more potent."}
{"id": "21596908", "title": "A rare, fatal case of invasive spinal aspergillosis in an antiretroviral-naive, HIV-infected man with pre-existing lung colonization.", "content": "A rare, fatal case of invasive spinal aspergillosis in an antiretroviral-naive, HIV-infected man with pre-existing lung colonization. Infection of the central nervous system (CNS) is a rare but devastating complication of invasive aspergillosis. We report a case of invasive aspergillosis with spinal involvement in a human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected patient without neutropenia. A 42-year-old, antiretroviral-na\u00efve, HIV-infected man presented with progressive weakness in the lower limbs and urinary and faecal incontinence for 2 weeks. The patient had been prescribed broad-spectrum antibiotics and prednisone. He had upper motor neuron signs and a sensory level at T1, with accompanying neck stiffness on flexion. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed diffuse abnormal signals of the vertebral bodies in the lower cervical and thoracic areas, with cord compression in the C2 and C3 region and signal distortions of the T2 and T3 vertebral bodies. Chest X-ray and computerized tomography demonstrated post-tuberculous apical cavities with suspected fungal colonization. Histopathology of an extradural spinal lesion at T1/T2 suggested invasive aspergillosis. The patient was started on fluconazole in response to the histopathological evidence of Aspergillus infection, but died within 3 weeks. Post-mortem analysis of the biopsy sample by PCR identified the infectious agent as Aspergillus fumigatus. Atypically, his CD4(+) T-cell count was 239 cells mm(-3) and he had no evidence of neutropenia. Invasive aspergillosis should be considered as part of the differential diagnosis among HIV-infected patients with non-specific, focal CNS symptoms, even among those without classical risk factors such as neutropenia, and aggressive antifungal therapy should be instituted as early as possible."}
{"id": "21574390", "title": "[Agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated transformation of Aspergillus niger conidiospores and sequence analysis of T-DNA insertion site in conidiation-defective mutant].", "content": "[Agrobacterium tumefaciens mediated transformation of Aspergillus niger conidiospores and sequence analysis of T-DNA insertion site in conidiation-defective mutant]. Development of a method of transforming Aspergillus niger conidiospores with Agrobacterium tumefaciens T-DNA system and using it as a tool for genome annotation via construction a T-DNA insertion mutant library of A. niger. A. tumefaciens EHA105 carrying the binary vector pCAMBIA1301 was used to transform A. niger conidiospores under induction conditions. Hygromycin resistant transformants were screened on the selected medium. Sequence analysis was performed using inverse PCR method in stable mutants. In total, 193 hygromycin resistant stable transformants were obtained and the transformation rate was about 5.6 x 10(2) transformants /10(8) conidiospores. Obvious morphological changes were observed in some mutants and sequence analysis of T-DNA inserted site was performed in one conidiation-defective mutant. The result showed that the interrupted gene belonged to major facilitator superfamily (MFS). Our results indicated that the transformation system of A. niger conidiospores set up in this study, combing with sequence analysis of T-DNA insertion site, might be an effective way for genome annotation in A. niger."}
{"id": "21567331", "title": "Highly sensitive PCR-based detection specific to Aspergillus flavus.", "content": "Highly sensitive PCR-based detection specific to Aspergillus flavus. Aspergillus flavus is an important fungal species that frequently contaminates food commodities with diverse toxins, with aflatoxins being the most relevant in food safety. In addition, this is one of the major pathogenic Aspergillus species. In this work, specific PCR-based protocol for this species is described which allows the discrimination of other closely related species from the Aspergillus section Flavi, particularly Aspergillus parasiticus. The specific primers were designed on the multicopy internal transcribed region of the rDNA unit (ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 rDNA)."}
{"id": "21554340", "title": "Characterization and comparison of microbial community of different typical Chinese liquor Daqus by PCR-DGGE.", "content": "Characterization and comparison of microbial community of different typical Chinese liquor Daqus by PCR-DGGE. To identify and compare microbiota in Chinese liquor Daqu, which were produced in the different regions using different production process. The DNA exacted from Daqu samples was used as a template for PCR with universal primers of 16S rRNA, 26S rRNA and 18S rRNA, respectively. The amplicons were analysed using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). It was observed that the bacterial DGGE profile indicated high diversity and predominance of lactic acid bacteria. The results showed that Saccharomycopsis fibuligera and Pichia anomal were dominant yeast species and that several non-Saccharomyces yeasts including Hanseniaspora guilliermondii, Debaryomyces hansenii, Issatchenkia orientalis and Trichosporon asahii were also detected. As for fungal DGGE, Aspergillus oryzae and Absidia blakesleeana were the most common species amongst different samples. Based on the DGGE analysis, a few differences in community structure were found between Daqu samples. A variety of bacteria, yeast and moulds were identified in Daqu samples, in addition to the present knowledge obtained mainly through the traditional culture-dependent methods. Moreover, production temperature played a more decisive role on the formation of micro-organism composition in Daqu than geographical region. PCR-DGGE technique was used in this study to fully observe and asses all microbial community (including bacteria, yeast and mould) in Chinese liquor Daqu for the first time and proved to be effective in profiling Daqu microbial diversity."}
{"id": "21551246", "title": "SclR, a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor, regulates hyphal morphology and promotes sclerotial formation in Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "SclR, a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor, regulates hyphal morphology and promotes sclerotial formation in Aspergillus oryzae. Most known basic-region helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins belong to a superfamily of transcription factors often involved in the control of growth and differentiation. Therefore, inappropriate expression of genes encoding bHLH proteins is frequently associated with developmental dysfunction. In our previously reported study, a novel bHLH protein-encoding gene (AO090011000215) of Aspergillus oryzae was identified. The gene-disrupted strain was found to produce dense conidia, but sparse sclerotia, relative to the parent strain. Here, to further analyze its function, we generated an overexpressing strain using the A. oryzae amyB gene promoter. Genetic overexpression led to a large number of initial hyphal aggregations and then the formation of mature sclerotia; it was therefore designated sclR (sclerotium regulator). At the same time, the sclR-overexpressing strain also displayed both delayed and decreased conidiation. Scanning electron microscopy indicated that the aerial hyphae of the sclR-overexpressing strain were extremely branched and intertwined with each other. In the generation of the SclR-enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) expression strain, the SclR-EGFP protein fusion was conditionally detected in the nuclei. In addition, the loss of sclR function led to rapid protein degradation and cell lysis in dextrin-polypeptone-yeast extract liquid medium. Taken together, these observations indicate that SclR plays an important role in hyphal morphology, asexual conidiospore formation, and the promotion of sclerotial production, even retaining normal cell function, at least in submerged liquid culture."}
{"id": "21535474", "title": "Phosphorylation is the major mechanism regulating isocitrate lyase activity in Paracoccidioides brasiliensis yeast cells.", "content": "Phosphorylation is the major mechanism regulating isocitrate lyase activity in Paracoccidioides brasiliensis yeast cells. The glyoxylate cycle plays an essential role for anaplerosis of oxaloacetate during growth of microorganisms on carbon sources such as acetate or fatty acids and has been shown to contribute to virulence of several pathogens. Here, we investigated the transcriptional and post-translational regulation of the glyoxylate cycle key enzyme isocitrate lyase (PbICL) in the human pathogenic fungus Paracoccidioides brasiliensis. Although sequence analyses on fungal isocitrate lyases revealed a high phylogenetic conservation, their regulation seems to differ significantly. Closely related Aspergillus species regulate the glyoxylate cycle at the transcriptional level, whereas Pbicl was constitutively expressed in yeast cells. However, only low PbICL activity was detected when cells were grown in the presence of glucose. Two-dimensional gel analyses with subsequent antibody hybridization revealed constitutive production of PbICL, but low PbICL activity on glucose coincided with extensive protein phosphorylation. Since an in vitro dephosphorylation of PbICL from glucose grown cells strongly increased ICL activity and resembled the phosphorylation pattern of highly active acetate grown cells, post-translational modification seems the main mechanism regulating PbICL activity in yeast cells. In agreement, a transfer of yeast cells from glucose to acetate medium increased PbICL activity without requirement of de novo protein synthesis. Thus, inactivation of PbICL by phosphorylation is reversible, denoting a new strategy for the rapid adaptation to changing environmental conditions."}
{"id": "21531034", "title": "Proteome analysis of the fungus Aspergillus carbonarius under ochratoxin A producing conditions.", "content": "Proteome analysis of the fungus Aspergillus carbonarius under ochratoxin A producing conditions. Aspergillus carbonarius is an important ochratoxin A producing fungus that is responsible for mycotoxin contamination of grapes and wine. In this study, the proteomes of highly (W04-40) and weakly (W04-46) OTA-producing A. carbonarius strains were compared to identify proteins that may be involved in OTA biosynthesis. Protein samples were extracted from two biological replicates and subjected to two dimensional gel electrophoresis analysis and mass spectrometry. Expression profile comparison (PDQuest software), revealed 21 differential spots that were statistically significant and showed a two-fold change in expression, or greater. Among these, nine protein spots were identified by MALDI-MS/MS and MASCOT database and twelve remain unidentified. Of the identified proteins, seven showed a higher expression in strain W04-40 (high OTA producer) and two in strain W04-46 (low OTA producer). Some of the identified amino acid sequences shared homology with proteins involved in regulation, amino acid metabolism, oxidative stress and sporulation. It is worth noting the presence of a protein with 126.5 fold higher abundance in strain W04-40 showing homology with protein CipC, a protein with unknown function related with pathogenesis and mycotoxin production by some authors. Variations in protein expression were also further investigated at the mRNA level by real-time PCR analysis. The mRNA expression levels from three identified proteins including CipC showed correlation with protein expression levels. This study represents the first proteomic analysis for a comparison of two A. carbonarius strains with different OTA production and will contribute to a better understanding of the molecular events involved in OTA biosynthesis."}
{"id": "21529122", "title": "Rhizosphere soil microorganism populations and community structures of different watermelon cultivars with differing resistance to Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. niveum.", "content": "Rhizosphere soil microorganism populations and community structures of different watermelon cultivars with differing resistance to Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. niveum. Fusarium wilt is an increasingly serious disease of watermelon that reduces crop productivity. Changes in microorganism populations and bacterial and fungal community structures in rhizosphere soil of watermelon cultivars resistant or susceptible to Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. niveum were investigated using a plate culture method and PCR-DGGE analysis. Plate culture showed that populations of culturable bacteria and actinomycetes were more abundant in the rhizosphere of the resistant watermelon cultivar than the susceptible cultivar, but the fungi population had the opposite pattern. Populations of Penicillium , Fusarium , and Aspergillus were significantly lower in the resistant cultivar than the susceptible cultivar at the fruiting and uprooting stages (p\u00a0< 0.05). Pattern matching analysis generated the dendrogram of the DGGE results indicating the relatedness of the different resistant watermelon cultivars and their corresponding rhizosphere microbial communities. Further sequencing analysis of specific bands from DGGE profiles indicated that different groups of bacteria and fungi occurred in the rhizosphere of different watermelon cultivars. Our results demonstrated that plant genotype had a significant impact on soil microbial community structure, and the differences in the rhizosphere microbial community may contribute to the differences in resistance to F. oxysporum f. sp. niveum."}
{"id": "21527474", "title": "Repression of N-glycosylation triggers the unfolded protein response (UPR) and overexpression of cell wall protein and chitin in Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Repression of N-glycosylation triggers the unfolded protein response (UPR) and overexpression of cell wall protein and chitin in Aspergillus fumigatus. Aspergillus fumigatus is the most common airborne fungal pathogen, causing fatal invasive aspergillosis in immunocompromised patients. The crude mortality is 60-90\u200a% and remains around 29-42\u200a% even with treatment. The main reason for patient death is the low efficiency of the drug therapies. As protein N-glycosylation is involved in cell wall biogenesis in A. fumigatus, a deeper understanding of its role in cell wall biogenesis will help to develop new drug targets. The Afstt3 gene encodes the essential catalytic subunit of oligosaccharyltransferase, an enzyme complex responsible for the transfer of the N-glycan to nascent polypeptides. To evaluate the role of N-glycosylation in cell wall biosynthesis, we constructed the conditional mutant strain CPR-stt3 by replacing the endogenous promoter of Afstt3 with the nitrogen-dependent niiA promoter. Repression of the Afstt3 gene in the CPR-stt3 strain led to a severe retardation of growth and a slight defect in cell wall integrity (CWI). One of the most interesting findings was that upregulation of the cell wall-related genes was not accompanied by an activation of the MpkA kinase, which has been shown to be a central element in the CWI signalling pathway in both Saccharomyces cerevisiae and A. fumigatus. Considering that the unfolded protein response (UPR) was found to be activated, which might upregulate the expression of cell wall protein and chitin, our data suggest that the UPR, instead of the MpkA-dependent CWI signalling pathway, is the major compensatory mechanism induced by repression but not abolition of N-glycosylation in A. fumigatus. Our finding is a key to understanding the complex compensatory mechanisms of cell wall biosynthesis and may provide a new strategy for drug development."}
{"id": "21518521", "title": "[Current status and future perspectives of invasive fungal infections after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation].", "content": "[Current status and future perspectives of invasive fungal infections after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation]. Invasive fungal infections (IFI) are associated with considerable morbidity and mortality after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Recently, the epidemiology of IFI has changed notably by evolution in transplantation procedures as well as preventative strategies. Invasive Aspergillosis is the major fungal infection in the patients undergoing HSCT, which mainly occurred during later period of post-HSCT. With the risk factors, such as prolonged neutropenia, graft-versus-host disease and adopted immunosuppressants and so on in HSCT patients, moreover there are the difficult requirement of histopathological specimen and time consuming, few positive blood culture, the attributable mortality still remains high. Hence high-resolution computed tomography, PET/CT and non-culture based adjunctive diagnostic tests, such as enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for galactomannan (GM) and (1, 3)-\u03b2-D-glucan have been incorporated into clinical practice, while the molecular detection, like fungal PCR assays have been developed and will bring the earlier, specific diagnosis for IFI. Newer agents with higher efficacy and lower toxicity, such as voriconazole, caspofungin and micafungin are currently being introduced as prophylaxis, while the combination of these agents and immunotherapy are evaluated to be more prospective strategies. This review summarizes the changed epidemiology, risk factors and recent advances in the diagnosis and management of IFI in HSCT recipients."}
{"id": "21518025", "title": "Current issues in the clinical management of invasive aspergillosis--the AGIHO, DMykG, \u00d6GMM and PEG web-based survey and expert consensus conference 2009.", "content": "Current issues in the clinical management of invasive aspergillosis--the AGIHO, DMykG, \u00d6GMM and PEG web-based survey and expert consensus conference 2009. The objectives of this study were to identify unsolved issues in the management of invasive aspergillosis, identify controversies and achieve consensus. The German Speaking Mycological Society (Deutschsprachige Mykologische Gesellschaft, DMykG) invited other German infectious diseases (ID) and mycological societies to submit unsolved issues concerning the diagnosis and treatment of invasive aspergillosis. Based on these contributions, a digital web-based questionnaire of 12 questions on Aspergillus spp. was designed to be completed by experts of the participating societies. Controversial results were identified by a mathematical model and were discussed at a consensus conference during the 43rd Annual Meeting of the DMykG in Cologne, Germany. Forty-two individuals completed the questionnaire. Analysis showed a strong consensus on effective preventive measures, choice of antifungal agents for pre-emptive, empiric and targeted treatment, as well as the evaluation of early chest CT control scans as a measure of treatment response assessment. Opinions on the indication for a pulmonary biopsy of a halo sign in high-risk neutropenic patients and on the role of Aspergillus spp. PCR as well as galactomannan from serum in the assessment of treatment duration diverged in spite of discussion such that a consensus could not be reached. Using a recently published two-step approach - web-based survey plus classical panel discussion - expert consensus was achieved on 10 of 12 questions concerning the diagnosis and treatment of invasive aspergillosis."}
{"id": "21513216", "title": "Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of the plant pathogenic fungus Rosellinia necatrix.", "content": "Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of the plant pathogenic fungus Rosellinia necatrix. Rosellinia necatrix is a soil-borne root pathogen affecting a wide range of commercially important plant species. The mycelium of R. necatrix was transformed to hygromycin B resistance by an Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation system using a binary plasmid vector containing the hygromycin B phosphotransferase (hph) gene controlled by the heterologous fungal Aspergillus nidulans P-gpd (glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase) promoter and the trpC terminator. Co-cultivation of R. necatrix strain W1015 and A. tumefaciens strain AGL-1 at 25 degrees C using the binary vector pAN26-CB1300, which contained the hygromycin B resistance cassette based on pAN26 and pCAMBIA1300, resulted in high frequencies of transformation. The presence of the hph gene in the transformants was detected by PCR, and single-copy integration of the marker gene was demonstrated by Southern blot analysis. This report of an Agrobacterium-mediated transformation method should allow the development of T-DNA tagging as a system f or insertional mutagenesis in R necatrix and provide a simple and reliable method for genetic manipulation."}
{"id": "21510879", "title": "Rapid identification of Aspergillus fumigatus within the section Fumigati.", "content": "Rapid identification of Aspergillus fumigatus within the section Fumigati. New fungal species that are morphologically similar to Aspergillus fumigatus were recently described and included in section Fumigati. Misidentification of such fungal species, particularly of the human pathogens, Aspergillus lentulus, Neosartorya fischeri, Neosartorya hiratsukae, Neosartorya pseudofischeri and Neosartorya udagawae, has been increasingly reported by numerous clinical labs. Nevertheless, A. fumigatus still accounts for more than 90% of all invasive aspergillosis cases. The purpose of the present study was to develop a rapid method for the molecular identification of A. fumigatus to distinguish it from other species within the section Fumigati. A multiplex PCR was developed using prior information based on \u03b2-tubulin (\u03b2tub) and rodlet A (rodA) partial gene sequences. PCR amplification of \u03b2tub and rodA fragments resulted in a distinctive electrophoretic pattern in A. fumigatus and N. udagawae. The polymorphisms found in the smallest amplified sequence of \u03b2tub (153 bp) and rodA (103 bp) genes were then compared among and within species of this taxonomic section. \u03b2tub was able to differentiate among 13 individual species and two groups of species that included the pathogenic fungus A. lentulus. A more limited number of sequences were available for rodA; nevertheless, we were able to distinguish Aspergillus viridinutans, N. hiratsukae and N. udagawae. The assay described in the present study proved to be specific and highly reproducible, representing a fast and economic way of targeting molecular identification of the relevant mould, A. fumigatus, in clinical laboratories."}
{"id": "21507918", "title": "Comparison of an Aspergillus real-time polymerase chain reaction assay with galactomannan testing of bronchoalvelolar lavage fluid for the diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in lung transplant recipients.", "content": "Comparison of an Aspergillus real-time polymerase chain reaction assay with galactomannan testing of bronchoalvelolar lavage fluid for the diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in lung transplant recipients. Early diagnosis and treatment of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) improves outcome. We compared the performance of publicly available pan-Aspergillus, Aspergillus fumigatus-, and Aspergillus terreus-specific real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays with the Platelia galactomannan (GM) assay in 150 bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples from lung transplant recipients (16 proven/probable IPA, 26 Aspergillus colonization, 11 non-Aspergillus mold colonization, and 97 negative controls). The sensitivity and specificity of pan-Aspergillus PCR (optimal quantification cycle [Cq], \u226435.0 by receiver operating characteristic analysis) and GM (\u2265.5) for diagnosing IPA were 100% (95% confidence interval, 79%-100%) and 88% (79%-92%), and 93% (68%-100%) and 89% (82%-93%), respectively. The sensitivity and specificity of A. fumigatus-specific PCR were 85% (55%-89%) and 96% (91%-98%), respectively. A. terreus-specific PCR was positive for the 1 patient with IPA due to this species; specificity was 99% (148 of 149 samples). Aspergillus PCR identified 1 patient with IPA not diagnosed by GM. For BAL samples associated with Aspergillus colonization, the specificity of GM (92%) was higher than that of pan-Aspergillus PCR (50%; P = .003). Among negative control samples, the specificity of pan-Aspergillus PCR (97%) was higher than that of BAL GM (88%; P = .03). Positive results for both BAL PCR and GM testing improved the specificity to 97% with minimal detriment to sensitivity (93%). A recently developed pan-Aspergillus PCR assay and GM testing of BAL fluid may facilitate the diagnosis of IPA after lung transplantation. A. fumigatus- and A. terreus-specific real-time PCR assays may be useful in rapidly identifying the most common cause of IPA and a species that is intrinsically resistant to amphotericin B, respectively."}
{"id": "21485158", "title": "[Two cases of mixed infection following 2009 H1N1 influenza pneumonia].", "content": "[Two cases of mixed infection following 2009 H1N1 influenza pneumonia]. Case 1 was a 73-year-old woman admitted to our hospital due to bilateral pneumonia with respiratory failure. Real-time reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RRT-PCR) analysis confirmed 2009 H1N1 influenza infection. Streptococcus pneumoniae was confirmed from sputum culture and a urine antigen test on admission. She was treated with antiviral drugs and antibiotics, and improved gradually. Case 2 was a 66-year-old woman admitted to our hospital due to suspected acute exacerbation of interstitial pneumonitis. RRT-PCR analysis confirmed 2009 H1N1 influenza infection, and methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus was cultured from her sputum. Mixed pneumonia due to influenza virus, bacteria and fungus was suspected. Although she was treated with medicines for these pathogens, she died from respiratory failure. An autopsy confirmed primary viral pneumonia, Pseudomonas aeruginosa pneumonia and invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. Not only viral pneumonia, but also mixed infections due to bacteria or fungus, might influence the prognosis of 2009 H1N1 influenza infection. These cases indicate the importance of early identification of complicating pathogens and treatment in 2009 H1N1 influenza infection."}
{"id": "21477486", "title": "Incidence of fumonisin B2 production within Aspergillus section Nigri populations isolated from California raisins.", "content": "Incidence of fumonisin B2 production within Aspergillus section Nigri populations isolated from California raisins. Fungi belonging to Aspergillus section Nigri occur frequently and in high populations on grapes. Species within this section include Aspergillus niger, A. tubingensis, and A. carbonarius, and they are potential sources for mycotoxins including ochratoxin A and fumonisin B(2) (FB(2)) in grapes and grape products. Aspergillus section Nigri strains were isolated from California raisins to examine the frequency and extent of FB(2) production. Of 392 strains isolated, 197 strains were identified as A. niger, 131 of which produced FB(2). These strains produced from 1.2 to 27 \u03bcg/ml FB(2) in culture. PCR amplification of fum1 and fum19 gene fragments showed that all FB(2)-producing strains and nearly all nonproducing strains of A. niger contain these genes. An additional 175 strains were identified as A. tubingensis, none of which produced FB(2). PCR with fum1 and fum19 primers amplified gene fragments of 14 and 25% of A. tubingensis strains, respectively, suggesting that putative orthologs of A. niger fumonisin biosynthetic genes might occur in A. tubingensis. These results indicate that FB(2) production is common among field isolates of A. niger and suggest that the potential for FB(2) contamination of California raisins should be addressed further."}
{"id": "21467016", "title": "High-frequency triazole resistance found In nonculturable Aspergillus fumigatus from lungs of patients with chronic fungal disease.", "content": "High-frequency triazole resistance found In nonculturable Aspergillus fumigatus from lungs of patients with chronic fungal disease. Oral triazole therapy is well established for the treatment of invasive (IPA), allergic (ABPA), and chronic pulmonary (CPA) aspergillosis, and is often long-term. Triazole resistance rates are rising internationally. Microbiological diagnosis of aspergillosis is limited by poor culture yield, leading to uncertainty about the frequency of triazole resistance. Using an ultrasensitive real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay for Aspergillus spp., we assessed respiratory fungal load in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and sputum specimens. In a subset of PCR-positive, culture negative samples, we further amplified the CYP51A gene to detect key single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with triazole resistance. Aspergillus DNA was detected in BAL from normal volunteers (4/11, 36.4%) and patients with culture or microscopy confirmed IPA (21/22, 95%). Aspergillus DNA was detected in sputum in 15 of 19 (78.9%) and 30 of 42 (71.4%) patients with ABPA and CPA, compared with 0% and 16.7% by culture, respectively. In culture-negative, PCR-positive samples, we detected triazole-resistance mutations (L98H with tandem repeat [TR] and M220) within the drug target CYP51A in 55.1% of samples. Six of 8 (75%) of those with ABPA and 12 of 24 (50%) with CPA had resistance markers present, some without prior triazole treatment, and in most despite adequate plasma drug concentrations around the time of sampling. The very low organism burdens of fungi causing infection have previously prevented direct culture and detection of antifungal resistance in clinical samples. These findings have major implications for the sustainability of triazoles for human antifungal therapy."}
{"id": "21465797", "title": "[Transformation system of Aspergillus japonicus mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens].", "content": "[Transformation system of Aspergillus japonicus mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens]. In to order to select Aspergillus japonicus mutant strains that express high-yield of glycerol oxidase, we constructed a mutant library of Aspergillus japonicus that mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Tri-relative hybridization experiments were performed to transfer binary vector pB I -hph II into Agrobacterium tumefaciens EHA105 that was used as the infective strain and Aspergillus japonicus was used as the host strain. We established the transformation system of Aspergillus japonicus mediated by Agrobacterium tumefaciens and constructed a mutant library. At the same time, we analyzed the factors affecting the transformation efficiency such as the concentration of Agrobacterium tumefaciens, adding and not adding Acetosyringone, co-culture time, and co-culture temperature. PCR detection and Southern blot analysis showed that the T-DNA was integrated into genme of the Aspergillus japonicus. All 9 randomly selected transformants were stable after 10 rounds of successive cultures. The transformation system is a good basis for selection of Aspergillus japonicus mutant strains that express high-yield of glycerol oxidase."}
{"id": "21450965", "title": "Evaluation of analytical and preliminary clinical performance of Myconostica MycAssay Aspergillus when testing serum specimens for diagnosis of invasive Aspergillosis.", "content": "Evaluation of analytical and preliminary clinical performance of Myconostica MycAssay Aspergillus when testing serum specimens for diagnosis of invasive Aspergillosis. Diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis remains a significant problem. PCR testing may aid diagnosis but is not yet included in disease-defining criteria due to a lack of standardization of assays and methodologies. This study investigated the analytical performance and the clinical sensitivity and specificity of the Myconostica MycAssay Aspergillus PCR (MAP) assay compared to those of a validated in-house Aspergillus PCR (IHP) test when testing serum specimens. Serum specimens spiked with Aspergillus genomic DNA had a limit of detection equivalent to 5 genomes and a linear dynamic range of 5 to >5 \u00d7 10(4) genomes for both assays. When testing clinical specimens (n = 170), the MAP assay had a sensitivity of 60 to 70% and a specificity of 90.5 to 100%. The IHP assay had a sensitivity of 50 to 80% and a specificity of 100%. A commercially available Aspergillus PCR assay provides a methodology that is standardized and reagents that are quality controlled. This facilitates multicenter evaluation of the clinical utility of PCR diagnosis. The performance of the MAP assay is comparable to that of the IHP assay and to those in previously reported studies evaluating commercial tests (galactomannan enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay)."}
{"id": "21441461", "title": "Cross-protective TH1 immunity against Aspergillus fumigatus and Candida albicans.", "content": "Cross-protective TH1 immunity against Aspergillus fumigatus and Candida albicans. T cell-mediated heterologous immunity to different pathogens is promising for the development of immunotherapeutic strategies. Aspergillus fumigatus and Candida albicans, the 2 most common fungal pathogens causing severe infections in immunocompromised patients, are controlled by CD4+ type 1 helper T (T(H)1) cells in humans and mice, making induction of fungus-specific CD4+ T(H)1 immunity an appealing strategy for antifungal therapy. We identified an immunogenic epitope of the A fumigatus cell wall glucanase Crf1 that can be presented by 3 common major histocompatibility complex class II alleles and that induces memory CD4+ T(H)1 cells with a diverse T-cell receptor repertoire that is cross-reactive to C albicans. In BALB/c mice, the Crf1 protein also elicits cross-protection against lethal infection with C albicans that is mediated by the same epitope as in humans. These data illustrate the existence of T cell-based cross-protection for the 2 distantly related clinically relevant fungal pathogens that may foster the development of immunotherapeutic strategies."}
{"id": "21440331", "title": "Environmental and clinical epidemiology of Aspergillus terreus: data from a prospective surveillance study.", "content": "Environmental and clinical epidemiology of Aspergillus terreus: data from a prospective surveillance study. Aspergillus terreus may be resistant to amphotericin B and is associated with significant morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised patients. Local incidence is influenced by the density of airborne Aspergillus spp. spores which may in turn depend on meteorological factors. Once-weekly environmental samples were collected prospectively inside and outside the University Hospital of Cologne, Germany (UHC) and haematological patients were screened for nasal Aspergillus spp. colonisation and monitored for invasive fungal disease (IFD). RAPD (rapid amplification of polymorphic DNA)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and amphotericin B susceptibility testing were performed on all A. terreus isolates. A total of 4919 colony-forming units (cfu) were isolated (2212 indoors, 2707 outdoors). Further identification revealed A. fumigatus (73.5%), A. niger (4.3%), A. flavus (1.7%), A. terreus (0.2%) and non-Aspergillus fungi (20.3%). RAPD-PCR did not reveal clonal relationships between the A. terreus isolates. All A. terreus isolates displayed complete resistance to amphotericin. The B. Aspergillus spp. conidia exposure was lowest in June and highest in November inside and outside UHC. Conidia load correlated with the season and the relative humidity, with increasing spore counts during dry periods. One out of 855 nasal swabs was positive for A. niger. The patient did not develop IFD. A. terreus is unlikely to be a relevant pathogen at the UHC. Results from RAPD-PCR suggested a wide epidemiological variety of strains rather than a common source of contamination. Nasal swab surveillance cultures for early detection of Aspergillus spp. colonisation were not useful in identifying patients who may develop IFD. The risk of IFD at the UHC may increase in autumn and during dry periods."}
{"id": "21439061", "title": "Clinical characteristics of Pneumocystis pneumonia in non-HIV patients and prognostic factors including microbiological genotypes.", "content": "Clinical characteristics of Pneumocystis pneumonia in non-HIV patients and prognostic factors including microbiological genotypes. The number of patients with non-HIV Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) is increasing with widespread immunosuppressive treatment. We investigated the clinical characteristics of non-HIV PCP and its association with microbiological genotypes. Between January 2005 and March 2010, all patients in 2 university hospitals who had been diagnosed with PCP by PCR were enrolled in this study. Retrospective chart review of patients, microbiological genotypes, and association with 30-day mortality were examined. Of the 82 adult patients investigated, 50 patients (61%) had inflammatory diseases, 17 (21%) had solid malignancies, 12 (15%) had hematological malignancies, and 6 (7%) had received transplantations. All patients received immunosuppressive agents or antitumor chemotherapeutic drugs. Plasma (1\u21923) \u03b2-D-glucan levels were elevated in 80% of patients, and were significantly reduced after treatment in both survivors and non-survivors. However, \u03b2-D-glucan increased in 18% of survivors and was normal in only 33% after treatment. Concomitant invasive pulmonary aspergillosis was detected in 5 patients. Fifty-six respiratory samples were stored for genotyping. A dihydropteroate synthase mutation associated with trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole resistance was found in only 1 of the 53 patients. The most prevalent genotype of mitochondrial large-subunit rRNA was genotype 1, followed by genotype 4. The most prevalent genotype of internal transcribed spacers of the nuclear rRNA operon was Eb, followed by Eg and Bi. Thirty-day mortality was 24%, in which logistic regression analysis revealed association with serum albumin and mechanical ventilation, but no association with genotypes. In non-HIV PCP, poorer general and respiratory conditions at diagnosis were independent predictors of mortality. \u03b2-D-glucan may not be useful for monitoring the response to treatment, and genotypes were not associated with mortality."}
{"id": "21417414", "title": "Enhanced colorimetric detection on porous microarrays using in situ substrate production.", "content": "Enhanced colorimetric detection on porous microarrays using in situ substrate production. A new technique is reported for the enhanced colorimetric detection of multiplexed hybridization onto porous membrane-based microarrays. This approach combines the use of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) as a label together with a chromogen substrate and a local production of the hydrogen peroxide required for substrate oxidation. This in situ production of coreagent is obtained using glucose oxidase (GOx) directly immobilized within the microarray porous membrane mesh. The oxidation of glucose by the immobilized GOx produces hydrogen peroxide which itself enables the oxidation of TMB (3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine) by HRP and yields a blue precipitate on positive spots. Thanks to a coreagent overconcentration within the membrane, this design drastically surpasses the performances of the standard TMB/H(2)O(2) kit used for peroxidase label detection. The obtained target limit of detection is then 50 times lower (20 pM) than the one obtained with the standard kit approach, and the dynamic range expands at least one decade. Furthermore, the developed method was shown to compete well with the widely used alkaline phosphatase-BCIP (5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl phosphate)/NBT (nitro blue tetrazolium chloride) readout while minimizing background signal. The method was finally successfully applied to the multiplex detection of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in complex PCR samples. The background lowering was impacted here positively on the SNPs' detection by increasing the complementary/noncomplementary signal ratio."}
{"id": "21396477", "title": "Agrobacterium tumefasciens-mediated transformation of the aquatic fungus Blastocladiella emersonii.", "content": "Agrobacterium tumefasciens-mediated transformation of the aquatic fungus Blastocladiella emersonii. Agrobacterium tumefaciens is widely used for plant DNA transformation and more recently, has also been used to transform yeast, filamentous fungi and even human cells. Using this technique, we developed the first transformation protocol for the saprobic aquatic fungus Blastocladiella emersonii, a Blastocladiomycete localized at the base of fungal phylogenetic tree, which has been shown as a promising and interesting model of study of cellular function and differentiation. We constructed binary T-DNA vectors containing hygromycin phosphotransferase (hph) or enhanced green fluorescent protein (egfp) genes, under the control of Aspergillus nidulans trpC promoter and terminator sequences. 24 h of co-cultivation in induction medium (IM) agar plates, followed by transfer to PYG-agar plates containing cefotaxim to kill Agrobacterium tumefsciens and hygromycin to select transformants, resulted in growth and sporulation of resistant transformants. Genomic DNA from the pool o resistant zoospores were shown to contain T-DNA insertion as evidenced by PCR amplification of hph gene. Using a similar protocol we could also evidence the expression of enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) in zoospores derived from transformed cells. This protocol can also open new perspectives for other non-transformable closely related fungi, like the Chytridiomycete class."}
{"id": "21392133", "title": "The Aspergillus nidulans CENP-E kinesin motor KipA interacts with the fungal homologue of the centromere-associated protein CENP-H at the kinetochore.", "content": "The Aspergillus nidulans CENP-E kinesin motor KipA interacts with the fungal homologue of the centromere-associated protein CENP-H at the kinetochore. Chromosome segregation is an essential process for nuclear and cell division. The microtubule cytoskeleton, molecular motors and protein complexes at the microtubule plus ends and at kinetochores play crucial roles in the segregation process. Here we identified KatA (KipAtarget protein, homologue of CENP-H) as a kinesin-7 (KipA, homologue of human CENP-E) interacting protein in Aspergillus nidulans. KatA located at the kinetochore during the whole cell cycle and colocalized with KipA and partially with the putative microtubule polymerase AlpA (XMAP215) during mitosis. Deletion of katA was lethal at 37\u00b0C and caused severe growth and morphology defects at room temperature. KipA was shown before to play an important role in growth directionality determination and our new results suggest a second function of KipA in the interaction between the microtubule plus ends and the kinetochores during mitosis."}
{"id": "21388144", "title": "Analysis of the Aspergillus fumigatus proteome reveals metabolic changes and the activation of the pseurotin A biosynthesis gene cluster in response to hypoxia.", "content": "Analysis of the Aspergillus fumigatus proteome reveals metabolic changes and the activation of the pseurotin A biosynthesis gene cluster in response to hypoxia. The mold Aspergillus fumigatus is the most important airborne fungal pathogen. Adaptation to hypoxia represents an important virulence attribute for A. fumigatus. Therefore, we aimed at obtaining a comprehensive overview about this process on the proteome level. To ensure highly reproducible growth conditions, an oxygen-controlled, glucose-limited chemostat cultivation was established. Two-dimensional gel electrophoresis analysis of mycelial and mitochondrial proteins as well as two-dimensional Blue Native/SDS-gel separation of mitochondrial membrane proteins led to the identification of 117 proteins with an altered abundance under hypoxic in comparison to normoxic conditions. Hypoxia induced an increased activity of glycolysis, the TCA-cycle, respiration, and amino acid metabolism. Consistently, the cellular contents in heme, iron, copper, and zinc increased. Furthermore, hypoxia induced biosynthesis of the secondary metabolite pseurotin A as demonstrated at proteomic, transcriptional, and metabolite levels. The observed and so far not reported stimulation of the biosynthesis of a secondary metabolite by oxygen depletion may also affect the survival of A. fumigatus in hypoxic niches of the human host. Among the proteins so far not implicated in hypoxia adaptation, an NO-detoxifying flavohemoprotein was one of the most highly up-regulated proteins which indicates a link between hypoxia and the generation of nitrosative stress in A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "21345511", "title": "Fungal community associated with fermentation and storage of Fuzhuan brick-tea.", "content": "Fungal community associated with fermentation and storage of Fuzhuan brick-tea. Chinese Fuzhuan brick-tea is a unique microbial fermented tea characterized by a period of fungal growth during its manufacturing process. The aim of the present study was to characterize, both physicochemically and microbiologically, traditional industrial production processes of Fuzhuan brick-tea. Fermenting tea samples were collected from the largest manufacturer. Physicochemical analyses showed that the low water content in the tea substrates provided optimal growth conditions for xerophilic fungi. The fungal communities existing in tea materials, fermenting tea, and stored teas were monitored by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) targeting the D1 region of the 26S rRNA genes, followed by sequencing of the amplicons. Results revealed that the microorganisms were from, or closely related to, the genera Eurotium, Debaryomyces, Aspergillus, Verticillium, Pichia, Pestalotiopsis, Rhizomucor and Beauveria. This is the first report of Debaryomyces participating in the processing of Fuzhuan brick-tea. We concluded that the dominant genera Eurotium, Debaryomyces and Aspergillus are beneficial fungi associated with the fermentation of Fuzhuan brick-tea. The genus Beauveria was present in the stored Fuzhuan brick-tea, which may help protect tea products from insect spoilage. The remaining four genera were of minor importance in the manufacturing of Fuzhuan brick-tea. The predominant Eurotium species, a strain named Eurotium sp. FZ, was phenotypically and genotypically identified as Eurotium cristatum. High performance thin layer chromatography analysis of anthraquinones showed that emodin existed in all the dark tea samples, but physcion was only detectable in the tea fermented by E. cristatum. The PCR-DGGE approach was an effective and convenient means for profiling the fungal communities in Fuzhuan brick-tea. These results may help promote the use of microbial consortia as starter cultures to stabilize and improve the quality of Fuzhuan brick-tea products."}
{"id": "21342785", "title": "Aflatoxin non-productivity of Aspergillus oryzae caused by loss of function in the aflJ gene product.", "content": "Aflatoxin non-productivity of Aspergillus oryzae caused by loss of function in the aflJ gene product. Aspergillus oryzae, although closely related to Aspergillus flavus, does not produce aflatoxin (AF). A. oryzae RIB strains can be classified into three groups (group 1-3) based on the structure of the AF biosynthesis gene homolog cluster (AFHC). In group 1 strains, where AFHC is present, the expression level of the aflR gene is extremely low and there is no expression of the other four AF homologue genes (avnA, verB, omtA and vbs). We conducted a detailed structural comparison of AFLR ORF and AFLJ ORF from A. oryzae and A. flavus and identified several amino-acid substitutions. If these substitutions induce inactivation of AFLR and AFLJ, AF biosynthesis of A. oryzae will be doubly inhibited at the transcriptional and translational level. In this study, we transferred aflR and aflJ to A. oryzae RIB67, a group 2 strain where more than half of AFHC is missing. Under control of the pgkA promoter, aflR and aflJ was expressed and avnA, verB, omtA and vbs gene expression were monitored by RT-PCR. We prepared six types of forced-expression vectors, including aflR (from A. oryzae RIB40 or its three mutants) or aflJ (from A. oryzae RIB40 or A. flavus RIB4011). RT-PCR analysis showed that transformants containing aflJ from A. oryzae displayed no expression of AF biosynthetic homologue genes, whereas aflR substitutions had no such effect. These results strongly suggest that the amino-acid substitutions in AFLJ of A. oryzae induce inactivation at the protein level."}
{"id": "21341988", "title": "Gene expression profile and response to maize kernels by Aspergillus flavus.", "content": "Gene expression profile and response to maize kernels by Aspergillus flavus. Aspergillus flavus causes an ear rot of maize, often resulting in the production of aflatoxin, a potent liver toxin and carcinogen that impacts the health of humans and animals. Many aspects of kernel infection and aflatoxin biosynthesis have been studied but the precise effects of the kernel environment on A. flavus are poorly understood. The goal of this research was to study the fungal response to the kernel environment during colonization. Gene transcription in A. flavus was analyzed by microarrays after growth on kernels of the four developmental stages: blister (R2), milk (R3), dough (R4), and dent (R5). Five days after inoculation, total RNA was isolated from kernels and hybridized to Affymetrix Gene Chip arrays containing probes representing 12,834 A. flavus genes. Statistical comparisons of the expression profile data revealed significant differences that included unique sets of upregulated genes in each kernel stage and six patterns of expression over the four stages. Among the genes expressed in colonized dent kernels were a phytase gene and six putative genes involved in zinc acquisition. Disruption of the phytase gene phy1 resulted in reduced growth on medium containing phytate as the sole source of phosphate. Furthermore, growth of the mutant (\u0394phy1) was 20% of the wild-type strain when wound inoculated into maize ears. In contrast, no difference was detected in the amount of aflatoxin produced relative to fungal growth, indicating that phy1 does not affect aflatoxin production. The study revealed the genome-wide effects of immature maize kernels on A. flavus and suggest that phytase has a role in pathogenesis."}
{"id": "21339676", "title": "Hypertrophic pachymeningitis in an immunocompetent adult with positive Aspergillus DNA in the cerebrospinal fluid.", "content": "Hypertrophic pachymeningitis in an immunocompetent adult with positive Aspergillus DNA in the cerebrospinal fluid. A 42-year-old immunocompetent man presented with subacute onset unilateral headache and associated lower cranial nerve palsies. Cranial magnetic resonance imaging showed enhancing thickened tentorium cerebelli and subtentorial dura mater. Cerebrospinal fluid examination revealed lymphocytic pleocytosis and positive polymerase chain reaction assay of Aspergillus DNA. While on voriconazole treatment a progressive increase was noted in subtentorial pachymeningeal hypertrophy, which was excised because of critical compression of the medulla. The excision material showed extensive fibrosis, cellular infiltrates and no organisms. With combination therapy with anti-fungal agents and corticosteroids, pachymeningitis showed regression. We hypothesised that intact immune status and less burden of Aspergillus infection in this patient may have resulted in a chronic progressive hypertrophic pachymeningitis."}
{"id": "21335500", "title": "Aspergillus saccharolyticus sp. nov., a black Aspergillus species isolated in Denmark.", "content": "Aspergillus saccharolyticus sp. nov., a black Aspergillus species isolated in Denmark. A novel species, Aspergillus saccharolyticus sp. nov., belonging to the Aspergillus section Nigri group is described. This species was isolated in Denmark from treated hardwood. Its taxonomic status was determined using a polyphasic taxonomic approach including phenotypic (morphology and extrolite profiles) and molecular (\u03b2-tubulin, internal transcribed spacer and calmodulin gene sequences, and universally primed PCR fingerprinting) analysis. Phenotypic and molecular data enabled this novel species to be clearly distinguished from other black aspergilli. A. saccharolyticus is a uniseriate Aspergillus species that is morphologically similar to Aspergillus japonicus and Aspergillus aculeatus, but has a totally different extrolite profile compared to any known Aspergillus species. The type strain of A. saccharolyticus sp. nov. is CBS 127449(T) (=IBT 28509(T))."}
{"id": "21325541", "title": "Simultaneous detection and identification of Aspergillus and mucorales species in tissues collected from patients with fungal rhinosinusitis.", "content": "Simultaneous detection and identification of Aspergillus and mucorales species in tissues collected from patients with fungal rhinosinusitis. Rapid detection and differentiation of Aspergillus and Mucorales species in fungal rhinosinusitis diagnosis are desirable, since the clinical management and prognosis associated with the two taxa are fundamentally different. We describe an assay based on a combination of broad-range PCR amplification and reverse line blot hybridization (PCR/RLB) to detect and differentiate the pathogens causing fungal rhinosinusitis, which include five Aspergillus species (A. fumigatus, A. flavus, A. niger, A. terreus, and A. nidulans) and seven Mucorales species (Mucor heimalis, Mucor racemosus, Mucor cercinelloidea, Rhizopus arrhizus, Rhizopus microsporus, Rhizomucor pusillus, and Absidia corymbifera). The assay was validated with 98 well-characterized clinical isolates and 41 clinical tissue specimens. PCR/RLB showed high sensitivity and specificity, with 100% correct identifications of 98 clinical isolates and no cross-hybridization between the species-specific probes. Results for five control isolates, Candida albicans, Fusarium solani, Scedosporium apiospermum, Penicillium marneffei, and Exophiala verrucosa, were negative as judged by PCR/RLB. The analytical sensitivity of PCR/RLB was found to be 1.8 \u00d7 10(-3) ng/\u03bcl by 10-fold serial dilution of Aspergillus genomic DNA. The assay identified 35 of 41 (85.4%) clinical specimens, exhibiting a higher sensitivity than fungal culture (22 of 41; 53.7%) and direct sequencing (18 of 41; 43.9%). PCR/RLB similarly showed high specificity, with correct identification 16 of 18 specimens detected by internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequencing and 16 of 22 detected by fungal culture, but it also has the additional advantage of being able to detect mixed infection in a single clinical specimen. The PCR/RLB assay thus provides a rapid and reliable option for laboratory diagnosis of fungal rhinosinusitis."}
{"id": "21296936", "title": "Suitability of Vader for transposon-mediated mutagenesis in Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Suitability of Vader for transposon-mediated mutagenesis in Aspergillus niger. The filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger is widely used in biotechnological applications. Strain CBS513.88 is known to harbor 21 copies of the nonautonomous transposon Vader. Upon selection of chlorate-resistant A. niger colonies, one Vader copy was found integrated in the nirA gene. This copy was used for vector construction and development of a transposon-tagging method. Vader showed an excision frequency of about 1 in 2.2 \u00d7 10(5) conidiospores. A total of 95 of 97 colonies analyzed exhibited an excision event at the DNA level, and Vader footprints were found. By employing thermal asymmetric interlaced (TAIL)-PCR, the reintegration sites of 21 independent excision events were determined. All reintegration events occurred within or very close to genes. Therefore, this method can be used for transposon mutagenesis in A. niger."}
{"id": "21281234", "title": "Design issues in a randomized controlled trial of a pre-emptive versus empiric antifungal strategy for invasive aspergillosis in patients with high-risk hematologic malignancies.", "content": "Design issues in a randomized controlled trial of a pre-emptive versus empiric antifungal strategy for invasive aspergillosis in patients with high-risk hematologic malignancies. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is a major cause of mortality in patients with hematological malignancies, due largely to the inability of traditional culture and biopsy methods to make an early or accurate diagnosis. Diagnostic accuracy studies suggest that Aspergillus galactomannan (GM) enzyme immunoassay (ELISA) and Aspergillus PCR-based methods may overcome these limitations, but their impact on patient outcomes should be evaluated in a diagnostic randomized controlled trial (D-RCT). This article describes the methodology of a D-RCT which compares a new pre-emptive strategy (GM-ELISA- and Aspergillus PCR-driven antifungal therapy) with the standard fever-driven empiric antifungal treatment strategy. Issues including primary end-point and patient selection, duration of screening, choice of tests for the pre-emptive strategy, antifungal prophylaxis and bias control, which were considered in the design of the trial, are discussed. We suggest that the template presented herein is considered by researchers when evaluating the utility of new diagnostic tests (ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00163722)."}
{"id": "21277379", "title": "Independent duplications of \u03b1-amylase in different strains of Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Independent duplications of \u03b1-amylase in different strains of Aspergillus oryzae. Aspergillus oryzae is a filamentous fungus that has arisen through the ancient domestication of Aspergillus flavus for making traditional oriental foods and beverages. In the many centuries A. oryzae has been used for fermenting the starch in rice to simple sugars, it has undergone selection for increased secretion of starch-degrading enzymes. In particular, all A. oryzae strains investigated thus far have two or more copies of a gene encoding \u03b1-amylase, whereas A. flavus has only one. Here we investigate the duplications leading to these copies in three A. oryzae strains. We find evidence of at least three separate duplications of \u03b1-amylase, an example of parallel evolution in a micro-organism under artificial selection. At least two of these duplications appear to be associated with activity of transposable elements of the Tc1/mariner class. Both involve a 9.1 kb element that terminates in inverted repeats, encodes a putative transposase and another putative protein of unknown function, and contains an unusual arrangement of four short internal imperfect repeats. Although \"unusual Mariners\" of this size have previously been identified in A. oryzae, Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus nidulans, this is the first evidence we know of that at least some of them are active in modern times and that their activity can contribute to beneficial genetic changes."}
{"id": "21277342", "title": "Homogenisation of cystic fibrosis sputum by sonication--an essential step for Aspergillus PCR.", "content": "Homogenisation of cystic fibrosis sputum by sonication--an essential step for Aspergillus PCR. The importance of Aspergillus as a lung pathogen in cystic fibrosis (CF) is becoming increasingly recognised. However, fungal culture of CF sputum is unreliable and there is no consensus for identifying phenotypes beyond ABPA that may benefit from antifungal therapy. There are no published studies using real-time PCR to detect Aspergillus in CF sputum. The major barrier to sensitive detection of Aspergillus using PCR is sputum homogenisation. This study aimed to optimise sputum homogenisation utilising sonication to improve Aspergillus DNA extraction. Sonication amplitude and duration that enabled sputum homogenisation but ensured preservation of DNA integrity were first determined. 160 sputum samples were collected from CF patients. 49 of the sputum samples were split, one half was used for standard culture and the other half was homogenised with NALC-NaOH before undergoing DNA extraction. The subsequent 111 samples were homogenised with dithiothreitol plus sonication prior to culture and DNA extraction. Real-time PCR targeting a portion of the 18S rDNA of Aspergillus was performed on all DNA extractions. In the 49 samples with no sonication 8 (16%) were culture positive but only 4 of these were PCR positive. However, PCR was positive in 11 culture negative samples. PCR after sonication showed a significant improvement in sensitivity: 33 (30%) were culture and PCR positive, 48 (43%) were culture negative, but PCR positive (p<0.0001) and 30 (27%) were culture and PCR negative. The combination of dithiothreitol and sonication to homogenise sputum increases PCR yield, with PCR being substantially more sensitive than culture."}
{"id": "21273551", "title": "Pathogenic spectrum of fungal keratitis and specific identification of Fusarium solani.", "content": "Pathogenic spectrum of fungal keratitis and specific identification of Fusarium solani. To investigate the predominant causative pathogens and epidemiologic features of fungal keratitis and establish a rapid, specific molecular method to detect fungal keratitis caused by Fusarium solani. A total of 174 patients with presumed fungal keratitis and 174 affected eyes were examined. Isolates from corneal specimens were identified according to morphologic and physiological characteristics. The primers that were designed for F. solani were tested to confirm whether they had species specificity. Multiplex PCR with universal fungal and F. solani-specific primers was performed with fungal and bacterial strains and was used to detect microorganisms in the clinical specimens. A total of 160 patients (92.0%) were diagnosed with fungal infection by either potassium hydroxide wet-mount or microbiologic culture. Fungal cultures were positive in 128 patients (73.6%) with 139 fungal isolates. Fusarium (48.2%) was the most frequently isolated genus, in which F. solani (35.2%) was the most common species, followed by the Aspergillus (18.7%) and Candida (16.6%) genera. The PCR results showed that the designed primers were species specific and suitable for specific identification of F. solani. The multiplex PCR of 3-day broth cultures could identify and distinguish F. solani from other pathogens rapidly and specifically from clinical specimens. Fusarium species, especially F. solani, were found to be the predominant cause of fungal keratitis in northeast China. The established multiplex PCR method could have potential advantages for rapid detection of F. solani. These findings might have significance for early diagnosis and treatment of fungal keratitis."}
{"id": "21256746", "title": "High efficient expression of cellobiase gene from Aspergillus niger in the cells of Trichoderma reesei.", "content": "High efficient expression of cellobiase gene from Aspergillus niger in the cells of Trichoderma reesei. The cellobiase gene from Aspergillus niger was cloned and connected with the strong promoter Pcbh1 from Trichoderma reesei to construct a recombinant plasmid pHB9 with the hygromycin B resistance marker. The plasmid was transformed into conidia of T. reesei using the modified PEG-CaCl(2) method. Main factors effecting the transformation were discussed and about 99-113 transformants/\u03bcg DNA could be obtained under optimal conditions. It was found that the molecular mass of the recombinant cellobiase was about 120 kDa by SDS-PAGE analysis. The activity of cellobiase could reach 5.3 IU/ml after 48 h fermentation, which was as high as 106 times compared with that of the host strain. Meanwhile, the filter paper activity of recombinant T. reesei was 1.44-fold of the host strain. Saccharification of corncob residue with the crude enzyme showed that the hydrolysis yield (84.2%) of recombinant T. reesei was 21% higher than that (69.5%) of the host strain."}
{"id": "21256002", "title": "Performance of enhanced biological SBR process for aniline treatment by mycelial pellet as biomass carrier.", "content": "Performance of enhanced biological SBR process for aniline treatment by mycelial pellet as biomass carrier. Mycelial pellet of Aspergillus niger Y3 was used as a biomass carrier to immobilize the aniline-degrading bacterium, Acinetobacter calcoaceticus JH-9 and the mix culture of the COD rapid degradation bacteria. In order to investigate its removal effect on aniline and COD, the combined mycelial pellets were applied in the SBR. Comparison of the performances was conducted between another SBR inoculated with sole strain JH-9 and the above SBR. The results showed that the stable degradations of aniline and COD were observed in both reactors. In the SBR with combined mycelial pellet, the biological removal efficiency was about 0.9 mg aniline/(L\u00b7d). It was much higher than that in the activated sludge reactor. Meanwhile, the performances of the sedimentation velocity, liquid-solid phase separation and the effluent quality were better in the SBR. According to SEM images and PCR-DGGE analysis, the species immobilized on the biomass carrier were more predominant in this system."}
{"id": "21234787", "title": "Cloning and sequence analysis of a novel xylanase gene, Auxyn10A, from Aspergillus usamii.", "content": "Cloning and sequence analysis of a novel xylanase gene, Auxyn10A, from Aspergillus usamii. A full-length cDNA sequence, encoding a novel endo-1,4-\u03b2-D: -xylanase (AuXyn10A) of Aspergillus usamii, was obtained by using rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) methods and cloned into the pUCm-T vector, followed by DNA sequencing. The cDNA gene, designated as Auxyn10A, is 1,235 bp in length harboring 5'- and 3'-non-encoding regions, as well as an ORF of 984 bp that encodes a 19-aa signal peptide, a 6-aa propeptide and a 302-aa mature peptide with a calculated MW of 32,756 Da. The AuXyn10A displays high similarity to the xylanases of Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus kawachii and Aspergillus niger, members of the glycoside hydrolase family 10. Its three-dimensional structure was predicted using http://swiss-model.expasy.org/on-line programs based on the crystal structure of Penicillium simplicissimum xylanase (1B30_A) from the family 10. The complete DNA gene was cloned from the genomic DNA of A. usamii using conventional PCR and hairpin structure-mediated PCR techniques. The DNA gene is 2,255 bp in length, containing a 510 bp of 5'-flanking promoter region and a 1,745 bp of downstream fragment that consists of ten exons and nine short introns ranging from 52 to 62 bp."}
{"id": "21227993", "title": "Ribosomal and mitochondrial DNA target for real-time PCR diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Ribosomal and mitochondrial DNA target for real-time PCR diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. The aim of the present study was to assess the diagnostic efficacy of a combination of two quantitative Aspergillus PCR assays, targeting a mitochondrial and a ribosomal target, in patients with risk factors for invasive aspergillosis (IA) and positive galactomannan (GM) antigen. Forty-four patients with hematological malignancies and risk factors for IA according to revised European Organization for Research on Treatment of Cancer and the Mycoses Study Group criteria (EORTC/MSG) criteria and presenting at least two sequential GM-positive sera were included in the study. Mitochondrial PCR was carried out prospectively on all GM-positive serum samples. Ribosomal PCR was carried out retrospectively on frozen stored sera. The sensitivities of mitochondrial and ribosomal PCRs were 58% and 50%, respectively. The diagnostic test performance was improved by using a combination of both PCR assays and by considering a patient PCR positive when at least two positive results were obtained. The sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative likelihood ratios were 65%, 94%, and 11.8 and 0.37, respectively. A significant association between fatal outcome at 90 days and positive results of ribosomal PCR assays was observed (adjusted hazard ratio = 8.2; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.0 to 65.8; P = 0.048). Our results showed that the combination of two PCR assays targeting mitochondrial and ribosomal Aspergillus DNA improves the sensitivity of PCR in the diagnosis of IA in hematological patients with risk factors and positive GM results. This study also confirms that a positive PCR result is associated with a poor prognosis in these patients and should lead to specific antifungal therapy being introduced immediately."}
{"id": "21216481", "title": "Specific detection and quantification of Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus in wheat flour by SYBR\u00ae Green quantitative PCR.", "content": "Specific detection and quantification of Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus in wheat flour by SYBR\u00ae Green quantitative PCR. Aflatoxins are important mycotoxins that represent a serious risk for human and animal health. These mycotoxins are mainly produced by Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus, two closely related species with different array of aflatoxins. In this work, two specific quantitative PCR (qPCR) assays were developed to detect and quantify both species in wheat flour using primers based on the multicopy ITS2 rDNA target sequence. The species specificity of the assays was tested in a wide range of strains of these species and others colonizing the same commodities. The sensitivity of the assay was estimated in 2.5 pg/reaction in both species. Discrimination capacity for detection and relative quantification of A. flavus and A. parasiticus DNA were analyzed using samples with DNA mixtures containing also other fungal species at different ratios. Both qPCR assays could detect spore concentrations equal or higher than 10(6)spores/g in flour samples without prior incubation. These assays are valuable tools to improve diagnosis at an early stage and in all critical control points of food chain integrated in HACCP strategies."}
{"id": "21210990", "title": "Heterologous expression, purification and characterization of nitrilase from Aspergillus niger K10.", "content": "Heterologous expression, purification and characterization of nitrilase from Aspergillus niger K10. Nitrilases attract increasing attention due to their utility in the mild hydrolysis of nitriles. According to activity and gene screening, filamentous fungi are a rich source of nitrilases distinct in evolution from their widely examined bacterial counterparts. However, fungal nitrilases have been less explored than the bacterial ones. Nitrilases are typically heterogeneous in their quaternary structures, forming short spirals and extended filaments, these features making their structural studies difficult. A nitrilase gene was amplified by PCR from the cDNA library of Aspergillus niger K10. The PCR product was ligated into expression vectors pET-30(+) and pRSET B to construct plasmids pOK101 and pOK102, respectively. The recombinant nitrilase (Nit-ANigRec) expressed in Escherichia coli BL21-Gold(DE3)(pOK101/pTf16) was purified with an about 2-fold increase in specific activity and 35% yield. The apparent subunit size was 42.7 kDa, which is approx. 4 kDa higher than that of the enzyme isolated from the native organism (Nit-ANigWT), indicating post-translational cleavage in the enzyme's native environment. Mass spectrometry analysis showed that a C-terminal peptide (Val327 - Asn\u2083\u2085\u2086) was present in Nit-ANigRec but missing in Nit-ANigWT and Asp\u2082\u2089\u2088-Val\u2083\u2081\u2083 peptide was shortened to Asp\u2082\u2089\u2088-Arg\u2083\u2081\u2080 in Nit-ANigWT. The latter enzyme was thus truncated by 46 amino acids. Enzymes Nit-ANigRec and Nit-ANigWT differed in substrate specificity, acid/amide ratio, reaction optima and stability. Refolded recombinant enzyme stored for one month at 4\u00b0C was fractionated by gel filtration, and fractions were examined by electron microscopy. The late fractions were further analyzed by analytical centrifugation and dynamic light scattering, and shown to consist of a rather homogeneous protein species composed of 12-16 subunits. This hypothesis was consistent with electron microscopy and our modelling of the multimeric nitrilase, which supports an arrangement of dimers into helical segments as a plausible structural solution. The nitrilase from Aspergillus niger K10 is highly homologous (\u226586%) with proteins deduced from gene sequencing in Aspergillus and Penicillium genera. As the first of these proteins, it was shown to exhibit nitrilase activity towards organic nitriles. The comparison of the Nit-ANigRec and Nit-ANigWT suggested that the catalytic properties of nitrilases may be changed due to missing posttranslational cleavage of the former enzyme. Nit-ANigRec exhibits a lower tendency to form filaments and, moreover, the sample homogeneity can be further improved by in vitro protein refolding. The homogeneous protein species consisting of short spirals is expected to be more suitable for structural studies."}
{"id": "21203794", "title": "Molecular typing and in-vitro activity of azoles against clinical isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus and A. niger in Japan.", "content": "Molecular typing and in-vitro activity of azoles against clinical isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus and A. niger in Japan. Twenty-three isolates of Aspergillus from Japanese transplant recipients were identified by phenotyping and subjected to detailed sequence analyses using the ITS regions and \u03b2-tubulin (benA). Gene sequences derived from the ITS regions and benA of all Aspergillus isolates were compared with sequences in the GenBank database for species identification. Nineteen isolates were identified as A. fumigatus and 4 isolates as A. niger. The antifungal susceptibility of the isolates to itraconazole (ITZ), voriconazole (VCZ), and posaconazole (POS) was assessed using the E-test with a 48-h incubation. Almost all the clinical isolates of the Aspergillus species seemed to be more susceptible to VCZ and POS than to ITZ, whereas 1 clinical isolate of A. fumigatus was resistant to ITZ. Sequencing of the 14\u03b1-demethylase gene (cyp51A) of this isolate revealed a novel mutation (F332K) in the gene."}
{"id": "21193785", "title": "An official American Thoracic Society statement: Treatment of fungal infections in adult pulmonary and critical care patients.", "content": "An official American Thoracic Society statement: Treatment of fungal infections in adult pulmonary and critical care patients. With increasing numbers of immune-compromised patients with malignancy, hematologic disease, and HIV, as well as those receiving immunosupressive drug regimens for the management of organ transplantation or autoimmune inflammatory conditions, the incidence of fungal infections has dramatically increased over recent years. Definitive diagnosis of pulmonary fungal infections has also been substantially assisted by the development of newer diagnostic methods and techniques, including the use of antigen detection, polymerase chain reaction, serologies, computed tomography and positron emission tomography scans, bronchoscopy, mediastinoscopy, and video-assisted thorascopic biopsy. At the same time, the introduction of new treatment modalities has significantly broadened options available to physicians who treat these conditions. While traditionally antifungal therapy was limited to the use of amphotericin B, flucytosine, and a handful of clinically available azole agents, current pharmacologic treatment options include potent new azole compounds with extended antifungal activity, lipid forms of amphotericin B, and newer antifungal drugs, including the echinocandins. In view of the changing treatment of pulmonary fungal infections, the American Thoracic Society convened a working group of experts in fungal infections to develop a concise clinical statement of current therapeutic options for those fungal infections of particular relevance to pulmonary and critical care practice. This document focuses on three primary areas of concern: the endemic mycoses, including histoplasmosis, sporotrichosis, blastomycosis, and coccidioidomycosis; fungal infections of special concern for immune-compromised and critically ill patients, including cryptococcosis, aspergillosis, candidiasis, and Pneumocystis pneumonia; and rare and emerging fungal infections."}
{"id": "21191054", "title": "Pathogen-specific DNA enrichment does not increase sensitivity of PCR for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in neutropenic patients.", "content": "Pathogen-specific DNA enrichment does not increase sensitivity of PCR for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in neutropenic patients. PCR assays designed for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) in high-risk patients have to detect minute amounts of target DNA to reach sufficient analytical sensitivity to be of clinical use. This prospective study assessed the use of a novel strategy for selective pathogen DNA enrichment for enhancing the performance of diagnostic PCR in a direct comparison with a highly sensitive in-house quantitative PCR (qPCR) assay and the galactomannan enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Surprisingly, and in contrast to experience with other patient groups, the novel protocol for selective pathogen DNA enrichment did not enhance but instead significantly impaired sensitivity. This could be explained by the small amounts of host DNA in the specimens, which were derived mostly from severely neutropenic patients. In the qPCR assay, positive samples required an average of 43.5 amplification cycles (range, 39.2 to 50) for detection in the in-house PCR. Repetitive testing of selected samples showed test positivity to be variable, most likely due to the small amounts of target DNA. Despite this, the in-house protocol proved helpful in the diagnosis of IA, detecting 2 out of 3 patients with probable IA and 10 out of 19 patients with possible IA. Our results underline the necessity for diagnostic PCR protocols that help diagnose IA to be highly sensitive and show that selective pathogen DNA enrichment using affinity purification may not be useful in severely neutropenic patients."}
{"id": "21181156", "title": "Identification of a GH62 \u03b1-L-arabinofuranosidase specific for arabinoxylan produced by Penicillium chrysogenum.", "content": "Identification of a GH62 \u03b1-L-arabinofuranosidase specific for arabinoxylan produced by Penicillium chrysogenum. An arabinoxylan arabinofuranohydrolase (AXS5) was purified from the culture filtrate of Penicillium chrysogenum 31B. A cDNA encoding AXS5 (axs5) was isolated by in vitro cloning using the N-terminal amino acid sequence of the native enzyme as a starting point. The deduced amino acid sequence of the axs5 gene has high similarities with those of arabinoxylan arabinofuranohydrolases of Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus tubingensis, and Aspergillus sojae. Module sequence analysis revealed that a \"Glyco_hydro_62\" was present at position 28-299 of AXS5. This is a family of \u03b1-L-arabinofuranosidases which are all members of glycoside hydrolase family 62. Recombinant AXS5 (rAXS5) expressed in Escherichia coli was highly active on arabinoxylan but not on branched sugar beet arabinan. (1)H-NMR analysis revealed that the rAXS5 cleaved arabinosyl side-chains linked to C-2 and C-3 of single-substituted xylose residues in arabinoxylan. Semi-quantitative RT-PCR analysis indicated that expression of the axs5 gene in P. chrysogenum 31B was strongly induced by adding D-xylose and arabinoxylan to the culture medium. Moreover, two binding sites of XlnR, a transcriptional activator that regulates the expression of the genes encoding xylanolytic enzymes, are present in the upstream region of the axs5 gene. These results suggest that AXS5 is involved in xylan degradation."}
{"id": "21169437", "title": "Heterogeneity of Aspergillus niger microcolonies in liquid shaken cultures.", "content": "Heterogeneity of Aspergillus niger microcolonies in liquid shaken cultures. The fungus Aspergillus niger forms (sub)millimeter microcolonies within a liquid shaken culture. Here, we show that such microcolonies are heterogeneous with respect to size and gene expression. Microcolonies of strains expressing green fluorescent protein (GFP) from the promoter of the glucoamlyase gene glaA or the ferulic acid esterase gene faeA were sorted on the basis of diameter and fluorescence using the Complex Object Parametric Analyzer and Sorter (COPAS) technology. Statistical analysis revealed that the liquid shaken culture consisted of two populations of microcolonies that differ by 90 \u03bcm in diameter. The population of small microcolonies of strains expressing GFP from the glaA or faeA promoter comprised 39% and 25% of the culture, respectively. Two populations of microcolonies could also be distinguished when the expression of GFP in these strains was analyzed. The population expressing a low level of GFP consisted of 68% and 44% of the culture, respectively. We also show that mRNA accumulation is heterogeneous within microcolonies of A. niger. Central and peripheral parts of the mycelium were isolated with laser microdissection and pressure catapulting (LMPC), and RNA from these samples was used for quantitative PCR analysis. This analysis showed that the RNA content per hypha was about 45 times higher at the periphery than in the center of the microcolony. Our data imply that the protein production of A. niger can be improved in industrial fermentations by reducing the heterogeneity within the culture."}
{"id": "21166768", "title": "A set of aspartyl protease-deficient strains for improved expression of heterologous proteins in Kluyveromyces lactis.", "content": "A set of aspartyl protease-deficient strains for improved expression of heterologous proteins in Kluyveromyces lactis. Secretion of recombinant proteins is a common strategy for heterologous protein expression using the yeast Kluyveromyces lactis. However, a common problem is degradation of a target recombinant protein by secretory pathway aspartyl proteases. In this study, we identified five putative pfam00026 aspartyl proteases encoded by the K. lactis genome. A set of selectable marker-free protease deletion mutants was constructed in the prototrophic K. lactis GG799 industrial expression strain background using a PCR-based dominant marker recycling method based on the Aspergillus nidulans acetamidase gene (amdS). Each mutant was assessed for its secretion of protease activity, its health and growth characteristics, and its ability to efficiently produce heterologous proteins. In particular, despite having a longer lag phase and slower growth compared with the other mutants, a \u0394yps1 mutant demonstrated marked improvement in both the yield and the quality of Gaussia princeps luciferase and the human chimeric interferon Hy3, two proteins that experienced significant proteolysis when secreted from the wild-type parent strain."}
{"id": "21122039", "title": "Molecular characterization and toxigenic profile of Aspergillus section Nigri populations isolated from the main grape-growing regions in Argentina.", "content": "Molecular characterization and toxigenic profile of Aspergillus section Nigri populations isolated from the main grape-growing regions in Argentina. The objective of this study was to evaluate the biodiversity of Aspergillus section Nigri populations from Argentinean vineyards by morphological, toxigenic and AFLP analysis. Five hundred and thirty-eight strains were isolated from grapes during 2006/07 and 2007/08 vintages. The morphological identification and toxigenic profile for all strains isolated were performed. Eighty-eight strains were selected for characterization at species level by AFLP markers. Cluster analysis showed a clear separation into four main groups: A. carbonarius, A. tubingensis, A. niger'aggregate' and Aspergillus'uniseriate'. A. carbonarius strains constituted a homogeneous group, while a high degree of genetic diversity was found within the A. niger'aggregate' and 'A. uniseriate' clusters. The A. tubingensis cluster was the most prevalent group and was clearly separated from A. niger'aggregate'. Ten strains showed 45% homology with A. tubingensis FRR 5720 ex-type strain and were considered as 'atypical' or a closely related species. AFLP results indicate that no genotypical differences can be established between ochratoxigenic and nonochratoxigenic strains. Aspergillus section Nigri populations on grapes were represented mainly by four groups. A. tubingensis species were separated from A. niger'aggregate' group and some of their strains produced OTA. This study provides new data on molecular characterization of Aspergillus section Nigri populations in Argentina."}
{"id": "21108574", "title": "Comparison of PCR-ELISA and Real-Time PCR for invasive aspergillosis diagnosis in patients with hematological malignancies.", "content": "Comparison of PCR-ELISA and Real-Time PCR for invasive aspergillosis diagnosis in patients with hematological malignancies. This study aimed at comparing a real-time PCR assay and a PCR-ELISA assay of both serum and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) in patients with hematological malignancies. Using a nested case-control design, 163 patients at risk were prospectively monitored and PCR assays were performed on frozen aliquots of 459 sera which were prospectively sampled twice weekly and 42 BAL specimens sampled from 43 probable and one proven IA cases and 47 matched controls. The data from three patients classified as possible IA were excluded from the nested case-control study. The sensitivity of real-time PCR and PCR-ELISA assays in serum was 73% and 86%, respectively and specificity was 100% for both. In BAL, sensitivity was 64% for real-time PCR, 71% for PCR-ELISA and 86% for Galactomannan antigen (GMA) assays with specificities of 96%, 96%, and 93%, respectively. While slightly less sensitive, the real time-PCR assay was highly specific and considerably faster and more workable than PCR-ELISA. Combining real-time PCR and GMA detection for both serum and BAL samples enhances routine laboratory IA diagnosis."}
{"id": "20958255", "title": "Ultrahigh-throughput screening system for directed glucose oxidase evolution in yeast cells.", "content": "Ultrahigh-throughput screening system for directed glucose oxidase evolution in yeast cells. A compartmentalized tyramide labeling system (CoaTi) employing flow cytometry for sorting of yeast cells was developed as ultrahigh-throughput screening for Glucose oxidase (GOx) from Aspergillus niger. CoaTi combines in vitro compartmentalization technology with the CARD reporter system which uses fluorescein tyramide labels for detection of peroxidase activity. Physical connection between cells and fluorescein tyramide radicals was achieved by compartmentalization of yeast cells inside microdroplets of single water-in-oil emulsions. After reaction cells were recovered from single emulsions and sorted by flow cytometry, an error prone PCR mutant library of Glucose oxidase (GOx) containing 10(7) cells and ~10(5) of different GOx variants was screened. Mutagenic conditions of GOx mutant library were selected to generate <1 % of active GOx population in order to explore influence of high mutation frequency on GOx activity. GOx variant Mut12 that contains 5 mutations (N2Y, K13E, T30V, I94V, K152R) showed a 1.2 times decreased K(m) (22.0 vs 18.1 mM) and a 2.7 fold increased k(cat) (150 s(-1) vs 54.8 s(-1)) compared to wt GOx. Compared to the employed parent B11 GOx (16 mM, 80 s(-1)) it has a slightly increased K(m) and 1.8 times increased k(cat)."}
{"id": "20950222", "title": "Degradation of fungal DNA in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded sinus fungal balls hampers reliable sequence-based identification of fungi.", "content": "Degradation of fungal DNA in formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded sinus fungal balls hampers reliable sequence-based identification of fungi. Identification of the etiologic agent responsible for sinus fungal ball (SFB) is rarely obtained due to either the culture of patient specimens not being ordered or if cultures were inoculated they proved to be negative. Obviously, this has a significant impact on the design of appropriate therapeutic strategies. We investigated whether paraffin-embedded (PE) tissues, the only materials often available, were suitable for the correct identification of the responsible fungi. We obtained PE tissues of SFB from 16 different patients who had risk factors for invasive fungal infections. DNA was extracted using an automated extractor and the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequenced following amplification with two sets of primers designed to amplify >300 bp fragments. This was attempted in parallel with a real-time quantitative PCR assay targeting Aspergillus spp. mitochondrial DNA designed to amplify <150 bp fragments. ITS sequencing succeeded in appropriately identifying the etiologic agents in 10 of the 16 samples (nine Aspergillus fumigatus, one Lewia spp.). In contrast, the <150 bp PCR assay amplified all specimens correctly except the one involving Lewia spp. If fungal identification is warranted to understand the pathophysiology of SFB and guide clinicians, we cannot rely only on ITS sequencing of the DNA obtained from PE tissues. The main reason is probably due to the fact that formalin prevents amplification of long DNA fragments and consequently, frozen or fresh tissues should be employed."}
{"id": "20921946", "title": "Standardization of Aspergillus PCR is needed.", "content": "Standardization of Aspergillus PCR is needed."}
{"id": "20822431", "title": "Comparison of soil fungal community structure in different peanut rotation sequences using ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis in relation to aflatoxin-producing fungi.", "content": "Comparison of soil fungal community structure in different peanut rotation sequences using ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis in relation to aflatoxin-producing fungi. The present study focuses on determining soil fungal community structure in different peanut-cropping sequences by using a high-resolution DNA fingerprinting technique: ribosomal intergenic spacer analysis (RISA). This study was initiated to determine fungal community profiles in four peanut-cropping sequences (continuous peanut, 4 years of continuous bahiagrass followed by peanut, peanut-corn-cotton, and peanut-cotton rotations), with a special focus to evaluate whether the profiles under investigation may have also indicated microbial differences that could affect Aspergillus flavus populations. Results indicated 75% similarities among fungal communities from the same cropping sequences as well as with similar times of sampling. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based detection of A. flavus directly from these soils was carried out using A. flavus-specific primers (FLA1 and FLA2) and also through quantitative estimation on A. flavus and A. parasiticus agar medium. Population levels of A. flavus in soil samples ranged from zero to 1.2 \u00d7 10(3) CFU g(-1) of soil (based on culturable methods); however, the fungus was not detected with A. flavus-specific primers. The minimum threshold limit at which these aflatoxin-producing fungi could be detected from the total soil genomic DNA was determined through artificial inoculation of samples with 10-fold increases in concentrations. The results indicated that a minimum population density of 2.6 \u00d7 10(6) CFU g(-1) of soil is required for PCR detection in our conditions. These results are useful in further determining the relative population levels of these fungi in peanut soils with other soil fungi. This is a new approach to understanding soil fungal communities and how they might change over time and under different rotation systems."}
{"id": "20807031", "title": "Differential transcriptional profiles induced by amphotericin B formulations on human monocytes during response to hyphae of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Differential transcriptional profiles induced by amphotericin B formulations on human monocytes during response to hyphae of Aspergillus fumigatus. Amphotericin B formulations possess diverse immunomodulatory properties that may contribute to the activity of phagocytes against invasive aspergillosis. In this work we provide a novel set of data on different gene transcriptional profiles of monocytes exposed to the combination of Aspergillus fumigatus and amphotericin B formulations. We used pathway-specific microarray analysis, RT-PCR analysis and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays to compare the effects of amphotericin B deoxycholate (DAMB) at 1 \u03bcg/ml and amphotericin B lipid complex (ABLC) at 5 \u03bcg/ml to assess gene expression of immune molecules of THP-1 cells exposed to A. fumigatus hyphae (AF) for 4 h. A. fumigatus hyphae at effector/target ratio 10/1 induced mostly chemotactic factors for monocyte recruitment. DAMB at 1 \u03bcg/ml in the presence or absence of AF induced the most pronounced changes in pro-inflammatory and chemokine gene expression, while ABLC under the same conditions caused less dramatic effect. There was a reciprocal response of increased expression of the genes encoding IL-1\u03b2 and IL-20 and decreased expression of IL-10, IL-2 and IL-3 in response of monocytes to both the hyphae and antifungal agents. These results demonstrate that amphotericin B formulations exert differential effects on genes encoding pro-inflammatory molecules, immunoregulatory molecules and chemokines by human monocytes during response to A. fumigatus and that these molecules may affect antifungal activity."}
{"id": "20718612", "title": "Primary diagnostic approaches of invasive aspergillosis--molecular testing.", "content": "Primary diagnostic approaches of invasive aspergillosis--molecular testing. The PCR methods published for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) are diverse in terms of amplification protocols and methods, equipment, fluorescent detection dyes, PCR chemistries, and clinical specimens used. This explains why PCR is still not included in the revised EORTC/MSG definitions of IA despite encouraging results. Therefore, achieving consensual PCR procedures at the international level is mandatory. When using PCR as a diagnostic tool, emphasis must be put on limiting false positive results due to contamination either with previously amplified products or with environmental commensals. Internal amplification controls are compulsory to evidence false negative results. For most of these aspects, quantitative PCR (qPCR) should improve both the results' reliability and the clinicians' confidence. A checklist of items (Minimum information for publication of quantitative real-time PCR experiments) has been proposed to help scientists and reviewers. Currently, the main limitation relies in the DNA extraction procedure the choice of which dramatically depends on the still unknown origin of the Aspergillus DNA to amplify. There is an urgent need for basic studies to elucidate the origin and kinetics of Aspergillus DNA in blood. Once a technical consensus is achieved, clinical studies should be initiated to integrate qPCR in the diagnostic armentarium of IA."}
{"id": "20718604", "title": "Evaluation of nucleic acid sequence based amplification using fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET-NASBA) in quantitative detection of Aspergillus 18S rRNA.", "content": "Evaluation of nucleic acid sequence based amplification using fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET-NASBA) in quantitative detection of Aspergillus 18S rRNA. We attempted to apply fluorescence resonance energy transfer technology to nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (FRET-NASBA) on the platform of the LightCycler system to detect Aspergillus species. Primers and probes for the Aspergillus 18S rRNA were newly designed to avoid overlapping with homologous sequences of human 18s rRNA. NASBA using molecular beacon (MB) showed non-specific results which have been frequently observed from controls, although it showed higher sensitivity (10(-2) amol) than the FRET. FRET-NASBA showed a sensitivity of 10(-1) amol and a high fidelity of reproducibility from controls. As FRET technology was successfully applied to the NASBA assay, it could contribute to diverse development of the NASBA assay. These results suggest that FRET-NASBA could replace previous NASBA techniques in the detection of Aspergillus."}
{"id": "20667621", "title": "Molecular and immunological characterization of subtilisin like serine protease, a major allergen of Curvularia lunata.", "content": "Molecular and immunological characterization of subtilisin like serine protease, a major allergen of Curvularia lunata. Serine protease from numerous sources have been identified and characterized as major allergens. The present study aimed to clone, express and characterize a serine protease from Curvularia lunata. cDNA library screening identified partial protease clones. A clone showed significant homology to subtilisin like serine proteases from Aspergillus and Penicillium species. Full length sequence was generated by RACE PCR, subcloned in pET vector, protein expressed in Escherichia coli and purified from inclusion bodies yielding 0.5 mg/L of culture. Bioinformatic analysis identified serine protease motifs of subtilase family, catalytic triad and N-glycosylation sites on the primary sequence. The protein resolved at 54-kDa on SDS-PAGE and was recognized as a major allergen on immunoblot with 13/16 C. lunata sensitive patients' sera in ELISA and immunoblot. Recombinant protein reacted with rabbit polyclonal antibodies against alkaline serine proteases from C. lunata. Recombinant protein required 50-56 ng of same protein for 50% inhibition of IgE binding in competitive ELISA. In addition, 13 of 16 patients' samples showed significant basophil histamine release upon stimulation with purified recombinant protein. In conclusion, a 54 kDa major allergen of C. lunata was cloned, expressed, characterized and showed biological activity. It has potential to be used in molecule based approach for allergy diagnosis and therapy."}
{"id": "20667000", "title": "Molecular detection and characterisation of fungal heat shock protein 60.", "content": "Molecular detection and characterisation of fungal heat shock protein 60. Heat shock proteins (Hsp) are highly conserved molecules, which are both constitutively expressed and up-regulated in response to various stress conditions. In particular, fungal Hsp60 can act as immunodominant antigens and facilitate powerful immunological properties. A possible cellular heat shock response was investigated in eight fungi (Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus terreus, Penicillium chrysogenum, Cladosporium cladosporioides, Scedosporium apiospermum, Trichophyton mentagrophytes, Candida albicans and Saccharomyces cerevisiae). Fully automated RNA extraction was followed by quantitative real-time RT-PCR targeting fungus-specific Hsp60 mRNA and sequencing of the amplicon. Levels of temperature-dependent gene expression were evaluated and rates of similarity and identity were compared. While Hsp60 mRNA was constitutively expressed in all the samples tested, a temperature-dependent induction was not shown in C. cladosporioides. In the 80-amino acid fragment from the hypothetical protein, 66% of the amino acids were identical, 20% showed a conserved and 8% a semi-conserved substitution. Our findings should contribute to a better understanding of host-pathogen relationship and suggest that fungal Hsp60 under temperature-related stress conditions might act as an immunogenic trigger in orchestrating fungi-related diseases."}
{"id": "20632211", "title": "Characterization of recombinant terrelysin, a hemolysin of Aspergillus terreus.", "content": "Characterization of recombinant terrelysin, a hemolysin of Aspergillus terreus. Fungal hemolysins are potential virulence factors. Some fungal hemolysins belong to the aegerolysin protein family that includes cytolysins capable of lysing erythrocytes and other cells. Here, we describe a hemolysin from Aspergillus terreus called terrelysin. We used the genome sequence database to identify the terrelysin sequence based on homology with other known aegerolysins. Aspergillus terreus mRNA was isolated, transcribed to cDNA and the open reading frame for terrelysin amplified by PCR using specific primers. Using the pASK-IBA6 cloning vector, we produced recombinant terrelysin (rTerrelysin) as a fusion product in Escherichia coli. The recombinant protein was purified and using MALDI-TOF MS determined to have a mass of 16,428 Da. Circular dichroism analysis suggests the secondary structure of the protein to be predominantly \u03b2-sheet. Results from thermal denaturation of rTerrelysin show that the protein maintained the \u03b2-sheet confirmation up to 65\u00b0C. Polyclonal antibody to rTerrelysin recognized a protein of approximately 16.5 kDa in mycelial extracts from A. terreus."}
{"id": "20632114", "title": "Gamma radiation induced mutagenesis in Aspergillus niger to enhance its microbial fermentation activity for industrial enzyme production.", "content": "Gamma radiation induced mutagenesis in Aspergillus niger to enhance its microbial fermentation activity for industrial enzyme production. \u03b1- and \u03b2-Galactosidases find application in food processing, health and nutrition. Aspergillus niger is one of the potent producer of these enzymes and was genotypically improved using gamma-ray induced mutagenesis. The mutant-derivative produced two-fold higher \u03b1- and \u03b2-galactosidases. For testing genetic variability and its relationship with phenotypic properties of the two organisms, DNA samples of the mutant and parental strains of A. niger were amplified with 28 deca-nucleotide synthetic primers. RAPD analysis showed significantly different pattern between parental and mutant cultures. The mutant derivative yielded homogeneous while parental strain formed heterogeneous amplification patterns. Seven primers identified 42.9% polymorphism in the amplification products, indicating that these primers determined some genetic variability between the two strains. Thus RAPD was found to be an efficient technique to determine genetic variability in the mutant and wild organisms. Both wild and mutant strains were analyzed for their potential to produce galactosidases. Comparison of different carbon sources on enzyme yield revealed that wheat bran is significant (P < 0.01) effective producer and economical source followed by rice bran, rice polishing and lactose. The mutant was significantly better enzyme producer and could be considered for its prospective application in food, nutrition and health and that RAPD can be effectively used to differentiate mutant strain from the parental strain based on the RAPD patterns."}
{"id": "20608781", "title": "Aspergillus endocarditis 2003-2009.", "content": "Aspergillus endocarditis 2003-2009. A retrospective study of 35 case reports of Aspergillus endocarditis published between 2003 and 2009 was carried out. Fifteen percent of cases presented with a new cardiac murmur, 38% with an embolus. Eighty percent of cases involved the aortic or mitral valves. Seventy-four percent of cases involved patients with a history of prior surgery, 48% of these involved a heart valve, 20% had other cardiac surgery and 32% had non-cardiac surgery. Galactomannan testing was helpful diagnostically in four out of nine cases, but PCR testing was positive in six out of six cases. Overall mortality was 68%, all eight survivors had heart valve surgery apart from one - an 8-month-old child. Seven out of eight survivors received liposomal amphotericin B, three of these in combination with other antifungals. We need to think more about the possibility of Aspergillus endocarditis, particularly in immunocompromised patients with recent surgery. Galactomannan and PCR testing may be used more vigorously. Valve replacement, or at least vegetectomy, should be carried out in all patients. Liposomal amphotericin B, 3-5mg/kg/day, for at least 4 weeks is the treatment of choice. Oral voriconazole should be used for at least 2 years. Posaconazole may be an alternative, however there have been no prior cases reported to suggest its efficacy. The value of combination antifungal therapy is uncertain, but consideration should be given to the use of a second agent in addition to liposomal amphotericin. While further case reports on this condition will be helpful, more definitive management guidelines will depend on a prospective study."}
{"id": "20563857", "title": "Gene cloning and enzyme structure modeling of the Aspergillus oryzae N74 fructosyltransferase.", "content": "Gene cloning and enzyme structure modeling of the Aspergillus oryzae N74 fructosyltransferase. The fructooligosaccharides (FOS) represent an important source of prebiotic compounds that are widely used as an ingredient in functional foods. Recently, the strain Aspergillus oryzae N74 was reported as a potential microorganism for the industrial production of FOS, due to its high yields of FOS production. In this work, we used a PCR-cloning strategy to clone the A. oryzae N74 ftase gene as a previous step for recombinant enzyme production. Ftase showed a 1630 bp size with a 99% similarity with other A. oryzae strains and between 1 to 68% identities with other Aspergillus strains. This gene encodes for a 525 amino acids protein with 99% similarity with other A. oryzae strains and between 11 to 69% similarities with other Aspergillus strains. Finally, an A. oryzae N74 FTase tertiary structure model was predicted base on its similarity with other glycoside hydrolase 32 family members. The active site was located inside the \u03b2-propeller domain and was formed for non-charged polar and charged amino acids. In summary, these results shows the high level of sequence conservation between A. oryzae strains and represent a first step towards the development of a FOS production industrial process using recombinant microorganism carrying the ftase gene from A. oryzae N74."}
{"id": "20526743", "title": "Semi-rational site-directed mutagenesis of phyI1s from Aspergillus niger 113 at two residue to improve its phytase activity.", "content": "Semi-rational site-directed mutagenesis of phyI1s from Aspergillus niger 113 at two residue to improve its phytase activity. Through alignment of amino acid sequences among different phytases, we found that the amino acid at residues 53 and 91 vary broadly. To prove that the amino acid at residues 53 and 91 were related to phytase specific activity, two single mutant phyI1s Q53R and K91D were obtained by site-directed mutagenesis strategy. None of the single amino acid residues in the two mutants was in a position reported to be important for catalysis or substrate binding. Kinetic analysis of the phytase activity of the two mutants (Q53R and K91D) indicated that the mutants were attributed to 2.2- and 1.5-fold increased specific activity, and a 1.47- and 1.16-fold increased affinity for sodium phytate. In addition, the overall catalytic efficiency (k(cat)/K(m)) of the two mutants was improved 4.08- and 2.84-fold compared to that of the wild type. Such mutants will be instrumental for the structure-function study of the enzyme and for industrial application."}
{"id": "20298270", "title": "Loop-mediated isothermal amplification assay for the diagnosis of retinitis caused by herpes simplex virus-1.", "content": "Loop-mediated isothermal amplification assay for the diagnosis of retinitis caused by herpes simplex virus-1. A loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) assay was developed for the detection of herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1). The specificity of the assay was tested using DNA extracted from HSV-1-infected rabbit corneal epithelium cultures, HSV-2 grown on Vero cell line, cytomegalovirus (CMV) (AD-169), varicella zoster virus (VZV) (Oka-vaccine), adenovirus, Aspergillus flavus and Staphylococcus aureus. The specificity of LAMP was confirmed by bidirectional sequencing of the amplicons. The sensitivity of the LAMP assay was tested using different concentrations of HSV-1 DNA. To evaluate the application of the LAMP assay in clinical diagnosis, we tested vitreous samples from 20 patients with suspected viral retinitis using LAMP and real-time PCR for HSV-1. The LAMP primers amplified only HSV-1 DNA; no LAMP products were detected with the DNAs of HSV-2, CMV, VZV, adenovirus A. flavus and S. aureus. The sequences of the positive HSV-1 LAMP products perfectly (99-100%) matched the HSV-1 sequences deposited in the GenBank database. LAMP is as sensitive as real-time PCR, with the lowest detection limit being 10 copies/\u03bcL of HSV-1 DNA. Of the 20 patients with suspected viral retinitis, four tested positive for HSV-1 using real- time PCR and LAMP. A 100% concordance was observed across the two methods. The LAMP assay is a rapid, highly specific and sensitive method for the diagnosis of retinitis caused by HSV-1."}
{"id": "22069596", "title": "Ochratoxin a: general overview and actual molecular status.", "content": "Ochratoxin a: general overview and actual molecular status. Ochratoxin A (OTA) is a mycotoxin produced by several species of Aspergillus and Penicillium fungi that structurally consists of a para-chlorophenolic group containing a dihydroisocoumarin moiety that is amide-linked to L-phenylalanine. OTA is detected worldwide in various food and feed sources. Studies show that this molecule can have several toxicological effects such as nephrotoxic, hepatotoxic, neurotoxic, teratogenic and immunotoxic. A role in the etiology of Balkan endemic nephropathy and its association to urinary tract tumors has been also proved. In this review, we will explore the general aspect of OTA: physico-chemical properties, toxicological profile, OTA producing fungi, contaminated food, regulation, legislation and analytical methods. Due to lack of sufficient information related to the molecular background, this paper will discuss in detail the recent advances in molecular biology of OTA biosynthesis, based on information and on new data about identification and characterization of ochratoxin biosynthetic genes in both Penicillium and Aspergillus species. This review will also cover the development of the molecular methods for the detection and quantification of OTA producing fungi in various foodstuffs."}
{"id": "21326837", "title": "Gene knockdown by ihpRNA-triggering in the ectomycorrhizal basidiomycete fungus Laccaria bicolor.", "content": "Gene knockdown by ihpRNA-triggering in the ectomycorrhizal basidiomycete fungus Laccaria bicolor. Ectomycorrhiza (ECM) is a mutualistic association between fungi and the roots of the vast majority of trees. These include numerous ecologically and economically relevant species and the participating fungal symbionts are predominantly filamentous basidiomycetes. In natural ecosystems the plant nutrient uptake from soil takes place via the extraradical mycelia of these ECM mycosimbionts as a trade for plant photosyntates. The symbiotic phase in the life cycle of ECM basidiomycetes is the dikaryotic hyphae. Therefore, studies on symbiotic relevant gene functions require the inactivation of both gene copies in these dikaryotic fungi. RNA silencing is a eukaryotic sequence homology-dependent degradation of target RNAs which is believed to have evolved as a protection mechanism against invading nucleic acids. In different eukaryotic organisms, including fungi, the RNA silencing pathway can be artificially triggered to target and degrade gene transcripts of interest, resulting in gene knock-down. Most importantly, RNA silencing can act at the cytosolic level affecting mRNAs originating from several gene copies and different nuclei thus offering an efficient means of altering gene expression in dikaryotic organisms. Therefore, the pHg/pSILBA\u03b3 silencing vector was constructed for efficient RNA silencing triggering in the model mycorrhizal fungus Laccaria bicolor. This cloning vector carries the Agaricus bisporus gpdII-promoter, two multiple cloning sites separated by a L. bicolor nitrate reductase intron and the Aspergillus nidulans trpC terminator. pSILBA\u03b3 allows an easy two-step PCR-cloning of hairpin sequences to be expressed in basidiomycetes. With one further cloning step into pHg, a pCAMBIA1300-based binary vector carrying a hygromycin resistance cassette, makes the pHg/pSILBA\u03b3 plasmid compatible with Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The pHg/pSILBA\u03b3-system results in predominantly single integrations of RNA silencing triggering T-DNAs in the fungal genome and the integration sites of the transgenes can be resolved by plasmid rescue. Besides the optimized use in L. bicolor, general consideration was taken to build a vector system with maximum compatibility with other homobasidiomycetes and different transformation techniques."}
{"id": "21255319", "title": "pHg/pSILBA\u03b3 vector system for efficient gene silencing in homobasidiomycetes: optimization of ihpRNA - triggering in the mycorrhizal fungus Laccaria bicolor.", "content": "pHg/pSILBA\u03b3 vector system for efficient gene silencing in homobasidiomycetes: optimization of ihpRNA - triggering in the mycorrhizal fungus Laccaria bicolor. pSILBA\u03b3 silencing vector was constructed for efficient RNA silencing triggering in the model mycorrhizal fungus Laccaria bicolor. This cloning vector carries the Agaricus bisporus gpdII promoter, two multiple cloning sites separated by a L. bicolor nitrate reductase intron and the Aspergillus nidulans trpC terminator. pSILBA\u03b3 allows an easy oriented two-step PCR cloning of hairpin sequences to be expressed in basidiomycetes. With one further cloning step into pHg, a pCAMBIA1300-based binary vector carrying a hygromycin resistance cassette, the pHg/pSILBA\u03b3 plasmid is used for Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. The pHg/pSILBA\u03b3 system results in predominantly single integrations of RNA silencing triggering T-DNAs in the fungal genome and the integration sites of the transgenes can be resolved by plasmid rescue. pSILBA\u03b3 construct and two other pSILBA plasmid variants (pSILBA and pSILBA\u03b1) were evaluated for their capacity to silence Laccaria nitrate reductase gene. While all pSILBA variants tested resulted in up to 65-76% of transformants with reduced growth on nitrate, pSILBA\u03b3 produced the highest number (65%) of strongly affected fungal strains. The strongly silenced phenotype was shown to correlate with T-DNA integration in transcriptionally active genomic sites. pHg/pSILBA\u03b3 was shown to produce T-DNAs with minimum CpG methylation in transgene promoter regions which assures the maximum silencing trigger production in Laccaria. Methylation of the target endogene was only slight in RNA silencing triggered with constructs carrying an intronic spacer hairpin sequence. The silencing capacity of the pHg/pSILBA\u03b3 was further tested with Laccaria inositol-1,4,5-triphosphate 5-phosphatase gene. Besides its use in silencing triggering, the herein described plasmid system can also be used for transgene expression in Laccaria. pHg/pSILBA\u03b3 silencing system is optimized for L. bicolor but it should be highly useful also for other homobasidiomycetes, group of fungi currently lacking molecular tools for RNA silencing."}
{"id": "21221952", "title": "Simple identification of veA1 mutation in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Simple identification of veA1 mutation in Aspergillus nidulans. The veA gene plays an important role in development of a homothallic filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. The veA1 phenotype can be difficult to distinguish from the wild-type veA. Despite the importance of the veA allele, no efficient identification method has been reported besides DNA sequencing. Here, we present simple physiological and molecular biological ways to distinguish between the veA wild-type and veA1 allele. The novel approaches, which involve incubation in the presence of oxalic acid, polymerase chain reaction using double mismatched primers, and BstXI enzyme digestion, are simpler, faster and more cost-efficient than genome sequencing."}
{"id": "21221936", "title": "Isolation and characterization of antifungal peptides produced by Bacillus amyloliquefaciens LBM5006.", "content": "Isolation and characterization of antifungal peptides produced by Bacillus amyloliquefaciens LBM5006. Bacillus amyloliquefaciens LBM 5006 produces antagonistic activity against pathogenic bacteria and phytopathogenic fungi, including Aspergillus spp., Fusarium spp., and Bipolaris sorokiniana. PCR analysis revealed the presence of ituD, but not sfp genes, coding for iturin and surfactin, respectively. The antimicrobial substance produced by this strain was isolated by ammonium sulfate precipitation, gel filtration chromatography and 1-butanol extraction. The ultraviolet spectrum was typical of a polypeptide and the infrared spectrum indicates the presence of peptide bonds and acyl group(s). The antimicrobial substance was resistant to proteolytic enzymes and heat treatment, and was reactive with ninhydrin. Mass spectroscopy analysis indicated that B. amyloliquefaciens LBM 5006 produces two antimicrobial peptides, with main peaks at m/z 1,058 Da and 1,464 Da, corresponding to iturin-like and fengycin-like peptides, respectively. B. amyloliquefaciens LBM 5006 showed significant activity against phytopatogenic fungi, showing potential for use as a biocontrol agent or production of antifungal preparations."}
{"id": "21187926", "title": "Macroautophagy-mediated degradation of whole nuclei in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Macroautophagy-mediated degradation of whole nuclei in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae. Filamentous fungi consist of continuum of multinucleate cells called hyphae, and proliferate by means of hyphal tip growth. Accordingly, research interest has been focusing on hyphal tip cells, but little is known about basal cells in colony interior that do not directly contribute to proliferation. Here, we show that autophagy mediates degradation of basal cell components in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae. In basal cells, enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-labeled peroxisomes, mitochondria, and even nuclei were taken up into vacuoles in an autophagy-dependent manner. During this process, crescents of autophagosome precursors matured into ring-like autophagosomes to encircle apparently whole nuclei. The ring-like autophagosomes then disappeared, followed by dispersal of the nuclear material throughout the vacuoles, suggesting the autophagy-mediated degradation of whole nuclei. We also demonstrated that colony growth in a nutrient-depleted medium was significantly inhibited in the absence of functional autophagy. This is a first report describing autophagy-mediated degradation of whole nuclei, as well as suggesting a novel strategy of filamentous fungi to degrade components of existing hyphae for use as nutrients to support mycelial growth in order to counteract starvation."}
{"id": "21128209", "title": "Molecular detection of ochratoxigenic Aspergillus species isolated from coffee beans in Saudi Arabia.", "content": "Molecular detection of ochratoxigenic Aspergillus species isolated from coffee beans in Saudi Arabia. Ten fungal isolates from coffee beans were morphologically identified as Aspergillus niger, A. ochraceus and A. carbonari-us (N = 5, 3, and 2, respectively). Only one isolate, morphologically identified as A. niger, was unable to produce ochratoxin A (OTA). This may be a new species in the Aspergillus section Nigri. OTA levels in all the other isolates were above the limit of detection (0.15 mg/kg). Based on microsatellite-primed PCR (MP-PCR) profiles, using three microsatellite primers, three main groups were obtained by UPGMA cluster analysis: A. niger, A. ochraceus and A. carbonarius. A clear-cut association was found between the MP-PCR genotype and the ability to produce OTA. Using the primer pairs OCRA1/OCRA2, a single fragment of about 400 bp was amplified only when genomic DNA from the A. ochraceus isolates was used."}
{"id": "21118527", "title": "Identification of seed proteins associated with resistance to pre-harvested aflatoxin contamination in peanut (Arachis hypogaea L).", "content": "Identification of seed proteins associated with resistance to pre-harvested aflatoxin contamination in peanut (Arachis hypogaea L). Pre-harvest infection of peanuts by Aspergillus flavus and subsequent aflatoxin contamination is one of the food safety factors that most severely impair peanut productivity and human and animal health, especially in arid and semi-arid tropical areas. Some peanut cultivars with natural pre-harvest resistance to aflatoxin contamination have been identified through field screening. However, little is known about the resistance mechanism, which has slowed the incorporation of resistance into cultivars with commercially acceptable genetic background. Therefore, it is necessary to identify resistance-associated proteins, and then to recognize candidate resistance genes potentially underlying the resistance mechanism. The objective of this study was to identify resistance-associated proteins in response to A. flavus infection under drought stress using two-dimensional electrophoresis with mass spectrometry. To identify proteins involved in the resistance to pre-harvest aflatoxin contamination, we compared the differential expression profiles of seed proteins between a resistant cultivar (YJ-1) and a susceptible cultivar (Yueyou 7) under well-watered condition, drought stress, and A. flavus infection with drought stress. A total of 29 spots showed differential expression between resistant and susceptible cultivars in response to A. flavus attack under drought stress. Among these spots, 12 protein spots that consistently exhibited an altered expression were screened by Image Master 5.0 software and successfully identified by MALDI-TOF MS. Five protein spots, including Oso7g0179400, PII protein, CDK1, Oxalate oxidase, SAP domain-containing protein, were uniquely expressed in the resistant cultivar. Six protein spots including low molecular weight heat shock protein precursor, RIO kinase, L-ascorbate peroxidase, iso-Ara h3, 50 S ribosomal protein L22 and putative 30 S ribosomal S9 were significantly up-regulated in the resistant cultivar challenged by A. flavus under drought stress. A significant decrease or down regulation of trypsin inhibitor caused by A. flavus in the resistant cultivar was also observed. In addition, variations in protein expression patterns for resistant and susceptible cultivars were further validated by real time RT-PCR analysis. In summary, this study provides new insights into understanding of the molecular mechanism of resistance to pre-harvest aflatoxin contamination in peanut, and will help to develop peanut varieties with resistance to pre-harvested aflatoxin contamination."}
{"id": "21102391", "title": "Fungal infections in ICU patients: epidemiology and the role of diagnostics.", "content": "Fungal infections in ICU patients: epidemiology and the role of diagnostics. Invasive fungal infections (IFIs) are on the increase not only among oncology and transplant patients but also among patients admitted to intensive care units (ICU). The rise in ICU IFIs can be attributed to the growing use of complex surgical procedures, invasive medical devices, and long-term, broad-spectrum antibiotic therapy. The majority of these life-threatening infections are caused by the well-known opportunistic pathogens Candida albicans and Aspergillus fumigatus, but new opportunistic pathogens, including yeast-like and other filamentous fungi, have emerged as additional causes. Invasive Candida infections, particularly candidemia, represent the most common IFI in critically ill patients. The species that cause candidemia markedly differ in their responses to antifungal drugs; for this reason, therapy must be tailored to the susceptibility characteristics of the infectious agent. Candidemia caused by non-albicans Candida species is increasing worldwide, and these infections are generally associated with high mortality rates, particularly bloodstream infections caused by C. krusei, which is innately resistant to fluconazole, or C. glabrata, which easily develops azole resistance. Although invasive yeast infections can be considered the most important causes of morbidity and mortality in ICU patients, pulmonary aspergillosis has recently emerged as an additional complication. Diagnosis of IFIs can be achieved using conventional approaches (microscopy, culture, and serology) and newer methods, including antigen detection and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays. Because most of the conventional approaches lack sensitivity, antigen detection and PCR assays could represent a valid alternative; however, these procedures need to be standardized and evaluated in a large number of patients."}
{"id": "21092564", "title": "[Expression of integrin during the course of adhesion between fungi and corneal epithelial cells].", "content": "[Expression of integrin during the course of adhesion between fungi and corneal epithelial cells]. To investigate the expression of integrin during the course of adhesion between fungi and corneal epithelial cells. It was an experimental study. Human corneal epithelial cells were cultured and the adhesion model were established between human corneal epithelial cells and Fusarium solani (CGMCC 3.1829) or Aspergillus fumigatus (CGMCC 3.0772) in vitro. Human corneal epithelial cells were incubated with Fusarium solani or Aspergillus fumigatus at 37\u00b0C and the non-adhered fungi were washed out with sterile phosphate buffered solution (PBS). The total RNA was extract from the human corneal epithelial cells. Real-time polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for the expression of integrin was performed. The results of RT-PCR showed that during the course of adhesion between Aspergillus fumigatus and corneal epithelial cells, the expression of integrin alpha L (ITGAL), integrin alpha M (ITGAM), integrin alpha X (ITGAX) and integrin beta 2 (ITGB2) were upregulated significantly. However, during the course of adhesion between Fusarium solani and corneal epithelial cells, there was no significant differences in the expression of those 14 kinds of integrin. Integrin \u03b1L\u03b22, \u03b1M\u03b22 and \u03b1X\u03b22 are all belong to the leukocyte adhesion receptor group (\u03b22 group) in integrin family. These three members are all involved in the adhesion of Aspergillus fumigatus and corneal epithelial cells. With the adhesion, the expression of integrin is upregulated. These results suggest that the integrin-mediated adhesion is different with different kinds of fungi. Integrin plays an important role in adhesion of fungi with human corneal epithelial cells."}
{"id": "21090115", "title": "[Construction, expression, purification and characterization of mutant of Aspergillus flavus urate oxidase].", "content": "[Construction, expression, purification and characterization of mutant of Aspergillus flavus urate oxidase]. We converted the TGC codon (307-309 bp) of Aspergillus flavus urate oxidase (UOX) gene to a GCC codon by using fusion PCR techniques to produce a C103A mutant. This gene was cloned into expression vector pET-42a (+) and then transformed into Escherichia coli BL21 (DE3). The mutant protein (UOX-Ala103) was expressed in soluble form at high levels after induction with IPTG The expressed rUOX-Ala103 accounted for about 45% of total bacterial proteins, rUOX-Ala103 of up to 98% purity was obtained after purified using hydrophobic interaction and anion exchange. Western blotting showed that the anti-UOX antibody specifically recognized rUOX-Ala103. The mutant protein showed a 60% increased in vitro biological activities compared with native protein, and performed a good activity of degrading the uric acid in vivo."}
{"id": "21067328", "title": "Clinical associations and prevalence of Scedosporium spp. in Australian cystic fibrosis patients: identification of novel risk factors?", "content": "Clinical associations and prevalence of Scedosporium spp. in Australian cystic fibrosis patients: identification of novel risk factors? Risk factors for the association of Scedosporium in cases of cystic fibrosis (CF) and its clinical implications are poorly understood. Clinical, lung function and laboratory data of adult CF patients in Sydney (April 2008-March 2009) were prospectively analysed for such risk factors. Expectorated sputa were cultured for bacteria and examined for fungi using standard mycological and Scedosporium-selective media, and by an internal transcribed spacer region-targeted multiplex PCR assay. Scedosporium spp. (n = 4 each of Scedosporium prolificans, Scedosporium aurantiacum and Pseudallescheria boydii/ Scedosporium apiospermum complex [non-S. aurantiacum]) were recovered from 12 of 69 (17.4%) patients. Samples of 11 of the patients yielded isolates on Scedosporium- selective media (vs. 6 [8.7%] by non-selective culture) and one additional patient was noted by PCR. Of these patients, 83.3% were co-colonized with other moulds, most frequently Aspergillus fumigatus. Colonization was not associated with best FEV\u2081/predicted, corticosteroid or antifungal therapies. By univariate analysis, patients with Scedosporium colonization were significantly less likely to be colonized with mucoid Pseudomonas aeruginosa (P = 0.025), while prior therapy with antistaphylococcal penicillins was a risk factor for colonization (P = 0.045). Bacterial colonization and antimicrobial exposure likely influence Scedosporium colonization, which is optimally detected with selective media. Studies are required to confirm independent risk factors for Scedosporium colonization and to determine its impact on lung disease."}
{"id": "21058154", "title": "Culture-independent characterization of bacteria and fungi in a poultry bioaerosol using pyrosequencing: a new approach.", "content": "Culture-independent characterization of bacteria and fungi in a poultry bioaerosol using pyrosequencing: a new approach. Work in animal production facilities often results in exposure to organic dusts. Previous studies have documented decreases in pulmonary function and lung inflammation among workers exposed to organic dust in the poultry industry. Bacteria and fungi have been reported as components of the organic dust produced in poultry facilities. To date, little is known about the diversity and concentration of bacteria and fungi inside poultry buildings. All previous investigations have utilized culture-based methods for analysis that identify only biota cultured on selected media. The bacterial tag-encoded flexible (FLX) amplicon pyrosequencing (bTEFAP) and fungal tag-encoded flexible (FLX) amplicon pyrosequencing (fTEFAP) are modern and comprehensive approaches for determining biodiversity of microorganisms and have not previously been used to provide characterization of exposure to microorganisms in an occupational environment. This article illustrates the potential application of this novel technique in occupational exposure assessment as well as other settings. An 8-hr area sample was collected using an Institute of Medicine inhalable sampler attached to a mannequin in a poultry confinement building. The sample was analyzed using bTEFAP and fTEFAP. Of the bacteria and fungi detected, 116 and 39 genera were identified, respectively. Among bacteria, Staphylococcus cohnii was present in the highest proportion (23%). The total inhalable bacteria concentration was estimated to be 7503 cells/m\u00b3. Among the fungi identified, Sagenomella sclerotialis was present in the highest proportion (37%). Aspergillus ochraceus and Penicillium janthinellum were also present in high proportions. The total inhalable fungi concentration was estimated to be 1810 cells/m\u00b3. These estimates are lower than what has been reported by others using standard epifluorescence microscope methods. However, no study has used non-culture-based techniques, such as bTEFAP and fTEFAP, to evaluate bacteria and fungi in the inhalable fraction of a bioaerosol in a broiler production environment. Furthermore, the impact of this bTEFAP and fTEFAP technology has yet to be realized by the scientific community dedicated to evaluating occupational and environmental bioaerosol exposure."}
{"id": "21046338", "title": "Re-identification of Aspergillus fumigatus sensu lato based on a new concept of species delimitation.", "content": "Re-identification of Aspergillus fumigatus sensu lato based on a new concept of species delimitation. The species concept of Aspergillus fumigatus sensu stricto has recently been defined by polyphasic taxonomy. Based on the new concept of species delimitations, 146 worldwide strains of Aspergillus fumigatus sensu lato were re-identified. Of those 146 strains, 140 (95.8%) could be identified as A. fumigatus sensu stricto, 3 (2.1%) as A. lentulus, and the remaining 3 strains as A. viridinutans complex, Neosartorya udagawae, and N. cf. nishimurae. Of 98 clinical strains, only 1 from dolphin nostril was identified as A. lentulus and not A. fumigatus sensu stricto. Random amplification of polymorphic DNA-polymerase chain reaction (RAPD-PCR) with primers PELF and URP1F produced nearly the same band patterns among 136 strains of A. fumigatus sensu stricto while discriminated the species from its related species. We also discussed about identification of several atypical A. fumigatus strains from clinical environments."}
{"id": "20978634", "title": "Comparison of the utility of five commercial kits for extraction of DNA from Aspergillus fumigatus spores.", "content": "Comparison of the utility of five commercial kits for extraction of DNA from Aspergillus fumigatus spores. The aim of this study was to compare the efficiency of DNA extraction from water as well as from blood samples spiked with A. fumigatus spores, using selected commercial kits. Extraction of DNA according to manufacturer's protocols was preceded by blood cells lysis and disruption of fungal cells by enzymatic digestion or bead beating. The efficiency of DNA extraction was measured by PCR using Aspergillus-specific primers and SYBR Green I dye or TaqMan probes targeting 28S rRNA gene. All methods allowed the detection of Aspergillus at the lowest tested density of water suspensions of spores (10\u00b9 cells/ml). The highest DNA yield was obtained using the ZR Fungal/Bacterial DNA kit, YeastStar Genomic DNA kit, and QIAamp DNA Mini kit with mechanical cell disruption. The ZR Fungal/Bacterial DNA and YeastStar kits showed the highest sensitivity in examination of blood samples spiked with Aspergillus (100 % for the detection of 10\u00b2 spores and 75 % for 10\u00b9 spores). Recently, the enzymatic method ceased to be recommended for examination of blood samples for Aspergillus, thus ZR Fungal/Bacterial DNA kit and QIAamp DNA Mini kit with mechanical cell disruption could be used for extraction of Aspergillus DNA from clinical samples."}
{"id": "20952652", "title": "Activation of a silent fungal polyketide biosynthesis pathway through regulatory cross talk with a cryptic nonribosomal peptide synthetase gene cluster.", "content": "Activation of a silent fungal polyketide biosynthesis pathway through regulatory cross talk with a cryptic nonribosomal peptide synthetase gene cluster. Filamentous fungi produce numerous natural products that constitute a consistent source of potential drug leads, yet it seems that the majority of natural products are overlooked since most biosynthesis gene clusters are silent under standard cultivation conditions. Screening secondary metabolite genes of the model fungus Aspergillus nidulans, we noted a silent gene cluster on chromosome II comprising two nonribosomal peptide synthetase (NRPS) genes, inpA and inpB, flanked by a regulatory gene that we named scpR for secondary metabolism cross-pathway regulator. The induced expression of the scpR gene using the promoter of the alcohol dehydrogenase AlcA led to the transcriptional activation of both the endogenous scpR gene and the NRPS genes. Surprisingly, metabolic profiling of the supernatant of mycelia overexpressing scpR revealed the production of the polyketide asperfuranone. Through transcriptome analysis we found that another silent secondary metabolite gene cluster located on chromosome VIII coding for asperfuranone biosynthesis was specifically induced. Quantitative reverse transcription-PCR proved the transcription not only of the corresponding polyketide synthase (PKS) biosynthesis genes, afoE and afoG, but also of their activator, afoA, under alcAp-scpR-inducing conditions. To exclude the possibility that the product of the inp cluster induced the asperfuranone gene cluster, a strain carrying a deletion of the NRPS gene inpB and, in addition, the alcAp-scpR overexpression cassette was generated. In this strain, under inducing conditions, transcripts of the biosynthesis genes of both the NRPS-containing gene cluster inp and the asperfuranone gene cluster except gene inpB were detected. Moreover, the existence of the polyketide product asperfuranone indicates that the transcription factor ScpR controls the expression of the asperfuranone biosynthesis gene cluster. This expression as well as the biosynthesis of asperfuranone was abolished after the deletion of the asperfuranone activator gene afoA, indicating that ScpR binds to the afoA promoter. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of regulatory cross talk between two biosynthesis gene clusters located on different chromosomes."}
{"id": "20942058", "title": "[Aspergillosis].", "content": "[Aspergillosis]."}
{"id": "20832694", "title": "Molecular ecology and polyphasic characterization of the microbiota associated with semi-dry processed coffee (Coffea arabica L.).", "content": "Molecular ecology and polyphasic characterization of the microbiota associated with semi-dry processed coffee (Coffea arabica L.). This work was aimed at isolating and identifying the microbiota present during the semi-dry method of coffee processing using polyphasic methods and to evaluate microbial diversity with PCR-DGGE. Samples of Coffea arabica L. were collected during different processing stages in southern Minas Gerais, Brazil. The bacterial and fungal isolates were phenotypically characterised and grouped according to the ARDRA technique, in which the 16-23S and ITS1-5.8S regions of the rDNA were sequenced for species identification. The bacterial counts varied from 3.7 to 7 log CFU\u00a0g(-1). The yeast counts ranged from 3.4 to 6.9 log CFU\u00a0g(-1), and the filamentous fungal population varied from 2 to 3.7 log CFU\u00a0g(-1). Bacillus subtilis, Escherichia coli, Enterobacter agglomerans, Bacillus cereus and Klebsiella pneumoniae were the predominant bacteria detected during the processing of the coffee, and Pichia anomala, Torulaspora delbrueckii and Rhodotorula mucilaginosa were the dominant yeasts. All of the yeast and bacterial species detected by PCR-DGGE were isolated using culture-dependent methods, with the exception of one uncultivable bacterial species. Aspergillus was the most common genus among the filamentous fungal isolates. The use of polyphasic methods allowed a better characterization of the microbiota that is naturally present in semi-dry processed coffee."}
{"id": "20827189", "title": "New molecular and surrogate biomarker-based tests in the diagnosis of bacterial and fungal infection in febrile neutropenic patients.", "content": "New molecular and surrogate biomarker-based tests in the diagnosis of bacterial and fungal infection in febrile neutropenic patients. Prompt diagnosis of infection in febrile neutropenia hosts with hematological malignancy is essential in directing therapy. We highlight experience using modern molecular and biomarker-based methods to diagnose bacterial and fungal bloodstream infections and invasive aspergillosis in these patients. Nucleic acid amplification-based strategies are used to detect and identify pathogens from blood cultures or from blood/clinical specimens; the latter are more likely to influence clinical management. Advances in DNA extraction include standardization of isolation of Aspergillus DNA from blood. Broad-range and/or multiplex PCR generally have greater clinical utility than pathogen-specific assays. However, Aspergillus-PCR assays are useful in confirming/excluding disease and monitoring high-risk patients for invasive aspergillosis. Commercial real-time PCR/peptide nucleic acid fluorescent in-situ hybridization systems, used as adjuncts to blood cultures, to detect bacteria and fungi in blood cultures (or blood), are as sensitive as culture and enable earlier institution of targeted therapy. Yet there are no data indicating that molecular detection of bacterial/fungal pathogens influences patient outcomes. Positive serum Aspergillus galactomannan and 1,3-\u03b2-D-glucan tests are useful biomarkers in the diagnosis/screening of fungal infection, and have potential as measures of response to antifungal therapy. Serum procalcitonin levels can help differentiate infectious, from noninfectious, fever. Combined molecular and nonmolecular testing likely offers optimal diagnostic accuracy. Numerous PCR-based and biomarker tools are available for the diagnosis and screening of infection in febrile neutropenia hosts. The optimal approach remains to be resolved by prospective studies examining the impact of one or more of tests on patient outcomes."}
{"id": "20823702", "title": "Opportunistic fungi: a view to the future.", "content": "Opportunistic fungi: a view to the future. Opportunistic fungi are a constantly evolving group of pathogens that plague a growing group of vulnerable patients. These include hospitalized patients, especially those in the intensive care unit; stem cell and solid organ transplant recipients; patients treated with immunosuppressant medications; those with advanced human immunodeficiency virus or other acquired immunodeficiency conditions; and patients with organ failure syndromes. Rapid diagnosis of invasive fungal infection is essential to optimize outcomes. Several newer nonculture-based diagnostics, including the Aspergillus galactomannan enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, the beta-d-glucan assay and the multiplex polymerase chain reaction-based assays, may emerge as important tools facilitating early intervention with effective antifungal therapy. Newer azoles, including posaconazole, isavuconazole and ravuconazole, will potentially provide more effective therapeutic options in the future, diminishing the role for amphotericin B."}
{"id": "20821591", "title": "Air quality during demolition and recovery activities in post-Katrina New Orleans.", "content": "Air quality during demolition and recovery activities in post-Katrina New Orleans. Air samples were collected during demolition and cleanup operations in the Lakeview district of New Orleans, Louisiana, USA, in late 2005 during the period immediately after Hurricane Katrina. Three different high-volume air samples were collected around waste collection areas that were created to temporarily hold the debris from the cleanup of residential properties in the area. Particulate concentrations were elevated and included crystalline fibers associated with asbestos. Metal concentrations on particulate matter resembled those measured in sediments deposited by floodwaters with the exception of Ba, which was elevated at all three locations. The highest organic contaminant concentration measured on particulates was the pesticide Ziram (Zinc, bis[diethylcarbamodithioato-S,S']-, [T-4]-) at 2,200 microg/g of particulate matter during sampling period 2. Ziram is used in latex paint, adhesives, caulking, and wallboard as a preservative. Fungal isolates developed from particulate air samples included species associated with disease including Aspergillus and Penicillium species. These data represent the most comprehensive assessment of demolition activities during the period immediately after Hurricane Katrina."}
{"id": "20818103", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus species in bone marrow transplant patients.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus species in bone marrow transplant patients. Invasive aspergillosis is a severe complication of cytotoxic chemotherapies and bone marrow transplantation (BMT). The aim of this study was to assess the utility of a real-time PCR assay for the early diagnosis of Aspergillus species in blood samples from BMT patients. Blood specimens (n = 993) from patients (n = 82) scheduled for BMT were collected prior to transplant and for 100 days post transplantation. The specimens were later tested using an Aspergillus-specific real-time PCR assay. Cultures of clinical samples, along with sonography and computerized tomographic scans, were performed as standard of care. Aspergillus DNA was positive in 94 sequential blood samples from 13 patients with clinical and radiological signs of infection. Samples from three of these patients were PCR-positive for Aspergillus in the first week of admission, prior to transplantation. Four patients with aspergillosis were cured with antifungal agents and nine died. An additional 12 patients without clinical signs of infection were PCR-positive on one occasion each, while two patients with clinical signs of infection were PCR-negative. Compared to routine methods of aspergillosis diagnosis, the respective sensitivity, specificity, negative, and positive predictive values of the PCR method by patient were 86.6%, 82%, 96.5% and 52%. The results show that Aspergillus infections in the blood of bone marrow transplant patients can be dectected by PCR methods. Early detection of Aspergillus infections by PCR has the potential to positively impact patient mortality rate and provide cost savings to hospitals."}
{"id": "20817798", "title": "Accuracy, precision, and method detection limits of quantitative PCR for airborne bacteria and fungi.", "content": "Accuracy, precision, and method detection limits of quantitative PCR for airborne bacteria and fungi. Real-time quantitative PCR (qPCR) for rapid and specific enumeration of microbial agents is finding increased use in aerosol science. The goal of this study was to determine qPCR accuracy, precision, and method detection limits (MDLs) within the context of indoor and ambient aerosol samples. Escherichia coli and Bacillus atrophaeus vegetative bacterial cells and Aspergillus fumigatus fungal spores loaded onto aerosol filters were considered. Efficiencies associated with recovery of DNA from aerosol filters were low, and excluding these efficiencies in quantitative analysis led to underestimating the true aerosol concentration by 10 to 24 times. Precision near detection limits ranged from a 28% to 79% coefficient of variation (COV) for the three test organisms, and the majority of this variation was due to instrument repeatability. Depending on the organism and sampling filter material, precision results suggest that qPCR is useful for determining dissimilarity between two samples only if the true differences are greater than 1.3 to 3.2 times (95% confidence level at n = 7 replicates). For MDLs, qPCR was able to produce a positive response with 99% confidence from the DNA of five B. atrophaeus cells and less than one A. fumigatus spore. Overall MDL values that included sample processing efficiencies ranged from 2,000 to 3,000 B. atrophaeus cells per filter and 10 to 25 A. fumigatus spores per filter. Applying the concepts of accuracy, precision, and MDL to qPCR aerosol measurements demonstrates that sample processing efficiencies must be accounted for in order to accurately estimate bioaerosol exposure, provides guidance on the necessary statistical rigor required to understand significant differences among separate aerosol samples, and prevents undetected (i.e., nonquantifiable) values for true aerosol concentrations that may be significant."}
{"id": "20735510", "title": "Temporal monitoring of the nor-1 (aflD) gene of Aspergillus flavus in relation to aflatoxin B\u2081 production during storage of peanuts under different water activity levels.", "content": "Temporal monitoring of the nor-1 (aflD) gene of Aspergillus flavus in relation to aflatoxin B\u2081 production during storage of peanuts under different water activity levels. A relative quantification system (RQ-PCR) was used to monitor the correlations between the activity of the nor-1 (=aflD) gene of Aspergillus flavus using real-time PCR in relation to phenotypic aflatoxin B(1) (AFB(1) ) production and populations of A. flavus in stored peanuts at three water activity levels (a(w) , 0\u00b795, 0\u00b790 and 0\u00b785) for 6 weeks. Real-time PCR was used to amplify the nor-1 gene (target gene), and benA56 (\u03b2-tubulin gene) used as a control gene. Expression of three structural genes, nor-1 (=aflD), ver-1 (=aflM), and omtA (=aflP), and the regulatory gene aflR of the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway were also assayed. There were significant differences between nor-1 gene expression at the three a(w) levels; higher expression at 0\u00b790 a(w) in weeks 1-3, when compared to 0\u00b795. In contrast, in the driest treatment (0\u00b785 a(w) ) none or very low nor-1 expression occurred. The populations of A. flavus colony-forming units (CFUs g(-1) ) increased over time with the highest at 0\u00b795 a(w) . Highest AFB(1) production was at 0\u00b790 and 0\u00b795 a(w) from weeks 3-6. A(w) had a significant effect on aflR transcription at 0\u00b795 a(w) over the 6-week period, while at 0\u00b790 a(w) , only in the last 2 weeks. \u2002 Correlations between different factors showed that log AFB(1) \u00d7 log CFUs, log AFB(1) \u00d7 a(w) , and log CFUs \u00d7 a(w) were statistically significant, while log CFUs \u00d7 RQ-PCR and RQ-PCR \u00d7 a(w) were not. The AflR gene may not have an important role in the regulation of nor-1 expression in food matrices (e.g. peanuts). Determination of correlations between nor-1 expression and aflatoxin production by A. flavus in raw peanuts under different a(w) levels could be helpful to predict potential risk of aflatoxin production during storage of this hygroscopic food product and minimize contamination with the AFB(1) ."}
{"id": "20720026", "title": "Critical stages of extracting DNA from Aspergillus fumigatus in whole-blood specimens.", "content": "Critical stages of extracting DNA from Aspergillus fumigatus in whole-blood specimens. A standardized protocol for extracting DNA from Aspergillus fumigatus has been proposed by the European Aspergillus PCR Initiative (EAPCRI). Using meta-regression analysis, the EAPCRI showed certain stages of the process to be critical to providing a satisfactory analytical sensitivity. The study investigated each step of the EAPCRI protocol by elimination and monitored the influence on Aspergillus PCR performance."}
{"id": "20720024", "title": "Multiplex blood PCR in combination with blood cultures for improvement of microbiological documentation of infection in febrile neutropenia.", "content": "Multiplex blood PCR in combination with blood cultures for improvement of microbiological documentation of infection in febrile neutropenia. The frequent lack of microbiological documentation of infection by blood cultures (BC) has a major impact on clinical management of febrile neutropenic patients, especially in cases of unexplained persistent fever. We assessed the diagnostic utility of the LightCycler SeptiFast test (SF), a multiplex blood PCR, in febrile neutropenia. Blood for BC and SF was drawn at the onset of fever and every 3 days of persistent fever. SF results were compared with those of BC, clinical documentation of infection, and standard clinical, radiological, and microbiological criteria for invasive fungal infections (IFI). A total of 141 febrile neutropenic episodes in 86 hematological patients were studied: 44 (31%) microbiologically and 49 (35%) clinically documented infections and 48 (34%) unexplained fevers. At the onset of fever, BC detected 44 microorganisms in 35/141 (25%) episodes. Together, BC and SF identified 78 microorganisms in 61/141 (43%) episodes (P = 0.002 versus BC or SF alone): 12 were detected by BC and SF, 32 by BC only, and 34 by SF only. In 19/52 (37%) episodes of persistent fever, SF detected 28 new microorganisms (7 Gram-positive bacterial species, 15 Gram-negative bacterial species, and 6 fungal species [89% with a clinically documented site of infection]) whereas BC detected only 4 pathogens (8%) (P = 0.001). While BC did not detect fungi, SF identified 5 Candida spp. and 1 Aspergillus sp. in 5/7 probable or possible cases of IFI. Using SeptiFast PCR combined with blood cultures improves microbiological documentation in febrile neutropenia, especially when fever persists and invasive fungal infection is suspected. Technical adjustments may enhance the efficiency of this new molecular tool in this specific setting."}
{"id": "20716040", "title": "Determining the incidence of aspergillosis after liver transplant.", "content": "Determining the incidence of aspergillosis after liver transplant. Aspergillus has become an increasingly frequent cause of life-threatening opportunistic infections in liver transplant recipients. This study seeks to determine the incidence of invasive aspergillosis in liver transplant recipients using routine and molecular methods in a teaching hospital in Shiraz, the unique center for liver transplant in Iran. Four hundred eight recipients who underwent liver transplant were followed for Aspergillus infections by microscopic examination, culture, and nested polymerase chain reaction. Blood samples were cultured by bedside inoculation to BACTEC medium. The female-to-male ratio was 151:257 (mean age, 29.6 years; mean hospitalization, 26 days). Sensitivity and specificity of the nested polymerase chain reaction was 92.8% and 94%. Aspergillosis was detected in 19 recipients (4.6%) by routine and molecular method (4 proven, 10 probable, and 5 possible) of whom 12 recipients died (63.2%). This study found the incidence rate of invasive aspergillosis as an uncommon complication of liver transplant recipient cases but associated with poor outcomes. The rate is consistent with those reported in previous studies, but molecular assay that is more-sensitive and specific was used in the present study."}
{"id": "20711895", "title": "Hindering biofilm formation with zosteric acid.", "content": "Hindering biofilm formation with zosteric acid. The antifoulant, zosteric acid, was synthesized using a non-patented process. Zosteric acid at 500 mg l(-1) caused a reduction of bacterial (Escherichia coli, Bacillus cereus) and fungal (Aspergillus niger, Penicillium citrinum) coverage by 90% and 57%, respectively. Calculated models allowed its antifouling activity to be predicted at different concentrations. Zosteric acid counteracted the effects of some colonization-promoting factors. Bacterial and fungal wettability was not affected, but the agent increased bacterial motility by 40%. A capillary accumulation test showed that zosteric acid did not act as a chemoeffector for E. coli, but stimulated a chemotactic response. Along with enhanced swimming migration of E. coli in the presence of zosteric acid, staining showed an increased production of flagella. Reverse transcriptase-PCR revealed an increased transcriptional level of the fliC gene and isolation and quantification of flagellar proteins demonstrated a higher flagellin amount. Biofilm experiments confirmed that zosteric acid caused a significant decrease in biomass (-92%) and thickness (-54%)."}
{"id": "20704651", "title": "Determination of microbial diversity in meju, fermented cooked soya beans, using nested PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis.", "content": "Determination of microbial diversity in meju, fermented cooked soya beans, using nested PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. To identify the microbiota in meju, fermented cooked soya beans, that may directly affect the microbial communities of Korean fermented soya bean foods. Using conventional bacterial 16S rDNA, bacilli-specific 16S rDNA or fungi 18S rDNA-specific primers, PCR products were amplified through a series of PCRs using the DNA extracted from ten meju samples. The amplicons were analysed using denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE), which showed that Enterococcus durans was commonly detected in nine of ten meju samples. Bacillus subtilis was shown to be the major strain of bacilli in the samples tested. Based on the DGGE analysis of fungi in meju, we determined that Absidia corymbifera, Aspergillus sp. and Candida rugosa were the main fungi in the tested samples. A variety of bacterial and fungal micro-organisms were identified in meju samples, in addition to the micro-organisms already known to be present. This is the first report showing the differences and similarities in the populations of micro-organisms in meju samples using nested PCR-DGGE, a culture-independent method. The results may be applicable to the development of improved meju, in which the indigenous micro-organisms required for fermentation can be standardized."}
{"id": "20699629", "title": "Comparative study of Gram stain, potassium hydroxide smear, culture and nested PCR in the diagnosis of fungal keratitis.", "content": "Comparative study of Gram stain, potassium hydroxide smear, culture and nested PCR in the diagnosis of fungal keratitis. This study seeks to evaluate the efficacy and practicality of the molecular method, compared to the standard microbiological techniques for diagnosing fungal keratitis (FK). Patients with eye findings suspected of FK were enrolled for cornea sampling. Scrapings from the affected areas of the infected corneas were obtained and were divided into two parts: one for smears and cultures, and the other for nested PCR analysis. Of the 38 eyes, 28 were judged to have fungal infections based on clinical and positive findings in the culture, smear and responses to antifungal treatment. Potassium hydroxide, Gram staining, culture and nested PCR results (either positive or negative) matched in 76.3, 42.1, 68.4 and 81.6%, respectively. PCR is a sensitive method but due to the lack of sophisticated facilities in routine laboratory procedures, it can serve only complementarily and cannot replace conventional methods."}
{"id": "20686222", "title": "Diversity and antimicrobial activity of endophytic fungi associated with the alpine plant Saussurea involucrata.", "content": "Diversity and antimicrobial activity of endophytic fungi associated with the alpine plant Saussurea involucrata. Endophytic fungi are rich in species diversity and may play an important role in the fitness of their host plants. This study investigated the diversity and antimicrobial potential of endophytic fungi obtained from Saussurea involucrata KAR. et KIR. A total of 49 endophytic fungi were isolated from S. involucrata and identified using morphological and molecular techniques. Extracts of fermentation broth from the 49 fungi were tested for antimicrobial activity against pathogenic microorganisms using the agar diffusion method. Forty-eight out of the 49 endophytic fungi were identified and grouped into 14 taxa. Cylindrocarpon sp. was the dominant species isolated from S. involucrata, followed by Phoma sp. and Fusarium sp. Among the 49 endophytic fungi, 9 root isolates having darkly pigmented, septate hyphae were identified as dark septate endophytic (DSE) fungus, and 12 fungi inhibited at least one test microorganism. Moreover, 5 strains showed a broader spectrum of antimicrobial activity and 4 strains displayed strong inhibition (+++) against pathogenic fungi. The results indicate that endophytic fungi isolated from S. involucrata are diverse in species and a potential source of antimicrobial agents."}
{"id": "20684304", "title": "[Expression of phytase gene phyA in Yarrowia lipolytica po1h].", "content": "[Expression of phytase gene phyA in Yarrowia lipolytica po1h]. Using the polymmerse chain reaction (PCR), we amplified the phytase gene phyA from Pichia pastoris GS115-phyA in Aspergillus niger NRRL3135 without the signal peptide sequence and intron sequence,. Then, it was cloned into pINA1297 vector to generate a recombinant vector of pINA1297-phyA. pINA1297-phyA was linearized and transformed into Yarrowia lipolytica po1h by the lithium acetate method. The positive transformants were obtained by YNB(casa) and PPB plates, after induced in YM medium at 28 degrees C for 6 day. The activity of the expressed phytase phyA reached 636.23 U/mL. The molecular weight of the enzyme was 130 kDa measured with SDS-PAGE analysis, whereas its molecular size reduced to 51 kDa after deglycosylation which is correspond with theoretical value. The enzymatic analysis of the recombinant phytase phyA revealed its optimal pH and temperature was 5.5 and 55 degrees C, which had high activity after incubated in pH ranged from 2.0 to 8.0 for 1 h. Moreover, its activity remained 86.08% after exposure to 90 degrees C for 10 min. It also was resistant to pepsin or trypsin treatment."}
{"id": "20679430", "title": "Gamma-tubulin regulates the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome during interphase.", "content": "Gamma-tubulin regulates the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome during interphase. A cold-sensitive gamma-tubulin allele of Aspergillus nidulans, mipAD159, causes defects in mitotic and cell cycle regulation at restrictive temperatures that are apparently independent of microtubule nucleation defects. Time-lapse microscopy of fluorescently tagged mitotic regulatory proteins reveals that cyclin B, cyclin-dependent kinase 1, and the Ancdc14 phosphatase fail to accumulate in a subset of nuclei at restrictive temperatures. These nuclei are permanently removed from the cell cycle, whereas other nuclei, in the same multinucleate cell, cycle normally, accumulating and degrading these proteins. After each mitosis, additional daughter nuclei fail to accumulate these proteins, resulting in an increase in noncycling nuclei over time and consequent inhibition of growth. Extensive analyses reveal that these noncycling nuclei result from a nuclear autonomous, microtubule-independent failure of inactivation of the anaphase-promoting complex/cyclosome. Thus, gamma-tubulin functions to regulate this key mitotic and cell cycle regulatory complex."}
{"id": "20647677", "title": "Microbiological and biochemical survey on the transition of fermentative processes in Fukuyama pot vinegar brewing.", "content": "Microbiological and biochemical survey on the transition of fermentative processes in Fukuyama pot vinegar brewing. Traditional brewing of Fukuyama pot vinegar is a process that has been continued in Fukuyama, Kagoshima, Japan, for almost 200 years. The entire process proceeds from raw materials, including steamed rice, rice koji (steamed rice grown with a fungus, Aspergillus oryzae) and water, to produce vinegar in roughly capped large pots laid in the open air. No special fermentative manipulation is required, except for scattering dried rice koji (called furi-koji) on the surface of the mash to form a cap-like mat on the surface at the start of brewing. As the biochemical mechanism of the natural transition of the fermentative processes during brewing has not been fully explained, we conducted a microbiological and biochemical study on the transition. First, a distinct biochemical change was observed in the brewing of spring preparation; that is, a sharp decline in pH from 6.5 to 3.5 within the first 5 days of brewing was observed due to lactic acid fermentation. Alcoholic fermentation also proceeded with a sharp increase to 4.5% ethanol within the first 5 days under the acidic conditions, suggesting that saccharification and both fermentations proceed in parallel. Acidic conditions and ethanol accumulation restricted the growth of most microorganisms in the mash, and in turn provided a favorable growth condition for acetic acid bacteria which are acid resistant and \"ethanol-philic.\" Acetic acid was detected from day 16 and gradually increased in concentration, reaching a maximum of 7% at day 70 that was maintained thereafter. Empirically furi-koji naturally sinks into the mash after around day 40 by an unknown mechanism, allowing acetic acid bacteria to easily form pellicles on the mash surface and promoting efficient acetic acid fermentation. Dominant microbial species involved in the three fermentations were identified by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis analysis using PCR-amplified defined-regions of small rDNA from microorganisms in the brewing mash or colony direct PCR applied to isolated microorganisms from the mash."}
{"id": "20645385", "title": "Functional genomic profiling of Aspergillus fumigatus biofilm reveals enhanced production of the mycotoxin gliotoxin.", "content": "Functional genomic profiling of Aspergillus fumigatus biofilm reveals enhanced production of the mycotoxin gliotoxin. The opportunistic pathogenic mold Aspergillus fumigatus is an increasing cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised and in part immunocompetent patients. A. fumigatus can grow in multicellular communities by the formation of a hyphal network encased in an extracellular matrix. Here, we describe the proteome and transcriptome of planktonic- and biofilm-grown A. fumigatus mycelium after 24 and 48 h. A biofilm- and time-dependent regulation of many proteins and genes of the primary metabolism indicates a developmental stage of the young biofilm at 24 h, which demands energy. At a matured biofilm phase, metabolic activity seems to be reduced. However, genes, which code for hydrophobins, and proteins involved in the biosynthesis of secondary metabolites were significantly upregulated. In particular, proteins of the gliotoxin secondary metabolite gene cluster were induced in biofilm cultures. This was confirmed by real-time PCR and by detection of this immunologically active mycotoxin in culture supernatants using HPLC analysis. The enhanced production of gliotoxin by in vitro formed biofilms reported here may also play a significant role under in vivo conditions. It may confer A. fumigatus protection from the host immune system and also enable its survival and persistence in chronic lung infections such as aspergilloma."}
{"id": "20638611", "title": "Aspergillus DNA contamination in blood collection tubes.", "content": "Aspergillus DNA contamination in blood collection tubes. Fungal polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based diagnostic methods are at risk for contamination. Sample collection containers were investigated for fungal DNA contamination using real-time PCR assays. Up to 18% of blood collection tubes were contaminated with fungal DNA, probably Aspergillus fumigatus. Lower proportions of contamination in other vessels were observed."}
{"id": "20626764", "title": "Effects of caspofungin, Candida albicans and Aspergillus fumigatus on toll-like receptor 9 of GM-CSF-stimulated PMNs.", "content": "Effects of caspofungin, Candida albicans and Aspergillus fumigatus on toll-like receptor 9 of GM-CSF-stimulated PMNs. The possible involvement of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) 1, 2, 4 and 9 in the interaction of antifungal drugs with polymorphonuclear neutrophils (PMNs) in response to Aspergillus fumigatus and Candida albicans as stimuli was investigated. Caspofungin revealed the broadest capacity to enable C. albicans and A. fumigatus to stimulate TLR upregulation, TLR 2 by A. fumigatus and TLRs 4, 9 by C. albicans. Conventional amphotericin B (cAMB) stimulated only A. fumigatus to induce TLRs 2 and 4 upregulation; voriconazole stimulated A. fumigatus and fluconazole C. albicans to induce TLR 9 upregulation. For cAMB, only TLR 9 was upregulated by A. fumigatus, whereas in the case of voriconazole, TLRs 2, 4, 9 were upregulated. Caspofungin revealed the broadest capacity: C. albicans was stimulated to upregulate TLRs at least at one of the concentrations, and A. fumigatus was stimulated to upregulate TLRs 2, 4. TLR 9 was upregulated two to three fold by all antifungal drugs on protein, except for fluconazole at the RNA level. Candida albicans preincubated with caspofungin has additional effects on CD11b expression and IL8 chemotaxis in CpG-DNA-stimulated PMNs. These results indicate a relevant upregulation with a functional relevance of TLR 9 in the presence of C. albicans strains preincubated with caspofungin at three concentrations."}
{"id": "20582777", "title": "Early detection of Aspergillus carbonarius and A. niger on table grapes: a tool for quality improvement.", "content": "Early detection of Aspergillus carbonarius and A. niger on table grapes: a tool for quality improvement. Aspergillus carbonarius and A. niger aggregate are the main fungal contaminants of table grapes. Besides their ability to cause black rot, they can produce ochratoxin A (OTA), a mycotoxin that has attracted increasing attention worldwide. The objective of this work was to set up a simple and rapid molecular method for the early detection of both fungi in table grapes before fungal development becomes evident. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based assays were developed by designing species-specific primers based on the polyketide synthases (PKS(S)) sequences of A. carbonarius and A. niger that have recently been demonstrated to be involved in OTA biosynthesis. Three table grape varieties (Red globe, Crimson seedless, and Italia) were inoculated with A. carbonarius and A. niger aggregate strains producing OTA. The extracted DNA from control (non-inoculated) and inoculated grapes was amplified by PCR using ACPKS2F-ACPKS2R for A. carbonarius and ANPKS5-ANPKS6 for A. niger aggregate. Both primers allowed a clear detection, even in symptomless samples. PCR-based methods are considered to be a good alternative to traditional diagnostic means for the early detection of fungi in complex matrix for their high specificity and sensitivity. The results obtained could be useful for the definition of a 'quality label' for tested grapes to improve the safety measures taken to guarantee the production of fresh table grapes."}
{"id": "20576752", "title": "Aetiological factors contributing to the development of primary laryngeal aspergillosis in immunocompetent patients.", "content": "Aetiological factors contributing to the development of primary laryngeal aspergillosis in immunocompetent patients. Primary laryngeal aspergillosis is extremely rare, especially in an immunocompetent host. It is commonly found as part of a systemic infection involving the respiratory system in immunocompromised people. Two cases of laryngeal aspergillosis with no systemic extension and no generalized immune deficiency are presented here. We report what is to the best of our knowledge only the second case of Aspergillus infection in a vocal cord cyst. Aspergillus species were identified in tissue sections and confirmed by PCR studies. We present a literature review of laryngeal aspergillosis cases and discuss predisposing factors, clinical presentation, histopathology, PCR, diagnosis and treatment of Aspergillus laryngitis. The known aetiological causes of the disease are increasing and include iatrogenic factors, vocal abuse, vocal-fold cysts and occupational factors, and immunocompetent patients are susceptible to these predisposing factors."}
{"id": "20574830", "title": "Use of the pyrG gene as a food-grade selection marker in Monascus.", "content": "Use of the pyrG gene as a food-grade selection marker in Monascus. Ma-pyrG was cloned from Monascus aurantiacus AS3.4384 using degenerate PCR with primers designed with an algorithm called CODEHOP, and its complete sequence was obtained by a PCR-based strategy for screening a Monascus fosmid library. Ma-pyrG encodes orotidine-5'-phosphate decarboxylase (OMPdecase), a 283-aminoacid protein with 81% sequence identity to that from Aspergillus flavus NRRL 3357. A pyrG mutant strain from M. aurantiacus AS3.4384, named UM28, was isolated by resistance to 5-fluoroorotic acid after UV mutagenesis. Sequence analysis of this mutated gene revealed that it contained a point mutation at nucleotide position +220. Plasmid pGFP-pyrG, bearing the green fluorescent protein gene (GFP) as a model gene and Ma-pyrG as a selection marker, were constructed. pGFP-pyrG were successfully transformed into UM28 by using the PEG method."}
{"id": "20571794", "title": "Impact of linoleic acid supplementation on lovastatin production in Aspergillus terreus cultures.", "content": "Impact of linoleic acid supplementation on lovastatin production in Aspergillus terreus cultures. This work proposes a novel approach for enhancing the yield of lovastatin in Aspergillus terreus cultures by exploiting linoleic acid-derived signalling molecules, which are potentially involved in fungal cell-cell communication. High-performance liquid chromatography analysis revealed that production of lovastatin was enhanced up to 1.8-fold upon exogenous addition of the oxylipin precursor linoleic acid to low cell density cultures of A. terreus. Real-time PCR analysis showed that supplementation of linoleic acid also resulted in an increase in transcriptional levels of lovastatin biosynthetic genes lovB and lovF, indicating a transcriptional control of fatty acids (linoleic acid) on these genes in A. terreus. This study therefore demonstrates for the first time the potential of an oxylipin molecule as an enhancer of a fungal secondary metabolite production with positive impact for industrial exploitation."}
{"id": "20528464", "title": "Molecular characterization of mycobiota and aflatoxin contamination of retail wheat flours from Jeddah markets.", "content": "Molecular characterization of mycobiota and aflatoxin contamination of retail wheat flours from Jeddah markets. The mycological profile of the retail wheat flour selling in different markets at Jeddah (Kingdom of Saudi Arabia) was studied. The most common genera were Aspergillus (isolated from 70% of the tested samples), Penicillium (30%), Eurotium (14%), and in a lesser extent Fusarium (20%) and Alternaria (18%). Twenty-nine strains of Aspergillus flavus were screened for their ability to produce aflatoxins (AFs). Four strains produced only aflatoxin B1 (AFB1), two strains produced AFB1 and aflatoxin B2, and one strain produced AFB1, aflatoxin G1, and aflatoxin G2. Random amplified polymorphic DNA-polymerase chain reaction technique could not differentiate between toxigenic and nontoxigenic strains of A. flavus. AF regulatory gene was detected in three flour samples and in seven A. flavus isolates."}
{"id": "20526482", "title": "Ergot alkaloid biosynthesis in Aspergillus fumigatus: Conversion of chanoclavine-I aldehyde to festuclavine by the festuclavine synthase FgaFS in the presence of the old yellow enzyme FgaOx3.", "content": "Ergot alkaloid biosynthesis in Aspergillus fumigatus: Conversion of chanoclavine-I aldehyde to festuclavine by the festuclavine synthase FgaFS in the presence of the old yellow enzyme FgaOx3. Ergot alkaloids are toxins and important pharmaceuticals which are produced biotechnologically on an industrial scale. A putative gene fgaFS has been identified in the biosynthetic gene cluster of fumigaclavine C, an ergot alkaloid of the clavine-type. The deduced gene product FgaFS comprises 290 amino acids with a molecular mass of about 32.1 kDa. The coding region of fgaFS consisting of three exons was amplified by PCR from a cDNA library of Aspergillus fumigatus, cloned into pQE70 and overexpressed in E. coli. The soluble monomeric His(6)-FgaFS was purified by affinity chromatography and used for enzyme assays. It has been shown that FgaFS is responsible for the conversion of chanoclavine-I aldehyde to festuclavine in the presence of the old yellow enzyme FgaOx3. The structure of festuclavine including the stereochemistry was unequivocally elucidated by NMR and MS analyses. Festuclavine formation was only observed when chanoclavine-I aldehyde was incubated with FgaOx3 and FgaFS simultaneously or as a tandem-reaction with a sequence of FgaOx3 before FgaFS. In the absence of FgaFS, two shunt products were formed and did not serve as substrates for FgaFS reaction."}
{"id": "20490754", "title": "Core promoters of the penicillin biosynthesis genes and quantitative RT-PCR analysis of these genes in high and low production strain of Penicillium chrysogenum.", "content": "Core promoters of the penicillin biosynthesis genes and quantitative RT-PCR analysis of these genes in high and low production strain of Penicillium chrysogenum. The transcription start points of the penicillin biosynthesis genes from Penicillium chrysogenum were mapped using the primer extension method. For each of the three genes consensus sequences of the core promoter elements were identified, supporting the notion that the basal transcription of these genes is mediated separately. Interestingly, transcription start of the pcbC gene is located within the potential Inr element with no TATA box-like sequence being found at expected position. This is in contrast to pcbAB and penDE genes with proposed TATA boxes or even to Aspergillus nidulans ipnA (pcbC) gene indicating possible differences in basal transcription regulation. Using the quantitative RT-PCR analysis the expression of all three biosynthesis genes was monitored in both the high and low production strain of P. chrysogenum during a 3-d cultivation under production conditions. The differences were found between the strains in time regulation and transcript levels of the biosynthesis genes. Furthermore, we showed that the effect of higher gene dosage on productivity in the production strain is amplified by more efficient transcription of the biosynthesis genes with the RNA levels approximately 37- and 12-times higher, respectively, than in a low production strain."}
{"id": "20486001", "title": "Specific detection of Aspergillus parasiticus in wheat flour using a highly sensitive PCR assay.", "content": "Specific detection of Aspergillus parasiticus in wheat flour using a highly sensitive PCR assay. Aspergillus parasiticus is one of the most important aflatoxin-producing species that contaminates foodstuffs and beverages for human consumption. In this work, a specific and highly sensitive PCR protocol was developed to detect A. parasiticus using primers designed on the multicopy internal transcribed region of the rDNA unit (ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 rDNA). The assay proved to be highly specific for A. parasiticus when tested on a wide range of related and other fungal species commonly found in commodities, and allowing discrimination from the closely related A. flavus. Accuracy of detection and quantification by conventional PCR were tested with genomic DNA obtained from wheat flour artificially contaminated with spore suspensions of known concentrations. Spore concentrations equal or higher than 10(6) spore/g could be detected by the assay directly without prior incubation of the samples. The assay described is suitable for incorporation in routine analyses at critical points of the food chain within HACCP strategies."}
{"id": "20471587", "title": "High-throughput screening of DNA binding sites for transcription factor AmyR from Aspergillus nidulans using DNA beads display system.", "content": "High-throughput screening of DNA binding sites for transcription factor AmyR from Aspergillus nidulans using DNA beads display system. We established a high-throughput screening method for the DNA binding sequence of a eukaryotic transcription factor by using the bead display system with emulsion PCR and flow cytometry and applied it for identifying a eukaryotic transcriptional activator AmyR, which is known to regulate amylolytic gene expression in Aspergillus species. Segmented parts of the binding site of AmyR were randomized to make a DNA library on beads, onto which MalE-tagged AmyR protein and fluorescent anti-MalE tag antibody were bound, followed by selection with a flow cytometer. From a library replacing well-conserved six nucleotides (CGG-CGG) to random ones, the consensus sequence was recovered at a high frequency, demonstrating the reliability of the screening system. Interestingly, similar analysis for another library having randomized intermediate eight nucleotides between the conserved triplets revealed that the selected intermediate sequence had a strong preference for the T nucleotide. Moreover, exactly the same sequence with the upstream region of amyB, a typical AmyR-regulated gene, was found in the selection. These results suggest that this screening system will be a powerful tool for high-throughput analysis of the eukaryotic transcriptome."}
{"id": "20467244", "title": "Improvement of fungal strain by repeated and sequential mutagenesis and optimization of solid state fermentation for the hyper-production of raw-starch-digesting enzyme.", "content": "Improvement of fungal strain by repeated and sequential mutagenesis and optimization of solid state fermentation for the hyper-production of raw-starch-digesting enzyme. A selected fungal strain, for production of the raw-starchdigesting enzyme by solid-state fermentation, was improved by two repeated sequential exposures to gamma-irradiation of Co60, ultraviolet, and four repeated treatments with Nmethyl- N'-nitrosoguanidine. The mutant strain Aspergillus sp. XN15 was chosen after a rigorous screening process, with its production of the raw-starch-digesting enzyme being twice that of usual wild varieties cultured under preoptimized conditions and in an unsupplemented medium. After 17 successive subculturings, the enzyme production of the mutant was stable. Optimal conditions for the production of the enzyme by solid-state fermentation, using wheat bran as the substrate, were accomplished for the mutant Aspergillus sp. XN15. With the optimal fermentation conditions, and a solid medium supplemented with nitrogen sources of 1% urea and 1% NH4NO3, 2.5 mM CoSO4, 0.05% (v/w) Tween 80, and 1% glucose, the mutant Aspergillus sp. XN15 produced the raw-starch-digesting enzyme in quantities 19.4 times greater than a typical wild variety. Finally, XN15, through simultaneous saccharification and fermentation of a raw rice corn starch slurry, produced a high level of ethanol with Yp/s of 0.47 g/g."}
{"id": "20467199", "title": "Development of rapid and specific molecular discrimination methods for pathogenic emericella species.", "content": "Development of rapid and specific molecular discrimination methods for pathogenic emericella species. Aspergillosis is an important mycosis caused primarily by Aspergillus fumigatus and its relatives. The genus Emericella is a teleomorph related to the Aspergillus section Nidulantes. The typical anamorphic stage species in this genus is Aspergillus nidulans, which is sometimes a significant agent in chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) patients. The mortality rate of osteomyelitis in CGD patients due to A. nidulans ( E. nidulans ) is very high compared to that due to A. fumigatus. Moreover, two Emericella species ( E. nidulans and E. quadrilineata ) from clinical specimens exhibit different sensitivities against several antifungal drugs. In aspergillosis, correct species identification is important for antifungal therapy. We attempted to develop rapid and specific molecular discrimination by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) methods in the principal pathogenic Emericella species, and succeeded in establishing species-specific primers corresponding to the hydrophobin gene. These primers discriminate E. nidulans and E. quadrilineata rapidly and specifically. These methods and primers make it possible to diagnose etiological agents in aspergillosis quickly and easily."}
{"id": "20463243", "title": "The changing spectrum of fungal infections in pulmonary and critical care practice: clinical approach to diagnosis.", "content": "The changing spectrum of fungal infections in pulmonary and critical care practice: clinical approach to diagnosis. Fungal lung infections are being diagnosed with increasing frequency. This is related to the increased numbers of immune-compromised and other susceptible patient groups. This article will focus on the evolving epidemiology of fungal lung infections and clinical manifestations that should prompt the clinician to consider the possibility of fungal lung infection. In addition, current approaches for the diagnosis of these infection are also reviewed. Heightened awareness of fungal lung infection, and appropriate use of the available diagnostic modalities, will permit appropriate treatment of these important clinical infections in immune-compromised individuals."}
{"id": "20456528", "title": "A real-time PCR assay for the differentiation of Candida species.", "content": "A real-time PCR assay for the differentiation of Candida species. We established a real-time PCR assay for the detection and strain identification of Candida species and demonstrated the ability to differentiate between Candida albicans the most common species, and also Candida parapsilosis, Candida glabrata, Candida tropicalis and Candida dubliniensis by LightCycler PCR and melting curve analysis. The DNA isolation from cultures and serum was established using the QIAmp Tissue Kit. The sensitivity of the assay was \u2265 2 genome equivalents/assay. It was possible to differentiate all investigated Candida species by melting curve analysis, and no cross-reaction to human DNA or Aspergillus species could be observed. The established real-time PCR assay is a useful tool for the rapid identification of Candida species and a base technology for more complex PCR assays. We carried out initial steps in validation of a PCR assay for the detection and differentiation of medically relevant Candida species. The PCR was improved by generating PCR standards, additional generation of melting curves for species identification and the possibility to investigate different specimens simultaneously."}
{"id": "20455156", "title": "Molecular characterization of atoxigenic strains for biological control of aflatoxins in Nigeria.", "content": "Molecular characterization of atoxigenic strains for biological control of aflatoxins in Nigeria. Aflatoxins are highly toxic carcinogens produced by several species in Aspergillus section Flavi. Strains of A. flavus that do not produce aflatoxins, called atoxigenic strains, have been used commercially in North America as tools for limiting aflatoxin contamination. A similar aflatoxin management strategy is being pursued in Nigeria. In the current study, loci across the 68 kb aflatoxin biosynthesis gene cluster were compared among 18 atoxigenic and two aflatoxin-producing vegetative compatibility groups (VCGs) from Nigeria and an atoxigenic VCG used commercially in North America. Five of the atoxigenic VCGs had large deletions (37-65 kb) extending from the teleomeric side of the aflatoxin biosynthesis cluster. In one VCG (AV0222) the deletion extended through the cluster to the adjacent sugar cluster. The remaining twelve atoxigenic VCGs, including the VCG used for aflatoxin management in North America, contained all the aflatoxin pathway genes, but with defects. Two observations support the long-term persistence of atoxigenicity within A. flavus: first, a comparison of pathway genes revealed more changes in atoxigenic than in aflatoxin-producing isolates relative to the aflatoxin-producing strain NRRL 3357; and second, several non-synonymous changes are unique to atoxigenics. Atoxigenic VCG diversity was assessed with phylogenetic analyses. Although some atoxigenics share relatively recent ancestry, several are more closely related to aflatoxin producers than to other atoxigenics. The current study demonstrates VCGs of A. flavus in West Africa with diverse mechanisms of atoxigenicity and potential value in aflatoxin management programmes."}
{"id": "20453072", "title": "Aspergillus fumigatus catalytic glucokinase and hexokinase: expression analysis and importance for germination, growth, and conidiation.", "content": "Aspergillus fumigatus catalytic glucokinase and hexokinase: expression analysis and importance for germination, growth, and conidiation. Fungi contain several hexokinases, which are involved either in sugar phosphorylation or in carbon source sensing. Glucose and fructose phosphorylations appear to rely exclusively on glucokinase and hexokinase. Here, we characterized the catalytic glucokinase and hexokinase from the opportunistic human pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus and showed that both enzymes display different biochemical properties and play different roles during growth and development. Glucokinase efficiently activates glucose and mannose but activates fructose only to a minor extent. Hexokinase showed a high efficiency for fructose activation but also activated glucose and mannose. Transcript and activity determinations revealed high levels of glucokinase in resting conidia, whereas hexokinase was associated mainly with the mycelium. Consequentially, a glucokinase mutant showed delayed germination at low glucose concentrations, whereas colony growth was not overly affected. The deletion of hexokinase had only a minor impact on germination but reduced colony growth, especially on sugar-containing media. Transcript determinations from infected mouse lungs revealed the expression of both genes, indicating a contribution to virulence. Interestingly, a double-deletion mutant showed impaired growth not only on sugars but also on nonfermentable nutrients, and growth on gluconeogenic carbon sources was strongly suppressed in the presence of glucose. Furthermore, the glkA hxkA deletion affected cell wall integrity, implying that both enzymes contribute to the cell wall composition. Additionally, the absence of either enzyme deregulated carbon catabolite repression since mutants displayed an induction of isocitrate lyase activity during growth on glucose-ethanol medium. Therefore, both enzymes seem to be required for balancing carbon flux in A. fumigatus and are indispensable for growth under all nutritional conditions."}
{"id": "20447271", "title": "Beyond aflatoxin: four distinct expression patterns and functional roles associated with Aspergillus flavus secondary metabolism gene clusters.", "content": "Beyond aflatoxin: four distinct expression patterns and functional roles associated with Aspergillus flavus secondary metabolism gene clusters. Species of Aspergillus produce a diverse array of secondary metabolites, and recent genomic analysis has predicted that these species have the capacity to synthesize many more compounds. It has been possible to infer the presence of 55 gene clusters associated with secondary metabolism in Aspergillus flavus; however, only three metabolic pathways-aflatoxin, cyclopiazonic acid (CPA) and aflatrem-have been assigned to these clusters. To gain an insight into the regulation of and to infer the ecological significance of the 55 secondary metabolite gene clusters predicted in A. flavus, we examined their expression over 28 diverse conditions. Variables included culture medium and temperature, fungal development, colonization of developing maize seeds and misexpression of laeA, a global regulator of secondary metabolism. Hierarchical clustering analysis of expression profiles allowed us to categorize the gene clusters into four distinct clades. Gene clusters for the production of aflatoxins, CPA and seven other unknown compound(s) were identified as belonging to one clade. To further explore the relationships found by gene expression analysis, aflatoxin and CPA production were quantified under five different cell culture environments known to be conducive or nonconducive for aflatoxin biosynthesis and during the colonization of developing maize seeds. Results from these studies showed that secondary metabolism gene clusters have distinctive gene expression profiles. Aflatoxin and CPA were found to have unique regulation, but are sufficiently similar that they would be expected to co-occur in substrates colonized with A. flavus."}
{"id": "20440534", "title": "A highly thermostable antimicrobial peptide from Aspergillus clavatus ES1: biochemical and molecular characterization.", "content": "A highly thermostable antimicrobial peptide from Aspergillus clavatus ES1: biochemical and molecular characterization. Antimicrobial peptides (AMPs) are extremely attractive candidates as therapeutic agents due to their wide spectrum of antimicrobial activity and mechanism of action, which differs from that of small-molecule antibiotics. In this study, a 6.0-kDa antimicrobial peptide from Aspergillus clavatus ES1, designated as AcAMP, was isolated by a one-step heat treatment. AcAMP was sensitive to proteolytic enzymes, stable between pH 5.0 and 10.0, and heat resistant (15 min at 100 degrees C). The acamp gene encoding AcAMP peptide was isolated by reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and cloned in pCRII-TOPO vector. Sequence analysis of the complementary DNA (cDNA) acamp gene revealed an open reading frame of 282 bp encoding a peptide of 94 amino acid residues consisting of a 21-aa signal peptide, a 22-aa pro-peptide, and a 51-aa mature peptide. The deduced amino acid sequence showed high identity with other ascomycete antifungal peptides. AcAMP belongs to the group of small, cysteine-rich, basic proteins with antimicrobial activity. In addition to its antifungal activity, AcAMP is the first fungal peptide exhibiting antibacterial activity against several Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. Based on all these features, AcAMP can be considered as a promising new member of the restraint family of ascomycete antimicrobial peptides that might be used in biological control of plant diseases and also for potential applications in food preservation."}
{"id": "20438816", "title": "Identification and characterisation of eroA and ervA, encoding two putative thiol oxidases from Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Identification and characterisation of eroA and ervA, encoding two putative thiol oxidases from Aspergillus niger. The oxidative folding of proteins in the secretory pathway involves the formation and isomerisation of disulphide bonds and is catalysed by foldases in the lumen of the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). The transfer of reducing equivalents, from disulphide bond formation, to oxygen involves the participation of thiol oxidases. Here, we describe the identification and functional characterisation of the eroA and ervA genes from Aspergillus niger, encoding functional orthologues of S. cerevisiae ERO1 and ERV2, respectively. The eroA gene encodes a product of 600 amino acids, EroA, and the ervA gene encodes a product of 215 amino acids, ErvA, both of which share common motifs and features with their S. cerevisiae orthologues. In contrast to Ero1p in S. cerevisiae, A. niger EroA appears to be retained in the ER lumen by a C-terminal retention motif. Real-time PCR analysis indicated that eroA is transcriptionally up-regulated in response to ER stress, whereas ervA is slightly down-regulated in response to DTT stress yet up-regulated in response to expression of a heterologous protein. Gene disruption studies indicated that, unlike ervA, eroA is essential for viability. When expressed in the thermosensitive S. cerevisiae ero1-1 strain, both eroA and ervA were able to complement the temperature and DTT sensitive phenotype, although a truncated eroA, missing the putative HEEL ER-retention signal was unable to complement as well as the full-length eroA gene."}
{"id": "20417400", "title": "Microbiota during fermentation of chum salmon (Oncorhynchus keta) sauce mash inoculated with halotolerant microbial starters: analyses using the plate count method and PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE).", "content": "Microbiota during fermentation of chum salmon (Oncorhynchus keta) sauce mash inoculated with halotolerant microbial starters: analyses using the plate count method and PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Nine different combinations of mugi koji (barley steamed and molded with Aspergillus oryzae) and halotolerant microorganisms (HTMs), Zygosaccharomyces rouxii, Candida versatilis, and Tetragenococcus halophilus, were inoculated into chum salmon sauce mash under a non-aseptic condition used in industrial fish sauce production and fermented at 35 +/- 2.5 degrees C for 84 days to elucidate the microbial dynamics (i.e., microbial count and microbiota) during fermentation. The viable count of halotolerant yeast (HTY) in fermented chum salmon sauce (FCSS) mash showed various time courses dependent on the combination of the starter microorganisms. Halotolerant lactic acid bacteria (HTL) were detected morphologically and physiologically only from FCSS mash inoculated with T. halophilus alone or with T. halophilus and C. versatilis during the first 28 days of fermentation. Only four fungal species, Z. rouxii, C. versatilis, Pichia guilliermondii, and A. oryzae, were detected throughout the fermentation by PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (PCR-DGGE). In FCSS mash, dominant HTMs, especially eumycetes, were nonexistent. However, under the non-aseptic conditions, undesirable wild yeast such as P. guilliermondii grew fortuitously. Therefore, HTY inoculation into FCSS mash at the beginning of fermentation is effective in preventing the growth of wild yeast and the resultant unfavorable flavor."}
{"id": "20416198", "title": "[Quantitative PCR for diagnosis of invasive fungal infections in patients with hematologic malignancies].", "content": "[Quantitative PCR for diagnosis of invasive fungal infections in patients with hematologic malignancies]. This study was aimed to establish the method of quantitative PCR (q-PCR) of fungi in peripheral blood for diagnosis of invasive fungal infections in patients with hematologic malignancies, and to preliminarily assess the diagnostic value of this method. The 18S rDNA-ITS1 area of high consensus sequence of fungi was selected to design primer and probe, the DNA of fungal species was extracted and q-PCR was performed to evaluate the sensitivity and specificity of the primer and probe. The standard product of fungal DNA was prepared by using pGEM-T plasmid and the fungal DNA in blood of patients was quantitatively detected. The results showed that the positive was found in 12 Aspergillus and 14 Candida species according to q-PCR detection, while there was no significant difference of fungal distribution between plasma, mononuclear cells and leukocytes (p<0.05). Receiver-operating characteristic analysis of q-PCR showed that the cut-off value for clinical diagnosis of invasive fungal infection was 8 copies/ml whole blood, its sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value and kappa were 0.84, 0.9, 0.955, 0.692 and 0.679 respectively. It is concluded that the fungal q-PCR assay may be used as an early diagnostic method for invasive fungal infections in patients with hematologic malignancies."}
{"id": "20392911", "title": "Diagnostic value of PCR analysis of bacteria and fungi from blood in empiric-therapy-resistant febrile neutropenia.", "content": "Diagnostic value of PCR analysis of bacteria and fungi from blood in empiric-therapy-resistant febrile neutropenia. This study aimed to assess the clinical utility of PCR for the analysis of bacteria and fungi from blood for the management of febrile neutropenic patients with hematologic malignancies. Using a PCR system able to detect a broad range of bacteria and fungi, we conducted a prospective pilot study of periodic analyses of blood from patients following intensive chemotherapy. When fever occurred, it was treated with empirical antibiotic therapy, basically without knowledge of the PCR results. In 23 febrile episodes during the neutropenic period, bacteria were detected by PCR in 11 cases, while the same species were identified by blood culture in 3 cases. In 10 out of 11 PCR-positive cases, fever could be managed by empirical therapy. In the empirical-therapy-resistant case, the identification of Stenotrophomonas maltophilia by PCR led to improvement of fever. No fungi were detected by PCR in febrile cases, while Aspergillus fumigatus was detected in one afebrile patient, several days before a clinical diagnosis was made. In subsequent sporadic PCR analyses in 15 cases of febrile neutropenia, bacteria were detected by both PCR and blood culture in 7 cases and by PCR alone in 6. Fungi were not detected. While fever was improved by empirical therapy in 12 out of the 13 PCR-positive cases, the identification of Pseudomonas aeruginosa by PCR in one therapy-resistant case contributed to the successful treatment of persistent fever. Our results indicate that PCR analysis of bacteria from blood provides essential information for managing empirical-therapy-resistant febrile neutropenia."}
{"id": "20392148", "title": "Aspergillus alliaceus and Aspergillus flavus co-infection in an acute myeloid leukemia patient.", "content": "Aspergillus alliaceus and Aspergillus flavus co-infection in an acute myeloid leukemia patient. We report a case of a pulmonary infection caused by Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus alliaceus in an acute myeloid leukemia patient. These isolates were identified using traditional and sequencing-based molecular methods."}
{"id": "20392146", "title": "False-positive Aspergillus real-time PCR assay due to a nutritional supplement in a bone marrow transplant recipient with GVH disease.", "content": "False-positive Aspergillus real-time PCR assay due to a nutritional supplement in a bone marrow transplant recipient with GVH disease. PCR screening for circulating DNA, especially when combined with antigen testing, has shown promise for the definitive diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. False positives for Aspergillus real-time PCR assays have been described in several reports, but no sources of fungal DNA contamination could be clearly identified. We report a false-positive case for both galactomannan (GM) antigenemia and Aspergillus PCR due to nutritional supplement intake in a bone marrow transplant recipient with digestive graft-versus-host disease. Our case report also suggests that fungal DNA can pass into the serum from the intestinal tract in the same way as fungal GM. Clinicians should be aware of this possibility, so that the administration of costly, unnecessary antifungal treatments with potential adverse side-effects can be avoided."}
{"id": "20381597", "title": "Aflatoxin G1 reduces the molecular expression of HLA-I, TAP-1 and LMP-2 of adult esophageal epithelial cells in vitro.", "content": "Aflatoxin G1 reduces the molecular expression of HLA-I, TAP-1 and LMP-2 of adult esophageal epithelial cells in vitro. Aflatoxins (AF) are the mycotoxin with the carcinogenic effect produced by the fungi like Aspergillus flavus, including AFB(1), B(2), G(1), G(2), M(1), and so on. The detection rate of Aflatoxin G(1) (AFG(1)) is very high in the diet of residents in the high incidence area of the gastric carcinoma and esophageal carcinoma in China, which is the main polluting mycotoxin of the local grain. However, there were no available data regarding the gastric toxicity of AFG(1) up to now. In the present study, The toxicity of AFG(1)in vitro-cultured human primary adult esophageal epithelial cells was explored by employing the methods of Western blot, semi-quantitative RT-PCR and observing the effect of AFG(1) on the expression of the HLA-I molecules of the human esophageal epithelial cells and the antigen processing relative genes TAP-1 and LMP-2. The results showed that AFG(1) treatment could decrease both the protein expression of HLA-ABC of the cell surface and the mRNA expression of HLA-A and HLA-B. Moreover, In the AFG(1) treatment groups of different densities, both the TAP-1 mRNA and protein expression level of the human esophageal epithelial cells decreased. Furthermore, the LMP-2 protein expression level of the human esophageal epithelial cells decreased, while the mRNA expression level was not obviously changed by AFG(1) treatment. It is indicated that the decrease of the HLA-I expression of the cell surface was probably dependent on the decrease of the TAP-1 and LMP-2 expression to a great extent. The decrease of LMP-2 expression resulted in the decrease of HLA-I expression and stability in the cell membrane and finally led to the defect in the antigen presentation, which hindered its identification by the T lymphocytes, made it escape the immune surveillance, and then caused the tumor genesis."}
{"id": "20377644", "title": "Molecular strategy for identification in Aspergillus section Flavi.", "content": "Molecular strategy for identification in Aspergillus section Flavi. Aspergillus flavus is one of the most common contaminants that produces aflatoxins in foodstuffs. It is also a human allergen and a pathogen of animals and plants. Aspergillus flavus is included in the Aspergillus section Flavi that comprises 11 closely related species producing different profiles of secondary metabolites. A six-step strategy has been developed that allows identification of nine of the 11 species. First, three real-time PCR reactions allowed us to discriminate four groups within the section: (1) A. flavus/Aspergillus oryzae/Aspergillus minisclerotigenes/Aspergillus parvisclerotigenus; (2) Aspergillus parasiticus/Aspergillus sojae/Aspergillus arachidicola; (3) Aspergillus tamarii/Aspergillus bombycis/Aspergillus pseudotamarii; and (4) Aspergillus nomius. Secondly, random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) amplifications or SmaI digestion allowed us to differentiate (1) A. flavus, A. oryzae and A. minisclerotigenes; (2) A. parasiticus, A. sojae and A. arachidicola; (3) A. tamarii, A. bombycis and A. pseudotamarii. Among the 11 species, only A. parvisclerotigenus cannot be differentiated from A. flavus. Using the results of real-time PCR, RAPD and SmaI digestion, a decision-making tree was drawn up to identify nine of the 11 species of section Flavi. In contrast to conventional morphological methods, which are often time-consuming, the molecular strategy proposed here is based mainly on real-time PCR, which is rapid and requires minimal handling."}
{"id": "20374275", "title": "Aspergillus PCR testing: results from a prospective PCR study within the AmBiLoad trial.", "content": "Aspergillus PCR testing: results from a prospective PCR study within the AmBiLoad trial. Invasive fungal infection (IFI) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in severely immunocompromised patients and is difficult to diagnose. The significance of molecular methods for diagnosis of IFI is still controversial. In a subset of patients treated within the AmBiLoad Trial, samples were investigated prospectively by a nested Aspergillus PCR assay to re-evaluate the significance of PCR in this setting. In the randomized, prospective multicenter AmBiLoad trial, patients with proven or probable IFI were randomized to receive liposomal amphotericin B (L-AMB) 3 or 10 mg/kg QD for 14 d followed by L-AMB 3 mg/kg QD. From 91 patients, 459 serial samples (98% blood samples) were investigated by a nested PCR assay for Aspergillus DNA. All samples were investigated in our laboratory with a previously described nested and a quantitative PCR assay. As required by the study protocol, serial Aspergillus antigen galactomannan was performed. IFI was defined according to modified EORTC/MSG 2002 criteria as applied in the AmBiLoad trial. Seven and 52 patients had proven and probable IFI according to modified EORTC/MSG criteria, respectively. The median number of samples investigated per patient was 4. Seventy percent of samples were obtained during treatment with antifungal study medication. Forty-three samples gave positive PCR results. Patients with an unfavorable outcome had a significantly higher rate of positive PCR results (48% versus 21%). The sensitivity of Aspergillus PCR testing is limited during antifungal therapy. The tendency for persistently positive PCR results to indicate a poor prognosis has to be confirmed in further studies."}
{"id": "20372013", "title": "High-level expression of an Aspergillus niger endo-beta-1,4-glucanase in Pichia pastoris through gene codon optimization and synthesis.", "content": "High-level expression of an Aspergillus niger endo-beta-1,4-glucanase in Pichia pastoris through gene codon optimization and synthesis. To improve the expression efficiency of recombinant endo-beta-1,4-glucanase in P. pastoris, the endo-beta-1,4-glucanase (egI) gene from Aspergillus niger was synthesized using optimized codons. Fourteen pairs of oligonucleotides with 15 bp overlap were designed and the full-length syn-egI gene was generated by two-step PCR-based DNA synthesis. In the synthesized endo-beta-1,4-glucanase gene syn-egI, 193 nucleotides were changed, and the G+C content was decreased from 54% to 44.2%. The syn-egI gene was inserted into pPIC9K and transformed into P. pastoris GS115 by electroporation. The enzyme activity of recombinant P. pastoris stain 2-7# reached 20.3 U/ml with 1% barley beta-glucan and 3.3 U/ml with 1% carboxymethylcellulose (CMC) as substrate in shake flasks versus 1270.3 U/ml and 220.7 U/ml for the same substrates in 50 l fermentors. The molecular mass of the recombinant protein was approximately 40 kDa as determined by SDS-PAGE analysis, the optimal temperature for recombinant enzyme activity was 70 degrees C and the optimal pH was 5.0 when CMC was used as the substrate."}
{"id": "20370343", "title": "Polymerase chain reaction in pediatric post-traumatic fungal endophthalmitis among Egyptian children.", "content": "Polymerase chain reaction in pediatric post-traumatic fungal endophthalmitis among Egyptian children. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effectiveness of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in accurate and rapid diagnosis of fungal endophthalmitis in comparison with conventional Gram stain and culture in pediatric fungal endophthalmitis. This study included 26 cases with endophthalmitis. Age was less than 16 years old, and all were males with history of ocular trauma and with clinical picture suggestive of fungal endophthalmitis. A prospective nonrandomized study was done. For all cases pars plana vitrectomy was done and sample of vitreous wash was collected from the vitrectomy cassette and was sent for laboratory diagnosis. At the end of surgery, intravitreal injection of 1.0 mg/0.1 mL vancomycin was given. PCR, culture sensitivity and ultrasound were done for all cases. Follow-up of cases by visual acuity, full ophthalmological examination, ultrasound, PCR, and other laboratory investigation. The schedule for follow-up was daily for 1 week, weekly for 1 month, and monthly for 1 year than all data collected and analysed. The ages ranged from 7 to 16 years old. All cases were males. Seventeen cases had central corneal ulcer, 5 of them with penetration full thickness, and 9 cases had peripheral corneal ulcer, 2 of them with penetration. Ophthalmological examination revealed a marked drop of vision ranging from HM to PL in the affected eye. Although Gram stain gave negative results in 20 cases (was positive in only 6 cases), KOH wet mount preparation revealed septate hyphae in only 4 cases, and culture on blood agar was negative in all samples, suggestive of Aspergillus niger and showing Candida albicans colonies in 8 samples. PCR assay was positive for the universal as well as for the Aspergillus-specific primers, but it was negative for Candida-specific primer in 4 samples. No recurrence of infection was noticed for the following 1 year The mean follow-up period was 10.3 months (range, 5-24 months), but with trivial improvement in visual acuity. The sensitivity of PCR assay was found to be highly significant, p < .0001, much superior to that of microscopy and culture in detecting fungal endophthalmitis. PCR assay was found to be a highly sensitive and specific test that allows rapid and accurate diagnosis of pediatric fungal endophthalmitis. PCR was found to give a much more sensitive and more rapid result than Gram stain and culture technique with comparable high specificity. Thus, we recommend the use of conventional methods as culture and stained smears as they are useful if positive, inexpensive, and available in all laboratories. This is in addition to PCR assay, which must be added to the protocol of management of cases of pediatric fungal endophthalmitis."}
{"id": "20367932", "title": "[Combination of real-time polymerase chain reaction assay and serum galactomannan in the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in patients with hematological malignancies and recipients of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation].", "content": "[Combination of real-time polymerase chain reaction assay and serum galactomannan in the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in patients with hematological malignancies and recipients of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation]. To evaluate the role of real-time polymerase chain reaction (real-time PCR) assay combined with serum galactomannan (GM) detection in the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) with hematological malignancies or hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Eighty patients were enrolled. PCR and GM were performed simultaneously on 205 serum samples. The agreement between these two assays and the diagnostic value of the combination were analyzed. There were 5 proven IA, 20 probable IA, 34 possible IA and 21 non-IA. Agreement between real-time PCR and GM was 77.5%. When both positive, the positive predictive value could reach 100%; when both negative, the negative predictive value could reach 90.9%. PCR agrees well with GM. When these two assays are combined, invasive aspergillosis can be diagnosed more accurately."}
{"id": "20361498", "title": "GDP-mannose transporter paralogues play distinct roles in polarized growth of Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "GDP-mannose transporter paralogues play distinct roles in polarized growth of Aspergillus nidulans. GDP-mannose transporters (GMT) carry GDP-mannose nucleotide sugars from the cytosol across the Golgi apparatus membrane for use as substrates in protein glycosylation in plants, animals and fungi. Genomes of some fungal species, such as the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, contain only one gene encoding a GMT, while others, including Aspergillus nidulans, contain two (gmtA and gmtB). We previously showed that cell wall integrity and normal hyphal morphogenesis in A. nidulans depend upon the function of GmtA and that GmtA localizes to a Golgi-like compartment. Cells bearing the calI11 mutation in gmtA also have reduced cell surface mannosylation. Here we show that GmtB colocalizes with GmtA, suggesting that the role of GmtB is similar to that of GmtA, although the respective transcript levels differ during spore germination and early development. Transcript levels of gmtB are high in ungerminated spores and remain so throughout the first 16 h of germination. In contrast, transcript levels of gmrtA are negligible in ungerminated spores but increase to levels comparable to those of gmtB during germination. These observations suggest that although GmtA and GmtB reside within the same subcellular compartments, they nevertheless perform distinct functions at different stages of development."}
{"id": "20359458", "title": "Detection of invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Detection of invasive aspergillosis. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) caused by the fungus Aspergillus fumigatus is a frequent and life-threatening complication of chemotherapy and bone marrow transplantation with high rates of mortality and morbidity. Diagnosis of IA is complex and can only be confirmed by identification of the fungus in biopsy samples. Capturing tissue for diagnosis is in itself hazardous, and because of this many patients receive empirical antifungal treatment rather than undergo biopsy. However, the treatment carries with it significant side effects and is prohibitively expensive. Because of this, attempts have been made to develop specific and sensitive diagnostic tests that can be used to track the early onset of infection and permit rational administration of antifungal drugs. Early attempts at nonculture-based diagnosis using human immune serum to detect circulating Aspergillus antigens proved unreliable, and so focus turned to hybridoma technology and the use of monoclonal antibodies (MAbs) to detect signature molecules of infection. Detection of one such signature molecule, galactomannan (and associated galactomannoprotein molecules), forms the basis of the commercial Platelia enzyme immunoassay (EIA), an assay that has found widespread use in IA diagnosis. Nevertheless, concerns surrounding its accuracy mean that alternative strategies to diagnosis have been sought including detection of the fungal cell wall component (1-->3)-beta-d-glucan and polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The poor specificity of \"panfungal\" (1-->3)-beta-d-glucan tests and current lack of standardization of PCR assays have led to the recent development of next-generation MAb-based assays that detect surrogate markers of infection and that have been incorporated into \"point-of-care\" diagnostic devices. This chapter examines the development of antibody-antigen, (1-->3)-beta-d-glucan, and nucleic acid-based approaches to IA detection, current concerns surrounding accurate disease diagnosis, and how animal models of infection can be used to inform assay development and validation."}
{"id": "20358180", "title": "Molecular characterization and isolation of cytochrome P450 genes from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Molecular characterization and isolation of cytochrome P450 genes from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae. We explored the molecular diversity of cytochrome P450 genes in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae using bioinformatic and experimental approaches. Based on bioinformatic annotation, we found 155 putative genes of cytochromes P450 in the whole genome sequence; however, 13 of 155 appeared to be pseudogenes due to sequence deletions and/or inframe stop codon(s). There are 87 families of A. oryzae cytochromes P450 (AoCYPs), indicating considerable phylogenetic diversity. To characterize A. oryzae AoCYPs, we attempted to isolate cDNAs using RT-PCR and determined their transcriptional capabilities. To date, we have confirmed gene expression of 133 AoCYPs and cloned 121 AoCYPs as full-length cDNAs encoding a mature open reading frame. Using experimentally deduced sequences and intron-exon organization, we analyzed AoCYPs phylogenetically. We also identified intronic consensus sequences in AoCYPs genes. The experimentally validated exonic and intronic sequences will be a powerful advantage in identification and characterization of novel P450s from various ascomycetous fungi."}
{"id": "20357484", "title": "Airborne fungi induce nasal polyp epithelial cell activation and Toll-like receptor expression.", "content": "Airborne fungi induce nasal polyp epithelial cell activation and Toll-like receptor expression. The nasal epithelium is the first barrier encountered by airborne allergens and is an active participant in airway inflammation. Fungi have been increasingly recognized as important pathogens in sinusitis and airway diseases. The aim of the study was to evaluate fungal protease activity during cytokine production in nasal polyp epithelial cells and to determine the expression of Toll-like receptor (TLR) mRNA by fungi. Nasal polyp epithelial cells were obtained from patients and stimulated with Alternaria and Aspergillus. Interleukin-8 (IL-8) and granulocyte macrophage colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) were measured to determine the activation of epithelial cells. Reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction for the TLR mRNA expression of the nasal epithelial cells was performed. Cytokine production was inhibited with protease inhibitors and anti-human TLR antibodies. The fungi enhanced the production of IL-8 and GM-CSF from nasal epithelial cells. When nasal epithelial cells were activated by the fungi, TLR2, TLR3 and TLR4 mRNAs were more strongly expressed than in the nonactivated cells. Cytokine production was inhibited by protease inhibitors and anti-human TLR4 antibodies. The results of this study showed that fungi interacted with nasal epithelial cells and enhanced the production of cytokines and TLR mRNA expression. The cytokine production was related to the protease in fungi and TLR4."}
{"id": "20356513", "title": "[The establishment and evaluation of diagnostic accuracy of AllGlo(TM) probe-based techniques for invasive aspergillosis.].", "content": "[The establishment and evaluation of diagnostic accuracy of AllGlo(TM) probe-based techniques for invasive aspergillosis.]. To establish and evaluate a diagnostic technique based on the AllGlo(TM) probe for the invasive aspergillosis. With the self-designed AllGlo(TM) probes and primers and the standards, two standard curves of the real-time PCR based on AllGlo(TM) probes were established respectively for A. flavus and A. fumigatus, then its specificity, sensitivity and reproducibility were evaluated respectively. The findings indicated that the standard curve of A. flavus was Y = -3.003X + 36.825, and A.fumigatus' was Y = -3.052X + 38.016, and their interassay coefficient of variation respectively were 15.60% and 12.94%, suggesting a good reproducibility. The lowest spore concentration they could be detected was 10 CFU/ml, which equated to 100 - 1000 copies of internal transcribed spacer (ITS)2 genes, suggesting a good sensibility. They didn't have cross-positive reaction with other fungus, human genome and bacteria, which indicated a good specificity. The diagnostic technique based on the AllGlo(TM) probe for the invasive aspergillosis possessed a good sensitivity, good specificity and deadly accuracy."}
{"id": "20351207", "title": "Development and evaluation of loop-mediated isothermal amplification assay for rapid and inexpensive detection of cytomegalovirus DNA in vitreous specimens from suspected cases of viral retinitis.", "content": "Development and evaluation of loop-mediated isothermal amplification assay for rapid and inexpensive detection of cytomegalovirus DNA in vitreous specimens from suspected cases of viral retinitis. A loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) assay for the rapid detection of cytomegalovirus (CMV) was developed and evaluated. The LAMP assay specifically amplified only CMV DNA, and no cross-reactivity with the DNA of herpes simplex virus type 1, varicella-zoster virus, adenovirus, Aspergillus flavus, or Staphylococcus aureus was observed. The sequences of the LAMP assay-positive CMV products were perfectly (100%) matched with the CMV sequence deposited in the GenBank database. The sensitivity of the LAMP assay was found to be 10 copies/microl of CMV DNA. Vitreous samples from 40 patients with suspected retinitis were subjected to LAMP and real-time PCR for the detection of CMV. Of 40 patients with suspected viral retinitis, 10 tested positive for CMV by the real-time PCR and LAMP assays. A 100% concordance was observed between the results of the two methods. The LAMP assay is a rapid, highly specific, and sensitive method for the diagnosis of retinitis caused by CMV."}
{"id": "20347662", "title": "New molecular tools in the diagnosis of superficial fungal infections.", "content": "New molecular tools in the diagnosis of superficial fungal infections. Laboratory diagnosis is in a process of major change, with the rapid development of techniques that rely on the application of new scientific skills that provide more accurate and faster confirmation of the presence of infection. This chapter describes the evolution of molecular methods for use in dermatology and their current status. Although many of the techniques that have been published use different detection systems, the evidence shows that there is a growing consensus on the best ways forward. For instance, in dermatophytosis polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based methods, such as real-time PCR, and detection of changes in the internally transcribed spacer regions are proving to be the most suitable for the detection of different species. Diagnostic application for detection of Candida infection has largely focused on systemic disease, although methods for the diagnosis of vaginal candidosis have been evaluated. It is difficult to separate diagnosis from the other benefits of molecular methodologies in mycology, such as their use in promoting our understanding of the pathogenesis and epidemiology of these diseases. A new gene-based taxonomy has also been necessary. These changes provide a challenge to the clinical dermatologist, because there is still an important task that relies on clinical expertise in relating the presence of molecular fragments of each organism to the presence of infection."}
{"id": "20333472", "title": "Aspergillosis of biliary tract after liver transplantation: a case report.", "content": "Aspergillosis of biliary tract after liver transplantation: a case report. We reported a case of aspergillosis presented as cholangitis in a patient after liver transplantation, even with prophylactic use of fluconazole. The patient had multiple predisposing factors, such as leukocytopenia, immunosuppressive drug therapy. He died 2 days after an exploratory laparotomy was carried out. The histopathologic finding of biopsy specimen from biliary tract was positive for Aspergillus. And the pathogen was identified as Aspergillus flavus by mycological culture and PCR. The patient was confirmed as a case of Aspergillosis of biliary tract that was responded poorly to fluconazole. This indicated that azole should have been switched to more effective antifungal agents at earlier stage when the patients responded poorly to the original treatment."}
{"id": "20306157", "title": "The prevalence of the mutation in codon 249 of the P53 gene in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in Turkey.", "content": "The prevalence of the mutation in codon 249 of the P53 gene in patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) in Turkey. Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is one of the most common cancers in the worldwide. Aflotoxins, products of Aspergillus Flavus found in the high humidity environments induce HCC in humans by causing mutations in oncogenes such as codon 249 mutation of p53 in hepatocytes. In turkey, aflatoxins are found to be increased in some foods in certain areas, such as Istanbul which have high humidity. In present study we aimed to look for the prevalence of codon 249 mutation of p53 in patients with HCC, cirrhosis and chronic hepatitis B (CHB). DNA was extracted from plasma and mutation was detected by PCR-RFLP method. the codon 249 mutation of p53 is found one out of 50 HCC (2%) patients. In conclusion, although codon 249 mutation of p53 gene has been found very rare but it exists showing the effect of aflatoxins in HCC patients in Turkey."}
{"id": "20222384", "title": "The role of biopsy in the diagnosis of infections of the central nervous system.", "content": "The role of biopsy in the diagnosis of infections of the central nervous system. CNS infections require prompt appropriate therapy, but do not usually require tissue biopsy for diagnosis. We performed a 5 year audit of CNS infections which required brain or spinal biopsy to determine or confirm a diagnosis of CNS infection. Sixteen cases were identified in which clinical, radiological or additional investigations including culture, serology or PCR for the suspected specific infective agents were not diagnostic. 6 (37.5%) were bacterial abscesses presenting as space-occupying intracerebral lesions with a differential diagnosis of neoplasm. There were 3 (18.7%) cases of toxoplasmosis and 2 (12.5%) cases of aspergillosis. There was one case (6.2%) of herpes simplex encephalitis, one cysticercosis and one progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy, all biopsied as possible neoplasms. There were 2 (12.5%) cases of spinal tuberculosis, one multifocal, mimicking neurofibromatosis. This review highlights the usefulness of targeted biopsy in the rapid diagnosis of CNS infections. It also emphasizes the lack of specificity of 'negative' culture and serology in certain cases, especially in the setting of immune-compromise."}
{"id": "20205795", "title": "Usefulness of molecular biology performed with formaldehyde-fixed paraffin embedded tissue for the diagnosis of combined pulmonary invasive mucormycosis and aspergillosis in an immunocompromised patient.", "content": "Usefulness of molecular biology performed with formaldehyde-fixed paraffin embedded tissue for the diagnosis of combined pulmonary invasive mucormycosis and aspergillosis in an immunocompromised patient. Immunocompromised patients who develop invasive filamentous mycotic infections can be efficiently treated if rapid identification of the causative fungus is obtained. We report a case of fatal necrotic pneumonia caused by combined pulmonary invasive mucormycosis and aspergillosis in a 66 year-old renal transplant recipient. Aspergillus was first identified during the course of the disease by cytological examination and culture (A. fumigatus) of bronchoalveolar fluid. Hyphae of Mucorales (Rhizopus microsporus) were subsequently identified by culture of a tissue specimen taken from the left inferior pulmonary lobe, which was surgically resected two days before the patient died. Histological analysis of the lung parenchyma showed the association of two different filamentous mycoses for which the morphological features were evocative of aspergillosis and mucormycosis. However, the definitive identification of the associative infection was made by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) performed on deparaffinized tissue sections using specific primers for aspergillosis and mucormycosis. This case demonstrates that discrepancies between histological, cytological and mycological analyses can occur in cases of combined mycotic infection. In this regard, it shows that PCR on selected paraffin blocks is a very powerful method for making or confirming the association of different filamentous mycoses and that this method should be made available to pathology laboratories."}
{"id": "20190840", "title": "Randomized PCR-based therapy and risk factors for invasive fungal infection following reduced-intensity conditioning and hematopoietic SCT.", "content": "Randomized PCR-based therapy and risk factors for invasive fungal infection following reduced-intensity conditioning and hematopoietic SCT. Invasive fungal infections (IFIs) are major complications after allogeneic hematopoietic SCT (HSCT). PCR-based assays able to detect fungal DNA have been reported to precede clinical diagnosis of IFI. We performed a prospective study to evaluate a PCR-based pre-emptive approach. Ninety-nine patients undergoing reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC) HSCT were followed with fungal PCR during the first 100 days post transplantation. Patients who tested positive were randomized to receive liposomal amphotericin B, or to no intervention. After day 100, PCR tests were performed only on clinical suspicion of IFI. A single positive PCR test was not associated with IFI, irrespective of treatment. After day 100, PCR tests for Aspergillus did not contribute to diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA). The cumulative incidence rates of proven or probable IA during the first year after transplantation were 9%. GVHD grades II-IV (P=0.0014), CMV-seronegative recipient with CMV-seropositive donor (P\ue2fa0.001), and conditioning with alemtuzumab (P=0.014) were significant risk factors for developing IA in a multivariate model. In this study, PCR on peripheral blood was a poor indicator of IFI early after RIC HSCT. Aspergillus PCR tests performed on clinical suspicion after day 100 were insufficiently sensitive to be diagnostically useful."}
{"id": "20167588", "title": "Novel mixed-format real-time PCR assay to detect mutations conferring resistance to triazoles in Aspergillus fumigatus and prevalence of multi-triazole resistance among clinical isolates in the Netherlands.", "content": "Novel mixed-format real-time PCR assay to detect mutations conferring resistance to triazoles in Aspergillus fumigatus and prevalence of multi-triazole resistance among clinical isolates in the Netherlands. The aim of this study was: (i) to study the prevalence of triazole-resistant Aspergillus fumigatus isolates in the Netherlands; and (ii) to design rapid real-time PCR methods to identify such isolates. A novel mixed-format real-time PCR assay is described for the detection of mutations leading to triazole resistance in A. fumigatus. One set of PCR primers and a probe carrying a single fluorescent label in combination with a double-stranded DNA fluorescent dye allow simultaneous detection of (a) specific mutation(s) as well as of the amplified product that serves as an internal amplification control. The method was applied to a random collection of 209 clinical isolates from throughout the Netherlands and was compared with phenotypic susceptibility testing. A total of four triazole-resistant isolates were identified, resulting in a prevalence of resistant isolates of <2%. All four isolates contained an identical combination of mutations leading to multi-triazole resistance, as reported before by others. Molecular testing results were 100% concordant with phenotypic susceptibility testing. Although in specific patient populations the prevalence of resistance in A. fumigatus may be an emerging problem, in the general population it is still relatively low. The novel real-time PCR format allows rapid and reliable identification of such isolates."}
{"id": "20156030", "title": "Immunomodulatory effects of antifungal agents on the response of human monocytic cells to Aspergillus fumigatus conidia.", "content": "Immunomodulatory effects of antifungal agents on the response of human monocytic cells to Aspergillus fumigatus conidia. We evaluated the immunomodulatory effects of three different classes of antifungal agents on the human monocytic cell line, THP-1, which had been stimulated in vitro with Aspergillus fumigatus conidia. Cells treated with amphotericin B (AmB), micafungin (MF), and voriconazole (VCZ), at concentrations not affecting cell viability, reduced production of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha in response to conidia, with the greatest reduction noted with VCZ. The reduction of TNF-alpha production correlated with TNF-alpha gene expression assessed by PCR and nuclear factor kappaB (NF kappaB) levels. Co-stimulation with granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor abolished immunomodulatory effects of the drugs. Antifungal agents affect the immune reaction caused by A. fumigatus conidia in stimulated monocytes at clinically relevant drug concentrations. Because drugs with different mechanisms of action produced this effect, this suggests that it is the result of factors mediated by the cells. The impact of these immunomodulatory effects needs assessment."}
{"id": "20153541", "title": "Detection and quantification of Aspergillus section Flavi spp. in stored peanuts by real-time PCR of nor-1 gene, and effects of storage conditions on aflatoxin production.", "content": "Detection and quantification of Aspergillus section Flavi spp. in stored peanuts by real-time PCR of nor-1 gene, and effects of storage conditions on aflatoxin production. Aspergillus flavus and A. parasiticus are the main species from section Flavi responsible for aflatoxin accumulation in stored peanuts. A real-time PCR (RT-PCR) system directed against the nor-1 gene of the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway as target sequence was applied to monitor and quantify Aspergillus section Flavi population in peanuts. Kernels were conditioned at four water activity (a(W)) levels and stored during a 4-month period. The quantification of fungal genomic DNA in naturally contaminated peanut samples was performed using TaqMan fluorescent probe technology. Sensitivity tests demonstrated that DNA amounts accounting for a single conidium of A. parasiticus RCP08300 can be detected. A standard curve relating nor-1 copy numbers to colony forming units (cfu) was constructed. Counts of species of Aspergillus section Flavi from unknown samples obtained by molecular and conventional count (CC) methodologies were compared. A correlation between cfu data obtained by RT-PCR and CC methods was observed (r=0.613; p<0.0001); and the former always showed values higher by 0.5-1 log units. A decrease of fungal density was observed throughout the storage period, regardless of the quantification methodology applied. Total aflatoxin levels ranging from 1.1 to 200.4 ng/g were registered in peanuts conditioned at the higher a(W) values (0.94-0.84 a(W)). The RT-PCR assay developed appears to be a promising tool in the prediction of potential aflatoxigenic risk in stored peanuts, even in case of low-level infections, and suitable for rapid, automated and high throughput analysis."}
{"id": "20150979", "title": "Overexpression of bacterial ethylene-forming enzyme gene in Trichoderma reesei enhanced the production of ethylene.", "content": "Overexpression of bacterial ethylene-forming enzyme gene in Trichoderma reesei enhanced the production of ethylene. In order to efficiently utilize natural cellulose materials to produce ethylene, three expression vectors containing the ethylene-forming enzyme (efe) gene from Pseudomonas syringae pv. glycinea were constructed. The target gene was respectively controlled by different promoters: cbh I promoter from Trichoderma reesei cellobiohydrolases I gene, gpd promoter from Aspergillus nidulans glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene and pgk I promoter from T. reesei 3-phosphoglycerate kinase I gene. After transforming into T. reesei QM9414, 43 stable transformants were obtained by PCR amplification and ethylene determination. Southern blot analysis of 14 transformants demonstrated that the efe gene was integrated into chromosomal DNA with copy numbers from 1 to 4. Reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis of 6 transformants showed that the heterologous gene was transcribed. By using wheat straw as a carbon source, the ethylene production rates of aforementioned 14 transformants were measured. Transformant C30-3 with pgk I promoter had the highest ethylene production (4,012 nl h(-1) l(-1)). This indicates that agricultural wastes could be used to produce ethylene in recombinant filamentous fungus T. reesei."}
{"id": "20145973", "title": "Analysis of wide-domain transcriptional regulation in solid-state cultures of Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Analysis of wide-domain transcriptional regulation in solid-state cultures of Aspergillus oryzae. Many filamentous fungi secrete considerable quantities of enzymes including protease, cellulase and xylanase, which are of major industrial importance. Over the past few decades, many of these fungal enzymes have been isolated and their relevant genes characterised. Solid-state fermentation (SSF), an ancient technique described as a fermentation process performed on non-soluble material whereby the material acts as a physical support and as a source of nutrients, is widely employed in the production of industrially important enzymes. Control mechanisms governing gene expression in SSF however, have been rarely studied. The influence of carbon and nitrogen sources on the production and transcriptional regulation of hydrolase enzymes secreted by an Aspergillus strain was investigated with the hope of expanding on the relatively small amount of knowledge regarding cellular control of gene expression. This study involved screening a collection of fungal strains for protease, cellulase and xylanase production under SSF conditions. From this, one fungal strain was then chosen for further analysis. Factors affecting the secretion of the hydrolase enzymes were optimised, and following this, the influence of nutritional supplementation on the production and transcriptional regulation of the enzymes was investigated. Real-time PCR techniques were used to assess the relative expression levels of genes encoding hydrolase activities and of the genes encoding regulatory elements such as AreA, PacC and CreA in an effort to identify possible transcriptional regulation mechanisms. The complexity of gene regulation under SSF conditions became apparent during the study, as other factors such as post-transcriptional regulation appeared to play a far greater role than previously imagined."}
{"id": "20144543", "title": "Purification, characterization, and cloning of a novel phytase with low pH optimum and strong proteolysis resistance from Aspergillus ficuum NTG-23.", "content": "Purification, characterization, and cloning of a novel phytase with low pH optimum and strong proteolysis resistance from Aspergillus ficuum NTG-23. A novel phytase was isolated from Aspergillus ficuum NTG-23 with a procedure involving ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-cellulose, CM-cellulose and FPLC-gel filtration on Superdex 75. The protein exhibited a molecular mass of 65.5kDa in gel filtration and SDS-PAGE. It possessed an optimal pH of 1.3 and an optimal temperature of 67 degrees C, and manifested a K(m) of 0.295mM and a V(max) of 55.9nmol (phosphate)/min. Phytase activity was not significantly affected by metal ions such as Ca(2+), Mg(2+), Mn(2+), Zn(2+), but was slightly stimulated in the presence of EDTA. The phytase was stable at 60 degrees C with no obvious loss of activity upon its incubation at 70 degrees C for 20min. The enzyme exhibited a broad substrate selectivity and showed strong resistance toward pepsin and trypsin. The unique properties suggest that the phytase has the potential to be useful as an animal feed supplement."}
{"id": "20136576", "title": "Genetic diversity of Aspergillus fumigatus in indoor hospital environments.", "content": "Genetic diversity of Aspergillus fumigatus in indoor hospital environments. Environmental isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus are less studied than those recovered from clinical sources. In the present study, the genetic diversity among such environmental isolates was assessed, as well as their dispersion ability and the acquisition of new strains in 19 medical units of the same hospital. A. fumigatus isolates were genotyped using a single multiplex PCR-based reaction with eight microsatellite markers and an insertion/deletion polymorphism. A total of 130 unique genotypes were found among a total of 250 A. fumigatus isolates. Genotypic diversity ranged from 0.86 to 1 in samples from hospital rooms, and there was no correlation between these samples and the presence of high-efficiency particulate air filters or any other air filtration system. Four of the six most prevalent A. fumigatus strains were recovered from water samples. The occurrence of microvariation was common among environmental isolates, which affected each of the microsatellite markers. The assessment of the genetic diversity of A. fumigatus is a useful tool for illustrating the presence or absence of specific clonal populations in a clinical setting. A. fumigatus populations were highly dynamic indoors, and new populations were found in just a few months. Due to the high indoor dispersion capability of A. fumigatus, more attention should be given to strains with increased pathogenic potential or reduced susceptibility to anti-fungal drugs."}
{"id": "20131067", "title": "AtfA bZIP-type transcription factor regulates oxidative and osmotic stress responses in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "AtfA bZIP-type transcription factor regulates oxidative and osmotic stress responses in Aspergillus nidulans. The aim of the study was to demonstrate that the bZIP-type transcription factor AtfA regulates different types of stress responses in Aspergillus nidulans similarly to Atf1, the orthologous 'all-purpose' transcription factor of Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Heterologous expression of atfA in a S. pombe Deltaatf1 mutant restored the osmotic stress tolerance of fission yeast in surface cultures to the same level as recorded in complementation studies with the atf1 gene, and a partial complementation of the osmotic and oxidative-stress-sensitive phenotypes was also achieved in submerged cultures. AtfA is therefore a true functional ortholog of fission yeast's Atf1. As demonstrated by RT-PCR experiments, elements of both oxidative (e.g. catalase B) and osmotic (e.g. glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase B) stress defense systems were transcriptionally regulated by AtfA in a stress-type-specific manner. Deletion of atfA resulted in oxidative-stress-sensitive phenotypes while the high-osmolarity stress sensitivity of the fungus was not affected significantly. In A. nidulans, the glutathione/glutathione disulfide redox status of the cells as well as apoptotic cell death and autolysis seemed to be controlled by regulatory elements other than AtfA. In conclusion, the orchestrations of stress responses in the aspergilli and in fission yeast share several common features, but further studies are needed to answer the important question of whether a fission yeast-like core environmental stress response also operates in the euascomycete genus Aspergillus."}
{"id": "20129972", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus fumigatus in a rat model of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis by real-time nucleic acid sequence-based amplification.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus fumigatus in a rat model of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis by real-time nucleic acid sequence-based amplification. Rapid and sensitive detection of Aspergillus from clinical samples may facilitate the early diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA). A real-time nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (NASBA) method was investigated by use of an inhalational rat model of IPA. Immunosuppressed male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to Aspergillus fumigatus spores for an hour in an aerosol chamber. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid, lung tissues, and whole blood were collected from five infected rats at 1, 24, 48, 72, and 96 h postinfection and five uninfected rats at the end of the experiment. Total nucleic acid (TNA) was extracted on an easyMAG instrument. A primer-molecular beacon set targeting 28S rRNA was designed to detect Aspergillus spp. The results were compared to those of quantitative PCR (qPCR) (18S rDNA) and quantitative culture. The analytical sensitivity of the real-time NASBA assay was <1 CFU/assay. A linear range of detection was demonstrated over 5 log units of conidia (10 to 10(5) spores). Both NASBA and qPCR showed a progressive increase in lung tissue burdens, while the CFU counts were stable over time. The fungal burdens in BAL fluid were more variable and not indicative of a progressive infection. The results of both real-time assays correlated well for both sample types (r = 0.869 and P < 0.0001 for lung tissue, r = 0.887 and P < 0.0001 for BAL fluid). For all whole-blood specimens, NASBA identified Aspergillus-positive samples in the group from which samples were collected at 72 h postinfection (three of five samples) and the group from which samples were collected at 96 h postinfection (five of five samples), but no positive results were obtained by culture or PCR. Real-time NASBA is highly sensitive and useful for the detection of Aspergillus in an experimental model of IPA."}
{"id": "20129088", "title": "Optimization of a real-time PCR assay to quantitate airborne fungi collected on a gelatin filter.", "content": "Optimization of a real-time PCR assay to quantitate airborne fungi collected on a gelatin filter. The present study aimed to optimize a real-time PCR assay to quantitate airborne fungi collected on a gelatin filter. In particular, the study optimized conditions for the DNA extraction and real-time PCR amplification to accurately measure airborne fungal concentrations. First, time of fine bead homogenization to extract the DNA from fungal cells was optimized to maximize the DNA yield and prepare the DNA suitable for sensitive and precise quantification by a subsequent real-time PCR analysis. Second, a condition for the real-time PCR amplification was optimized to successfully amplify and quantitate the extracted fungal DNA. In particular, a dilution ratio of the DNA extracts to be introduced to PCR was optimized to achieve an appropriate balance between mitigating PCR inhibition and securing detection sensitivity. Since concentrations of airborne fungi generally observed in indoor and outdoor environments (i.e., 10(1)-10(4) CFU m(-3)) were found to be near the limit of quantification by the generally-used molecular-based detection technique in conjunction with use of gelatin filters, optimizations of these conditions were found to be crucial. Our preliminary result showed that a culture-based method underestimated concentrations of airborne environmental fungi by 1 to 2 orders of magnitude compared to those characterized by the real-time PCR assay."}
{"id": "20110639", "title": "Onychomycosis insensitive to systemic terbinafine and azole treatments reveals non-dermatophyte moulds as infectious agents.", "content": "Onychomycosis insensitive to systemic terbinafine and azole treatments reveals non-dermatophyte moulds as infectious agents. Dermatophytes are the main cause of onychomycoses, but various non-dermatophyte filamentous fungi are often isolated from abnormal nails. Our aim was the in situ identification of the fungal infectious agent in 8 cases of onychomycoses which could not be cured after systemic terbinafine and itraconazole treatment. Fungal DNA was extracted from nail samples, and infectious fungi were identified by restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) of amplified fungal ribosomal DNA using a previously described PCR/RFLP assay. PCR/RFLP identification of fungi in nails allows the identification of the infectious agent: Fusarium sp., Acremonium sp. and Aspergillus sp. were found as a sole infectious agent in 5, 2 and 1 cases, respectively. Fusarium spp. and other non-dermatophyte filamentous fungi are especially difficult to cure in onychomycoses utilising standard treatment with terbinafine and itraconazole. PCR fungal identification helps demonstrate the presence of moulds in order to prescribe alternative antifungal treatments."}
{"id": "20107096", "title": "Rapid diagnosis of azole-resistant aspergillosis by direct PCR using tissue specimens.", "content": "Rapid diagnosis of azole-resistant aspergillosis by direct PCR using tissue specimens. We report the use of PCR techniques on a formalin-fixed and paraffin-embedded tissue specimen for direct detection of one dominant azole resistance mechanism in a case of disseminated invasive aspergillosis. Rapid detection of mutations associated with azole resistance directly in tissue significantly reduces diagnostic delay."}
{"id": "20106864", "title": "Overall survival and fungal infection-related mortality in patients with invasive fungal infection and neutropenia after myelosuppressive chemotherapy in a tertiary care centre from 1995 to 2006.", "content": "Overall survival and fungal infection-related mortality in patients with invasive fungal infection and neutropenia after myelosuppressive chemotherapy in a tertiary care centre from 1995 to 2006. Invasive fungal infections (IFIs) contribute significantly to mortality and morbidity in patients receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy for haematological malignancies. The present study investigates the overall survival (OS), infection-related mortality and changes in treatment of IFIs in our department from 1995 until 2006. Outcomes of all chemotherapy courses were retrospectively evaluated using a standard questionnaire. Modified EORTC/MSG criteria for IFIs were applied: a positive PCR result for Aspergillus spp. in bronchoalveolar lavage was also defined as probable IFI. In total, 1693 chemotherapy courses in 592 patients were evaluated. Sixty-three percent of chemotherapy courses were given to treat acute myeloid leukaemia, with the rest for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia or aggressive lymphoma. IFIs were observed in 139/592 patients [23.5%, 95% confidence interval (CI) 20%-27%] and in 149/1693 courses (8.8%, 95% CI 8%-10%). IFI-related mortality was 56.9% in 1995-2001 and 28.6% in 2002-06, P < 0.001. Accordingly, median OS in patients with IFI increased: 54 days (95% CI 26-82 days) in 1995-2001 versus 229 days (95% CI 35-423 days) in 2002-06, P = 0.001. By multivariate analysis, factors predictive for better OS were controlled disease after chemotherapy [hazard ratio (HR) 0.228, P < 0.001], possible IFI (in contrast to proven/probable IFI, HR 0.537, P = 0.005), age <60 years (HR 0.583, P = 0.008), time period 2002-06 (HR 0.612, P = 0.021) and use of novel antifungals (HR 0.589, P = 0.033). Compared with 1995-2001, IFI-related mortality decreased and OS in patients with IFI increased significantly in recent years. Improved OS was associated with controlled haematological disease, certainty of IFI diagnosis (possible), younger age, time period 2002-06 and the use of novel antifungals."}
{"id": "20097738", "title": "The transposon impala is activated by low temperatures: use of a controlled transposition system to identify genes critical for viability of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "The transposon impala is activated by low temperatures: use of a controlled transposition system to identify genes critical for viability of Aspergillus fumigatus. Genes that are essential for viability represent potential targets for the development of anti-infective agents. However, relatively few have been determined in the filamentous fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus. A novel solution employing parasexual genetics coupled with transposon mutagenesis using the Fusarium oxysporum transposon impala had previously enabled the identification of 20 essential genes from A. fumigatus; however, further use of this system required a better understanding of the mode of action of the transposon itself. Examination of a range of conditions indicated that impala is activated by prolonged exposure to low temperatures. This newly identified property was then harnessed to identify 96 loci that are critical for viability in A. fumigatus, including genes required for RNA metabolism, organelle organization, protein transport, ribosome biogenesis, and transcription, as well as a number of noncoding RNAs. A number of these genes represent potential targets for much-needed novel antifungal drugs."}
{"id": "20082061", "title": "[Update: invasive fungal infections: Diagnosis and treatment in surgical intensive care medicine].", "content": "[Update: invasive fungal infections: Diagnosis and treatment in surgical intensive care medicine]. Fungal infections are of great relevance in surgical intensive care and Candida species represent the predominant part of fungal pathogens. Invasive aspergillosis is also relevant especially in patients with chronic pulmonary diseases. It is crucial for therapy success to begin adequate antifungal treatment at an early stage of the disease. Risk stratification of individual patient symptoms is essential for therapy timing. In case of suspected or proven candida infection, fluconazole is the agent of choice when the patient is clinically stable and no azoles have been administrated in advance and the local epidemiology makes azol resistance unlikely. For clinically instable patients with organ dysfunction the echinocandins serve as primary therapy because of their broad spectrum and reasonable safety profile. Due to a relevant proportion of azole resistant Candida species, susceptibility testing should be done routinely. Depending on the species detected de-escalating to an azole is feasible if organ dysfunctions have resolved. An invasive aspergillosis is primarily treated with voriconazole."}
{"id": "20072605", "title": "Characterization of the oral fungal microbiome (mycobiome) in healthy individuals.", "content": "Characterization of the oral fungal microbiome (mycobiome) in healthy individuals. The oral microbiome-organisms residing in the oral cavity and their collective genome-are critical components of health and disease. The fungal component of the oral microbiota has not been characterized. In this study, we used a novel multitag pyrosequencing approach to characterize fungi present in the oral cavity of 20 healthy individuals, using the pan-fungal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) primers. Our results revealed the \"basal\" oral mycobiome profile of the enrolled individuals, and showed that across all the samples studied, the oral cavity contained 74 culturable and 11 non-culturable fungal genera. Among these genera, 39 were present in only one person, 16 genera were present in two participants, and 5 genera were present in three people, while 15 genera (including non-culturable organisms) were present in >/=4 (20%) participants. Candida species were the most frequent (isolated from 75% of participants), followed by Cladosporium (65%), Aureobasidium, Saccharomycetales (50% for both), Aspergillus (35%), Fusarium (30%), and Cryptococcus (20%). Four of these predominant genera are known to be pathogenic in humans. The low-abundance genera may represent environmental fungi present in the oral cavity and could simply be spores inhaled from the air or material ingested with food. Among the culturable genera, 61 were represented by one species each, while 13 genera comprised between 2 and 6 different species; the total number of species identified were 101. The number of species in the oral cavity of each individual ranged between 9 and 23. Principal component (PCO) analysis of the obtained data set followed by sample clustering and UniFrac analysis revealed that White males and Asian males clustered differently from each other, whereas both Asian and White females clustered together. This is the first study that identified the \"basal mycobiome\" of healthy individuals, and provides the basis for a detailed characterization of the oral mycobiome in health and disease."}
{"id": "20058189", "title": "Molecular cloning, characterization and expression of PmRsr1, a Ras-related gene from yeast form of Penicillium marneffei.", "content": "Molecular cloning, characterization and expression of PmRsr1, a Ras-related gene from yeast form of Penicillium marneffei. GTP-binding proteins such as Ras act as molecular switches in a large number of signal pathways. In this report, we isolated and characterized a novel Ras small monomeric GTPase Rsr1 gene, designated PmRsr1, from yeast-form Penicillium marneffei. The full-length PmRsr1 cDNA sequence is 1,866 bp in size, and contains an open reading frame of 642 bp encoding 213 amino acids. The predicted molecular mass of PmRsr1 is 24.41 kDa with an estimated theoretical isoelectric point of 9.21. The deduced amino acid sequence of PmRsr1 shows 87% identity with that of Aspergillus fumigatus and A. clavatus. Eight exons and seven introns are identified within the 2,102 bp PmRsr1 genomic DNA sequence of P. marneffei. The open reading frame was subcloned into the pcDNA6-myc-His B expression vector, and the recombinant plasmid was transfected into Vero cell line. The expressed fusion protein was analyzed by SDS-PAGE and western blotting. Differential expression of the PmRsr1 was demonstrated by real-time RT-PCR. The expression of PmRsr1 was the highest in the yeast phase comparing with that in the mycelia and conidia phases."}
{"id": "20055739", "title": "Role of glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) in innate immune response of human immature dendritic cells to Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Role of glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) in innate immune response of human immature dendritic cells to Aspergillus fumigatus. Dysregulation of the Th1/Th2 cytokine balance and a switch to a Th2 immune response contribute to the development of and the unfavorable outcome from invasive aspergillosis (IA). We explore in this paper the role of glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) in human immature dendritic cells (iDCs) relative to infection caused by A. fumigatus by the use of GSK-3 inhibitors (LiCl, SB415286) and RNA interference technology. In iDCs exposed to A. fumigatus germ tubes, inhibition of GSK-3 with LiCl or SB415286, as well as transfection with small interfering RNA, led to markedly elevated expression of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. In contrast, pro-inflammatory cytokine response was only partially regulated by GSK-3. Screening of patients after allogeneic stem cell transplantation (with or without IA) for the presence of genetic markers (rs334558, rs6438552) in the GSK-3 gene revealed no significant association with an increased risk for IA. In conclusion, GSK-3 might be involved in the regulation of the anti-inflammatory response of iDCs in the context of infections due to A. fumigatus, albeit the exact mechanisms have to be clarified in future experiments."}
{"id": "20053626", "title": "Reduced expression of the O-mannosyltransferase 2 (AfPmt2) leads to deficient cell wall and abnormal polarity in Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Reduced expression of the O-mannosyltransferase 2 (AfPmt2) leads to deficient cell wall and abnormal polarity in Aspergillus fumigatus. Protein O-mannosyltransferases (PMTs) initiate O-mannosylation of secretory proteins, which are of fundamental importance in eukaryotes. The human fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus possesses three genes encoding for PMTs, namely, Afpmt1, Afpmt2 and Afpmt4. We have previously shown that lack of AfPmt1 leads to a temperature-sensitive phenotype featured with severe defects in hyphal growth, conidiation, cell wall integrity and morphology at elevated temperatures. In this study, a conditional mutant P2 was constructed by replacing the native promoter of the Afpmt2 with the Aspergillus nidulans alcA promoter. Reduced expression of the Afpmt2 gene led to a lagged germination, retarded hyphal growth, reduced conidiation and defect in cell wall integrity; however, no temperature-sensitive growth was observed. Further analysis revealed that reduced expression of the Afpmt2 caused a failure of the actin re-arrangement. Our results suggest that Afpmt2 gene was required for growth and played a role distinct from that of the Afpmt1 in A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "20047485", "title": "Fungal infections in leukemia patients: how do we prevent and treat them?", "content": "Fungal infections in leukemia patients: how do we prevent and treat them? Invasive fungal infections (IFIs) remain an important cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with acute or chronic leukemia. Advances in the pharmacotherapy of fungal infections and a shift in the epidemiological characteristics of fungal pathogens toward fluconazole-resistant Candida species and saprophytic molds have placed a greater emphasis on selection of broader-spectrum agents for empirical therapy of IFIs in this high-risk population. Newer diagnostic modalities, such as the Aspergillus galactomannan test, the 1,3-beta-d-glucan test, and polymerase chain reaction detection of fungal DNA, may facilitate the earlier diagnosis of IFIs, but their role in detecting breakthrough infection and their usefulness as a marker to withhold antifungal therapy in high-risk leukemia patients with IFI are less obvious, especially in patients who are receiving antifungal prophylaxis. Only 2 strategies have been shown in prospective studies to improve survival from mold infection in patients with acute myelogenous leukemia or myelodysplastic syndrome: (1) preemptive initiation of antifungal therapy at first sign of invasive aspergillosis on computed tomography (CT) scan and (2) antifungal prophylaxis with posaconazole. CT-guided treatment decisions are more complex in patients with advanced leukemia, however, because of concomitant infection or relapsing malignancy. Similarly, posaconazole is often not a viable prophylaxis or treatment option in patients with poor oral intake, gastrointestinal dysfunction, or possible drug interaction (eg, proton pump inhibitor prophylaxis in patients on high-dose glucocorticosteroids). As a result, the management of IFI in patients with leukemia demands an individualized treatment plan."}
{"id": "20039019", "title": "Ergot alkaloid biosynthesis in Aspergillus fumigatus: conversion of chanoclavine-I to chanoclavine-I aldehyde catalyzed by a short-chain alcohol dehydrogenase FgaDH.", "content": "Ergot alkaloid biosynthesis in Aspergillus fumigatus: conversion of chanoclavine-I to chanoclavine-I aldehyde catalyzed by a short-chain alcohol dehydrogenase FgaDH. Ergot alkaloids are toxins and important pharmaceuticals which are produced biotechnologically on an industrial scale. A putative gene fgaDH has been identified in the biosynthetic gene cluster of fumigaclavine C, an ergot alkaloid of the clavine-type. The deduced gene product FgaDH comprises 261 amino acids with a molecular mass of about 27.8 kDa and contains the conserved motifs of classical short-chain dehydrogenases/reductases (SDRs), but shares no worth mentioning sequence similarity with SDRs and other known proteins. The coding region of fgaDH consisting of two exons was amplified by PCR from a cDNA library of Aspergillus fumigatus, cloned into pQE60 and overexpressed in E. coli. The soluble tetrameric His(6)-FgaDH was purified to apparent homogeneity and characterized biochemically. It has been shown that FgaDH catalyzes the oxidation of chanoclavine-I in the presence of NAD(+) resulting in the formation of chanoclavine-I aldehyde, which was unequivocally identified by NMR and MS analyzes. Therefore, FgaDH functions as a chanoclavine-I dehydrogenase and represents a new group of short-chain dehydrogenases. K (M) values for chanoclavine-I and NAD(+) were determined at 0.27 and 1.1 mM, respectively. The turnover number was 0.38 s(-1)."}
{"id": "20035025", "title": "Dynamics of extracellular release of Aspergillus fumigatus DNA and galactomannan during growth in blood and serum.", "content": "Dynamics of extracellular release of Aspergillus fumigatus DNA and galactomannan during growth in blood and serum. Aspergillus fumigatus is the major cause of invasive aspergillosis (IA), a disease associated with high rates of morbidity and mortality in patients undergoing treatment for haematological malignancies. This study investigated A. fumigatus growth in vitro and in a murine model of IA in order to provide insights into the dynamics of extracellular DNA and galactomannan (GM) release and their relevance to early diagnosis of IA. Following inoculation of whole blood with 20 A. fumigatus conidia ml(-1), DNA that corresponded to the inoculum could be detected by PCR but GM was not detected in plasma separated from the blood sample, indicating that the fungus did not grow in whole blood. The quantities of DNA detected by PCR, and GM, were proportional to the amount of fungal biomass present in vitro. Fungal DNA could be detected in the sera of mice experimentally infected with A. fumigatus with maximum detection in cyclophosphamide-treated mice."}
{"id": "20002155", "title": "Diagnostic challenges and recent advances in the early management of invasive fungal infections.", "content": "Diagnostic challenges and recent advances in the early management of invasive fungal infections. During the past 20 yr, the population of immunocompromized patients at risk of developing invasive fungal infections (IFIs) has increased, and there has been a shift in fungal epidemiology, with more infections caused by non-Aspergillus molds and yeasts, which are often resistant to one or more antifungal drugs. Traditional diagnostic methods, such as culture and the histopathology of infected tissue, often fail to detect IFIs until the later stages. Furthermore, invasive diagnostic methods to obtain tissue may be contraindicated in severely ill patients; even when tissue is available, the morphology of several filamentous fungi is identical, or the cultures may fail to grow the pathogen. Recently developed non-invasive diagnostic techniques, such as tests for serum markers and polymerase chain reaction assays, may allow for earlier and more accurate diagnoses - crucial in the effort to reduce morbidity and the risk of mortality. This article reviews current approaches to diagnosis and treatment, focusing on how an early and accurate diagnosis can guide treatment and improve outcomes. Strategies for improving the management of IFIs also are discussed."}
{"id": "19968888", "title": "Allergic fungal rhinosinusitis: detection of fungal DNA in sinus aspirate using polymerase chain reaction.", "content": "Allergic fungal rhinosinusitis: detection of fungal DNA in sinus aspirate using polymerase chain reaction. This study investigated allergic fungal rhinosinusitis cases, and aimed to compare the detection of fungi in sinus aspirate by culture and by polymerase chain reaction assay, and to relate the presence of fungi in the nasal sinuses to the type of fungal allergen causing disease. Sixty-eight cases of allergic fungal rhinosinusitis underwent fungal culture and polymerase chain reaction assay for universal fungal, aspergillus and bipolaris DNA. Aspergillus-specific immunoglobulin E levels were measured in sinus aspirate, and total serum immunoglobulin E levels were calculated. A control group of 10 cases was included in the study. Of the 68 allergic fungal rhinosinusitis cases, only 42 (61.7 per cent) had positive fungal cultures; of the 10 controls, only three (30 per cent) had positive cultures. Species from the dematiaceous family were most commonly grown, being isolated in 30 cases (71.4 per cent). Bipolaris was the most commonly isolated species (18 cases) followed by curvularia (11 cases) and alternaria (one case). Polymerase chain reaction assay detected fungal DNA in all the allergic fungal rhinosinusitis cases and also in four controls (40 per cent). Ten patients (of 68; 14.7 per cent) were positive for Aspergillus fumigatus specific immunoglobulin E. The mean concentration of this immunoglobulin was 11.32 +/- 4.12 IU/ml in patients and 0 IU/ml in controls, a statistically significant difference. Detection of fungal DNA in nasal aspirate by polymerase chain reaction was superior to fungal cultures as a method of detecting fungal growth. In allergic fungal rhinosinusitis, fungal growth is not always accompanied by an allergic reaction."}
{"id": "19953413", "title": "Impact of production systems on swine confinement buildings bioaerosols.", "content": "Impact of production systems on swine confinement buildings bioaerosols. Hog production has been substantially intensified in Eastern Canada. Hogs are now fattened in swine confinement buildings with controlled ventilation systems and high animal densities. Newly designed buildings are equipped with conventional manure handling and management systems, shallow or deep litter systems, or source separation systems to manage the large volumes of waste. However, the impacts of those alternative production systems on bioaerosol concentrations within the barns have never been evaluated. Bioaerosols were characterized in 18 modern swine confinement buildings, and the differences in bioaerosol composition in the three different production systems were evaluated. Total dust, endotoxins, culturable actinomycetes, fungi, and bacteria were collected with various apparatuses. The total DNA of the air samples was extracted, and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to assess the total number of bacterial genomes, as a total (culturable and nonculturable) bacterial assessment. The measured total dust and endotoxin concentrations were not statistically different in the three studied production systems. In buildings with sawdust beds, actinomycetes and molds were found in higher concentrations than in the conventional barns. Aspergillus, Cladosporium, Penicillium, and Scopulariopsis species were identified in all the studied swine confinement buildings. A. flavus, A. terreus, and A. versicolor were abundantly present in the facilities with sawdust beds. Thermotolerant A. fumigatus and Mucor were usually found in all the buildings. The culturable bacteria concentrations were higher in the barns with litters than in the conventional buildings, while real-time PCR revealed nonstatistically different concentrations of total bacteria in all the studied swine confinement buildings. In terms of workers' respiratory health, barns equipped with a solid/liquid separation system may offer better air quality than conventional buildings or barns with sawdust beds. The impact of ventilation rates, air distribution, or building design still has to be explored."}
{"id": "19945807", "title": "[Contribution of molecular biology and Aspergillus galactomannan antigen assay for the diagnosis of histoplasmosis].", "content": "[Contribution of molecular biology and Aspergillus galactomannan antigen assay for the diagnosis of histoplasmosis]. We report a case of a pulmonary histoplasmosis in an HIV-positive patient usually living in Cambodia, with a positive Aspergillus galactomannan antigenemia resulting from a cross-reaction, that decreased after antifungal therapy. We discuss the potential interest of the detection of fungal DNA by PCR and Aspergillus galactomannan antigenemia for the diagnosis of histoplasmosis, especially in countries where Histoplasma capsulatum antigen testing is not available."}
{"id": "19924476", "title": "Analysis of bacterial and fungal communities in Japanese- and Chinese-fermented soybean pastes using nested PCR-DGGE.", "content": "Analysis of bacterial and fungal communities in Japanese- and Chinese-fermented soybean pastes using nested PCR-DGGE. The microbial diversity of Japanese- and Chinese-fermented soybean pastes was investigated using nested PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). Five Japanese-fermented soybean paste samples and three Chinese-fermented soybean paste samples were analyzed for bacteria and fungi. Extracted DNA was used as a template for PCR to amplify 16S rRNA and 18S rRNA genes. The nearly complete 16S rRNA and 18S rRNA genes were amplified using universal primers, and the resulting products were subsequently used as a template in a nested PCR to obtain suitable fragments for DGGE. Tetragenococcus halophilus and Staphylococcus gallinarum were found to dominate the bacterial microbiota in Japanese samples, whereas Bacillus sp. was detected as the predominant species in Chinese samples. DGGE analysis of fungi in soybean pastes determined the presence of Aspergillus oryzae and Zygosaccharomyces rouxii in most of the Chinese and Japanese samples. Some differences were observed in the bacterial diversity of Japanese- and Chinese-fermented soybean pastes."}
{"id": "19919853", "title": "Proteomic analysis of early phase of conidia germination in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Proteomic analysis of early phase of conidia germination in Aspergillus nidulans. In order to investigate proteins involved in early phase of conidia germination, proteomic analysis was performed using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (2D-GE) in conjunction with MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry (MS). The expression levels of 241 proteins varied quantitatively with statistical significance (P<0.05) at the early phase of the germination stage. Out of these 57 were identified by MALDI-TOF MS. Through classification of physiological functions from Conserved Domain Database analysis, among the identified proteins, 21, 13, and 6 proteins were associated with energy metabolism, protein synthesis, and protein folding process, respectively. Interestingly, eight proteins, which are involved in detoxification of reactive oxygen species (ROS) including catalase A, thioredoxin reductase, and mitochondrial peroxiredoxin, were also identified. The expression levels of the genes were further confirmed using Northern blot and reverse transcriptase (RT)-PCR analyses. This study represents the first proteomic analysis of early phase of conidia germination and will contribute to a better understanding of the molecular events involved in conidia germination process."}
{"id": "19914321", "title": "Characterization of the novel antifungal protein PgAFP and the encoding gene of Penicillium chrysogenum.", "content": "Characterization of the novel antifungal protein PgAFP and the encoding gene of Penicillium chrysogenum. The strain RP42C from Penicillium chrysogenum produces a small protein PgAFP that inhibits the growth of some toxigenic molds. The molecular mass of the protein determined by electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) was 6 494Da. PgAFP showed a cationic character with an estimated pI value of 9.22. Upon chemical and enzymatic treatments of PgAFP, no evidence for N- or O-glycosylations was obtained. Five partial sequences of PgAFP were obtained by Edman degradation and by ESI-MS/MS after trypsin and chymotrypsin digestions. Using degenerate primers from these peptide sequences, a segment of 70bp was amplified by PCR from pgafp gene. 5'- and 3'-ends of pgafp were obtained by RACE-PCR with gene-specific primers designed from the 70bp segment. The complete pgafp sequence of 404bp was obtained using primers designed from 5'- and 3'-ends. Comparison of genomic and cDNA sequences revealed a 279bp coding region interrupted by two introns of 63 and 62bp. The precursor of the antifungal protein consists of 92 amino acids and appears to be processed to the mature 58 amino acids PgAFP. The deduced amino acid sequence of the mature protein shares 79% identity to the antifungal protein Anafp from Aspergillus niger. PgAFP is a new protein that belongs to the group of small, cysteine-rich, and basic proteins with antifungal activity produced by ascomycetes. Given that P. chrysogenum is regarded as safe mold commonly found in foods, PgAFP may be useful to prevent growth of toxigenic molds in food and agricultural products."}
{"id": "19896239", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus fumigatus by quantitative polymerase chain reaction in air samples impacted on low-melt agar.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus fumigatus by quantitative polymerase chain reaction in air samples impacted on low-melt agar. The standard procedure for routine environmental sampling for the prevention of invasive aspergillosis outbreaks is culturing of Aspergillus fumigatus after impaction of air. Time to results is usually 7 days. A preliminary study was carried out to compare the time to results and sensitivity of culturing and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QPCR) in the detection of airborne A fumigatus. Fungal DNA was extracted from 43 samples of impacted low-melt agar by a 3-step extraction method and amplified by QPCR. Identification was made using a specific A fumigatus probe. With QPCR, 19 of the 43 samples were positive for A fumigatus; with culturing, 7 of these 19 samples were positive, and 12 were negative. The cycle threshold (Ct) values for the 12 culture-negative samples were between 39 and 43 cycles, and the Ct values for 6 of the 7 culture-positive samples were <38 cycles, suggesting that the amount of DNA detected by QPCR was higher in the presence of viable conidia. QPCR detection of airborne A fumigatus in impacted low-melt agar significantly reduces the period of time between sample collection and results (48 hours), suggesting that this new approach can be beneficial for routine environmental sampling."}
{"id": "19888672", "title": "Clinical itraconazole-resistant strains of Aspergillus fumigatus, isolated serially from a lung aspergilloma patient with pulmonary tuberculosis, can be detected with real-time PCR method.", "content": "Clinical itraconazole-resistant strains of Aspergillus fumigatus, isolated serially from a lung aspergilloma patient with pulmonary tuberculosis, can be detected with real-time PCR method. The invasive aspergillosis, which is commonly caused by Aspergillus fumigatus (A. fumigatus), has increased in recent years. Traditional methods for finding out antifungal resistant strains would take more than 2 weeks, which cannot satisfy the needs of rapid detection. In this study, a real-time PCR method for detection of the serial itraconazole-resistant strains of A. fumigatus isolated from a lung aspergilloma patient was developed. The results showed that the TacMAN-MGB probes, which were covered the loci Gly54, Leu98, Gly138, and Met220 of the enzyme CYP51A coded by the gene cyp51A, as well as the 34-bp tandem repeated sequence in the promoter region (-288 and -322 from the start codon) of this gene, could detect the serial itraconazole-resistant strains of A. fumigatus in our study. Besides, this method takes just 6 h to complete the whole detection."}
{"id": "19850832", "title": "Rapid detection of fungal keratitis with DNA-stabilizing FTA filter paper.", "content": "Rapid detection of fungal keratitis with DNA-stabilizing FTA filter paper. Purpose. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is increasingly important for the rapid detection of fungal keratitis. However, techniques of specimen collection and DNA extraction before PCR may interfere with test sensitivity. The purpose of this study was to investigate the use of DNA-stabilizing FTA filter paper (Indicating FTA filter paper; Whatman International, Ltd., Maidstone, UK) for specimen collection without DNA extraction in a single-step, nonnested PCR for fungal keratitis. Methods. Specimens were collected from ocular surfaces with FTA filter discs, which automatically lyse collected cells and stabilize nucleic acids. Filter discs were directly used in single-step PCR reactions to detect fungal DNA. Test sensitivity was evaluated with serial dilutions of Candida albicans, Fusarium oxysporum, and Aspergillus fumigatus cultures. Test specificity was analyzed by comparing 196 and 155 healthy individuals from Switzerland and Egypt, respectively, with 15 patients with a diagnosis of microbial keratitis. Results. PCR with filter discs detected 3 C. albicans, 25 F. oxysporum, and 125 A. fumigatus organisms. In healthy volunteers, fungal PCR was positive in 1.0% and 8.4% of eyes from Switzerland and Egypt, respectively. Fungal PCR remained negative in 10 cases of culture-proven bacterial keratitis, became positive in 4 cases of fungal keratitis, but missed 1 case of culture-proven A. fumigatus keratitis. Conclusions. FTA filter paper for specimen collection together with direct PCR is a promising method of detecting fungal keratitis. The analytical sensitivity is high without the need for a semi-nested or nested second PCR, the clinical specificity is 91.7% to 99.0%, and the method is rapid and inexpensive."}
{"id": "19764004", "title": "Mutagenesis and genetic characterisation of amylolytic Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Mutagenesis and genetic characterisation of amylolytic Aspergillus niger. Aspergillus niger FCBP-198 was genetically modified for its ability to reveal extra cellular alpha-amylase enzyme activity. From 76 efficient mutants isolated after ultraviolet (UV) irradiation, An-UV-5.6 was selected as the most efficient UV mutant, with 76.41 units mL(-1) of alpha-amylase activity compared to wild (34.45 units mL(-1)). In case of ethyl methane sulphonate (EMS), among 242 survivors, 74 were assayed quantitatively and An-Ch-4.7 was found to be the most competent, as it exhibited a three-fold increase in alpha-amylase activity (89.38 units mL(-1)) than the parental strain. Genetic relationships of the mutants of A. niger FCBP-198 were analysed with a randomly amplified polymorphic DNA-polymerase chain reaction (RAPD-PCR). Results obtained from the comparison between genotypes of A. niger FCBP-198 showed differences in the sizes and numbers of amplified fragments per primer for each isolate. The dendrogram showed that genotypes An-Ch-4.7 and An-Ch-4.2 were distinctly classified into one category, while the isolates An-UV-5.6, An-UV-5.1 and A. niger FCBP-198 have the nearest genetic relationship. The five isolates from A. niger FCBP-198 genotypes shared an average of 65% bands."}
{"id": "19760058", "title": "Cloning of a heat-stable chitin deacetylase gene from Aspergillus nidulans and its functional expression in Escherichia coli.", "content": "Cloning of a heat-stable chitin deacetylase gene from Aspergillus nidulans and its functional expression in Escherichia coli. A gene encoding chitin deacetylase was cloned by polymerase chain reaction from Aspergillus nidulans. Sequencing result showed 40% homology to the corresponding gene from Colletotrichum lindemuthianum. The complete gene contains an open reading frame of 747 nucleotides encoding a sequence of 249 amino acid residues. The chitin deacetylase gene was subcloned into a pET28a expression vector and expressed in Escherichia coli BL21 and then purified by metal affinity chromatography using a His-bind column. The purified chitin deacetylase demonstrated an activity of 0.77 U ml(-1) for the glycol chitin substrates, and its specific activity was 4.17 U mg(-1) for it. The optimal temperature and pH of the purified enzyme were 50 degrees C and 8.0, respectively. When glycol chitin was used as the substrate, K (m) was 4.92 mg ml(-1), and K (cat) showed 6.25 s(-1), thus the ratio of K (cat) and K (m) was 1.27 ml s(-1) mg(-1). The activity of chitin deacetylase was affected by a range of metal ions and ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid."}
{"id": "19634068", "title": "Mating type and invasiveness are significantly associated in Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Mating type and invasiveness are significantly associated in Aspergillus fumigatus. In recent years, several lines of evidence have questioned the asexual nature of Aspergillus fumigatus, showing that this fungus possesses a fully functional sexual reproductive cycle that leads to the production of cleistothecia and ascospores. The presence of a sexual cycle in A. fumigatus could have significant medical implications, as sexual reproduction might contribute to increased virulence or resistance to antifungal agents. In the present work, we studied the relationship between mating type and invasiveness in A. fumigatus. Statistical analysis of the results showed a significant association between the mating type MAT1-1 and an invasive origin of the isolates. Similarly, when the clinical or environmental origin of isolates was considered instead of their invasive or non-invasive origin, a significant association between the mating type MAT1-1 and clinical origin was observed. Finally, the association between mating type MAT1-1 and pathogenicity, measured by an Elastase Activity Index > or = 1, was significant. Our results suggest a possible association between the MAT1-1 mating type and A. fumigatus invasiveness."}
{"id": "19500260", "title": "Invasive aspergillosis: epidemiology and environmental study in haematology patients (Sfax, Tunisia).", "content": "Invasive aspergillosis: epidemiology and environmental study in haematology patients (Sfax, Tunisia). Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is a major opportunistic infection in haematology patients. Preventive measures are important to control IA because diagnosis is difficult and the outcome of treatment is poor. We prospectively examined the environmental contamination by Aspergillus and other fungal species and evaluated the prevalence of invasive aspergillosis in the protect unit of haematology. A three-year prospective study (December 2004-September 2007) was carried out in the department of haematology of Hedi Chaker Hospital. Suspected invasive aspergillosis cases were reviewed and classified as proven, probable and possible invasive aspergillosis using the EORTC criteria. During the study period, we collected weekly environmental samples (patient's rooms, tables and acclimatisers) and clinical samples from each patient (nasal, expectoration and auricular). Among 105 neutropenic patients, 16 had probable and 13 had possible IA. A total of 1680 clinical samples were collected and A. flavus was most frequently isolated (79.2%). Analysis of 690 environmental samples revealed that Penicillium (44%) was the most frequent followed by Cladosporium (20%), Aspergillus spp. (18%) and Alternaria (13%). The PCR-sequencing of 30 A. flavus isolates detected from clinical and environmental samples confirmed the mycological identification. Our findings underline the importance of environmental surveillance and strict application of preventive measures."}
{"id": "19496935", "title": "Successful management of postpneumonectomy Aspergillus pleural empyema by combined surgical and anti-fungal treatment with voriconazole and caspofungin.", "content": "Successful management of postpneumonectomy Aspergillus pleural empyema by combined surgical and anti-fungal treatment with voriconazole and caspofungin. Aspergillus pleural empyema is a rare but often fatal infection complicating thoracic surgery. Three men and one woman aged 23-47 years were diagnosed with Aspergillus pleural empyema after lung resection. Underlying diseases were lung cancer (n = 2), Hodgkin's disease (n = 1) and thoracic trauma (n = 1). The treatment protocol consisted of systemic anti-fungal treatment with caspofungin and voriconazole, intrapleural application of amphotericin B and surgical debridement with secondary closure of the leaking bronchial stump. Two patients with chronic Aspergillus pleural empyema had been pretreated with itraconazole and/or amphotericin B. Two patients were treated with a thoracostoma. Two patients had undergone pneumonectomy for previously diagnosed pulmonary aspergillosis. Caspofungin was given for 13-60 days, Voriconazole for up to 100 days. Surgical debridement was performed in all cases and in two cases the created thoracostoma was closed during a second surgical procedure. Aspergillus PCR using blood samples, bronchoalveolar lavage or aspiration fluid was used for monitoring. All four patients had complete clinical and microbiological remission. Our case series shows promising results and underscores the importance of a combined therapeutic approach for Aspergillus pleural empyema consisting of anti-fungal treatment and surgery. Voriconazole and caspofungin seem to be a suitable combination for this infection."}
{"id": "19412581", "title": "Improvement of Aspergillus sulphureus endo-beta-1,4-xylanase expression in Pichia pastoris by codon optimization and analysis of the enzymic characterization.", "content": "Improvement of Aspergillus sulphureus endo-beta-1,4-xylanase expression in Pichia pastoris by codon optimization and analysis of the enzymic characterization. The gene xynB from Aspergillus sulphureus encoding the endo-beta-1,4-xylanase was de novo synthesized by splicing overlap extension polymerase chain reaction according to Pichia pastoris protein's codon bias. The synthetic DNA and wild-type DNA were placed under the control of a glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene promoter (GAP) in the constitutive expression vector plasmid pGAPzalphaA and electrotransformed into the P. pastoris X-33 strain, respectively. The transformants screened by Zeocin were able to constitutively secrete the xylanase in YPD liquid medium. The maximum yield of the recombinant xylanase produced by the synthetic DNA was 105 U ml(-1), which was about 5-fold higher than that by wild-type DNA under the flask culture at 28 degrees Celsius for 3 days. The enzyme showed optimal activity at 50 degrees Celsius and pH 5.0. The residual activity remained above 90% after the recombinant xylanase was pretreated in Na(2)HPO(4)-citric acid buffer (pH 2.4) for 2 h. The xylanase activity was significantly improved by Zn(2+). These biochemical characteristics suggest that the recombinant xylanase has a prospective application in feed industry as an additive."}
{"id": "21351463", "title": "[Recent advances in the study of amorpha-4,11-diene synthase and its metabolic engineering].", "content": "[Recent advances in the study of amorpha-4,11-diene synthase and its metabolic engineering]. Amorpha-4,11-diene synthase (ADS) can convert farnesyl pyrophosphate (FPP) to amorpha-4, 11-diene, a precursor of artemisinin. ADS plays an important role in the biosynthesis of artemisinin. This review summarizes the molecular biology and metabolic engineering study of ADS in recent years. The genomic DNA and its cDNA sequences of amorpha-4, 11-diene synthase were cloned from Artemisia annua L. The cDNA encoding amorpha-4, 11-diene synthase contains a 1 641 bp open reading frame coding for 546 amino acids. ADS shows a broad pH optimum and an absolute requirement for divalent metal ions as cofactors. The specificity of ADS to the substrates and products is not high and the formation of amorpha-4, 11-diene by ADS from FPP is achieved by an initial 1, 6-closure with subsequent 1, 10-closure. The ADS cDNA cloned from Artemisia annua L, or totally synthesized by PCR, was introduced into different hosts including E. coli, S. cerevisiae, Nicotiana tabacum L. Arabidopsis thaliana and A. nidulans resulting in varied engineering microorganisms and cells producing amorpha-4, 11-diene. The way to improve the production of amorpha-4, 11-diene was investigated by two strategies such as improving the supply of substrate and directing FPP flux to amorpha-4, 11-diene production from competing pathways."}
{"id": "20352975", "title": "[Expression of a pectin lyase A gene from Aspergillus niger in Pichia pastoris GS115].", "content": "[Expression of a pectin lyase A gene from Aspergillus niger in Pichia pastoris GS115]. In this study, the mature peptide sequence of a pectin lyase gene A was amplified from Aspergillus niger strain EIM-6 by using RT-PCR reverse transcription technique. The cloned gene was then inserted into a Pichia pastoris expression vector pPIC9k to produce the recombinant expression plasmid pPIC9K-pelA. By using electric shocks, we successfully transformed the recombinant pPIC9K-pelA into Pichia pastoris GS115. The activity of the engineered strain reached to 2.3 U/mL after induction with the final concentration of 1.5% methanol. SDS-PAGE analysis revealed that the pPIC9K-pelA transformant had an additional protein band of approximately 38 kD, which was not present in the control. There were no significant differences between the recombinant and native pectin lyase with regard to their hydrolysis activities."}
{"id": "20183192", "title": "Identification of airborne bacterial and fungal species in the clinical microbiology laboratory of a university teaching hospital employing ribosomal DNA (rDNA) PCR and gene sequencing techniques.", "content": "Identification of airborne bacterial and fungal species in the clinical microbiology laboratory of a university teaching hospital employing ribosomal DNA (rDNA) PCR and gene sequencing techniques. Universal or \"broad-range\" PCR-based ribosomal DNA (rDNA) was performed on a collection of 58 isolates (n = 30 bacteria + 28 fungi), originating from environmental air from several locations within a busy clinical microbiology laboratory, supporting a university teaching hospital. A total of 10 bacterial genera were identified including both Gram-positive and Gram-negative genera. Gram-positive organisms accounted for 27/30 (90%) of total bacterial species, consisting of seven genera and included (in descending order of frequency) Staphylococcus, Micrococcus, Corynebacterium, Paenibacillus, Arthrobacter, Janibacter and Rothia. Gram-negative organisms were less frequently isolated 3/30 (10%) and comprised three genera, including Moraxella, Psychrobacter and Haloanella. Eight fungal genera were identified among the 28 fungal organisms isolated, including (in descending order of frequency) Cladosporium, Penicillium, Aspergillus, Thanatephorus, Absidia, Eurotium, Paraphaeosphaeria and Tritirachium, with Cladosporium accounting for 10/28 (35.7%) of the total fungal isolates. In conclusion, this study identified the presence of 10 bacterial and eight fungal genera in the air within the laboratory sampled. Although this reflected diversity of the microorganisms present, none of these organisms have been described previously as having an inhalational route of laboratory-acquired infection. Therefore, we believe that the species of organisms identified and the concentration levels of these airborne contaminants determined, do not pose a significant health and safety threat for immunocompotent laboratory personnel and visitors."}
{"id": "20035624", "title": "Flux Design: In silico design of cell factories based on correlation of pathway fluxes to desired properties.", "content": "Flux Design: In silico design of cell factories based on correlation of pathway fluxes to desired properties. The identification of genetic target genes is a key step for rational engineering of production strains towards bio-based chemicals, fuels or therapeutics. This is often a difficult task, because superior production performance typically requires a combination of multiple targets, whereby the complex metabolic networks complicate straightforward identification. Recent attempts towards target prediction mainly focus on the prediction of gene deletion targets and therefore can cover only a part of genetic modifications proven valuable in metabolic engineering. Efficient in silico methods for simultaneous genome-scale identification of targets to be amplified or deleted are still lacking. Here we propose the identification of targets via flux correlation to a chosen objective flux as approach towards improved biotechnological production strains with optimally designed fluxes. The approach, we name Flux Design, computes elementary modes and, by search through the modes, identifies targets to be amplified (positive correlation) or down-regulated (negative correlation). Supported by statistical evaluation, a target potential is attributed to the identified reactions in a quantitative manner. Based on systems-wide models of the industrial microorganisms Corynebacterium glutamicum and Aspergillus niger, up to more than 20,000 modes were obtained for each case, differing strongly in production performance and intracellular fluxes. For lysine production in C. glutamicum the identified targets nicely matched with reported successful metabolic engineering strategies. In addition, simulations revealed insights, e.g. into the flexibility of energy metabolism. For enzyme production in A.niger flux correlation analysis suggested a number of targets, including non-obvious ones. Hereby, the relevance of most targets depended on the metabolic state of the cell and also on the carbon source. Objective flux correlation analysis provided a detailed insight into the metabolic networks of industrially relevant prokaryotic and eukaryotic microorganisms. It was shown that capacity, pathway usage, and relevant genetic targets for optimal production partly depend on the network structure and the metabolic state of the cell which should be considered in future metabolic engineering strategies. The presented strategy can be generally used to identify priority sorted amplification and deletion targets for metabolic engineering purposes under various conditions and thus displays a useful strategy to be incorporated into efficient strain and bioprocess optimization."}
{"id": "20030960", "title": "[Current approaches to diagnosis and treatment of invasive fungal infection in HSCT recipients].", "content": "[Current approaches to diagnosis and treatment of invasive fungal infection in HSCT recipients]. Invasive fungal infections (IFI) are a kind of the most severe complications after hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT), Candida and Aspergillus are common causes. Because of immunosuppressive therapy, ablative conditioning regimen, acute or chronic graft-versus-host disease, long-term treatment of broad-spectrum antibiotics and cytomegalovirus infection, IFI has increased in the past few years. Invasive mould infection is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in HSCT recipients. Methods for early diagnosis of IFI include clinical and laboratory examinations, as well as characteristic radiography. Voriconazole is the first-line antifungal agent for prevention of IFI. Combination therapy of two antifungal compounds such as azoles or amphotericin B with echinocandins have shown a good effectiveness and may be a promising future strategy for antifungal treatment. In this review, the early diagnosis and treatment of IFI in HSCT recipients are summarized. As for early diagnosis of IFI, the laboratory diagnosis techniques such as GM test, G test and PCR techniques are discussed. As for prophylaxis and treatment of IFI, the prophylaxis treatment, empirical treatment, preemptive treatment, targeted treatment, combined treatment and immunologic treatment are discussed."}
{"id": "19968513", "title": "PCR-based diagnosis of human fungal infections.", "content": "PCR-based diagnosis of human fungal infections. PCR is a very appealing technology for the detection of human pathogens, but the detection of fungal pathogens is particularly challenging. Fungi have cell walls that impede the efficient lysis of organisms and liberation of DNA, which can lead to false-negative PCR results. Conversely, some human pathogens are also ubiquitous environmental saprophytes that can contaminate PCR reagents and cause false-positive results. We examine the quality of PCR-based studies for fungal diagnostics using 42 variables within the Minimum Information for Publication of Quantitative Real-Time PCR Experiments guidelines. This review focuses on taxon-directed PCR assays for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis, candidiasis and Pneumocystis pneumonia. Finally, we evaluate broad-range fungal PCR assays capable of detecting a wide spectrum of human pathogens."}
{"id": "19895220", "title": "Current status and future perspectives on molecular and serological methods in diagnostic mycology.", "content": "Current status and future perspectives on molecular and serological methods in diagnostic mycology. Invasive fungal infections are an important cause of infectious morbidity. Nonculture-based methods are increasingly used for rapid, accurate diagnosis to improve patient outcomes. New and existing DNA amplification platforms have high sensitivity and specificity for direct detection and identification of fungi in clinical specimens. Since laboratories are increasingly reliant on DNA sequencing for fungal identification, measures to improve sequence interpretation should support validation of reference isolates and quality control in public gene repositories. Novel technologies (e.g., isothermal and PNA FISH methods), platforms enabling high-throughput analyses (e.g., DNA microarrays and Luminex xMAP) and/or commercial PCR assays warrant further evaluation for routine diagnostic use. Notwithstanding the advantages of molecular tests, serological assays remain clinically useful for patient management. The serum Aspergillus galactomannan test has been incorporated into diagnostic algorithms of invasive aspergillosis. Both the galactomannan and the serum beta-D-glucan test have value for diagnosing infection and monitoring therapeutic response."}
{"id": "19890556", "title": "Onsite infectious agents and toxins monitoring in 12 May Sichuan earthquake affected areas.", "content": "Onsite infectious agents and toxins monitoring in 12 May Sichuan earthquake affected areas. At 14:28 on 12 May 2008, Sichuan Province of China suffered a devastating earthquake measuring 8.0 on the Richter scale with more than 80 000 human lives lost and millions displaced. With inadequate shelter, poor access to health services, and disrupted ecology, the survivors were at enormous risk of infectious disease outbreaks. This work, believed to be unprecedented, was carried out to contain a possible outbreak through onsite monitoring of airborne biological agents in the high-risk areas. In such a mission, a mobile laboratory was developed using a customized vehicle along with state-of-art bioaerosol and molecular equipment and tools, and deployed to Sichuan 11 days after the earthquake. Using a high volume bioaerosol sampler (RCS High Flow) and Button Inhalable Aerosol Sampler equipped with gelatin filters, a total of 55 air samples, among which are 28 filter samples, were collected from rubble, medical centers, and camps of refugees, troops and rescue workers between 23 May and 9 June, 2008. After pre-treatment of the air samples, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), gel electrophoresis, limulus amebocyte lysate (LAL) assay and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) were applied to detect infectious agents and to quantify environmental toxins and allergens. The results revealed that, while high levels of endotoxin (180 approximately 975 ng/m3) and (1,3)-beta-d-glucans (11 approximately 100 ng/m3) were observed, infectious agents such as Bacillus anthracis, Bordetella pertussis, Neisseria meningitidis, Mycobacterium tuberculosis, influenza A virus, bird flu virus (H5N1), enteric viruses, and Meningococcal meningitis were found below their detection limits. The total bacterial concentrations were found to range from 250 to 2.5 x 10(5) DNA copies/L. Aspergillus fumigatus (Asp f 1) and dust mite allergens (Der p 1 and Der f 1) were also found below their detection limits."}
{"id": "19861279", "title": "[Multiplex fluorescent quantitative PCR for detecting deep fungal infection in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus].", "content": "[Multiplex fluorescent quantitative PCR for detecting deep fungal infection in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus]. To establish a rapid, sensitive and specific method based on multiplex fluorescent quantitative PCR for detection of deep infections with Candida albicans and Aspergillus flavus in patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). Two pairs of primers and Taqman probes were designed according to the gene sequences of Candida albicans and Aspergillus flavus available in American Type Culture Collection. The positivity rate, sensitivity and specificity of the multiplex fluorescent quantitative PCR-based method for detecting the fungal infection was tested in 20 specimens from SLE patients with Candida albicans and Aspergillus flavus infections, 20 specimens from SLE patients with suspected deep fungal infections, and 20 microbial samples other than Candida albicans or Aspergillus flavus. The multiple fluorescence quantitative PCR-based method showed a positivity rate and specificity of both 100% for detecting Candida albicans and Aspergillus flavus infections in the SLE patients. This method resulted in a detection sensitivity of 75%, significantly higher than that of fugal culture method (40%, P<0.05). The multiplex fluorescent real-time PCR-based method allows rapid, quantitative and simultaneous detection of deep Candida albicans and Aspergillus flavus infections with high sensitivity and specificity in SLE patients."}
{"id": "19855303", "title": "Prospective monitoring for invasive aspergillosis using galactomannan and polymerase chain reaction in high risk pediatric patients.", "content": "Prospective monitoring for invasive aspergillosis using galactomannan and polymerase chain reaction in high risk pediatric patients. The diagnosis of invasive aspergillus remains a challenge in the care of high-risk patients. Outcomes are improved when invasive aspergillus is diagnosed early, prompting the initiation of appropriate antifungal therapy. We evaluated the utility of prospective monitoring for invasive aspergillosis (IA) using biomarkers such as serum galactomannan (GM) and/or blood polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in high-risk pediatric patients. Patients with high-risk leukemia (HRL) or allogenic hematopoietic cell transplant (HCT) recipients were prospectively monitored twice weekly for IA using GM and PCR for Aspergillus species. Sixty-eight patients had collected >or=2 specimens. The 1086 specimens were collected; 627 from HRL (58%) and 459 (42%) from HCT recipients. Median specimens/patient was 11.0 (2 to 58), and median follow-up/patient was 98.5 days (14 to 437). Fifty-six percent of samples were obtained from patients receiving mold-active agents; 32% HRL and 89% HCT. There were no proven, 3 probable, and 20 possible episodes of IA. Thirteen specimens (1.2%) from 4 patients (5%) were GM+. None were positive by PCR. The prospective use of GM and PCR in this high-risk pediatric population did not identify cases of proven IA. A high false positive rate was not detected. It is speculated that changes in clinical practice, such as early use of empiric and/or prophylactic mold-active agent and frequent imaging studies have impacted the epidemiology of IA. In a population with low incidence of IA, the use of these assays as a screening device on blood may not further enhance current outcomes."}
{"id": "19848605", "title": "Molecular epidemiology of invasive aspergillosis: lessons learned from an outbreak investigation in an Australian hematology unit.", "content": "Molecular epidemiology of invasive aspergillosis: lessons learned from an outbreak investigation in an Australian hematology unit. Suspected nosocomial Aspergillus fumigatus infections in an Australian hematology unit were investigated by molecular typing of clinical and environmental isolates using polymerase chain reaction fingerprinting, CSP typing, and multilocus microsatellite typing. Only multilocus microsatellite typing revealed that all isolates were genetically distinct. The selection of an appropriate typing method is essential for effective outbreak investigations."}
{"id": "19835761", "title": "Characterization of molds isolated from smoked paprika by PCR-RFLP and micellar electrokinetic capillary electrophoresis.", "content": "Characterization of molds isolated from smoked paprika by PCR-RFLP and micellar electrokinetic capillary electrophoresis. Molds are common contaminants of paprika meat products. The drying and storage stages of paprika processing are critical because they can provide molds with the conditions particularly appropriate for their growth and proliferation. Thus, an efficient and accurate characterization of the toxigenic molds of paprika is necessary. An RFLP analysis of the rRNA genes was performed by using a TaqI restriction enzyme. In addition, a micellar electrokinetic capillary chromatography (MECC) method was tested to analyze secondary metabolites produced by mold strains commonly found in paprika. This study was confirmed with a 5.8S-ITS region sequence analysis. A total of 31 isolates were identified by RFLP and MECC analysis. These showed stable RFLP profiles that were clearly different for the different genera and species, and were grouped into clusters together with the profiles of the 16 reference strains. MECC analysis provided additional characteristic peak patterns for the characterization of the mold species present. The characterized isolates were species of the genera Fusarium spp., Aspergillus spp., Penicillium spp., Cladosporium spp., Mucor spp. and Phlebia spp. The identifications were confirmed by the 5.8S-ITS region sequence analysis and by a BLAST search of the GenBank database. RFLP patterns with TaqI restriction enzyme and MECC profiles, either singly or combined, could be of great interest to distinguish molds in paprika."}
{"id": "19835173", "title": "[Cloning, expression and characterization of a novel lipase gene lipB from Aspergillus niger F044].", "content": "[Cloning, expression and characterization of a novel lipase gene lipB from Aspergillus niger F044]. We cloned, expressed and characterized a novel lipase gene lipB from Aspergillus niger F044, to facilitate the large scale production and application of that enzyme. We cloned lipB gene and the cDNA sequence by PCR and RT-PCR, and then cloned the open reading frame of lipB into pET28a vector and expressed by isopropyl beta-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside (IPTG) induction. After Ni-agarose purification, the characteristics were determined and the conformation change was checked by circular dichroism methods. The novel lipase genes cDNA of lipB were cloned from Aspergillus niger F044 (GenBank: FJ536287, FJ536288) and expressed in Escherichia coli. The molecular weight of LipB was about 43 kDa. The optimal substrate of this enzyme is 4-nitrophenyl octanoate (pNPC-C8) with Km = 5.98 mmol/L. The optimal temperature and pH was 50 degrees C and pH 6.0. The enzyme was stable below 40 degrees C. After incubated at 60 degrees C for 1 h, only 18.8% activity remained. After treated by 2 mmol/L Ca2+ for 1 h, the activity improved 2.6-fold. Enzymatic characteristics of LipB determined showed this enzyme might have potential in industrial applications."}
{"id": "19819579", "title": "Discrimination of the main Ochratoxin A-producing species in Aspergillus section Circumdati by specific PCR assays.", "content": "Discrimination of the main Ochratoxin A-producing species in Aspergillus section Circumdati by specific PCR assays. Ochratoxin A (OTA) is one of the most important mycotoxins because of its high toxicity to both humans and animals and its occurrence in a number of basic foods and agro-products. Some of the main OTA-producing species belong to Aspergillus section Circumdati, whose taxonomy has been lately revised with the description of new species. The high morphological similarity of these species (Aspergillus ochraceus, Aspergillus steynii and Aspergillus westerdijkiae) makes difficult discrimination among them and with respect to the other species included in the same section unable to produce OTA. In this work, PCR assays specific for the OTA-producing species, A. ochraceus, A. steynii and A. westerdijkiae, were developed on the basis of the multicopy ITS regions of the rDNA. The assays were tested in a wide sample of isolates from diverse origins and culture collections, confirming their specificity, and revealing that the current identification of strains from section Circumdati might need a revision."}
{"id": "19801473", "title": "Identification of two aflatrem biosynthesis gene loci in Aspergillus flavus and metabolic engineering of Penicillium paxilli to elucidate their function.", "content": "Identification of two aflatrem biosynthesis gene loci in Aspergillus flavus and metabolic engineering of Penicillium paxilli to elucidate their function. Aflatrem is a potent tremorgenic toxin produced by the soil fungus Aspergillus flavus, and a member of a structurally diverse group of fungal secondary metabolites known as indole-diterpenes. Gene clusters for indole-diterpene biosynthesis have recently been described in several species of filamentous fungi. A search of Aspergillus complete genome sequence data identified putative aflatrem gene clusters in the genomes of A. flavus and Aspergillus oryzae. In both species the genes for aflatrem biosynthesis cluster at two discrete loci; the first, ATM1, is telomere proximal on chromosome 5 and contains a cluster of three genes, atmG, atmC, and atmM, and the second, ATM2, is telomere distal on chromosome 7 and contains five genes, atmD, atmQ, atmB, atmA, and atmP. Reverse transcriptase PCR in A. flavus demonstrated that aflatrem biosynthesis transcript levels increased with the onset of aflatrem production. Transfer of atmP and atmQ into Penicillium paxilli paxP and paxQ deletion mutants, known to accumulate paxilline intermediates paspaline and 13-desoxypaxilline, respectively, showed that AtmP is a functional homolog of PaxP and that AtmQ utilizes 13-desoxypaxilline as a substrate to synthesize aflatrem pathway-specific intermediates, paspalicine and paspalinine. We propose a scheme for aflatrem biosynthesis in A. flavus based on these reconstitution experiments in P. paxilli and identification of putative intermediates in wild-type cultures of A. flavus."}
{"id": "19765479", "title": "Endogenous Aspergillus endophthalmitis occurring after liver transplantation: a case report.", "content": "Endogenous Aspergillus endophthalmitis occurring after liver transplantation: a case report. Endogenous Aspergillus endophthalmitis (AE) is a rare complication of invasive aspergillosis in transplant patients. In this report, we have described a patient who underwent liver transplantation because of drug-induced cholestatic cirrhosis and developed AE at 2 weeks after the surgery. The patient was a 22-year-old man who received a right liver lobe from his father. The operation was uneventful but the patient developed signs and symptoms of small-for-size syndrome after the second day of surgery. The patient received intense immunosuppression with methylprednisolone for 3 days, tacrolimus and mycophenolate mofetil from the first day after the operation, with ceftriaxone and metronidazole as prophylactic antibiotics. Because of signs of respiratory distress with pneumonia, vancomycin and amphotericin B were added empirically to his regimen. Polymerase chain reaction for aspergillus DNA in the blood was positive. The patient received one course of methylprednisolone pulse therapy for signs of acute rejection at day 10, and tacrolimus was changed to sirolimus because of a rising serum creatinine and convulsions. After 2 weeks, the patient's symptoms improved and liver function tests were normal, but the complained of sudden intense pain in the left eye with unilateral blurred vision, redness, and other signs of endophthalmitis upon examination by an ophthalmologists. After 24 hours, visual acuity decreased to light perception. AE was confirmed by microscopy and culture of the vitreous fluid and retinal biopsy. Despite changing amphotericin to intravitreal injection of voriconazole followed by intravenous voriconazole and transient resolution of the symptoms, no improvement was seen in visual acuity. Pain and signs of inflammation in the eye recurred after 2 weeks. At last the patient underwent enucleation for resistant infection and fear of involvement of the other eye by aspergillosis or sympathetic ophthalmia."}
{"id": "19741524", "title": "Antifungal drug resistance: do molecular methods provide a way forward?", "content": "Antifungal drug resistance: do molecular methods provide a way forward? Antifungal drug resistance is a confounding factor that negatively impacts clinical outcome for patients with serious mycoses. Early detection of fungi in blood or other specimens with a rapid assessment of drug susceptibility could improve the survival of patients with invasive disease by accelerating the initiation of appropriate antifungal treatment. Recent years have seen the growth of molecular technology that is ideally suited for fungal identification and assessment of drug resistance mechanisms. Elucidation of the genetic mechanisms responsible for triazole and echinocandin resistance in prominent Candida spp. and Aspergillus spp. provides an opportunity to develop molecular diagnostic platforms suitable for rapid detection of primary and secondary drug resistance. Several highly dynamic and robust amplification/detection methodologies are now available that can provide simultaneous species identification and high fidelity discrimination of resistance alleles. Molecular diagnostic platforms are ideal for rapid detection of fungal pathogens and they provide an opportunity to develop in parallel molecular assays that can evaluate antifungal drug resistance."}
{"id": "19731605", "title": "Strain improvement and genetic characterization of indigenous Aspergillus flavus for amylolytic potential.", "content": "Strain improvement and genetic characterization of indigenous Aspergillus flavus for amylolytic potential. Aspergillus flavus FCBP-231, a filamentous fungus, was genetically modified for its ability to reveal extra cellular alpha-amylase activity. For strain improvement, the selected strains were subjected to UV irradiation (5-40 min exposure) and EMS treatment (50-300 microg mL(-1)) for hyper activity of an alpha-amylase enzyme. The mutants were quantitatively compared with the parental strain. UV and chemical mutagenesis brought about a dramatic enhancement in enzymatic activity. The mutant strains Af-UV-5.3 and Af-Ch-5.7 exhibited 79 and 110% more enzyme activity than the native strain A. flavus FCBP-231. This improvement in enzyme activity of the mutants suggests that they are suitable strains to be used in biotechnology. RAPD-PCR analysis revealed different patterns of amplicons of native as well as mutant derivatives, which suggested that the mutation imparted changes in the genetic make up of the mutants probably involved enzyme production control."}
{"id": "19730788", "title": "Disseminated aspergillosis following resolution of Pneumocystis pneumonia with sustained elevation of beta-glucan in an Intensive Care Unit: a case report.", "content": "Disseminated aspergillosis following resolution of Pneumocystis pneumonia with sustained elevation of beta-glucan in an Intensive Care Unit: a case report. Invasive aspergillosis is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised patients receiving intensive care. The double-sandwich ELISA for galactomannan is reported to have a high sensitivity (96.5%) for the detection of invasive aspergillosis when a cut-off value of 0.8 ng/ml is used. However, we have experienced a case of lethal disseminated aspergillosis in a patient that presented with a negative galactomannan (GM) test and persistent elevation of beta-D glucan (BG) levels. A 63-year-old female was admitted to our Intensive Care Unit (ICU) in acute respiratory failure and elevated BG. She had been receiving medication for Good-pasture syndrome based on anti-glomerular basement membrane antibodies and myeloperoxidase-antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibodies for 9 months and was receiving long-term prednisolone therapy (20 mg/day). On admission, her trachea was immediately intubated, and a PCR analysis of the bronchoalveolar lavage sample revealed Pneumocystis jiroveci. Trimethoprimsulfamethoxazole therapy was started for Pneumocystis pneumonia. The levels of BG remained elevated (> 100 pg/ml) during the treatment period despite the clinical resolution of Pneumocystis pneumonia, raising concerns of another complicated invasive fungal disease; consequently, fosfluconazole was administered empirically. The serum BG levels, however, did not decrease. Blood cultures did not detect a fungal infection. Serum GM levels measured by a double-sandwich ELISA on the 6th, 11th, and 24th days in the ICU were negative (< 0.2 ng/ml). The patient ultimately died of multiple organ failure on the 45th ICU day. Postmortem examination revealed a disseminated fungal infection with aggressive vascular invasion of the lungs, heart, and brain. In situ hybridization with a 568-bp probe of the alkaline proteinase sequence of Aspergillus fumigatus showed specific positive staining within the fungus present in the infected lung tissue, revealing that this patient may have had a systemic infection by A. fumigatus or A. flavus. This is a case of serum GM-negative disseminated aspergillosis pathologically proven by autopsy. Persistent elevated BG levels (> 100 pg/ml) refractory to trimethoprim-sulfamethoxazole and fosfluconazole may suggest possible Aspergillus infection and should prompt the initiation of empiric anti-aspergillosis therapies in patients at risk for fungal infection."}
{"id": "19700014", "title": "More experiences with the Tzanck smear test: cytologic findings in cutaneous granulomatous disorders.", "content": "More experiences with the Tzanck smear test: cytologic findings in cutaneous granulomatous disorders. Granulomatous dermatitis is a distinctive histopathologic cutaneous reaction pattern against various infectious and noninfectious agents. Cytologically, granulomatous dermatitis shows granulomas and multinucleated giant cells. Various etiologic agents of granulomatous diseases can also be identified. We aimed to investigate Tzanck smear findings in granulomatous skin diseases. Patients who had granulomas and/or multinucleated giant cells of Langhans, foreign body- and/or Touton type in Tzanck smear tests were included in the study. In these patients, Tzanck preparations were then further evaluated for additional cytologic findings. Samples stained with May-Gr\u00fcnwald-Giemsa stain were evaluated by the same dermatologist throughout the study. In some patients, methylene blue, Gram and/or Erlich-Ziehl-Nielsen stains were also performed. In all of the study cases, the final diagnosis was established after the evaluation of clinical and laboratory findings (including, when appropriate, potassium hydroxide examination; bacterial, leishmanial, and fungal cultures; histopathology; tuberculosis and leishmania polymerase chain reaction). We also calculated the sensitivity and specificity of the Leishman-Donovan body for cutaneous leishmaniasis. Over a 2-year period, 94 of 950 patients (9.9%) in whom Tzanck smear tests were performed had cytologic findings consistent with a granulomatous reaction. In 74 (78.7%) and 20 (21.3%) patients, the granulomatous reaction was due to infectious and noninfectious causes, respectively. Infectious causes included cutaneous leishmaniasis in 65 patients (87.8%), candidal granuloma in two patients, botyromycosis in two patients, and aspergillosis, blastomycosis, mucormycosis, leprosy, and cutaneous tuberculosis in one patient each. In 58 of 74 patients (78.4%) with infectious granulomatous dermatitis, the causes of the granulomas were identified. Noninfectious granulomatous reactions were due to granuloma annulare in 7 patients, sarcoidosis in 5 patients, a foreign body in 4 patients, necrobiosis lipoidica in 2 patients, and juvenile xanthogranuloma in 2 patients. In 17 of 20 patients (85%) with noninfectious granulomatous reactions, the cytologic findings were characteristic of the final diagnoses. The sensitivity and specificity of Leishman-Donovan bodies for cutaneous leishmaniasis were 76.9% and 100%, respectively. All of the samples were evaluated by the same dermatologist throughout the study; therefore no comment could be made regarding the reliability of the Tzanck smear test. In addition, the sensitivity and specificity of Tzanck smear test findings for diseases other than cutaneous leishmaniasis could not be calculated because of an insufficient number of patients. The Tzanck smear test may be a useful diagnostic tool for certain granulomatous skin diseases."}
{"id": "19684861", "title": "Management of invasive aspergillosis in patients with COPD: rational use of voriconazole.", "content": "Management of invasive aspergillosis in patients with COPD: rational use of voriconazole. Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) is an important cause of mortality in patients with hematologic malignancies. The reported incidence of IPA in the context of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) seems to increase. Approximately 1%-2% of overall fatal cases of IPA occur in COPD patients. The combination of factors such as lung immune imbalance, long-term corticosteroid use, increasing rate of bacterial exacerbations over time, and malnutrition are responsible for the emergence of IPA in these patients. The diagnosis of IPA is difficult to establish, which explains the delay in implementing accurate antifungal therapy and the high mortality rate. Persistent pneumonia nonresponsive to appropriate antibiotic treatment raises the concern of an invasive fungal infection. Definite diagnosis is obtained from tissue biopsy evidencing Aspergillus spp. on microscopic examination or in culture. Culture and microscopy of respiratory tract samples have a sensitivity and specificity of around 50%. Other diagnostic tools can be useful in documenting IPA: computed tomography (CT) scan, nonculture-based tests in serum and/or in bronchoalveolar lavage such as antibody/antigen tests for Aspergillus spp. More recent tools such as polymerase chain reaction or [1-->3]-beta-D-glucan have predictive values that need to be further investigated in COPD patients. Antifungal monotherapy using azole voriconazole is recommended as a first-line treatment of IPA. This review assesses the use of voriconazole in COPD patients."}
{"id": "19680888", "title": "Simultaneous detection of the main black aspergilli responsible for ochratoxin A (OTA) contamination in grapes by multiplex real-time polymerase chain reaction.", "content": "Simultaneous detection of the main black aspergilli responsible for ochratoxin A (OTA) contamination in grapes by multiplex real-time polymerase chain reaction. This paper reports a duplex real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay for the simultaneous detection of members of the Aspergillus niger aggregate and A. carbonarius, which are the main responsible species for ochratoxin A (OTA) contamination in grapes. This single tube reaction targets the beta-ketosynthase and the acyl transferase domains of the poliketide synthase of A. carbonarius and the A. niger aggregate, respectively. Melting curve analysis using a SYBR Green I real-time PCR approach showed characteristic T(m)-values demonstrating the specific, efficient and balanced amplification of the two PCR fragments. Subsequently, a TaqMan real-time PCR approach was settled, using 6-carboxy-fluorescein group (FAM) and VIC-labelled specific probes for automated detection. Results indicated no differences in sensitivity when using either the two sets of primers and probes in separate or in the same reaction. However, when both targets are in very different amounts, there is a preferential amplification of the target which is in more concentration. CT-values obtained in the presence of grape DNA were very similar to those observed when only fungal purified DNA was present, indicating that the grape DNA does not interfere in the real-time PCR reaction. This procedure provides a fast and accurate tool to monitor, in a single reaction, the presence of OTA-producing species in grapes which, to some extent, will facilitate OTA contamination surveys to guarantee food safety in the wine industry."}
{"id": "19678547", "title": "Isolation and characterization of new Metschnikowia pulcherrima strains as producers of the antimicrobial pigment pulcherrimin.", "content": "Isolation and characterization of new Metschnikowia pulcherrima strains as producers of the antimicrobial pigment pulcherrimin. Metschnikowia pulcherrima is a highly effective biocontrol yeast due to its pigment pulcherrimin that accumulates in the cells and in the growth medium. Three different strains of M. pulcherrima were isolated from local grapes. The yeast isolates were characterized on the basis of their biochemical, physiological and ITS1-5.8 s rDNA-ITS2 region. Based on the obtained results, the M. pulcherrima isolates were identified as new strains of M. pulcherrima. Strong antagonistic activities of the M. pulcherrima strains on the human pathogens Proteus vulgaris, Escherichia coli, Candida albicans, Candida parapsilosis, Candida krusei, and Trichosporon mucoides were determined. In addition, antagonistic effects of these M. pulcherrima strains were also tested against Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus niger, Trichoderma spp., Paecilomyces spp., and Bipolaris spp. and it was shown that the three different strains of M. pulcherrima also have an antagonistic effect on the growth of these fungal species at different extents. This study showed that all three strains of M. pulcherrima produce the same amount of the pigment pulcherrimin, but their antimicrobial activities on different microorganisms show important variations."}
{"id": "19673973", "title": "Trends in invasive fungal infections, with emphasis on invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Trends in invasive fungal infections, with emphasis on invasive aspergillosis. Patterns of invasive fungal infections are changing in many ways. Although yeast infections appear to have reached a stable incidence, the number of infections as a result of Aspergillus species appears to be increasing. Especially for mould infection, the diagnosis remains difficult and the detection and identification of clinically relevant isolates to the species level requires new validated techniques. Diagnostic tests are becoming more accurate, with biological markers such as PCR, galactomannan and 1,3 beta-D-glucan undergoing clinical validation. This is of importance because an early diagnosis is associated with increased survival. Correct diagnosis and in vitro susceptibility testing are becoming imperative for guidance of therapy in the context of changing epidemiology and the emergence of acquired resistance to antifungal drugs, as is insight into host factors that increase susceptibility to invasive mould infection and into the risks associated with new treatment modalities of underlying diseases. Despite improvements in the survival rates of patients with invasive fungal infection in recent years, continued research is required to meet the challenges associated with changes in epidemiology and resistance development."}
{"id": "19666480", "title": "Intimate bacterial-fungal interaction triggers biosynthesis of archetypal polyketides in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Intimate bacterial-fungal interaction triggers biosynthesis of archetypal polyketides in Aspergillus nidulans. Fungi produce numerous low molecular weight molecules endowed with a multitude of biological activities. However, mining the full-genome sequences of fungi indicates that their potential to produce secondary metabolites is greatly underestimated. Because most of the biosynthesis gene clusters are silent under laboratory conditions, one of the major challenges is to understand the physiological conditions under which these genes are activated. Thus, we cocultivated the important model fungus Aspergillus nidulans with a collection of 58 soil-dwelling actinomycetes. By microarray analyses of both Aspergillus secondary metabolism and full-genome arrays and Northern blot and quantitative RT-PCR analyses, we demonstrate at the molecular level that a distinct fungal-bacterial interaction leads to the specific activation of fungal secondary metabolism genes. Most surprisingly, dialysis experiments and electron microscopy indicated that an intimate physical interaction of the bacterial and fungal mycelia is required to elicit the specific response. Gene knockout experiments provided evidence that one induced gene cluster codes for the long-sought after polyketide synthase (PKS) required for the biosynthesis of the archetypal polyketide orsellinic acid, the typical lichen metabolite lecanoric acid, and the cathepsin K inhibitors F-9775A and F-9775B. A phylogenetic analysis demonstrates that orthologs of this PKS are widespread in nature in all major fungal groups, including mycobionts of lichens. These results provide evidence of specific interaction among microorganisms belonging to different domains and support the hypothesis that not only diffusible signals but intimate physical interactions contribute to the communication among microorganisms and induction of otherwise silent biosynthesis genes."}
{"id": "19664127", "title": "The first documented case of Aspergillus cardiac surgical site infection in Sweden: an epidemiology study using arbitrarily primed PCR.", "content": "The first documented case of Aspergillus cardiac surgical site infection in Sweden: an epidemiology study using arbitrarily primed PCR. Here we report two rare cases of severe thoracic Aspergillus fumigatus infections after lung and heart surgery at the same thoracic intensive care unit at the same time. The main objective was to identify a possible source of transmission. With arbitrarily primed polymerase chain reaction a patient-to-patient transmission could rapidly be ruled out as the cause of the first documented case of aspergillosis after open-heart surgery in Sweden. Although no definitive source was identified, a genetically similar strain was found in a contaminated supply room."}
{"id": "19628011", "title": "Use of a rep-PCR system to predict species in the Aspergillus section Nigri.", "content": "Use of a rep-PCR system to predict species in the Aspergillus section Nigri. The Aspergillus niger aggregate within the A. section Nigri is a group of black-spored aspergilli of great agro-economic importance whose well defined taxonomy has been elusive. Rep-PCR has become a rapid and cost-effective method for genotyping fungi and bacteria. In the present study, we evaluated the discriminatory power of a semi-automated rep-PCR barcoding system to distinguish morphotypic species and compare the results with the data obtained from ITS and partial calmodulin regions. For this purpose, 20 morphotyped black-spored Aspergillus species were used to create the A. section Nigri library in this barcoding system that served to identify 34 field isolates. A pair-wise similarity matrix was calculated using the cone-based Pearson correlation method and the dendrogram was generated by the unweighted pair group method with arithmetic mean (UPGMA), illustrating four different clustered groups: the uniseriate cluster (I), the Aspergillus carbonarius cluster (II), and. the two A. niger aggregate clusters (named III.A and III.B). Rep-PCR showed higher resolution than the ITS and the partial calmodulin gene analytical procedures. The data of the 34 unknown field isolates, collected from different locations in the United States, indicated that only 12% of the field isolates were >95% similar to one of the genotypes included in the A. section Nigri library. However, 64% of the field isolates matched genotypes with the reference library (similarity values >90%). Based on these results, this barcoding procedure has the potential for use as a reproducible tool for identifying the black-spored aspergilli."}
{"id": "19621578", "title": "[Two-step synthesis of the full length Aspergillus niger lipase gene lipA leads to high-level expression in Pichia pastoris].", "content": "[Two-step synthesis of the full length Aspergillus niger lipase gene lipA leads to high-level expression in Pichia pastoris]. Aspergillus niger lipases are important biocatalysis widely used in industries for food processing and pharmaceutical preparation. High-level expression recombinants can lead to cost effective lipase large scale production. Full length gene synthesis is an efficient measure to enhance the expression level of the gene. In order to reduce the non-specific binding between oligonucleotides and bases mutation caused by the complicate secondary structure of DNA and excessive PCR amplification, a frequently phenomenon in one-step gene synthesis, we used a two-step method including assembly PCR (A-PCR) and digestion-ligation step to synthesis Aspergillus niger lipase gene lipA. Assisted by DNA2.0 and Gene2Oliga software, we optimized the codon usage and secondary structure of RNA and induced enzyme sites Cla I (237 site) and Pst I (475 site) into the gene. In the first step, fragments F1 (237 bp), F2 (238 bp) and F3 (422 bp) were separately synthesized by assembly PCR. In the second step, fragments F1, F2 and F3 were separately digested by Cla I and Pst I, and then ligated into a full length lipA gene. Two-step method efficiently enhanced successful ratio for full-length gene synthesis and dispersed the risk for gene redesign. The synthesized gene was cloned into pPIC9K vector and transferred into Pichia pastoris. After methanol inducement, the expression level of the codon optimized lipA-syn gene reached 176.0 U/mL, 10.8-fold of the original lipA gene (16.3 U/mL) in Pichia pastoris GS1115. The recombinant offers the possibility for lipase large-scale production."}
{"id": "19618506", "title": "Assessment of the pectin degrading enzyme network of Aspergillus niger by functional genomics.", "content": "Assessment of the pectin degrading enzyme network of Aspergillus niger by functional genomics. The saprobic fungus Aspergillus niger is an efficient producer of a suite of extracellular enzymes involved in carbohydrate modification and degradation. Genome mining has resulted in the prediction of at least 39 genes encoding enzymes involved in the depolymerisation of the backbone of pectin. Additional genes,encoding enzymatic activities required for the degradation of the arabinan and arabinogalactan sidechains were predicted as well. DNA microarray analysis was used to study the condition-dependent expression of these genes, and to generate insights in possible synergistic interactions between the individual members of the pectin degrading enzyme network. For this purpose, A. niger was grown on sugarbeet pectin and on galacturonic acid, rhamnose and xylose, the main monomeric sugar constituents of pectin. An analysis of the corresponding transcriptomes revealed expression of 46 genes encoding pectinolytic enzymes. Their transcriptional profiles are discussed in detail and a cascade model of pectin degradation is proposed."}
{"id": "19591888", "title": "Molecular cloning, structural analysis and modelling of the AcAFP antifungal peptide from Aspergillus clavatus.", "content": "Molecular cloning, structural analysis and modelling of the AcAFP antifungal peptide from Aspergillus clavatus. An abundantly secreted thermostable peptide (designed AcAFP) with a molecular mass of 5777 Da was isolated and purified in a previous work from a local strain of A. clavatus (VR1). Based on the N-terminal amino acid (aa) sequence of the AcAFP peptide, an oligonucleotide probe was derived and allowed the amplification of the encoding cDNA by RT-PCR. This cDNA fragment encodes a pre-pro-protein of 94 aa which appears to be processed to a mature product of 51 aa cys-rich protein. The deduced aa sequence of the pre-pro-sequence reveals high similarity with ascomycetes antifungal peptide. Comparison of the nucleotide sequence of the genomic fragment and the cDNA clone revealed the presence of an open reading frame of 282 bp interrupted by two small introns of 89 and 56 bp with conserved splice site. The three-dimensional (3D) structure modeling of AcAFP exhibits a compact structure consisting of five anti-parallel beta barrel stabilized by four internal disulfide bridges. The folding pattern revealed also a cationic site and spatially adjacent hydrophobic stretch. The antifungal mechanism was investigated by transmission and confocal microscopy. AcAFP cause cell wall altering in a dose-dependent manner against the phytopathogenic fungus Fusarium oxysporum."}
{"id": "19589392", "title": "Cloning and characterization of novel methylsalicylic acid synthase gene involved in the biosynthesis of isoasperlactone and asperlactone in Aspergillus westerdijkiae.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of novel methylsalicylic acid synthase gene involved in the biosynthesis of isoasperlactone and asperlactone in Aspergillus westerdijkiae. Aspergillus westerdijkiae is the main producer of several biologically active polyketide metabolites including isoasperlactone and asperlactone. A 5298bp polyketide synthase gene \"aomsas\" has been cloned in Aspergillus westerdijkiae by using gene walking approach and RACE-PCR. The predicted amino acid sequence of aomsas shows an identity of 40-56% with different methylsalicylic acid synthase genes found in Byssochlamys nivea, P. patulum, A. terreus and Streptomyces viridochromogenes. Based on the reverse transcription PCR and kinetic secondary metabolites production studies, aomsas expression was found to be associated with the biosynthesis of isoasperlactone and asperlactone. Moreover an aomsas knockout mutant \"aoDeltamsas\" of A. westerdijkiae, not only lost the capacity to produce isoasperlactone and asperlactone, but also 6-methylsalicylic acid. The genetically complemented mutant ao+msas restored the biosynthesis of all the missing metabolites. Chemical complementation through the addition of 6-methylsalicylic acid, aspyrone and diepoxide to growing culture of aoDeltamsas mutant revealed that these compounds play intermediate roles in the biosynthesis of asperlactone and isoasperlactone."}
{"id": "19577187", "title": "Cloning and expression of GH11 xylanase gene from Aspergillus fumigatus MKU1 in Pichia pastoris.", "content": "Cloning and expression of GH11 xylanase gene from Aspergillus fumigatus MKU1 in Pichia pastoris. A xylanase gene, xynf11a of Aspergillus fumigatus MKU1 was cloned and expressed in Pichia pastoris X33. Two exons of the xynf11a gene were amplified separately and fused by overlap extension PCR. The fused product was cloned in yeast expression vector pPICZB and expressed in P. pastoris under the control of the AOX1 promoter. P. pastoris transformants expressing recombinant xylanases were selected on xylan agar plate and their ability to produce the xylanase was evaluated in flask cultures. P. pastoris X33 (pZBxynf11aFP) efficiently secreted the recombinant xylanase into the medium and produced the high level of xylanase activity (14 U/ml) after 96 h of growth. The recombinant xylanase produced by P. pastoris showed maximum activity at pH 6.0 and temperature 60 degrees C. The recombinant xylanase did not exhibit any cellulase activity and hence it could be potentially used for pretreatment of paper pulp before bleaching."}
{"id": "19573328", "title": "[Preliminary study on the use of DNA suspension array for the identification of corneal pathogenic fungi].", "content": "[Preliminary study on the use of DNA suspension array for the identification of corneal pathogenic fungi]. To develop a multiplex, microsphere-based DNA suspension array for the identification of important pathogenic fungi of cornea and to study the feasibility of its application in the clinical diagnosis of fungal keratitis. Fusarium solani, Fusarium moniliforme, Fusarium oxysporum, Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus flavus, which covered about 80% of pathogenic fungi of fungal keratitis, were chosen as target species of this study. Five species-specific capture probes were designed in the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of ribosomal DNA and synthesized with 5' amino modifier C12 to covalently bind to different sets of fluorescent beads. Biotinylated amplicons of 5 reference strains and 42 clinical strains were generated with a pair of universal primers to yield fragments for detection. Comparison between single species detection and multiplex detection were designed, as well as detection between array and agarose gel electrophoresis (AGE). Spearman rank correlation analysis and t test were applied to evaluate the specificity, sensibility and reproducibility of suspension array. Five reference strains and 40 of 42 (95.2%) clinical strains were correctly identified within 3 h post-PCR amplification while 2 other clinical strains were not identified because of their high background fluorescence intensity. Positive S/B ranged from 5.6 to 13.3. There was no significant difference between respective detection and mixed detection of 5 species (t = 0.2524, P = 0.8132). The sensitivity limit for this assay was determined to be 0.94 ng PCR products. The MFI presented positive correlation with amount of PCR products (r(s) = 1.0000, P < 0.01). Coefficient variation of four repeated detections was 1.8% - 13.7%. The suspension array is a rapid, sensitive and specific method for the identification of the most important species of corneal pathogenic fungi and might be used in the clinical laboratories."}
{"id": "19571034", "title": "Utility of a commercially available multiplex real-time PCR assay to detect bacterial and fungal pathogens in febrile neutropenia.", "content": "Utility of a commercially available multiplex real-time PCR assay to detect bacterial and fungal pathogens in febrile neutropenia. Infection is the main treatment-related cause of mortality in cancer patients. Rapid and accurate diagnosis to facilitate specific therapy of febrile neutropenia is therefore urgently warranted. Here, we evaluated a commercial PCR-based kit to detect the DNA of 20 different pathogens (SeptiFast) in the setting of febrile neutropenia after chemotherapy. Seven hundred eighty-four serum samples of 119 febrile neutropenic episodes (FNEs) in 70 patients with hematological malignancies were analyzed and compared with clinical, microbiological, and biochemical findings. In the antibiotic-na\u00efve setting, bacteremia was diagnosed in 34 FNEs and 11 of them yielded the same result in the PCR. Seventy-three FNEs were negative in both systems, leading to an overall agreement in 84 of 119 FNEs (71%). During antibiotic therapy, positivity in blood culture occurred only in 3% of cases, but the PCR yielded a positive result in 15% of cases. In six cases the PCR during antibiotic treatment detected a new pathogen repetitively; this was accompanied by a significant rise in procalcitonin levels, suggestive of a true detection of infection. All patients with probable invasive fungal infection (IFI; n = 3) according to the standards of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer had a positive PCR result for Aspergillus fumigatus; in contrast there was only one positive result for Aspergillus fumigatus in an episode without signs and symptoms of IFI. Our results demonstrate that the SeptiFast kit cannot replace blood cultures in the diagnostic workup of FNEs. However, it might be helpful in situations where blood cultures remain negative (e.g., during antimicrobial therapy or in IFI)."}
{"id": "19566663", "title": "Molecular detection of dermatophytes and nondermatophytes in onychomycosis by nested polymerase chain reaction based on 28S ribosomal RNA gene sequences.", "content": "Molecular detection of dermatophytes and nondermatophytes in onychomycosis by nested polymerase chain reaction based on 28S ribosomal RNA gene sequences. Onychomycosis is often caused by dermatophytes, but the role of nondermatophytes is underestimated due to the difficulty of identifying them by conventional direct microscopy and culture. This study aims to detect nondermatophytes, as well as dermatophytes, in the nail samples of patients with onychomycosis using a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based culture-independent method. The nested PCR assay targeting the sequence of the 28S ribosomal RNA gene was used to amplify fungal DNAs from 50 microscopy-positive nail specimens. Newly designed primer sets for dermatophyte universal, Trichophyton rubrum, T. mentagrophytes, Aspergillus spp., Scopulariopsis brevicaulis, Fusarium solani, F. oxysporum, F. verticillioides, Candida albicans and C. tropicalis were used after confirmation of their specificity. Forty-seven cases (94%) were positive for fungal DNA, among which dermatophytes were detected in 39 cases (83.0%): T. rubrum in 35 cases (74.5%) and T. mentagrophytes in eight cases (17.0%). Surprisingly, nondermatophytes were detected in 18 cases (38.3%), both dermatophytes and nondermatophytes in 10 cases (21.3%) and nondermatophytes alone in eight cases (17.0%). Aspergillus spp. alone was observed in five cases (10.6%). This study indicates that most of the affected nail plates of patients with onychomycosis were positive for specific fungal DNAs, and suggests that nondermatophytes detected at high rates may be involved in the pathogenesis of onychomycosis."}
{"id": "19558597", "title": "Evaluation of a polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism assay for dermatophyte and nondermatophyte identification in onychomycosis.", "content": "Evaluation of a polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism assay for dermatophyte and nondermatophyte identification in onychomycosis. Dermatophytes are the main cause of onychomycoses, but various nondermatophyte filamentous fungi are often isolated from abnormal nails. The correct identification of the aetiological agent of nail infections is necessary in order to recommend appropriate treatment. To evaluate a rapid polymerase chain reaction-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) assay based on 28S rDNA for fungal identification in nails on a large number of samples in comparison with cultures. Infectious fungi were analysed using PCR-RFLP in 410 nail samples in which fungal elements were observed in situ by direct mycological examination (positive samples). The results were compared with those previously obtained by culture of fungi on Sabouraud agar from the same nail samples. PCR-RFLP identification of fungi in nails allowed validation of the results obtained in culture when Trichophyton spp. grew from infected samples. In addition, nondermatophyte filamentous fungi could be identified with certainty as the infectious agents in onychomycosis, and discriminated from dermatophytes as well as from transient contaminants. The specificity of the culture results relative to PCR-RFLP appeared to be 81%, 71%, 52% and 63% when Fusarium spp., Scopulariopsis brevicaulis, Aspergillus spp. and Candida spp., respectively, grew on Sabouraud agar. It was also possible to identify the infectious agent when direct nail mycological examination showed fungal elements, but negative results were obtained from fungal culture. Improved sensitivity for the detection of fungi in nails was obtained using the PCR-RFLP assay. Rapid and reliable molecular identification of the infectious fungus can be used routinely and presents several important advantages compared with culture in expediting the choice of appropriate antifungal therapy."}
{"id": "19557408", "title": "Heterologous expression and characterization of CpI, OcpA, and novel serine-type carboxypeptidase OcpB from Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Heterologous expression and characterization of CpI, OcpA, and novel serine-type carboxypeptidase OcpB from Aspergillus oryzae. In the genome of Aspergillus oryzae, 12 genes have been predicted to encode serine-type carboxypeptidases. However, the carboxypeptidase activities of the proteins encoded by these genes have not yet been confirmed experimentally. In this study, we have constructed three of these 12 genes overexpressing strains using Aspergillus nidulans and characterized their overproduced recombinant proteins. Of these three genes, one was previously named cpI; the other two have not been reported yet, and hence, we named them ocpA and ocpB. The recombinant proteins released amino acid residues from the C terminus of peptides, and the activity of the enzymes was inhibited by phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride, indicating the enzymes to be serine-type carboxypeptidases. Recombinant OcpA, OcpB, and CpI were stable at 45 degrees C, 55 degrees C, and 55 degrees C, respectively, at a low pH. The enzymatic properties of recombinant OcpB were different from those of any reported serine-type carboxypeptidase. On the other hand, recombinant OcpA had similar enzymatic properties to A. oryzae carboxypeptidases O1 and O2. The DNA and N-terminal amino acid sequences of carboxypeptidases O1 and O2 from A. oryzae IAM2640 were similar to those of OcpA. Result of transcriptional analysis of ocpA, ocpB, and cpI suggest differences in transcriptional regulation between these genes."}
{"id": "19547867", "title": "Population structure and diversity of the pathogenic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus isolated from different sources and geographic origins.", "content": "Population structure and diversity of the pathogenic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus isolated from different sources and geographic origins. Fifty-five clinical and environmental Aspergillus fumigatus isolates from Mexico, Argentina, France and Peru were analyzed to determine their genetic variability, reproductive system and level of differentiation using amplified fragment length polymorphism markers. The level of genetic variability was assessed by measuring the percentage of polymorphic loci, number of effective alleles, expected heterozygocity and by performing an association index test (I(A)). The degree of genetic differentiation and variation was determined using analysis of molecular variance at three levels. Using the paired genetic distances, a dendrogram was built to detect the genetic relationship among alleles. Finally, a network of haplotypes was constructed to determine the geographic relationship among them. The results indicate that the clinical isolates have greater genetic variability than the environmental isolates. The I(A) of the clinical and environmental isolates suggests a recombining population structure. The genetic differentiation among isolates and the dendrogram suggest that the groups of isolates are different. The network of haplotypes demonstrates that the majority of the isolates are grouped according to geographic origin."}
{"id": "19541789", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus DNA by a nested PCR assay is able to improve the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in paediatric patients.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus DNA by a nested PCR assay is able to improve the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in paediatric patients. Fungal infections are a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in severely immunocompromised patients and have been increasing in incidence in recent years. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is the most common filamentous fungal infection and is, in adults as well as in children, difficult to diagnose. Several PCR assays to detect Aspergillus DNA have been established, but so far, studies on molecular tools for the diagnosis of IA in children are few. We evaluated the results of a nested PCR assay to detect Aspergillus DNA in clinical samples from paediatric and adolescent patients with suspected IA. Blood and non-blood samples from immunocompromised paediatric and adolescent patients with suspected invasive fungal infection were sent for processing Aspergillus PCR to our laboratory. PCR results from consecutive patients from three university children's hospitals investigated between November 2000 and January 2007 were evaluated. Fungal infections were classified according to the EORTC classification on the grounds of clinical findings, microbiology and radio-imaging results. Two hundred and ninety-one samples from 71 patients were investigated for the presence of Aspergillus DNA by our previously described nested PCR assay. Two, 3 and 34 patients had proven, probable and possible IA, respectively. Sensitivity (calculated from proven and probable patients, n=5) and specificity (calculated from patients without IA, n=32) rates of the PCR assay were 80 and 81 %, respectively. Our nested PCR assay was able to detect Aspergillus DNA in blood, cerebrospinal fluid and bronchoalveolar lavage samples from paediatric and adolescent patients with IA with high sensitivity and specificity rates."}
{"id": "19537208", "title": "Characterization of the Aspergillus ochraceoroseus aflatoxin/sterigmatocystin biosynthetic gene cluster.", "content": "Characterization of the Aspergillus ochraceoroseus aflatoxin/sterigmatocystin biosynthetic gene cluster. Production of carcinogenic aflatoxins has been reported from members of Aspergillus section Flavi, Aspergillus section Nidulantes and a newly proposed Aspergillus section Ochraceorosei that consists of Aspergillus ochraceoroseus and A. rambellii. Unlike members of section Flavi, A. ochraceoroseus and A. rambellii have been shown to accumulate both aflatoxin (AF) and the aflatoxin precursor sterigmatocystin (ST). Alhough morphologically distinct from A. nidulans, molecular characterization of A. ochraceoroseus AF/ST genes and physiological characteristics of AF/ST production indicated that A. ochraceoroseus is more closely related to A. nidulans than to A. flavus. Knowing that the A. nidulans ST gene cluster is organized differently from the A. flavus AF gene cluster, we determined the genetic organization of the AF/ST biosynthetic cluster in A. ochraceoroseus. Sequencing of overlapping lambda clones and genomic PCR fragments obtained by gene-walking techniques demonstrated that the A. ochraceoroseus AF/ST gene cluster is organized much like the A. nidulans ST gene cluster except that the region from aflN to aflW is located directly upstream of aflC and in reverse orientation such that aflW represents the distal end and aflY the proximal end of the cluster. The A. ochraceoroseus cluster genes demonstrated 62-76% nucleotide identity to their A. nidulans ST cluster gene homologs. Transformation of an A. nidulans aflR mutant with the A. ochraceoroseus aflR restored ST production in A. nidulans transformants. PCR amplification of A. rambellii genomic DNA demonstrated that the AF/ST gene cluster is organized in the same manner as that of A. ochraceoroseus."}
{"id": "19521728", "title": "Chemical induction of silent biosynthetic pathway transcription in Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Chemical induction of silent biosynthetic pathway transcription in Aspergillus niger. Manipulation of the fungal epigenome is hypothesized to be an effective method for accessing natural products from silent biosynthetic pathways. A library of epigenetic modifiers was tested using the fungus Aspergillus niger to determine the impact of small-molecule inhibitors on reversing the transcriptional suppression of biosynthetic genes involved in polyketide (PKS), non-ribosomal peptide (NRPS), and hybrid PKS-NRPS (HPN) production. Examination of expressed sequence tag libraries from A. niger demonstrated that >70% of its PKS-, NRPS-, and HPN-encoding gene clusters were transcriptionally suppressed under standard laboratory culture conditions. Using a chemical epigenetic methodology, we showed that treatment of A. niger with suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid and 5-azacytidine led to the transcriptional upregulation of many secondary-metabolite-encoding biosynthetic gene clusters. Chemical epigenetic modifiers exhibited positional biases for upregulating chromosomally distal gene clusters. In addition, a phylogenetic-based preference was noted in the upregulation of reducing clade I PKS gene clusters, while reducing clade IV PKS gene clusters were largely unaffected. Manipulating epigenetic features in fungi is a powerful method for accessing the products of silent biosynthetic pathways. Moreover, this approach can be readily incorporated into modern microbial screening operations."}
{"id": "19519853", "title": "Effect of different sample volumes on the DNA extraction of Aspergillus fumigatus from whole blood.", "content": "Effect of different sample volumes on the DNA extraction of Aspergillus fumigatus from whole blood. Five methods were compared, using conventional PCR, for the isolation of DNA from Aspergillus fumigatus conidia from 1-3-mL samples of whole blood. A lower detection threshold of Aspergillus conidia was achieved using 3-mL rather than 1-mL samples with three of five methods tested."}
{"id": "19500176", "title": "Quantitative PCR analysis of fungal DNA in Swedish day care centers and comparison with building characteristics and allergen levels.", "content": "Quantitative PCR analysis of fungal DNA in Swedish day care centers and comparison with building characteristics and allergen levels. Abstract Sweden has had allergen-avoidance day care centers (AADCs) since 1979. The aim of this study was to measure fungal DNA by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR), a new method, in AADCs and ordinary day care centers (ODCs) and examine associations between allergen levels and building characteristics. Dust samples were collected by swabbing doorframes, vacuum-cleaning, and using Petri dishes. In total, 11 AADCs and 11 ODCs were studied (70 rooms). Total fungal DNA, measured by qPCR in the swab dust, was detected in 89%, Aspergillus or Penicillium (Asp/Pen) DNA in 34%, and Stachybotrys chartarum DNA in 6% of the rooms. Total fungal DNA was significantly higher in rooms with linoleum floor (P = 0.02), textile carpets (P = 0.03), reported dampness/molds (P = 0.02) and reported odor (P < 0.001) in the buildings, and significantly lower in wooden facade buildings (P = 0.003). Reported odor was related to the amount of sieved fine dust, reported dampness/molds and type of building construction. Total fungal DNA was related to cat, dog, horse and total allergen levels (P = 0.003) in the day care centers. In conclusion, total fungal DNA is related to reported dampness/molds, reported odor, and type of wall construction. The association between fungal and allergen contamination indicated a general 'hygiene factor' related to biological contaminants. Practical Implications The associations between fungal DNA, reported dampness/molds, and odor support the view that buildings with odor problems should be investigated for possible hidden fungal growth. There is a need to measure fungal biomass in different types of building constructions by monitoring fungal DNA. Analysis of fungal DNA with quantitative PCR can be a fast and practical way to study indoor fungal contamination. Swabbing dust from the doorframe of the main entrance to the room can be a convenient method of sampling dust for fungal DNA analysis. The high prevalence of reported dampness/molds and the common occurrence of fungal DNA indicate the need to improve the indoor environment of Swedish day care centers."}
{"id": "19486415", "title": "Asexual sporulation signalling regulates autolysis of Aspergillus nidulans via modulating the chitinase ChiB production.", "content": "Asexual sporulation signalling regulates autolysis of Aspergillus nidulans via modulating the chitinase ChiB production. Elucidation of the regulation of ChiB production in Aspergillus nidulans. Mutational inactivation of the A. nidulans chiB gene resulted in a nonautolytic phenotype. To better understand the mechanisms controlling both developmental progression and fungal autolysis, we examined a range of autolysis-associated parameters in A. nidulans developmental and/or autolytic mutants. Investigation of disorganization of mycelial pellets, loss of biomass, extra-/intracellular chitinase activities, ChiB production and chiB mRNA levels in various cultures revealed that, in submerged cultures, initialization of autolysis and stationary phase-induced ChiB production are intimately coupled, and that both processes are controlled by the FluG-BrlA asexual sporulation regulatory pathway. ChiB production does not affect the progression of apoptotic cell death in the aging A. nidulans cultures. The endochitinase ChiB plays an important role in autolysis of A. nidulans, and its production is initiated by FluG-BrlA signalling. Despite the fact that apoptosis is an inseparable part of fungal autolysis, its regulation is independent to FluG-initiated sporulation signalling. Deletion of chiB and fluG homologues in industrial filamentous fungal strains may stabilize the hyphal structures in the autolytic phase of growth and limit the release of autolytic hydrolases into the culture medium."}
{"id": "19486398", "title": "Aspergillus fumigatus Fresenius, an endophytic fungus from Juniperus communis L. Horstmann as a novel source of the anticancer pro-drug deoxypodophyllotoxin.", "content": "Aspergillus fumigatus Fresenius, an endophytic fungus from Juniperus communis L. Horstmann as a novel source of the anticancer pro-drug deoxypodophyllotoxin. Isolation, identification and characterization of an endophytic fungus from Juniperus communis L. Horstmann, as a novel producer of deoxypodophyllotoxin and its in vitro antimicrobial assay. The methodology for the isolation, identification and characterization of a novel endophytic fungus from the twigs of the J. communis L. Horstmann plant, which specifically and consistently produces deoxypodophyllotoxin, was unequivocally established. The fungus was identified as Aspergillus fumigatus Fresenius by molecular, morphological and physiological methods. Deoxypodophyllotoxin was identified and quantified by high-resolution LC-MS, LC-MS(2) and LC-MS(3). The antimicrobial efficacy of the fungal deoxypodophyllotoxin against a panel of pathogenic bacteria was established. The production of deoxypodophyllotoxin (found in the host) by the cultured endophyte is an enigmatic observation. It demonstrates the transfer of gene(s) for such accumulation by horizontal means from the host plant to its endophytic counterpart. It would be interesting to further study the deoxypodophyllotoxin production and regulation by the cultured endophyte in J. communis and in axenic cultures. This endophyte is a potential handle for scientific and commercial exploitation. Although the current accumulation of deoxypodophyllotoxin by the endophyte is not very high, it could be scaled-up to provide adequate production to satisfy new drug development and clinical needs. However, further refined precursor-feeding and mass-balance studies are required to result in the consistent and dependable production."}
{"id": "19486395", "title": "Aspergillus niger var. taxi, a new species variant of taxol-producing fungus isolated from Taxus cuspidata in China.", "content": "Aspergillus niger var. taxi, a new species variant of taxol-producing fungus isolated from Taxus cuspidata in China. To characterize and identify a new taxol-producing fungal strain HD86-9 isolated from Taxus cuspidata in China. Taxol extracted from strain HD86-9 was identified by HPLC and MS analyses. Strain HD86-9 was cultured and its morphology and phenotypes were described. HD86-9 displayed morphology most similar to that of Aspergillus niger but presented differences in the shape and size of the conidia. The growth evaluation showed that the maximal tolerable temperature of the new strain was 43 degrees C, higher than that of the model Aspergillus niger. The 18S rDNA and the internal transcribed spacer region including the 5.8S rDNA of HD86-9 were amplified by PCR; molecular analysis of these sequences revealed their high similarity of 98% to those of Aspergillus niger. The morphology and molecular analysis identified HD86-9 as a new variant of taxol-producing endophytic fungi, and it was named Aspergillus niger var. taxi D.P. Zhou, K. Zhao and W.X. Ping, var. nov. As the first report of a taxol-producing variant of Aspergillus niger species, this study offers important information and a new resource for the production of an important anticancer drug by endofungus fermentation."}
{"id": "19486284", "title": "Indoor fungal contamination of moisture-damaged and allergic patient housing analysed using real-time PCR.", "content": "Indoor fungal contamination of moisture-damaged and allergic patient housing analysed using real-time PCR. The aim of our study was to compare, using real-time (Rt) PCR, quantitative levels of five fungal species in three kinds of dwellings. Three groups of homes were recruited: moisture-damaged homes (MDH, n = 30), allergic patient homes (APH, n = 25) and paired control homes (CH, n = 55). Five moulds with allergenic compounds or mycotoxin production characteristics (Cladosporium sphaerospermum, Penicillium chrysogenum, Aspergillus versicolor, Alternaria alternata and Stachybotrys chartarum) were quantified using Rt-PCR. Cycle threshold results were expressed in spore equivalent per volume or surface unit using a direct calculation based on a spore standard curve. MDH presented significantly higher amounts of DNA from C. sphaerospermum in both air and surface samples than CH (P < 0.001). APH presented slightly elevated amounts of DNA from A. versicolor in both air and surface samples, compared to CH (P < 0.05). Rt-PCR quantification of targeted fungal species is a rapid, reliable tool that could be included in a global indoor mould evaluation. Quantification of C. sphaerospermum using Rt-PCR can help to better target social service intervention in MDH. Quantification of A. versicolor DNA could be informative for characterization of APH."}
{"id": "19476005", "title": "Mutagenesis and genotypic characterization of Aspergillus niger FCBP-02 for improvement in cellulolytic potential.", "content": "Mutagenesis and genotypic characterization of Aspergillus niger FCBP-02 for improvement in cellulolytic potential. Cellulase is a collective term that encompasses enzymes which catalyze reactions that participate in the degradation of insoluble cellulose to soluble carbohydrates. In the present study, production of extra cellular cellulases by a filamentous fungus, Aspergillus niger FCBP-02, was studied in solid-state fermentation (SSF) as well as in submerged fermentation (SmF). Trials were conducted to evaluate the effect of mutagenesis by UV irradiation (5-40 min) and ethyl methane sulfonate (EMS) treatment (50-300 microg mL(-1)) to obtain hyper active cellulase enzyme producers among the potential strains. The enzyme activity assays of parental and mutant strains clearly revealed significantly higher cellulase activity of mutant A-Ch-5.5 (96 Units mL(-1)), followed by A-UV-5.6 (71 Units mL(-1)) with respect to the wild strain of A. niger FCBP-02 (53.7 Units mL(-1)). The profile of genetic variability among wild and mutant derivatives was scrutinized through RAPD-PCR. The expression pattern of mutants exhibited that the mutants were isogenic variants of the wild type and the out performance of the mutants could be attributed to the change in genetic make up."}
{"id": "19473690", "title": "Microbial content of house dust samples determined with qPCR.", "content": "Microbial content of house dust samples determined with qPCR. This study was designed to produce information about microbial concentrations using qPCR and their variation in different seasons and home environments with analyses of two types of house dust samples. Also the correlations between the two types of samples and the reproducibility of the parallel subsamples were studied. Two types of vacuumed house dust samples, rug dust and vacuum cleaner bag dust, were collected in 5 normal urban homes in four different seasons (N=20+20). From all dust samples, five parallel subsamples were subjected to qPCR analyses of 17 microbial species or assay groups of microbes. The highest fungal concentrations were found for the Penicillium/Aspergillus/Paecilomyces variotii group, and for the species Aspergillus penicillioides, Aureobasidium pullulans, Cladosporium cladosporioides and Cladosporium herbarum. These species/groups were present in almost all samples. The two types of dust samples gave similar results for most microbial species or groups analyzed, but in general, concentrations were slightly higher in rug dust than in dust from vacuum cleaner bag. Microbial concentrations varied significantly between different seasons and hence the similarity of samples within home was mainly low. The concentrations varied significantly also between different home environments. The reproducibility of the parallel subsamples was good or moderate for most of the analyzed species or assay groups. However, further studies are needed to fully understand the factors causing variation in these methods. Nevertheless, in order to show actual differences in fungal concentrations between urban homes with no known microbial sources, all dust samples to be compared should be taken during the same season."}
{"id": "19473251", "title": "Specific detection of Aspergillus carbonarius by SYBR Green and TaqMan quantitative PCR assays based on the multicopy ITS2 region of the rRNA gene.", "content": "Specific detection of Aspergillus carbonarius by SYBR Green and TaqMan quantitative PCR assays based on the multicopy ITS2 region of the rRNA gene. Agroproducts contaminated by ochratoxin A (OTA) represent a risk for human and animal health and, therefore, maximum limits have been established by Food Safety Authorities. Reduction of OTA contamination may be accomplished by early detection of OTA-producing fungal species using rapid, specific and sensitive detection and quantification by PCR-based methods. Aspergillus carbonarius is one of the most important OTA-producing species, in particular in grapes and derivatives from Mediterranean regions. In this work, highly efficient quantitative PCR assays using SYBR Green I and TaqMan methods were developed for specific detection of A. carbonarius to be used in grapes. The primers and the TaqMan probe were based on the internal transcribed region 2 multicopy region (internal 2 sequence of the rRNA gene). The specificity and sensitivity of both assays were tested on genomic DNA mixtures of several A. carbonarius strains and other fungal species frequently present in grapes. Both methods were also compared using grapes inoculated with different spore concentrations of A. carbonarius, detecting up to 0.4 pg DNA g(-1) grape berries. The efficiency and sensitivity of both methods were comparable and only the lower cost of SYBR Green might favour its use in routine screenings."}
{"id": "19467584", "title": "Diagnosis and antimicrobial therapy of lung infiltrates in febrile neutropenic patients: Guidelines of the infectious diseases working party of the German Society of Haematology and Oncology.", "content": "Diagnosis and antimicrobial therapy of lung infiltrates in febrile neutropenic patients: Guidelines of the infectious diseases working party of the German Society of Haematology and Oncology. Patients with neutropenia lasting for more than 10d, who develop fever and pulmonary infiltrates, are at risk of treatment failure under conventional broad-spectrum antibacterial therapy. Filamentous fungi are predominant causes of failure, however, multi-resistant gram-negative rods such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa or Stenotrophomonas maltophilia may be involved. Prompt addition of mould-active systemic antifungal therapy, facilitated by early thoracic computed tomography, improves clinical outcome. Non-culture-based diagnostic procedures to detect circulating antigens such as galactomannan or 1,3-beta-d-glucan, or PCR techniques to amplify circulating fungal DNA from blood, bronchoalveolar lavage or tissue specimens, may facilitate the diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. CT-guided bronchoalveolar lavage is useful in order to identify causative microorganisms such as multidrug-resistant bacteria, filamentous fungi or Pneumocystis jiroveci. For pre-emptive antifungal treatment, voriconazole or liposomal amphotericin B is preferred. In patients given broad-spectrum azoles for antifungal prophylaxis, non-azole antifungals or antifungal combinations might become first choice in this setting. Antifungal treatment should be continued for at least 14 d before non-response and treatment modification are considered. Microbial isolates from blood cultures, bronchoalveolar lavage or respiratory secretions must be critically interpreted with respect to their aetiological relevance for pulmonary infiltrates."}
{"id": "19457031", "title": "Molecular characterization of toxigenic and atoxigenic Aspergillus flavus isolates, collected from peanut fields in China.", "content": "Molecular characterization of toxigenic and atoxigenic Aspergillus flavus isolates, collected from peanut fields in China. The objectives of this study were to assess the genetic relationships between toxigenic and atoxigenic isolates of Aspergillus flavus collected from peanut fields in China, and to analyse deletions within the aflatoxin biosynthetic gene cluster for the atoxigenic isolates. Analysis of random-amplified polymorphic DNA and microsatellite-primed PCR data showed that the toxigenic and atoxigenic isolates of A. flavus were not clustered based on their regions and their ability of aflatoxin and sclerotial production. These results were further supported by DNA sequence of ITS, pksA and omtA genes. PCR assays showed that 24 of 35 isolates containing no detectable aflatoxins had the entire aflatoxin gene cluster. Eleven atoxigenic isolates had five different deletion patterns in the cluster. Toxigenic and atoxigenic isolates of A. flavus are genetically similar, but some atoxigenic isolates having deletions within the aflatoxin gene cluster can be identified readily by PCR assays. Because the extensive deletions within the aflatoxin gene cluster are not rare in the atoxigenic isolates, analysis of deletion within the cluster would be an effective method for the rapid screening of atoxigenic isolates for developing biocontrol agents."}
{"id": "19451239", "title": "Characterization of a novel ADAM protease expressed by Pneumocystis carinii.", "content": "Characterization of a novel ADAM protease expressed by Pneumocystis carinii. Pneumocystis species are opportunistic fungal pathogens that cause severe pneumonia in immunocompromised hosts. Recent evidence has suggested that unidentified proteases are involved in Pneumocystis life cycle regulation. Proteolytically active ADAM (named for \"a disintegrin and metalloprotease\") family molecules have been identified in some fungal organisms, such as Aspergillus fumigatus and Schizosaccharomyces pombe, and some have been shown to participate in life cycle regulation. Accordingly, we sought to characterize ADAM-like molecules in the fungal opportunistic pathogen, Pneumocystis carinii (PcADAM). After an in silico search of the P. carinii genomic sequencing project identified a 329-bp partial sequence with homology to known ADAM proteins, the full-length PcADAM sequence was obtained by PCR extension cloning, yielding a final coding sequence of 1,650 bp. Sequence analysis detected the presence of a typical ADAM catalytic active site (HEXXHXXGXXHD). Expression of PcADAM over the Pneumocystis life cycle was analyzed by Northern blot. Southern and contour-clamped homogenous electronic field blot analysis demonstrated its presence in the P. carinii genome. Expression of PcADAM was observed to be increased in Pneumocystis cysts compared to trophic forms. The full-length gene was subsequently cloned and heterologously expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Purified PcADAMp protein was proteolytically active in casein zymography, requiring divalent zinc. Furthermore, native PcADAMp extracted directly from freshly isolated Pneumocystis organisms also exhibited protease activity. This is the first report of protease activity attributable to a specific, characterized protein in the clinically important opportunistic fungal pathogen Pneumocystis."}
{"id": "19448638", "title": "Chromatin-level regulation of biosynthetic gene clusters.", "content": "Chromatin-level regulation of biosynthetic gene clusters. Loss-of-function Aspergillus nidulans CclA, a Bre2 ortholog involved in histone H3 lysine 4 methylation, activated the expression of cryptic secondary metabolite clusters in A. nidulans. One new cluster generated monodictyphenone, emodin and emodin derivatives, whereas a second encoded two anti-osteoporosis polyketides, F9775A and F9775B. Modification of the chromatin landscape in fungal secondary metabolite clusters allows for a simple technological means to express silent fungal secondary metabolite gene clusters."}
{"id": "19445185", "title": "[Cloning of the gene encoding alpha-glucosidase from aspergillus niger and its expression in Pichia pastoris].", "content": "[Cloning of the gene encoding alpha-glucosidase from aspergillus niger and its expression in Pichia pastoris]. Alpha-glucosidase from Aspergillus niger SG136 was expressed in Pichia pastoris. cDNA of mature alpha-glucosidase (aglu) was amplified from the total DNA of A. niger SG136 by PCR and overlap-PCR with primers designed based on the sequence of A. niger CBS 513.88 in NCBI database. The gene was cloned into pMD18-T simple vector. The sequencing result showed that the gene encoded for a protein of 960 amino acids residues, which was 1 amino acid different from that of A. niger CBS 513.88. The expression vector pPIC9K-aglu was constructed by subcloning the gene into plasmid pPIC9K, and then transformed into P. pastoris through electroporation after linearized by Bgl II digestion. The recombinant P. pastoris KM71/pPIC9K-aglu were screened in MD and YPD/G418 plates,and identified by PCR. In shaking culture condition, methanol was added to a final concentration of 1% to induce the secretion of alpha-glucosidase. Electrophoresis analysis of KM71/pPIC9K-aglu culture supernatant showed that there were two major protein bands corresponding to 98 kDa and 33 kDa respectively in SDS-PAGE, and there was only one band in Native PAGE; while in the control experiment of KM71/pPIC9K, there were no visible bands. Transglucosidation reaction from crude enzyme revealed that contents of isomaltooligosaccharides were up to 26.0% under the optimal conditions of pH 5 and 60 degrees C at 24 h. A. niger alpha-glucosidase was expressed in P. pastoris with transglucosidation activity."}
{"id": "19440704", "title": "Molecular characterization of StcI esterase from Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Molecular characterization of StcI esterase from Aspergillus nidulans. Aspergillus nidulans produces StcI esterase, which is involved in the biosynthesis of sterigmatocystin, a precursor of aflatoxins. Previous reports of this esterase in A. nidulans suggest that it is composed of 286 amino acid residues with a theoretical molecular mass of 31 kDa. Various conditions were evaluated to determine the optimal expression conditions for StcI; the highest level was observed when A. nidulans was cultured in solid oat media. Various esterases were expressed differentially according to the culture media used. However, specific antibodies designed to detect StcI reacted with a protein with an unexpected molecular mass of 35 kDa in cell extracts from all expression conditions. Analysis of the gene sequence and already reported expressed sequence tags indicated the presence of an additional 29-amino-acid N-terminal region of StcI, which is not a signal peptide and which has not been previously reported. We also detected the presence of this additional N-terminal region using reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction. The complete protein (NStcI) was cloned and successfully expressed in Pichia pastoris."}
{"id": "19416940", "title": "The nsdC gene encoding a putative C2H2-type transcription factor is a key activator of sexual development in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "The nsdC gene encoding a putative C2H2-type transcription factor is a key activator of sexual development in Aspergillus nidulans. The formation of the Aspergillus nidulans fruiting body is affected by a number of genetic and environmental factors. Here, the nsdC (never in sexual development) gene-encoding a putative transcription factor carrying a novel type of zinc-finger DNA-binding domain consisting of two C(2)H(2)'s and a C(2)HC motif that are highly conserved in most fungi but not in plants or animals-was investigated. Two distinct transcripts of 2.6 and 3.0 kb were generated from nsdC. The 2.6-kb mRNA accumulated differentially in various stages of growth and development, while the level of the 3.0-kb mRNA remained relatively constant throughout the life cycle. While the deletion of nsdC resulted in the complete loss of fruiting body formation under all conditions favoring sexual development, overexpression of nsdC not only enhanced formation of fruiting bodies (cleistothecia) but also overcame inhibitory effects of certain stresses on cleistothecial development, implying that NsdC is a key positive regulator of sexual development. Deletion of nsdC also retarded vegetative growth and hyperactive asexual sporulation, suggesting that NsdC is necessary not only for sexual development but also for regulating asexual sporulation negatively. Overexpression of veA or nsdD does not rescue the failure of fruiting body formation caused by nsdC deletion. Furthermore, nsdC expression is not affected by either VeA or NsdD, and vice versa, indicating that NsdC regulates sexual development independently of VeA or NsdD."}
{"id": "19415934", "title": "Biosynthesis of steroidal antibiotic fusidanes: functional analysis of oxidosqualene cyclase and subsequent tailoring enzymes from Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Biosynthesis of steroidal antibiotic fusidanes: functional analysis of oxidosqualene cyclase and subsequent tailoring enzymes from Aspergillus fumigatus. Three putative oxidosqualene cyclase (OSC) genes exist in the genome of the fungus Aspergillus fumigatus that produces a steroidal antibiotic, helvolic acid. One of these genes, Afu4g14770, designated AfuOSC3, is clustered with genes of cytochrome P450 monooxygenases (P450s), a short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase (SDR), and acyltransferases, which presumably function in triterpene tailoring steps, suggesting that this gene cluster codes for helvolic acid biosynthesis. AfuOSC3 was PCR amplified from A. fumigatus IFO8866 genomic DNA and expressed in yeast. The yeast transformant accumulated protosta-17(20)Z,24-dien-3beta-ol, an established precursor for helvolic acid. Its structural isomer, (20R)-protosta-13(17),24-dien-3beta-ol, was also isolated from the transformed yeast. To further identify the function of triterpene tailoring enzymes, four P450 genes (CYP5081A1-D1) and a SDR gene (AfuSDR1) in the cluster were each coexpressed with AfuOSC3 in yeast. As a result, coexpression of AfuSDR1 gave a 3-keto derivative of protostadienol. On the other hand, coexpression with CYP5081A1 gave protosta-17(20)Z,24-diene-3beta,29-diol and protosta-17(20)Z,24-dien-3beta-ol-29-oic acid. These metabolites are in well accord with the oxidative modification involved in helvolic acid biosynthesis. AfuSDR1 and CYP5081A1 presumably function together to catalyze demethylation of C-29 methyl group. These results provided a firm ground for identification of the present gene cluster to be involved in helvolic acid biosynthesis."}
{"id": "19403766", "title": "Aspergillus section Fumigati typing by PCR-restriction fragment polymorphism.", "content": "Aspergillus section Fumigati typing by PCR-restriction fragment polymorphism. Recent studies have shown that there are multiple clinically important members of the Aspergillus section Fumigati that are difficult to distinguish on the basis of morphological features (e.g., Aspergillus fumigatus, A. lentulus, and Neosartorya udagawae). Identification of these organisms may be clinically important, as some species vary in their susceptibilities to antifungal agents. In a prior study, we utilized multilocus sequence typing to describe A. lentulus as a species distinct from A. fumigatus. The sequence data show that the gene encoding beta-tubulin, benA, has high interspecies variability at intronic regions but is conserved among isolates of the same species. These data were used to develop a PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) method that rapidly and accurately distinguishes A. fumigatus, A. lentulus, and N. udagawae, three major species within the section Fumigati that have previously been implicated in disease. Digestion of the benA amplicon with BccI generated unique banding patterns; the results were validated by screening a collection of clinical strains and by in silico analysis of the benA sequences of Aspergillus spp. deposited in the GenBank database. PCR-RFLP of benA is a simple method for the identification of clinically important, similar morphotypes of Aspergillus spp. within the section Fumigati."}
{"id": "19403758", "title": "Rapid real-time nucleic Acid sequence-based amplification-molecular beacon platform to detect fungal and bacterial bloodstream infections.", "content": "Rapid real-time nucleic Acid sequence-based amplification-molecular beacon platform to detect fungal and bacterial bloodstream infections. Bloodstream infections (BSIs) are a significant cause of morbidity and mortality. Successful patient outcomes are diminished by a failure to rapidly diagnose these infections and initiate appropriate therapy. A rapid and reliable diagnostic platform of high sensitivity is needed for the management of patients with BSIs. The combination of an RNA-dependent nucleic acid sequence-based amplification and molecular beacon (NASBA-MB) detection system in multiplex format was developed to rapidly detect medically important BSI organisms. Probes and primers representing pan-gram-negative, pan-gram-positive, pan-fungal, pan-Candida, and pan-Aspergillus organisms were established utilizing 16S and 28S rRNA targets for bacteria and fungi, respectively. Two multiplex panels were developed to rapidly discriminate bacterial or fungal infections at the subkingdom/genus level with a sensitivity of 1 to 50 genomes. A clinical study was performed to evaluate the accuracy of this platform by evaluating 570 clinical samples from a tertiary-care hospital group using blood bottle samples. The sensitivity, specificity, and Youden's index values for pan-gram-positive detection and pan-gram-negative detection were 99.7%, 100%, 0.997 and 98.6%, 95.9%, 0.945, respectively. The positive predictive values (PPV) and the negative predictive values (NPV) for these two probes were 100, 90.7, and 99.4, 99.4, respectively. Pan-fungal and pan-Candida probes showed 100% sensitivity, specificity, PPV, and NPV, and the pan-Aspergillus probe showed 100% NPV. Robust signals were observed for all probes in the multiplex panels, with signal detection in <15 min. The multiplex real-time NASBA-MB assay provides a valuable platform for the rapid and specific diagnosis of bloodstream pathogens, and reliable pathogen identification and characterization can be obtained in under 3 h."}
{"id": "19401261", "title": "Molecular characterization of the black Aspergillus isolates responsible for ochratoxin A contamination in grapes and wine in relation to taxonomy of Aspergillus section Nigri.", "content": "Molecular characterization of the black Aspergillus isolates responsible for ochratoxin A contamination in grapes and wine in relation to taxonomy of Aspergillus section Nigri. This work examines ochratoxigenic mycobiota in grapes by ap-PCR analysis sequence analysis of the ITS and IGS regions and ability to produce OTA. A comparison was also made with many reference strains of Aspergillus section Nigri. Based on ap-PCR profiles, derived from two microsatellite primers, three main groups were obtained by UPGMA cluster analysis corresponding to A. carbonarius, A. niger and A. tubingensis. The cophenetic correlation values corresponding to ap-PCR UPGMA analysis revealed a higher genetic variability in A. niger and A. tubingensis than in A. carbonarius. In addition, no genotypical differences could be established between OTA producers and nonproducers in all species analysed. Phylogenetic relationships inferred from ITS and IGS sequences are, mostly, congruent with earlier works. A. niger and A. tubingensis strains were closely related, but not identical, and they clustered into two distinct groups within the A. niger aggregate. Sequence analysis also showed genetic divergences between strains of A. foetidus and the rest of the Aspergillus section Nigri. Additionally, the phylogenetic analysis was consistent in separating a new group of ochratoxigenic strains, frequently isolated from grapes, named A. tubingensis-like. All strains of A. carbonarius analysed by sequence analysis had identical ITS and IGS sequences confirming the lack of significant genetic variability within this important ochratoxigenic species."}
{"id": "19396239", "title": "Molecular and biochemical characterization of Iranian surfactin-producing Bacillus subtilis isolates and evaluation of their biocontrol potential against Aspergillus flavus and Colletotrichum gloeosporioides.", "content": "Molecular and biochemical characterization of Iranian surfactin-producing Bacillus subtilis isolates and evaluation of their biocontrol potential against Aspergillus flavus and Colletotrichum gloeosporioides. The characterization of surfactin-producing Bacillus subtilis isolates collected from different ecological zones of Iran is presented. Characterization was performed using blood agar, PCR, drop-collapse, and reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) analyses, and the isolates' biocontrol effects against the aflatoxin-producing agent Aspergillus flavus and the citrus antracnosis agent Colletotrichum gloeosporioides were studied. In total, 290 B. subtilis isolates were isolated from phylosphere and rhizosphere samples collected from fields and gardens of 5 provinces of Iran. Blood agar assays showed that 185 isolates produced different biosurfactants. Isolates containing the sfp gene, coding for surfactin, were detected using the PCR method. It was found that 14 different isolates contained the sfp gene. Drop-collapse assays, which detect isolates with high production of surfactin, showed that 7 isolates produced high levels of surfactin. It was found from HPLC analysis that the isolates containin the sfp gene produced between 55 and 1610 mg of surfactin per litre of broth medium. Four isolates, named BS119m, BS116l, N3dn, and BS113c, produced more than 1000 mg of surfactin per litre of broth. The highest surfactin production level was observed for isolate BS119m (1610 mg/L). The antagonistic potential of the sfp gene-containing isolates was determined using dual culture and chloroform vapour methods. Our bioassay results indicated that isolate BS119m showed high inhibitory effects against A. flavus (100%) and C. gloeosporioides (88%). Furthermore, the effect of purified surfactin on the growth of A. flavus was evaluated. Mycelia growth was considerably reduced with increasing concentration of surfactin, and 36%, 54%, 84%, and 100% inhibitions of mycelia growth were, respectively, observed at 20, 40, 80, and 160 mg/L after 7 days of incubation."}
{"id": "19387973", "title": "Atan1p-an extracellular tannase from the dimorphic yeast Arxula adeninivorans: molecular cloning of the ATAN1 gene and characterization of the recombinant enzyme.", "content": "Atan1p-an extracellular tannase from the dimorphic yeast Arxula adeninivorans: molecular cloning of the ATAN1 gene and characterization of the recombinant enzyme. The tannase-encoding Arxula adeninivorans gene ATAN1 was isolated from genomic DNA by PCR, using as primers oligonucleotide sequences derived from peptides obtained after tryptic digestion of the purified tannase protein. The gene harbours an ORF of 1764 bp, encoding a 587-amino acid protein, preceded by an N-terminal secretion sequence comprising 28 residues. The deduced amino acid sequence was similar to those of tannases from Aspergillus oryzae (50% identity), A. niger (48%) and putative tannases from A. fumigatus (52%) and A. nidulans (50%). The sequence contains the consensus pentapeptide motif (-Gly-X-Ser-X-Gly-) which forms part of the catalytic centre of serine hydrolases. Expression of ATAN1 is regulated by the carbon source. Supplementation with tannic acid or gallic acid leads to induction of ATAN1, and accumulation of the native tannase enzyme in the medium. The enzymes recovered from both wild-type and recombinant strains were essentially indistinguishable. A molecular mass of approximately 320 kDa was determined, indicating that the native, glycosylated tannase consists of four identical subunits. The enzyme has a temperature optimum at 35-40 degrees C and a pH optimum at approximately 6.0. The enzyme is able to remove gallic acid from both condensed and hydrolysable tannins. The wild-type strain LS3 secreted amounts of tannase equivalent to 100 U/l under inducing conditions, while the transformant strain, which overexpresses the ATAN1 gene from the strong, constitutively active A. adeninivorans TEF1 promoter, produced levels of up to 400 U/l when grown in glucose medium in shake flasks."}
{"id": "19386377", "title": "Study of the phenotypic and genotypic biodiversity of potentially ochratoxigenic black aspergilli isolated from grapes.", "content": "Study of the phenotypic and genotypic biodiversity of potentially ochratoxigenic black aspergilli isolated from grapes. Ochratoxin A (OTA) is a mycotoxin with nephrotoxic, carcinogenic, teratogenic and immunotoxic effects, naturally found in agricultural products including grapes and wine. Black Aspergillus species (Section Nigri) are mainly responsible for OTA accumulation in wine grapes and in particular Aspergillus carbonarius and Aspergillus niger aggregate. The biodiversity of potentially ochratoxigenic strains of black aspergilli from different French vineyards in the southern Mediterranean region of Languedoc-Roussillon was studied. One hundred and eighty nine black strains were isolated from grapes and studied according to harvest year, production zone, grape variety and pre-harvest treatment of grapevines. The strains were identified and classified in two groups according to macroscopic and microscopic characters; these were called the A. carbonarius representative group and the A. niger aggregate representative group. Members of each group were classified in subgroups based on macroscopic morphological colony characters. Strain biodiversity was studied according to phenotypic and genotypic characterization and to the OTA production of selected strains on PDA medium. After identification was confirmed by specific PCR using primer pair ITS1/CAR and ITS1/NIG, 24 potential ochratoxigenic strains belonging to A. carbonarius and A. niger aggregate were discriminated by RAPD-PCR using 8 different OPC primers. The use of specific primers supported the identification based on phenotypic and morphological characters. RAPD-PCR patterns demonstrated a considerable diversity among the strains. Clustering among A. niger aggregate strains was associated with production zone and harvest year, but not grape variety or pre-harvest treatment. Clustering among A. carbonarius strains was not associated with any of the above parameters. OTA production of strains on culture medium seemed to correlate better with morphological characters than with genotypic profiles. No clear relation could be established between phenotypic and genotypic characters of the studied black aspergilli."}
{"id": "19377623", "title": "[Effect of sho1 gene of Aspergillus fumigatus on adaptation to osmotic pressure and on sensitivity of antifungal drugs].", "content": "[Effect of sho1 gene of Aspergillus fumigatus on adaptation to osmotic pressure and on sensitivity of antifungal drugs]. To construct the sho1 gene mutant of Aspergillus fumigatus, and to investigate the function of sho1 in adaptation to environmental changes. Saccharomyces cerivisiae sho1 gene homolog was identified by tblastn searches in A. fumigatus genome database. A PCR fragment, composed of the 5' flanking sequence (approximately 1 kb) of sho1, sho1 ORF, and its 3' flanking sequence (approximately 1 kb), was subcloned into a vector pDHt/SK2 with ApaI/XbaI enzyme to produce a recombinant plasmid PA. The selected marker pyrG cut from pLAX223 with NcoI/PstI was cloned into PA, and PB was produced. The plasmid PB was transformed into competent Agrobacterium tumefaciens EHA105 by using the freeze/thaw method. The strain of A. tumefaciens was designated as At sho1. Then triangle upsho1 was produced via ATMT. The radial growth was observed and compared between triangle up sho1 and wild type (wt) on MM, CM and BHI medium, and the sensitivity of triangle up sho1 and wt to amphotericin B, itraconazole, voriconazole, and caspofungin investigated. Radial growth had visible difference between triangle up sho1 and wt on MM, CM and BHI medium. triangle up sho1 mutant was sensitive to high osmotic pressure but not to low osmotic pressure. The susceptibility to antifungal drugs was similar between the triangle up sho1 and wt. Slow growth of the triangle up sho1 mutant has nothing to do with the different medium. The sho1 gene plays a role in response to osmotic pressure in A. fumigatus, but sho1 has a minor role in the susceptibility to the antifungal drugs despite the slow growth."}
{"id": "19370071", "title": "Investigation of microbial community isolated from indoor artworks and air environment: identification, biodegradative abilities, and DNA typing.", "content": "Investigation of microbial community isolated from indoor artworks and air environment: identification, biodegradative abilities, and DNA typing. This study deals with establishing the characteristics of a microbial community isolated from indoor artworks and the surrounding air environment. It is one of the few studies on microbial degradation of indoor artworks. It shows the potential biodegradative risk that can occur if artworks are not exhibited and conserved in an appropriate environment. The microbial community isolated from the indoor artworks and air environment was examined by cultural and molecular methods. Different plate assays were used to screen the biodegradative activity of the isolated microflora: Remazol Brilliant Blue R, phenol red, and Azure B for the ligninolytic properties; Ostazin brilliant red H-3B for cellulose degradation; CaCO3 glucose agar for solubilization activity; and B4 agar for biomineralization. To type the bacterial and fungal isolates, 2 PCR methods, repetitive extragenic palindromes (REP) and random amplified microsatellite polymorphisms (RAMP) were used. The art objects were principally colonized by fungi. The most commonly isolated strains were represented by hyphomycetes of the genera Penicillium, Aspergillus, Cladosporium, and Chaetomium. Members of these genera showed intensive biodegradation activity, both on wood and on stone. Bacteria were predominant in the air, exhibiting complex communities, both in the air and on the artworks. The most frequently isolated genera were Bacillus and Staphylococcus with extensive biodegradation abilities. REP-PCR revealed high variability within strains belonging to the same genus. RAMP is a new PCR-based method, used in this research for the first time to cluster the microfilamentous fungi and to characterize and select especially Penicillium and Aspergillus strains, which were isolated in a large number."}
{"id": "19332310", "title": "Comparison of dry- and wet-based fine bead homogenizations to extract DNA from fungal spores.", "content": "Comparison of dry- and wet-based fine bead homogenizations to extract DNA from fungal spores. The present study explored DNA extraction kinetics from fungal spores, i.e., Aspergillus niger, Penicillium chrysogenum and Cladosporium sphaerospermum, by fine bead mill homogenization. In particular, the study aimed to investigate basic differences between the dry- and wet-based methods. The results showed higher initial rates of the DNA extractions by the dry-based method than by the wet-based method, due to higher collision efficiency among fine beads and fungal spores. Based on the experimental results, we constructed kinetic models. While the results by the wet-based method were fitted well with an existing first-order release-degradation model, the results by the dry-based method were not fitted well. Meanwhile, a newly constructed first-order release-degradation model, assuming a proportion of the DNA remained inside the disrupted spore cells and protected from further sheer stress, showed good correlations. The real-time PCR assays showed the PCR efficiencies of the DNA obtained by the dry-based method were higher than those by the wet-based method likely due to increased moderate fragmentation of the DNA by the dry-based method. Thus, although wet-based methods have been commonly used, dry-based methods might also be applicable to achieve efficient extraction and PCR amplification of fungal DNA."}
{"id": "19324443", "title": "Analysis of microbial communities in doenjang, a Korean fermented soybean paste, using nested PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis.", "content": "Analysis of microbial communities in doenjang, a Korean fermented soybean paste, using nested PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. Doenjang is a traditional Korean fermented soybean paste that provides a major source of protein. The microbial diversity of 10 samples of doenjang (5 commercially manufactured products and 5 homemade products) was investigated using nested PCR-denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE). In the first step, the nearly complete 16S rRNA and 18S rRNA genes were amplified using universal primers. Subsequently, these products were used as a template in a nested PCR to obtain fragments suitable for DGGE. The bacterial DGGE profile targeting the V3 region of the 16S rRNA gene indicated that lactic acid bacteria such as Leuconostoc mesenteroide, Tetragenococcus halophilus, and Enterococcus faecium were the predominant species. However, bands corresponding to Bacillus species, known to be the main organisms in doenjang, were not detected under the conditions described above. When selective PCR was conducted using a primer specific for Bacillus species, Bacillus subtilis and B. licheniformis were detected in several doenjang samples. In analysis of fungi, Mucor plumbeus, Aspergillus oryzae, and Debaryomyces hansenii were the most common species in the doenjang samples. On the basis of DGGE, a few differences in community structure were found for different samples. Also, cluster analysis of the DGGE profile revealed that the microbial diversity did not differ clearly between commercially manufactured and homemade products. The nested PCR-DGGE technique was used for the first time in this study to asses a microbial community in doenjang and proved to be effective in profiling microbial diversity."}
{"id": "19308034", "title": "Impact of PCR-based diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis on clinical outcome.", "content": "Impact of PCR-based diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis on clinical outcome. The mortality rate of 60-90% in invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) is partly explained by diagnostic delay due to the limitation of current diagnostic tests. We assessed the influence of Aspergillus species (ASP) DNA detection by PCR from bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid, a new tool for diagnosing IPA, on the outcome of this disease in immune-compromised patients. The study population comprised 107 consecutive patients with hematological malignancies from a single medical center with IPA diagnosed between 1998 and 2005. Clinical variables and mortality rates were compared between two groups diagnosed according to traditional criteria without and with PCR-based ASP DNA detection in BAL fluid. The overall mortality rate during the study period was 38.3%. The addition of PCR to the diagnostic criteria shifted 31 patients from possible to probable IPA. Patients diagnosed with probable IPA according to traditional microbiological methods had significantly higher mortality rates compared to their counterparts who had in addition a PCR-based diagnosis (80 vs 35.6%, P=0.003). This study demonstrates that PCR-based ASP DNA detection for a diagnosis of IPA from BAL fluid has a significant effect on the outcome of patients with IPA, probably related to earlier diagnosis."}
{"id": "19305348", "title": "Fungal infections after lung transplantation.", "content": "Fungal infections after lung transplantation. Lung transplant's Achilles heel is chronic rejection. This is the reason why high immunosuppression is used, which leads to the development of infections. Fungal infections are a great obstacle in lung transplant patients' progress, not only because of their impact on patient survival, but also because fungal infections indirectly have an influence on the graft's progress. This review highlights the changing spectrum of invasive fungal infections as well as the most recent developments in diagnosis, prophylaxis, treatment and monitoring of lung transplantation. Fungal infections have a bimodal presentation: early onset, in relation to difficult postsurgeries and prior colonizations, and late onset, primarily in relation to chronic rejection and terminal renal insufficiency. The clinical impact of non-Aspergillus moulds is still unknown. Recent efforts have focused on nonculture-based methods to establish a rapid diagnosis. However, multicentre studies are needed to establish the diagnostic value of galactomannan antigen assay in invasive aspergillosis in lung transplantation. In addition, studies of the sensitivity and specificity of PCR assays are required to establish their diagnostic value. Unfortunately, only some advances in the diagnosis of aspergillosis have been achieved. Prophylaxis should be tailored according to the different individual patient's risk status. Combined treatments, including surgical therapy, may be useful in some patients."}
{"id": "19305063", "title": "Direct colony PCR of several medically important fungi using Ampdirect plus.", "content": "Direct colony PCR of several medically important fungi using Ampdirect plus. Direct colony polymerase chain reaction (DCPCR) is a useful molecular biological technique for application in the field of mycology. In this study, all of the 63 fungal strains examined, including those of the genera Candida and Aspergillus, were amenable to DNA amplification using an Ampdirect(R) Plus kit, which allows direct PCR amplification with no requirement for DNA extraction, following 1 h of rapid fungal lysis. Moreover, we compared DCPCR of 35 strains, representing 20 species, using Ampdirect PCR and standard PCR with no lysis buffer. Thirty-four of these strains (97.14%) yielded positive results on Ampdirect PCR, while only 11 (including Aspergillus fumigatus TIMM1776) of the 35 strains (31.43%) showed PCR products when standard PCR reagents were used. Ampdirect DCPCR was also applicable to DNA amplification for spore and hyphal cells. This approach reduces DNA template preparation time before PCR from fungal colonies, and also reduces the cost of PCR."}
{"id": "19298905", "title": "Aspergillus iris granuloma: a case report with review of literature.", "content": "Aspergillus iris granuloma: a case report with review of literature. We report the case of a 25-year-old male patient who presented with complaints of redness, photophobia, and decreased vision in the right eye of a week's duration. Slit-lamp biomicroscopic examination revealed a cream-colored, irregular elevated inferior iris mass, extending on to the anterior lens surface. Differential diagnoses of a fungal granuloma, a medulloepithelioma, and an amelanotic melanoma were considered. An excisional biopsy of the mass was performed through a superior clear corneal incision. Polymerase chain reaction analysis of the aqueous humor showed a positive pan fungal genome. Histopathology of the biopsied mass showed a giant cell granuloma with surrounding numerous branching, septate hyphae. Culture growth revealed Aspergillus fumigatus We report this case because of the rarity of Aspergillus iris granuloma as a primary presentation of endogenous Aspergillosis and review the relevant literature. Absence of a significant systemic history compounded the diagnostic dilemma in our patient. Definitive differentiation of this rare entity from a foreign body, amelanotic melanoma, and other inflammatory conditions such as sarcoidosis and tuberculosis, may be possible only on microbiological and histo-pathological evaluation."}
{"id": "19294624", "title": "Radiological findings of early invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in immune-compromised patients.", "content": "Radiological findings of early invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in immune-compromised patients. Data on the radiological features of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) in early stages is scanty. Detection of Aspergillus (ASP) species in broncho-alveolar (BAL) fluid by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) enables early diagnosis of IPA. This study describes the radiological features of early stages of IPA. Chest computerized tomography (CT) films of 22 consecutive immune-compromised patients with IPA diagnosed with the aid of ASP PCR testing from BAL fluid were characterized and compared to that of 18 similar patients diagnosed with traditional bacteriological methods and to data from the literature. It was found that patients diagnosed with the aid of ASP PCR testing tended to have focal disease as manifested by more 11-30 mm nodules with halo (68% vs. 33%, p = 0.04), more focal ground glass (single area 32% vs. 6%, p = 0.05, patchy 32% vs. 0%, p = 0.01) and less diffuse ground glass (0% vs. 22%, p = 0.03), less cavitations (5% vs. 28%, p = 0.05) and less consolidations (segmental 14% vs. 50%, p = 0.02 and diffuse 14% vs. 67%, p = 0.001). It was concluded that the radiological appearance of early IPA diagnosed with the aid of PCR testing included mainly discrete small nodules with halo and focal ground glass, representing the early stage of the disease."}
{"id": "19276884", "title": "New therapies for fungal pneumonia.", "content": "New therapies for fungal pneumonia. This review summarizes recent developments in the diagnosis and treatment of fungal pneumonia, with an emphasis on invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. Improvements in nonculture-based fungal diagnostics, early implementation of pulmonary high resolution, or spiral computed tomography scanning and a recent expansion of the antifungal armamentarium have greatly improved the outcome of immunocompromised patients with invasive aspergillosis. However, the field is changing: new pathogens (such as Zygomycetes) are emerging, and novel risk groups (ICU patients in particular) are being identified. Galactomannan antigen detection is a valuable tool for evaluating patients at risk for invasive aspergillosis (as a screening assay on serum samples from neutropenic patients or as a confirmatory assay on bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples, in general), but should be used in conjunction with modern imaging techniques. beta-D-Glucan and PCR assays are still investigational. Voriconazole is the drug of choice for invasive aspergillosis, whereas liposomal amphotericin B at 3 mg/kg per day is the preferred alternative in case of contraindication, drug-related side-effects, or intolerance. Whenever possible, optimal antifungal therapy should be complemented by surgical debridement of necrotic tissue. The added value of combination therapy is still unproven. Therapeutic drug monitoring of mold-active azoles should be implemented in order to minimize toxicity and maximize efficacy. Lipid-based formulations of amphotericin B, and to a lesser extent voriconazole, are the drugs of choice for non-Aspergillus related fungal pneumonia. Although active in prophylaxis, the efficacy of posaconazole in confirmed infections remains controversial."}
{"id": "19268380", "title": "ITS-based detection and quantification of Aspergillus ochraceus and Aspergillus westerdijkiae in grapes and green coffee beans by real-time quantitative PCR.", "content": "ITS-based detection and quantification of Aspergillus ochraceus and Aspergillus westerdijkiae in grapes and green coffee beans by real-time quantitative PCR. Aspergillus ochraceus and A. westerdijkiae are considered the most important Ochratoxin A (OTA) producing species included in Aspergillus section Circumdati which contaminate foodstuffs and beverages for human consumption. In this work a real-time quantitative PCR protocol was developed to detect both species using SYBR Green and primers designed on the basis of the multicopy ITS1 region of the rDNA. The assay had high efficiency (94%) and showed no inhibition by host or fungal DNA other than the target species. The lower detection limit of the target DNA was 2.5 pg/reaction. Accuracy of detection and quantification by qPCR were tested with genomic DNA obtained from green coffee beans and grapes artificially contaminated with spore suspensions of known concentrations. Spore concentrations equal or higher than 10(6) spore/ml could be detected by the assay directly without prior incubation of the samples and a positive relationship was observed between incubation time and qPCR values. The assay developed would allow rapid, specific, accurate and sensitive detection and quantification of A. ochraceus and A. westerdijkiae to be directly used in a critical point of the food chain, before harvesting green coffee and grape berries, to predict and control fungal growth and OTA production."}
{"id": "19261791", "title": "Interlaboratory reproducibility of a single-locus sequence-based method for strain typing of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Interlaboratory reproducibility of a single-locus sequence-based method for strain typing of Aspergillus fumigatus. Seven international laboratories tested the recently proposed single-locus typing strategy for Aspergillus fumigatus subtyping for interlaboratory reproducibility. Comparative sequence analyses of portions of the locus AFUA_3G08990, encoding a putative cell surface protein (denoted CSP), was performed with a panel of Aspergillus isolates. Each laboratory followed very different protocols for extraction of DNA, PCR, and sequencing. Results revealed that the CSP typing method was a reproducible and portable strain typing method."}
{"id": "19258277", "title": "Role for Fks1 in the intrinsic echinocandin resistance of Fusarium solani as evidenced by hybrid expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.", "content": "Role for Fks1 in the intrinsic echinocandin resistance of Fusarium solani as evidenced by hybrid expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The opportunistic mold Fusarium solani is intrinsically resistant to cell wall synthesis-inhibiting echinocandins (ECs), including caspofungin and micafungin. Mutations that confer acquired EC resistance in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and other normally susceptible yeast species have been mapped to the Fks1 gene; among these is the mutation of residue 639 from Phe to Tyr (F639Y) within a region designated hot spot 1. Fks1 sequence analysis identified the equivalent of Y639 in F. solani as well as in Scedosporium prolificans, another intrinsically EC-resistant mold. To test its role in intrinsic EC resistance, we constructed Fks1 hybrids in S. cerevisiae that incorporate F. solani hot spot 1 and flanking residues. Hybrid construction was accomplished by a PCR-based method that was validated by studies with Fks1 sequences from EC-susceptible Aspergillus fumigatus and paired EC-susceptible and -resistant Candida glabrata isolates. In support of our hypothesis, hybrid Fks1 incorporating F. solani hot spot 1 conferred significantly reduced EC susceptibility, 4- to 8-fold less than that of wild-type S. cerevisiae and 8- to 32-fold less than that of the same hybrid with an F639 mutation. We propose that Fks1 sequences represent determinants of intrinsic EC resistance in Fusarium and Scedosporium species and, potentially, other fungi."}
{"id": "19255901", "title": "MLST versus microsatellites for typing Aspergillus fumigatus isolates.", "content": "MLST versus microsatellites for typing Aspergillus fumigatus isolates. In recent years, there has been a clear and growing tendency to use exact typing methods for discrimination between microbial isolates. Exact typing methods that yield an unambiguous typing result offer a number of advantages over conventional methods in the generation of typing data that is reproducible, portable and exchangeable. Two such methods are multi-locus sequence typing (MLST) and microsatellite-based typing. Here I will discuss the basic principles of both methods and compare them from a practical and performance point of view with respect to typing Aspergillus fumigatus isolates. Microsatellites offer the best available typing option by outperforming MLST in terms of speed, throughput, costs and discriminatory power. This latter advantage of microsatellites is a direct consequence of their inherent instability. This (in)stability of individual microsatellite markers and alleles should be taken into account in the interpretation of microsatellite-based typing data."}
{"id": "19255755", "title": "Molecular characterization of an atoxigenic Aspergillus flavus strain AF051.", "content": "Molecular characterization of an atoxigenic Aspergillus flavus strain AF051. An atoxigenic Aspergillus flavus strain AF051 collected from a peanut field in Jiangsu province, P. R. China was characterized by analysis of aflatoxin gene cluster in this study. By using a thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR (TAIL-PCR) and conventional PCR techniques, an 89.59-kb deletion was found in the cluster, and this deletion was replaced by a 3.83-kb insert, which was located at 300-bp upstream ver1 gene and 2594-bp downstream a putative gluconolactone oxidase gene. Based on the DNA sequence at the breakpoint, a nested-PCR method was developed for the rapid and sensitive detection of AF051 strain in soil and peanut samples once the strain is used as a biological agent."}
{"id": "19253143", "title": "Risk stratification for invasive aspergillosis: early assessment of host susceptibility.", "content": "Risk stratification for invasive aspergillosis: early assessment of host susceptibility. Outcomes of invasive aspergillosis are substantially improved with early initiation of therapy. Unfortunately, the diagnosis remains difficult to establish so that early suspicion of infection is imperative. Identification of high risk patients and use of non-culture-based diagnostics and radiographic studies can facilitate earlier recognition of infection. It is important to realize that the timing and spectrum of risk for invasive aspergillosis have expanded. While patients with hematological malignancies and hematopoietic stem cell transplants make up the highest risk groups, patients such as those receiving steroids and other immunosuppressive therapies are also at risk. Non-culture-based methods (including galactomannan, 1,3-beta-D-glucan, and PCR-based methods) are actively being pursued to improve early diagnosis. Thus, identifying patients at high risk for infection and utilizing non-culture-based methods and radiologic studies to assist in establishing a likely diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis will further enhance the role of new agents in the early, effective treatment and prophylaxis of invasive aspergillosis."}
{"id": "19253138", "title": "Aspergillus PCR formidable challenges and progress.", "content": "Aspergillus PCR formidable challenges and progress. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is an important cause of morbidity and mortality in immuno-compromised patients, with an incidence of 4-10%, and with a mortality rate of 80-90%, such as in allogeneic stem cell transplant recipients. Conventional diagnostic tests, like blood culture, are not useful in the diagnosis of Aspergillus spp. fungemia. Furthermore, non-culture based techniques that have been used in the past have lacked sensitivity and specificity in immunocompromised patients. New rapid methods which can detect IA early in the course of disease with high sensitivity and specificity are needed since treating these infections at an early stage is often essential for favourable outcomes. In this regard, the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) offers great promise for the rapid diagnosis of fungal infections, including detection of fungi that do not grow in blood cultures such as Aspergillus spp. At Karolinska University Hospital we have established a diagnostic assay, using a combination of a manual extraction and a robot for automated extraction of Candida and Aspergillus DNA, together with real-time PCR. To asses its clinical applicability, a large number of samples from patients with suspected invasive fungal infection have been analyzed with real time PCR. Data will be presented with focus on Aspergillus R-T PCR results in immunocompromised patients. A range of different PCR assays have been developed, targeting different gene regions and including a variety of amplicon detection methods. These molecular assays provide high potential in terms of sensitivity and specificity, but vary widely in their feasibility and have not, until now, been standardized. Despite this progress, there are certain questions to be addressed using these assays, such as the frequency of prospective sampling, as well as the number of positive results of a PCR assay required to initiate antifungal therapy. Furthermore, there are only a few standardized assays that are commercially available. This particular challenge will be addressed by the Working Group 'EAPCRI' (European Aspergillus PCR Initiative) under the auspices of ISHAM. Twenty-four centres have started to establish a European standard for Aspergillus-PCR. The principal goal of this initiative is to achieve a standard for PCR that can be incorporated into the next revision of the EORTC/MSG definitions for IA. Future prospective studies evaluating the potential benefits of early therapy based on R-T PCR in patients at high risk for IA infections are needed."}
{"id": "19251760", "title": "A library-based method to rapidly analyse chromatin accessibility at multiple genomic regions.", "content": "A library-based method to rapidly analyse chromatin accessibility at multiple genomic regions. Traditional chromatin analysis methods only test one locus at the time or use different templates for each locus, making a standardized analysis of large genomic regions or many co-regulated genes at different loci a difficult task. On the other hand, genome-wide high-resolution mapping of chromatin accessibility employing massive parallel sequencing platforms generates an extensive data set laborious to analyse and is a cost-intensive method, only applicable to the analysis of a limited set of biological samples. To close this gap between the traditional and the high-throughput procedures we have developed a method in which a condition-specific, genome-wide chromatin fragment library is produced and then used for locus-specific DNA fragment analysis. To validate the method, we used, as a test locus, the well-studied promoter of the divergently transcribed niiA and niaD genes coding for nitrate assimilation enzymes in Aspergillus. Additionally, we have used the condition-specific libraries to study nucleosomal positioning at two different loci, the promoters of the general nitrogen regulator areA and the regulator of secondary metabolism, aflR."}
{"id": "19246986", "title": "Development-dependent scavenging of nucleic acids in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Development-dependent scavenging of nucleic acids in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus fumigatus. Aspergillus fumigatus is an ubiquitous, filamentous and opportunistic pathogenic fungus which causes fatal invasive aspergillosis among immuno-compromised patients. Since therapeutic strategies are currently limited, the mortality rate of invasive aspergillosis is high and thus, alternative antifungal strategies are required. In this study, we demonstrate that during vegetative growth Aspergillus fumigatus is able to scavenge nucleic acids within its cell wall with accumulation rates of several thousand-fold, compared to the surrounding medium. To investigate, whether nucleic acids, attached to the fungal cell wall, are able to move further into the cytoplasm of fungal cells, we directly applied siRNAs, in the absence of lipo-transfection reagents, to growing A. fumigatus cells. In fact, addition of two 21-nt siRNA duplexes resulted in knock-down of their corresponding target mRNAs, odcA and pyrG, respectively. These findings indicate that RNA interference, mediated by siRNAs, can be used as a fast and efficient tool to investigate the functions of genes within filamentous fungi. In addition, siRNA-based therapies may provide novel approaches for antifungal treatment."}
{"id": "19244466", "title": "Species-specific identification of a wide range of clinically relevant fungal pathogens by use of Luminex xMAP technology.", "content": "Species-specific identification of a wide range of clinically relevant fungal pathogens by use of Luminex xMAP technology. In immunocompromised patients suffering from invasive fungal infection, rapid identification of the fungal species is a prerequisite for selection of the most appropriate antifungal treatment. We present an assay permitting reliable identification of a wide range of clinically relevant fungal pathogens based on the high-throughput Luminex microbead hybridization technology. The internal transcribed spacer (ITS2) region, which is highly variable among genomes of individual fungal species, was used to generate oligonucleotide hybridization probes for specific identification. The spectrum of pathogenic fungi covered by the assay includes the most commonly occurring species of the genera Aspergillus and Candida and a number of important emerging fungi, such as Cryptococcus, Fusarium, Trichosporon, Mucor, Rhizopus, Penicillium, Absidia, and Acremonium. Up to three different probes are employed for the detection of each fungal species. The redundancy in the design of the assay should ensure unambiguous fungus identification even in the presence of mutations in individual target regions. The current set of hybridization oligonucleotides includes 75 species- and genus-specific probes which had been carefully tested for specificity by repeated analysis of multiple reference strains. To provide adequate sensitivity for clinical application, the assay includes amplification of the ITS2 region by a seminested PCR approach prior to hybridization of the amplicons to the probe panel using the Luminex technology. A variety of fungal pathogens were successfully identified in clinical specimens that included peripheral blood, samples from biopsies of pulmonary infiltrations, and bronchotracheal secretions derived from patients with documented invasive fungal infections. Our observations demonstrate that the Luminex-based technology presented permits rapid and reliable identification of fungal species and may therefore be instrumental in routine clinical diagnostics."}
{"id": "19243908", "title": "Antifungal activity of strains of lactic acid bacteria isolated from a semolina ecosystem against Penicillium roqueforti, Aspergillus niger and Endomyces fibuliger contaminating bakery products.", "content": "Antifungal activity of strains of lactic acid bacteria isolated from a semolina ecosystem against Penicillium roqueforti, Aspergillus niger and Endomyces fibuliger contaminating bakery products. Thirty samples of Italian durum wheat semolina and whole durum wheat semolina, generally used for the production of Southern Italy's traditional breads, were subjected to microbiological analysis in order to explore their lactic acid bacteria (LAB) diversity and to find strains with antifungal activity. A total of 125 presumptive LAB isolates (Gram-positive and catalase-negative) were characterized by repetitive extragenic palindromic-PCR (REP-PCR) and sequence analysis of the 16S rRNA gene, leading to the identification of the following species: Weissella confusa, Weissella cibaria, Leuconostoc citreum, Leuconostoc mesenteroides, Lactococcus lactis, Lactobacillus rossiae and Lactobacillus plantarum. The REP-PCR results delineated 17 different patterns whose cluster analysis clearly differentiated W. cibaria from W. confusa isolates. Seventeen strains, each characterized by a different REP-PCR pattern, were screened for their antifungal properties. They were grown in a flour-based medium, comparable to a real food system, and the resulting fermentation products (FPs) were tested against fungal species generally contaminating bakery products, Aspergillus niger, Penicillium roqueforti and Endomyces fibuliger. The results of the study indicated a strong inhibitory activity - comparable to that obtained with the common preservative calcium propionate (0.3% w/v) - of ten LAB strains against the most widespread contaminant of bakery products, P. roqueforti. The screening also highlighted the unexplored antifungal activity of L. citreum, L. rossiae and W. cibaria (1 strain), which inhibited all fungal strains to the same or a higher extent compared with calcium propionate. The fermentation products of these three strains were characterized by low pH values, and a high content of lactic and acetic acids."}
{"id": "19238380", "title": "Assessment of the core cryparin promoter from Cryphonectria parasitica for heterologous expression in filamentous fungi.", "content": "Assessment of the core cryparin promoter from Cryphonectria parasitica for heterologous expression in filamentous fungi. Cryparin is an abundant cell-wall-associated hydrophobin of Cryphonectria parasitica. Although cryparin is encoded as a single copy gene, it is the most abundant protein produced by this fungus when grown in liquid culture. Studies to characterize the transcriptional regulatory element(s) found that the fragment between nt -188 and the start codon was the minimal but sufficient promoter element for expression of the cryparin gene. To explore the possibility of using this small fragment as a minimal core promoter, three different chimeric reporter genes were constructed using a bacterial hygromycin B resistance gene (hph), an inducible laccase of C. parasitica, and glucose oxidase of Aspergillus niger to examine the promoter properties of the fragment. When using C. parasitica as an expression host, the 188-bp fragment functioned as a promoter for the expression of all three reporter genes. Moreover, a high level of expression was further confirmed by measuring the relative amount of transcripts of hph and an internal control gene, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, using quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction. The 188-bp fragment also showed promoter activity in other fungi, Gibberella zeae, A. niger, and Aspergillus nidulans, which suggests that this fragment can be applied as a strong core promoter for heterologous gene expression in various fungi."}
{"id": "19233957", "title": "Analysis of variance components reveals the contribution of sample processing to transcript variation.", "content": "Analysis of variance components reveals the contribution of sample processing to transcript variation. The proper design of DNA microarray experiments requires knowledge of biological and technical variation of the studied biological model. For the filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger, a fast, quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR)-based hierarchical experimental design was used to determine this variation. Analysis of variance components determined the contribution of each processing step to total variation: 68% is due to differences in day-to-day handling and processing, while the fermentor vessel, cDNA synthesis, and qPCR measurement each contributed equally to the remainder of variation. The global transcriptional response to d-xylose was analyzed using Affymetrix microarrays. Twenty-four statistically differentially expressed genes were identified. These encode enzymes required to degrade and metabolize D-xylose-containing polysaccharides, as well as complementary enzymes required to metabolize complex polymers likely present in the vicinity of D-xylose-containing substrates. These results confirm previous findings that the d-xylose signal is interpreted by the fungus as the availability of a multitude of complex polysaccharides. Measurement of a limited number of transcripts in a defined experimental setup followed by analysis of variance components is a fast and reliable method to determine biological and technical variation present in qPCR and microarray studies. This approach provides important parameters for the experimental design of batch-grown filamentous cultures and facilitates the evaluation and interpretation of microarray data."}
{"id": "19229589", "title": "High diagnostic value of morphologic examination and molecular analysis of bone marrow biopsies in a case of BCR-ABL+ CML with clusters of blasts.", "content": "High diagnostic value of morphologic examination and molecular analysis of bone marrow biopsies in a case of BCR-ABL+ CML with clusters of blasts. We report a clinical case of chronic myelogenous leukaemia (CML) with regional B-lymphoblastic transformation. Peripheral leukocytosis of 160 x 10(9)/L, splenomegaly and fatigue suggested CML. In peripheral blood and bone marrow smears, white blood cells in all maturation stages and only few blasts were seen and therefore the diagnosis of chronic phase CML was proposed. Cytogenetics performed on peripheral blood cells revealed the characteristic t(9;22)(q34;q11) translocation as solitary abnormality. Analyzing the bone marrow biopsy a focal nodular B-lymphoid blast component was additionally seen. BCR-ABL FISH analysis demonstrated 31% atypical split signals in the B-lymphoid blasts and in the maturing myeloid cells, furthermore, BCR-ABL fusion transcripts were seen in the RT-PCR assay. Imatinib-based therapy led to temporary regression of peripheral leukocytosis. Bone marrow examination 3 weeks after therapy induction demonstrated considerably reduced cellularity and the proportion of B-lymphoid blasts had decreased to 20% of the nuclear cells. BCR-ABL FISH analysis still presented 21% atypical split signals but levels of BCR-ABL transcripts had significantly fallen indicating a rather favourable prognosis. However, 3 months after diagnosis the patient relapsed and developed an immunodeficiency with soor esophagitis and aspergillus pneumonia. A therapy with dasatinib was not successful and the patient died in consequence of immunodeficiency. This report demonstrates the high diagnostic value of bone marrow biopsy in the evaluation of CML. Besides morphology investigation of diverse methods including RT-PCR and FISH performed on diagnostic bone marrow biopsies are obligatory for ideal monitoring of drug response."}
{"id": "19226388", "title": "Quantification of conidial density of Aspergillus flavus and A. parasiticus in soil from almond orchards using real-time PCR.", "content": "Quantification of conidial density of Aspergillus flavus and A. parasiticus in soil from almond orchards using real-time PCR. To design the Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus-specific primers and a real-time PCR assay for quantification of the conidial density in soil. Aspergillus flavus and A. parasiticus-specific DNA primers were designed based on internal transcribed spacer sequences to distinguish these two species and from other Aspergillus and other fungal species. A method of pathogen DNA extraction directly from soil samples was developed. Using the designed primers, a real-time PCR assay was developed to quantitatively determine the conidial density of each A. flavus and A. parasiticus in soil, after generating corresponding standard curves. Known conidial densities of each A. flavus or A. parasiticus in soil significantly correlated with those tested with the real-time PCR. This study demonstrated the applicability of the real-time PCR assay in studies of quantifying A. flavus and A. parasiticus in soil as inoculum sources. The A. flacus and A. parasitic-specific primers can be widely used in aflatoxin research. The real-time PCR assay developed in this study provides a potential approach to quantify the plant pathogen density from not only soil but also other sources in relation to aflatoxin contamination from environment, food and feed commodities."}
{"id": "19217941", "title": "Functional expression and sub-cellular localization of the early aflatoxin pathway enzyme Nor-1 in Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Functional expression and sub-cellular localization of the early aflatoxin pathway enzyme Nor-1 in Aspergillus parasiticus. Aflatoxin biosynthesis in Aspergillus parasiticus requires at least 17 enzyme activities (from acetate). Although the activities of most aflatoxin biosynthetic enzymes have been established, the mechanisms that govern transport and sub-cellular localization of these enzymes are not clear. We developed plasmid constructs that express Nor-1 fused to a green fluorescent protein reporter (EGFP) to monitor transport and localization of this early pathway enzyme in real time in Aspergillus parasiticus. Plasmids expressing EGFP fused to Nor-1 were introduced into A. parasiticus B62 (carries non-functional Nor-1). Transformants were screened for increased aflatoxin accumulation (restored Nor-1 activity) on coconut agar medium and for EGFP expression using fluorescence microscopy. Increased aflatoxin accumulation was confirmed by TLC and ELISA. Nor-1 fused to EGFP at either the N- or C- terminus functionally complemented non-functional Nor-1 in B62 and increased aflatoxin synthesis to wild-type (N-terminus) or lower levels (C-terminus). We detected full-length Nor-1 fusion proteins in transformants with increased aflatoxin accumulation (Western blot) and determined that the expression plasmid integrated at the nor-1 locus in these cells (Southern blot). Confocal laser scanning microscopy (CLSM) demonstrated that Nor-1 fusion proteins localized in the cytoplasm and vacuoles of fungal hyphae grown on aflatoxin-inducing solid media for 48h; control EGFP (no Nor-1) did not localize to vacuoles until 72h. The highest rate of aflatoxin synthesis coincided with the highest rate of transport of Nor-1 fusion proteins to the vacuole strongly suggesting that Nor-1 is synthesized in the cytoplasm and transported to the vacuole to carry out an early step in aflatoxin synthesis."}
{"id": "19214630", "title": "Regulation of alternative oxidase at the transcription stage in Aspergillus niger under the conditions of citric acid production.", "content": "Regulation of alternative oxidase at the transcription stage in Aspergillus niger under the conditions of citric acid production. The citric acid-producing fungus Aspergillus niger WU-2223L possesses a cyanide-insensitive respiratory pathway catalyzed by alternative oxidase. The regulation of the alternative oxidase under the conditions of citric acid production was determined from the transcription level of the alternative oxidase gene (aox1). PCR and Southern blot analyses revealed that there is only one copy of aox1 on the chromosome of WU-2223L and no homologous gene of aox1. To confirm the regulation stage of alternative oxidase, alternative oxidase activities and aox1 transcription levels were measured under several cultivation conditions, including those for citric acid production. On each cultivation day, the changes in the specific activity of the alternative oxidase were found to be comparable to those in the transcription level of aox1. These results indicate that the activity of the alternative oxidase encoded by aox1 is regulated at the transcription stage under the conditions tested for A. niger WU-2223L."}
{"id": "19210691", "title": "Invasive aspergillosis in two liver transplant recipients: diagnosis by SeptiFast.", "content": "Invasive aspergillosis in two liver transplant recipients: diagnosis by SeptiFast. We report the clinical features, diagnosis, and monitoring findings of invasive aspergillosis (IA) in 2 liver transplant recipients. Blood/serum samples and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluids were analyzed by a novel commercial polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay (SeptiFast) and an Aspergillus galactomannan (GM) enzyme-linked immunoassay (EIA). The diagnosis of IA could be performed in <6 h with the detection of Aspergillus fumigatus DNA in blood and BAL fluid. High GM values (mean: 9.1, range: 7.3-10.8) in serum and BAL fluid confirmed the SeptiFast result. Follow-up of the SeptiFast findings and GM index correlated with the clinical course. The molecular detection of A. fumigatus-specific DNA and GM test in blood/serum and BAL samples appears to be a useful tool for prompt diagnosis of IA. Further prospective clinical trials are necessary to evaluate the accuracy of SeptiFast and the GM test in diagnosing IA."}
{"id": "19208266", "title": "Inducible expression of beta defensins by human respiratory epithelial cells exposed to Aspergillus fumigatus organisms.", "content": "Inducible expression of beta defensins by human respiratory epithelial cells exposed to Aspergillus fumigatus organisms. Aspergillus fumigatus, a saprophytic mould, is responsible for life-threatening, invasive pulmonary diseases in immunocompromised hosts. The role of the airway epithelium involves a complex interaction with the inhaled pathogen. Antimicrobial peptides with direct antifungal and chemotactic activities may boost antifungal immune response. The inducible expression of defensins by human bronchial epithelial 16HBE cells and A549 pneumocyte cells exposed to A. fumigatus was investigated. Using RT-PCR and real time PCR, we showed an activation of hBD2 and hBD9 defensin genes: the expression was higher in cells exposed to swollen conidia (SC), compared to resting conidia (RC) or hyphal fragments (HF). The kinetics of defensin expression was different for each one, evoking a putative distinct function for each investigated defensin. The decrease of defensin expression in the presence of heat-inactivated serum indicated a possible link between defensins and the proteins of the host complement system. The presence of defensin peptide hBD2 was revealed using immunofluorescence that showed a punctual cytoplasmic and perinuclear staining. Quantification of the cells stained with anti hBD2 antibody demonstrated that SC induced a greater number of cells that synthesized hBD2, compared to RC or HF. Labelling of the cells with anti-hBD-2 antibody showed a positive immunofluorescence signal around RC or SC in contrast to HF. This suggests co-localisation of hBD2 and digested conidia. The HBD2 level was highest in the supernatants of cells exposed to SC, as was determined by sandwich ELISA. Experiments using neutralising anti-interleukine-1beta antibody reflect the autocrine mechanism of defensin expression induced by SC. Investigation of defensin expression at transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels demonstrated the requirement of transcription as well as new protein synthesis during A. fumigatus defensin induction. Finally, induced defensin expression in primary culture of human respiratory cells exposed to A. fumigatus points to the biological significance of described phenomena. Our findings provide evidence that respiratory epithelium might play an important role in the immune response during Aspergillus infection. Understanding the mechanisms of regulation of defensin expression may thus lead to new approaches that could enhance expression of antimicrobial peptides for potential therapeutic use during aspergillosis treatment."}
{"id": "19205472", "title": "A maize lectin-like protein with antifungal activity against Aspergillus flavus.", "content": "A maize lectin-like protein with antifungal activity against Aspergillus flavus. The filamentous fungus Aspergillus flavus causes an ear rot on maize and produces a mycotoxin (aflatoxin) in colonized maize kernels. Aflatoxins are carcinogenic to humans and animals upon ingestion. Aflatoxin contamination results in a large loss of profits and marketable yields for farmers each year. Several research groups have worked to pinpoint sources of resistance to A. flavus and the resulting aflatoxin contamination in maize. Some maize genotypes exhibit greater resistance than others. A proteomics approach has recently been used to identify endogenous maize proteins that may be associated with resistance to the fungus. Research has been conducted on cloning, expression, and partial characterization of one such protein, which has a sequence similar to that of cold-regulated proteins. The expressed protein, ZmCORp, exhibited lectin-like hemagglutination activity against fungal conidia and sheep erythrocytes. Quantitative real-time PCR assays revealed that ZmCOR is expressed 50% more in maize kernels from the Mp420 line, a type of maize resistant to A. flavus, compared with the expression level of the gene in the susceptible B73 line. ZmCORp exhibited fungistatic activity when conidia from A. flavus were exposed to the protein at a final concentration of 18 mM. ZmCORp inhibited the germination of conidia by 80%. A 50% decrease in mycelial growth resulted when germinated conidia were incubated with the protein. The partial characterization of ZmCORp suggests that this protein may play an important role in enhancing kernel resistance to A. flavus infection and aflatoxin accumulation."}
{"id": "19196262", "title": "Simple and highly discriminatory microsatellite-based multiplex PCR for Aspergillus fumigatus strain typing.", "content": "Simple and highly discriminatory microsatellite-based multiplex PCR for Aspergillus fumigatus strain typing. The answers to important questions concerning Aspergillus fumigatus pathogenicity, transmissions routes and efficacy of treatments require highly discriminating and reproducible genotyping methods. The present study was aimed at improving microsatellite methodology for A. fumigatus typing by reducing the task of strain identification to a single multiplex reaction and by selecting highly accurate short tandem repeat polymorphisms. A set of eight primer pairs was used for the genotype determination of 116 clinical isolates of A. fumigatus obtained from three healthcare centres. A new, automated and highly discriminatory typing method is described for A. fumigatus strains. The optimized multiplex PCR was successfully performed with all tested clinical strains and showed a discriminatory power of 0.9997 among presumably unrelated isolates. The comparison of groups of strains from different health centres showed that 99.6% of the genotypic variation was present within groups. Strains with the same genotype were isolated from the same patient, sometimes recovered more than 1 year later. A few cases of patients at the same clinic unit carrying strains of identical genotype strongly suggested colonization by A. fumigatus during their hospitalization. Specific measures must therefore be taken in order to prevent and restrict such incidents."}
{"id": "19191921", "title": "Molds and mycotoxins in dust from water-damaged homes in New Orleans after hurricane Katrina.", "content": "Molds and mycotoxins in dust from water-damaged homes in New Orleans after hurricane Katrina. Dust collected in New Orleans homes mold-contaminated because of the flooding after hurricane Katrina was analyzed for molds and mycotoxins. The mycoflora was studied by cultivation and quantitative PCR for selected molds. The most commonly found mold taxa were Aspergillus, Cladosporium, and Penicillium. Verrucarol, a hydrolysis product of macrocyclic trichothecenes predominately produced by Stachybotrys spp. was identified in three dust samples by gas chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry, and sterigmatocystin (produced by various Aspergillus spp.) was found in two samples by high pressure liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry. This is the first demonstration of mycotoxins in Katrina-associated dust samples. The analytical methods used represent valuable tools in further studies on bioaerosol exposure and health risks. In the aftermath of natural disasters like hurricane Katrina water-damages on infrastructure and public and private property are often associated with health risks for remediation workers and returning residents. In the case of New Orleans evaluations of health hazards, health studies, and assessments of bioaerosol have been conducted previously. However, until now mycotoxins have not been addressed. Our study shows, for the first time, the presence of mycotoxins in dust collected in houses in New Orleans mold-contaminated because of the hurricane Katrina. The results may highlight the potential health threats posed by mold aerosols in post-disaster inhabited areas."}
{"id": "19183000", "title": "Mycoflora and mycotoxin production in oilseed cakes during farm storage.", "content": "Mycoflora and mycotoxin production in oilseed cakes during farm storage. Agricultural activities involve the use of oilseed cakes as a source of proteins for livestock. Because the storage of oilseed cakes could induce the development of molds and the production of mycotoxins, a survey was conducted during the 5 months of farm storage. Mycoflora was studied by microscopic examinations, and the presence of Aspergillus fumigatus was confirmed by polymerase chain reaction. A multimycotoxin method was developed to quantify seven mycotoxins (aflatoxin B(1), alternariol, fumonisin B(1), gliotoxin, ochratoxin A, T-2 toxin, and zearalenone) in oilseed cakes by high-performance liquid chromatography coupled to mass spectrometry. Among 34 fungal species identified, A. fumigatus and Aspergillus repens were observed during 5 and 4 months, respectively. Gliotoxin, an immunosuppressive mycotoxin, was quantified in oilseed cakes up to 45 microg/kg, which was associated with the presence of toxigenic isolates of A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "19179225", "title": "Use of PCR for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis: systematic review and meta-analysis.", "content": "Use of PCR for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis: systematic review and meta-analysis. A systematic review and meta-analysis was done on the use of PCR tests for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. Data from more than 10000 blood, serum, or plasma samples obtained from 1618 patients at risk for invasive aspergillosis were retrieved from 16 studies. Overall, the mean diagnostic odds ratios (DORs) of PCR for proven and probable cases were similar whether two consecutive positive samples were required to define positivity (DOR 15.97 [95% CI 6.83-37.34]) or a single positive PCR test was required (DOR 16.41 [95% CI 6.43-41.88]). Sensitivity and specificity of PCR for two consecutive positive samples were 0.75 (95% CI 0.54-0.88) and 0.87 (95% CI 0.78-0.93), respectively, and if only a single positive sample was required, these values were 0.88 (95% CI 0.75-0.94) and 0.75 (95% CI 0.63-0.84), respectively. Whereas specificity based on a single positive test was significantly lower (p=0.027) than two positive tests, the sensitivity and DOR did not differ significantly. A single PCR-negative result is thus sufficient to exclude a diagnosis of proven or probable invasive aspergillosis. However, two positive tests are required to confirm the diagnosis because the specificity is higher than that attained from a single positive test. Populations at risk varied and there was a lack of homogeneity of the PCR methods used. Efforts are underway to devise a standard for Aspergillus sp PCR for screening, which will help enable formal validation of PCR and estimate its use in patients most likely to benefit."}
{"id": "19176265", "title": "Facing the problem of \"false positives\": re-assessment and improvement of a multiplex RT-PCR procedure for the diagnosis of A. flavus mycotoxin producers.", "content": "Facing the problem of \"false positives\": re-assessment and improvement of a multiplex RT-PCR procedure for the diagnosis of A. flavus mycotoxin producers. The aim of our research project was to consolidate a multiplex RT-PCR protocol to detect aflatoxigenic strains of Aspergillus flavus. Several independent A. flavus strains were isolated from corn and flour samples from the North of Italy and from three European countries. Aflatoxin producing/not producing phenotype was assessed by qualitative and quantitative assays at day five of growth in aflatoxin inducing conditions. Expression of 16 genes belonging to the aflatoxin cluster was assayed by multiplex or monomeric RT-PCR. There is a good correlation between gene expression and aflatoxin production. Strains that apparently transcribed all the relevant genes but did not release aflatoxin in the medium (\"false positives\") were re-assessed for mycotoxin production after extended growth in inducing condition. All the \"false positive\" strains in actual fact were positive when aflatoxin determination was performed after 10 days of growth. These strains should then be re-classified as \"slow aflatoxin accumulators\". To optimise the diagnostic procedure, a quintuplex RT-PCR procedure was designed consisting of a primer set directed against four informative aflatoxin cluster genes and the beta-tubulin gene as an internal amplification control. In conclusion we have provided evidence for the robustness and reliability of our RT-PCR protocol in discriminating mycotoxin producer from non-producer strains of A. flavus. and the molecular procedure we devised is a promising tool with which to screen and control the endemic population of A. flavus colonising different areas of the World."}
{"id": "19161356", "title": "Identification of virulence genes in Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici by large-scale transposon tagging.", "content": "Identification of virulence genes in Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici by large-scale transposon tagging. Forward genetic screens are efficient tools for the dissection of complex biological processes, such as fungal pathogenicity. A transposon tagging system was developed in the vascular wilt fungus Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici by inserting the novel modified impala element imp160::gfp upstream of the Aspergillus nidulans niaD gene, followed by transactivation with a constitutively expressed transposase. A collection of 2072 Nia(+) revertants was obtained from reporter strain T12 and screened for alterations in virulence, using a rapid assay for invasive growth on apple slices. Seven strains exhibited reduced virulence on both apple slices and intact tomato plants. Five of these were true revertants showing the re-insertion of imp160::gfp within or upstream of predicted coding regions, whereas the other two showed either excision without re-insertion or no excision. Linkage between imp160::gfp insertion and virulence phenotype was determined in four transposon-tagged loci using targeted deletion in the wild-type strain. Knockout mutants in one of the genes, FOXG_00016, displayed significantly reduced virulence, and complementation of the original revertant with the wild-type FOXG_00016 allele fully restored virulence. FOXG_00016 has homology to the velvet gene family of A. nidulans. The high rate of untagged virulence mutations in the T12 reporter strain appears to be associated with increased genetic instability, possibly as a result of the transactivation of endogenous transposable elements by the constitutively expressed transposase."}
{"id": "19141736", "title": "Molecular diagnosis of Aspergillus endocarditis after cardiac surgery.", "content": "Molecular diagnosis of Aspergillus endocarditis after cardiac surgery. The prevalence of Aspergillus endocarditis (AE) is increasing in the hospital population. Aspergillus species contribute to approximately 25 % of all cases of fungal endocarditis. This study is a descriptive report of the use of nested PCR to detect DNA specific for Aspergillus species in serum for the diagnosis of cardiac infections. Open heart surgery was performed on patients and collected samples were examined microscopically and cultured. Ten sera in total from five patients were extracted for Aspergillus DNA and nested PCR with Aspergillus species primers was carried out. The lowest limit of detection for the PCR assay was 1 c.f.u. (ml serum) (-1). The PCR was positive in three patients. Culture of valvular tissue confirmed the growth of Aspergillus fumigatus in one patient and Aspergillus niger in two patients. In this study we have demonstrated the presence of invasive aspergillosis in patients who had undergone open heart surgery and the usefulness of a molecular assay for the diagnosis of AE."}
{"id": "19141733", "title": "Aspergillus fumigatus germ tube growth and not conidia ingestion induces expression of inflammatory mediator genes in the human lung epithelial cell line A549.", "content": "Aspergillus fumigatus germ tube growth and not conidia ingestion induces expression of inflammatory mediator genes in the human lung epithelial cell line A549. Inhalation of conidia is the main cause of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) and the respiratory epithelium is the first line of defence. To explore the triggering factor for the inflammatory response to Aspergillus fumigatus, the species mainly responsible for IPA, this study analysed the differential expression of three inflammatory genes in A549 cells after challenge with live and killed conidia. The influence of steroids, one of the main risk factors for developing IPA, was also investigated. Quantification of mRNAs of the inflammatory mediator genes encoding interleukin (IL)-8, tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and granulocyte-monocyte colony-stimulating factor (GM-CSF) was carried out using real-time PCR. Ingestion rates were studied for the conidia of A. fumigatus and Penicillium chrysogenum using a fluorescence brightener. Similar results were obtained for both species, with ingestion rates ranging from 35 to 40 %. Exposure of A549 cells to live A. fumigatus conidia only induced a four- to fivefold increase in the mRNA levels of the three genes, starting 8 h after the initial contact. Both inactivation of live A. fumigatus conidia and treatment by dexamethasone (10(-7) M) prevented the overexpression of TNF-alpha, IL-8 and GM-CSF. Fungal growth, rather than conidia ingestion, appears to be the main stimulus for the production of inflammatory mediators by epithelial cells, and this production is inhibited by steroid therapy. These results underline the role that the epithelium plays in the innate response against IPA."}
{"id": "19110333", "title": "A polyphasic approach to the identification of aflatoxigenic and non-aflatoxigenic strains of Aspergillus Section Flavi isolated from Portuguese almonds.", "content": "A polyphasic approach to the identification of aflatoxigenic and non-aflatoxigenic strains of Aspergillus Section Flavi isolated from Portuguese almonds. A polyphasic approach consisting of morphological, chemical and molecular characterization was applied to 31 isolates of Aspergillus Section Flavi originating from Portuguese almonds, with the aim of characterizing and identifying aflatoxigenic and non-aflatoxigenic strains. On the basis of morphological characters (mainly colony color on Czapek-Dox agar and conidia morphology), we found two distinct groups among the population under study: 18 isolates (58%) had dark-green colonies and rough conidia, and were classified as Aspergillus parasiticus; the remaining 13 isolates (42%) had yellow-green colonies and smooth to finely rough globose conidia, and were classified as Aspergillus flavus. Chemical characterization involved the screening of the isolates for aflatoxins B (AFB) and G (AFG), and also for cyclopiazonic acid (CPA), by HPLC with fluorescence and UV detection, respectively. All A. parasiticus isolates were strong AFB and AFG producers, but no CPA production was detected, showing a consistent mycotoxigenic pattern. The A. flavus isolates showed to be more diversified, with 77% being atoxigenic, whereas 15% produced CPA and low levels of AFB and 8% produced the 3 groups of mycotoxins. Aflatoxin production was also screened on Coconut Agar Medium (CAM), and the results were consistent with the HPLC analysis. Sclerotia production showed no correlation to aflatoxigenicity. Molecularly, two genes of the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway, aflD (=nor1) and aflQ (=ord1=ordA) were tested for presence and expression (by PCR and RT-PCR, respectively). The presence of both genes did not correlate with aflatoxigenicity. aflD expression was not considered a good marker for differentiating aflatoxigenic from non-aflatoxigenic isolates, but aflQ showed a good correlation between expression and aflatoxin-production ability."}
{"id": "19109479", "title": "Value of serial quantification of fungal DNA by a real-time PCR-based technique for early diagnosis of invasive Aspergillosis in patients with febrile neutropenia.", "content": "Value of serial quantification of fungal DNA by a real-time PCR-based technique for early diagnosis of invasive Aspergillosis in patients with febrile neutropenia. A study was designed to assess the reliability of the serial detection of Aspergillus sp. DNA to diagnose invasive aspergillosis (IA) in patients with febrile neutropenia. Two blood and two serum samples were taken weekly from 83 patients. A total of 2,244 samples were analyzed by real-time quantitative PCR. Twelve (14.4%) patients were diagnosed with IA. Taking two consecutive positive results as the diagnostic criterion, PCR detected 11 cases, with 4 false positives, giving sensitivity, specificity, positive, and negative predictive values of 91.6%, 94.4%, 73.3%, and 98.5%, respectively. On analyzing in conjunction with high-resolution chest tomography (HRCT) and galactomannan (GM) testing, the combination of serial PCR and GM detected 100% of aspergillosis cases, with a positive predictive value of 75.1%. This diagnostic strategy presented, according to CART analysis, a receiver-operator curve with an area under the curve of 0.97 (95% confidence interval, 0.895 to 1.032; P < 0.01), with a relative risk of IA 6.92 times higher than the control population and with predictive success of 95.2%. As regards early diagnosis, the serial detection of Aspergillus DNA took on average 21 days less than HRCT and 68 days less than GM. The serial detection of Aspergillus DNA using real-time quantitative PCR has great diagnostic applicability, which increases when combined with GM quantification."}
{"id": "19104852", "title": "Identification of fungal species by fragment length analysis of the internally transcribed spacer 2 region.", "content": "Identification of fungal species by fragment length analysis of the internally transcribed spacer 2 region. The rapid identification of fungal pathogens in clinical specimens is a prerequisite for timely onset of the most appropriate treatment. The aim of the present study was to develop a sensitive and rapid method for the species-specific identification of clinically relevant fungi. We employed fluorescent polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-fragment length analysis of the highly variable internally transcribed spacer 2 (ITS2) region to identify individual fungal species by their specific amplicon sizes. The specificity of the technique was ascertained by the detailed analysis of 96 strains derived from 60 different human-pathogenic fungal species. To achieve adequate sensitivity for species identification in patients with invasive fungal infection, who often display very low pathogen loads in peripheral blood, the ITS2 region was amplified by semi-nested PCR prior to amplicon-length analysis. Serial specimens from 26 patients with documented fungal infections were investigated. The fungal pathogens identified included different Aspergillus and Candida species, Rhizopus oryzae and Fusarium oxysporum. Fragment length analysis of the ITS2 region upon amplification by semi-nested PCR permits the sensitive identification of fungal species. The technique can be readily implemented in routine diagnostics."}
{"id": "19104024", "title": "Breakthrough Aspergillus fumigatus and Candida albicans double infection during caspofungin treatment: laboratory characteristics and implication for susceptibility testing.", "content": "Breakthrough Aspergillus fumigatus and Candida albicans double infection during caspofungin treatment: laboratory characteristics and implication for susceptibility testing. Caspofungin is used for the treatment of acute invasive candidiasis and as salvage treatment for invasive aspergillosis. We report characteristics of isolates of Candida albicans and Aspergillus fumigatus detected in a patient with breakthrough infection complicating severe gastrointestinal surgery and evaluate the capability of susceptibility methods to identify candin resistance. The susceptibility of C. albicans to caspofungin and anidulafungin was investigated by Etest, microdilution (European Committee on Antibiotic Susceptibility Testing [EUCAST] and CLSI), disk diffusion, agar dilution, and FKS1 sequencing and in a mouse model. Tissue was examined by immunohistochemistry, PCR, and sequencing for the presence of A. fumigatus and resistance mutations. The MICs for the C. albicans isolate were as follows: >32 microg/ml caspofungin and 0.5 microg/ml anidulafungin by Etest, 2 microg/ml caspofungin and 0.125 microg/ml anidulafungin by EUCAST methods, and 1 microg/ml caspofungin and 0.5 microg/ml anidulafungin by CLSI methods. Sequencing of the FKS1 gene revealed a mutation leading to an S645P substitution. Caspofungin and anidulafungin failed to reduce kidney CFU counts in animals inoculated with this isolate (P > 0.05 compared to untreated control animals), while both candins completely sterilized the kidneys in animals infected with a control isolate. Disk diffusion and agar dilution methods clearly separated the two isolates. Immunohistochemistry and sequencing confirmed the presence of A. fumigatus without FSK1 resistance mutations in liver and lung tissues. Breakthrough disseminated aspergillosis and candidiasis developed despite an absence of characteristic FKS1 resistance mutations in the Aspergillus isolates. EUCAST and CLSI methodology did not separate the candin-resistant clinical isolate from the sensitive control isolate as well as did the Etest and agar methods."}
{"id": "19103864", "title": "Clinical impact of enhanced diagnosis of invasive fungal disease in high-risk haematology and stem cell transplant patients.", "content": "Clinical impact of enhanced diagnosis of invasive fungal disease in high-risk haematology and stem cell transplant patients. To investigate the impact of routine use of biomarkers for diagnosing fungal infection within a care pathway on antifungal usage and clinical outcomes. A cohort of high-risk haematology and stem cell transplant patients was entered into a neutropenic care pathway in which targeted diagnostic testing replaced empiric antifungal treatment. Patients were screened twice a week by PCR and antigen testing during fever or when chronic graft versus host disease was present and were followed-up for a minimum of 1 year. No excess morbidity or mortality was seen in patients in whom empiric antifungal treatment was withheld, and there were substantial savings in antifungal drug expenditure. The introduction of a comprehensive diagnostic surveillance strategy to exclude invasive fungal infection in high-risk patients with haematological malignancy and those undergoing transplantation can result in improvements in clinical management. There are also potential additional benefits of improved patient survival, decreased morbidity and decreased hospital stay."}
{"id": "19073865", "title": "Sequence-based identification of Aspergillus, fusarium, and mucorales species in the clinical mycology laboratory: where are we and where should we go from here?", "content": "Sequence-based identification of Aspergillus, fusarium, and mucorales species in the clinical mycology laboratory: where are we and where should we go from here?"}
{"id": "19043401", "title": "Discovery of a sexual cycle in the opportunistic fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Discovery of a sexual cycle in the opportunistic fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus. Aspergillus fumigatus is a saprotrophic fungus whose spores are ubiquitous in the atmosphere. It is also an opportunistic human pathogen in immunocompromised individuals, causing potentially lethal invasive infections, and is associated with severe asthma and sinusitis. The species is only known to reproduce by asexual means, but there has been accumulating evidence for recombination and gene flow from population genetic studies, genome analysis, the presence of mating-type genes and expression of sex-related genes in the fungus. Here we show that A. fumigatus possesses a fully functional sexual reproductive cycle that leads to the production of cleistothecia and ascospores, and the teleomorph Neosartorya fumigata is described. The species has a heterothallic breeding system; isolates of complementary mating types are required for sex to occur. We demonstrate increased genotypic variation resulting from recombination between mating type and DNA fingerprint markers in ascospore progeny from an Irish environmental subpopulation. The ability of A. fumigatus to engage in sexual reproduction is highly significant in understanding the biology and evolution of the species. The presence of a sexual cycle provides an invaluable tool for classical genetic analyses and will facilitate research into the genetic basis of pathogenicity and fungicide resistance in A. fumigatus, with the aim of improving methods for the control of aspergillosis. These results also yield insights into the potential for sexual reproduction in other supposedly 'asexual' fungi."}
{"id": "19038469", "title": "Characterisation of a pks gene which is expressed during ochratoxin A production by Aspergillus carbonarius.", "content": "Characterisation of a pks gene which is expressed during ochratoxin A production by Aspergillus carbonarius. Aspergillus carbonarius is considered the main fungus responsible for ochratoxin A (OTA) contamination in grapes. OTA is a potent nephrotoxin and a possible human carcinogen with a polyketide derived structure. Fungal polyketide synthases (PKSs) have recently been demonstrated to be involved in OTA biosynthesis in both Penicillium and Aspergillus species. We report here on the identification and characterisation of part of a novel polyketide synthase gene, ACpks from A. carbonarius. The sequence appears to encode conserved ketosynthase and acyl transferase domains, which are characteristic of previously characterised PKS enzymes. Expression of the ACpks gene is differentially regulated, with transcription being observed when the fungus was grown on synthetic grape medium and on OTA permissive medium (MM) whereas no transcription was detected when the fungus was grown on OTA restrictive medium (YES). ACpks expression was also observed when A. carbonarius was grown at low pH, with concomitant increases in OTA production. This correlation between ACpks gene expression and OTA production suggests the likely involvement for the product of this gene in ochratoxin A biosynthesis in the fungus. From a preliminary screening of Aspergillus isolates with ACpks specific primers, ACpks gene homologues appear to be present in A. sclerotioniger and A. ibericus, two species of section Nigri which are closely related to A. carbonarius."}
{"id": "19013535", "title": "Transcription regulation of the Pbgp43 gene by nitrogen in the human pathogen Paracoccidioides brasiliensis.", "content": "Transcription regulation of the Pbgp43 gene by nitrogen in the human pathogen Paracoccidioides brasiliensis. We show indirect evidences for the possible involvement of NIT2-like binding motifs in transcription modulation of the PbGP43 gene, which codes for an important antigen from the human fungal pathogen Paracoccidioides brasiliensis. This investigation was motivated by the finding of 23 NIT2-like sites within the proximal -2047 nucleotides of the PbGP43 5' intergenic region from the Pb339 isolate. They compose four clusters, two of them identical. We found four NIT2-containing probes that were positive in electrophoretic mobility shift assays and further analyzed them. PbGP43 could be modulated by nitrogen primary sources in Pb339, Pb3 and Pb18 isolates, as observed by reverse transcription (RT) real time-PCR. Gene reporter assays conducted in Aspergillus nidulans suggested that the minimal fragment responsible for nitrogen modulation lies within -480 bp of the PbGP43 gene. This is the first report on PbGP43 transcription modulation in response to nitrogen primary sources, which might help understand its regulation during infection."}
{"id": "18992777", "title": "Multiplex PCR for the discrimination of A. fumigatus, A. flavus, A. niger and A. terreus.", "content": "Multiplex PCR for the discrimination of A. fumigatus, A. flavus, A. niger and A. terreus. Aspergillus pathogens usually infect immunocompromised patients with lethal outcome. We report a multiplex PCR assay for the discrimination of the most frequent Aspergillus pathogens, A. fumigatus, A. flavus, A. niger and A. terreus, through distinct amplicons of 250 bp, 200 bp, 150 bp and 450 bp respectively, derived from the rDNA gene of A. terreus and the aspergillopepsin genes of the remaining species."}
{"id": "18955151", "title": "Aspergillus westerdijkiae polyketide synthase gene \"aoks1\" is involved in the biosynthesis of ochratoxin A.", "content": "Aspergillus westerdijkiae polyketide synthase gene \"aoks1\" is involved in the biosynthesis of ochratoxin A. Ochratoxin A (OTA) is a potential nephrotoxic, teratogenic, immunogenic, hepatotoxic and carcinogenic mycotoxin, produced by Aspergillus westerdijkiae NRRL 3174. Herein we describe the characterization of a putative OTA-polyketide synthase gene \"aoks1\", cloned by using gene walking approach. The predicted amino acid sequence of the 2kb clone display 34-60% similarities to different polyketide synthase genes including lovastatine biosynthesis gene \"lovb\" in A. terreus, compactin biosynthesis gene \"mlcA\" in Penicillium citrinum and OTA biosynthesis gene \"otapksPN\" in P. nordicum. Based on the reverse transcription PCR and kinetic secondary metabolites production studies, aoks1 expression was found to be associated with OTA biosynthesis. Further a mutant, in which the aoks1 gene was inactivated by Escherichia coli hygromycin B phosphotransferase gene, lost the capacity to produce OTA, but still producing mellein. To our knowledge this report describes for the first time characterization of a gene involved in OTA biosynthesis, with the information about mellein which was proposed in the literature to be an intermediate OTA. This study also suggests that aoks1 may be the second polyketide synthase gene required for OTA biosynthesis in A. westerdijkiae NRRL 3174."}
{"id": "18798050", "title": "Characterization of multiple isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus from patients: genotype, mating type and invasiveness.", "content": "Characterization of multiple isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus from patients: genotype, mating type and invasiveness. The possible co-existence of different genotypes of Aspergillus fumigatus in the same case was studied in five patients colonized or infected by this opportunistic mould. A total of 22 isolates were typed by random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and microsatellite analysis. Differences in the mating type and invasiveness of the isolates were also considered. The combination of four arbitrary primers used in RAPD typing differentiated all the isolates. In microsatellite analysis, at least two different genotypes were identified in four of the five patients. The 22 isolates showed elastase activity after 10 days of incubation at 37 degrees C in an elastin-containing medium. The presence of strains of compatible mating type was observed in one of the colonized patients and one of the individuals with invasive aspergillosis. Some isolates that belonged to the same genotype in microsatellite analysis were of a different mating type. Taken together, our results suggest that multiple isolates of A. fumigatus obtained from colonized or infected patients may differ not only in their genotypes, but also in their invasiveness and mating types. Furthermore, mating type determination may be of great assistance in differentiating some isolates, as two isolates of different mating type cannot be genotypically identical."}
{"id": "18763000", "title": "Diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis using bronchoalveolar lavage in haematology patients: influence of bronchoalveolar lavage human DNA content on real-time PCR performance.", "content": "Diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis using bronchoalveolar lavage in haematology patients: influence of bronchoalveolar lavage human DNA content on real-time PCR performance. In order to improve invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) diagnosis, a real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay detecting Aspergillus spp. was developed. Its detection limit reached 2-20 conidia. The retrospective evaluation on 64 bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluids from 57 patients at risk for IPA, including 20 probable and five proven IPA patients, revealed a 88% or 38% sensitivity in direct examination (DE)/culture-positive or culture-negative BAL, respectively, whereas galactomannan (GM) sensitivity reached 88% or 58%, respectively. Influence on the Aspergillus-PCR yield of BAL fluid volume, cellular count and DNA content (evaluated by human beta-globin quantification) was assessed. Significantly higher beta-globin levels were detected in Aspergillus PCR-positive (median 5,112 pg/microl) than negative (median 1,332 pg/microl) BAL fluids, suggesting that the beta-globin level could reflect BAL yields and DNA extraction. Using beta-globin for the interpretation of fungal PCR could improve the negative predictive value of this test."}
{"id": "18689703", "title": "Polymerase chain reaction-guided diagnosis of mycotic keratitis: a prospective evaluation of its efficacy and limitations.", "content": "Polymerase chain reaction-guided diagnosis of mycotic keratitis: a prospective evaluation of its efficacy and limitations. To assess the utility of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in diagnosing fungal keratitis and compare its sensitivity and specificity with those of the conventional microbiologic techniques used in the authors' laboratory. A prospective nonrandomized investigation was undertaken at a tertiary-care ophthalmic facility to evaluate 40 eyes of 40 patients with presumed fungal keratitis, both fresh and treated. Besides routine bacterial culture and sensitivity, corneal scrapings were evaluated by fungal culture, potassium hydroxide (KOH) wet mount, Gram's stain, and PCR. The conventional PCR technique was followed with minor modifications to suit the setup, using primers targeted to 28S rRNA sequence, which is common to all fungi that cause corneal infections in tropical climes. Of the 40 presumed cases of mycotic keratitis (30 untreated), PCR showed positivity in 50%, culture in 25%, hyphae in KOH in 40%, and Gram's staining in 35%. The sensitivities of PCR, KOH, and Gram's were 70%, 60%, and 40% and specificities 56.7%, 66.7%, and 66.7%, respectively. Among 10 of 40 eyes pretreated with antifungal agents, PCR was positive in 50%, but culture in 30%. The time taken for PCR assay was 4 to 8 hours, whereas positive fungal cultures took at least 5 to 7 days. PCR not only proved an effective rapid method for the diagnosis of fungal keratitis, but was also more sensitive in our hands than KOH wetmount and Gram's smear. Barring the potential limitations, PCR remains a promising tool for faster diagnoses of fungal keratitis."}
{"id": "18672389", "title": "Study on invasive fungal infections in immunocompromised patients to present a suitable early diagnostic procedure.", "content": "Study on invasive fungal infections in immunocompromised patients to present a suitable early diagnostic procedure. The incidence of invasive fungal infections has increased considerably in recent years. The aim of this study was to present a suitable early diagnostic procedure in immunocompromised patients, using a molecular assay. From September 2005 to January 2007, 310 immunosuppressed patients were followed for fungal infections for a 6-month period. EDTA-anticoagulant whole blood specimens were collected prospectively once per week and stored at -20 degrees C until use in molecular assays. Molecular assays were positive in 55 (17.7%) patients. The etiologic agents were Candida albicans (67.3%), Aspergillus flavus (20.0%), Aspergillus fumigatus (7.3%), Candida tropicalis (3.6%), and Candida krusei (1.8%). The sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of PCR-ELISA with proven and probable invasive fungal infections were 84.6%, 92.7%, 75.3%, and 95.8%, respectively. The results showed that the mean clinical manifestation time was 38.96 days and the mean time of positivity of the molecular test (time of infection) was 17.69 days. A linear model for predicted infection and clinical manifestation time was found to be as follows: Y=11.64+1.147X, r(2)=0.812, where Y is the time at presentation of clinical signs and X is the time of infection (positive PCR-ELISA result). It may be concluded that the molecular assay would help in the diagnosis of invasive fungal infections at the early stage of infection, before clinical manifestations."}
{"id": "18654926", "title": "The characteristics of Aspergillus fumigatus mycetoma development: is this a biofilm?", "content": "The characteristics of Aspergillus fumigatus mycetoma development: is this a biofilm? Aspergillus fumigatus is an increasingly prevalent opportunistic fungal pathogen of various immuno-compromised individuals. It has the ability to filament within the lungs forming dense intertwined mycelial balls. These morphological characteristics resemble those of microbial biofilms, which are matrix enclosed microbial populations, adherent to each other and/or to surfaces or interfaces. The purpose of this paper is to review some recent experiments that indicate the potential biofilm forming capacity of A. fumigatus in vitro. Initially it was established that conidial seeding density is important for stable biofilm development. In the optimized model conidial germination and filamentous growth characteristics were not observed until 8 h, after which a multi-cellular population expanded exponentially forming a thick structure (approx. 250 microm). Calcofluor white staining of this revealed the presence of extracellular polymeric matrix material, which increased as the biofilm matured. Subsequent antifungal sensitivity testing of this structure showed that azoles, polyenes and echinocandins were ineffective in reducing the cellular viability at therapeutically attainable concentrations. Microarray and real-time PCR analysis demonstrated the up-regulation of AfuMDR4 during multicellular growth and development, which may account the recalcitrance observed. Overall, A. fumigatus appears to possess the classical elements of biofilm growth, namely multicellularity, matrix production and sessile resistance. This controversial approach to understanding the biology of A. fumigatus infection may provide crucial information on how to treat this pathogenic fungus more effectively."}
{"id": "18654916", "title": "Conventional or molecular measurement of Aspergillus load.", "content": "Conventional or molecular measurement of Aspergillus load. The quantification of organisms is a standard tool. Measurement of a hyphal organism, like Aspergillus, presents difficulties in that it is problematic to define what constitutes a cell. Growth occurs by hyphal tip extension, in which the hypha elongates and a septum is formed behind the tip to divide it in to a separate compartment. However, communication between compartments and streaming of nuclei makes defining a cell of a hyphal organism difficult and the best method for quantification of the hyphal organism remains controversial. Conventional CFU determination of fungal burden in tissue homogenates is readily done by most laboratories, but CFU recovered temporally tend to show minimal increase, and may indicate that mechanical homogenization does not cause significant fragmentation of the hyphae in the tissues. Does the lack of increase in CFU as infection worsens inadequately reflect fungal load in the tissue? Non-culture based assays including chitin determination, quantitative PCR and enzyme immunoassay (EIA) of cell wall constituents, galactomannan or beta-glucan overcome this difficulty in part. However, qPCR and EIA do not indicate viability, may result in false negatives. qPCR assay may represent a significant over-estimation, because it correlates with number of nuclei present; it also requires specialized equipment and reagents. Temporal studies of infection have demonstrated that qPCR and to some extent EIA reflect an increase in fungal burden not shown by CFU. Although qPCR and CFU may not correlate in those types of studies, comparative studies have shown CFU and qPCR do correlate when determining antifungal drug efficacy, where each method can clearly demonstrate differences in fungal burden; EIA methods have also been shown to reflect this difference. Overall, there remains no optimal, single method for determination of fungal load of Aspergillus and it may be that a combination of methods (e.g., CFU and qPCR) should be used."}
{"id": "18643921", "title": "Molecular detection and identification of Aspergillus spp. from clinical samples using real-time PCR.", "content": "Molecular detection and identification of Aspergillus spp. from clinical samples using real-time PCR. The definite and rapid diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis is necessary because of the high mortality caused. The objective of this study was to evaluate a real-time PCR assay to detect Aspergillus spp. in clinical samples, based on the Light Cycler technology. Specificity was assessed by using DNA extracted from pathogenic and non-pathogenic bacteria/fungi from Spanish Collection including: two Aspergillus flavus, four Aspergillus fumigatus, two Aspergillus nidulans, two Aspergillus niger and two Aspergillus terreus isolates. The analytical sensitivity was evaluated with different inocula (10(1)-10(5) conidia ml(-1)), and serially diluted DNA of A. fumigatus. To assess clinical applicability, samples from patients at risk were analysed. Species identification was determined by analysing the melting curves. Reactions using genomic DNA from other species of different genera than Aspergillus were negative (specificity: 100%). Analytical sensitivity was 60 fg using DNA and 5-20 conidia using conidial suspensions. The linear range was from 60 to 6 x 10(7) fg. The Tm ranged from 67.34 to 70.7 degrees C for the different Aspergillus spp. studied. Nine hundred and forty-eight consecutive blood samples from 127 patients were processed. In total, 10 (1%) of 948 samples from blood samples were PCR-positive. The real-time PCR assay provides a high sensitivity and specificity for detection of fungal DNA and rapidly identifies most of clinically relevant Aspergillus species."}
{"id": "18643890", "title": "Rapid detection of common pathogenic Aspergillus species by a novel real-time PCR approach.", "content": "Rapid detection of common pathogenic Aspergillus species by a novel real-time PCR approach. Invasive aspergillosis is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised and critically ill patients. Standard culture based methods for the diagnosis of Aspergillus infections have limited sensitivity and specificity and are time consuming. The recent availability of novel molecular based diagnostic techniques offers the potential of rapid, highly sensitive and specific pathogen detection. In this study, we aimed to develop a diagnostic assay to detect simultaneously common pathogenic Aspergillus species including Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus niger and Aspergillus terreus in whole blood specimen. A real-time PCR/probe set assay was designed to amplify the 18sRNA genomic region of Aspergillus. In addition to a previously probe set validated for the detection of A. fumigatus ('Asp.fum'), two other probe sets ('Asp.ter'; 'Asp.nig') were synthesised with 100% sequence homology to A. terreus or A. niger. Specificity testing demonstrated amplification of Aspergillus DNA, but not DNA from a panel of other common pathogenic fungi and bacteria and/or human DNA. Sensitivity testing in serial dilution assays revealed a lower detection limit of 1-5 CFU ml(-1) whole blood. However, no single probe set was most sensitive for all Aspergillus species tested and a combination of all three probe sets was necessary to achieve maximal overall assay sensitivity. Furthermore, inclusion of a subsequent probe melting temperature (Tm) analysis demonstrated species-specific Tm-patterns, useful to differentiate simultaneously between the different Aspergillus species detected. We describe a highly specific and sensitive real-time PCR approach to detect and differentiate the most common pathogenic Aspergillus species in a rapid 'same day' assay."}
{"id": "18608902", "title": "Molecular diagnostic platforms for detecting Aspergillus.", "content": "Molecular diagnostic platforms for detecting Aspergillus. Invasive aspergillosis remains difficult to diagnose despite advances in imaging and antigen-based serological testing. To overcome this problem, nucleic acid (NA)-based amplification assays were introduced to identify infecting pathogens. Unfortunately, the reliability of such assays to detect Aspergillus spp. has met with mixed success. A new generation of NA platforms are emerging, which greatly improve our ability to detect Aspergillus-specific DNA and RNA from respiratory and blood samples. These platforms can accurately detect a single genome, and the emergence of pan-fungal and pan-Aspergillus probes offer promise for broader detection. PCR remains the most important platform, especially when coupled with real-time probes. It is multiplex friendly and can distinguish between closely related target sequences. Nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (NASBA) is an RNA-directed isothermal transcription-based amplification platform, which is more robust than PCR resulting in a 10(14)-fold amplification. RNA-based detection facilitates more target options and can be used to assess cell viability. Both DNA and RNA amplification platforms take advantage of allele-specific properties of probes, which are valuable for assessing drug resistance markers. Finally, as new molecular diagnostic platforms mature, their role may expand to include early monitoring of therapy."}
{"id": "18608893", "title": "Canine sino-nasal aspergillosis: parallels with human disease.", "content": "Canine sino-nasal aspergillosis: parallels with human disease. Canine sino-nasal aspergillosis (SNA) is characterized by the formation of a superficial mucosal fungal plaque within the nasal cavity and/or frontal sinus of systemically healthy dogs. The most common causative agent is Aspergillus fumigatus. The fungus does not invade beneath the level of mucosal epithelium but incites a severe chronic inflammatory response that leads to local destruction of nasal bone. These clinicopathological features are equivalent to those of human chronic erosive non-invasive fungal sinusitis. The clinical diagnosis of canine SNA relies on multiple modalities but local instillation of anti-fungal agents is an effective therapy with high cure-rate. Recent studies have investigated the immunopathogenesis of canine SNA. The mucosal inflammatory infiltrate involves a mixture of CD4+ and CD8+ T lymphocytes, IgG+ plasma cells and activated macrophages and dendritic cells expressing class II molecules of the major histocompatibility complex. There is active recruitment of blood monocytes and neutrophils. Real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) analysis of mucosal tissue samples has revealed up-regulation of Th1 (IL-12, IL-18 and IFN-gamma), Th17-related (IL-23) and pro-inflammatory (IL-6, TNF-alpha) cytokine mRNA with evidence of expression of genes encoding monocyte chemoattractant proteins 1-4. Additionally, there is significant transcription of the IL-10 gene consistent with local immunosuppression that prevents secondary immune-mediated sequelae whilst permitting chronicity of the infection. The source of this IL-10 may be a T regulatory population or a Th1 population that switches phenotype during the course of disease. This understanding of the immunopathogenesis of canine SNA establishes this disorder as a valuable model for the equivalent human pathology."}
{"id": "18397213", "title": "Aspergillus fumigatus endocarditis in a pediatric liver transplant recipient: favorable outcome without cardiac surgery.", "content": "Aspergillus fumigatus endocarditis in a pediatric liver transplant recipient: favorable outcome without cardiac surgery. Transplant recipients are very susceptible to invasive aspergillosis, which increases mortality rate. Disseminated aspergillosis in the liver transplant recipient can affect virtually any organ and endocarditis is often lethal despite cardiac surgery and antifungal therapy. We report the case of a eight-month-old girl who presented with Aspergillus fumigatus endocarditis 18 days after liver transplantation that was successfully treated by a combination of antifungal drugs associated to a low dosage of immunosuppressive therapy."}
{"id": "19469095", "title": "[Acute respiratory failure in a 16-yr-old girl with alveolar soft part sarcoma].", "content": "[Acute respiratory failure in a 16-yr-old girl with alveolar soft part sarcoma]. Intensive treatment in oncology often leads to severe complications, including infection and coagulation disturbances. Among the most serious are fungal infections which are often life-threatening, and difficult to recognize and treat. We present a patient with severe pneumonia and pleural effusion, that developed during treatment of a soft tissue sarcoma with pulmonary metastases. A 16-year-old girl was admitted to the ITU because of marked dyspnoea, bilateral pneumonia and pleural effusion. She was intubated and placed on a ventilator, and bilateral pleural drains were inserted. She also required vigorous inotropic support (dopamine + noradrenaline). CRP was 12.5-19.8 mg dL(-1) and procalcitonin was below 1 ng mL(-1)). Lung metastases and tuberculosis were excluded and fungal infection suspected. Aspergillus DNA was detected in bronchoalveolar lavage, and in blood serum (PCR). Amphotericin B and voriconazole were instituted, but without evident success, The girl was severely distressed, required mechanical ventilation with an F1O2 of 0.6, while her CRP increased to 28.4 mg dL(-1). The amphotericin was stopped and replaced with caspofungin, resulting in rapid improvement in her clinical status. The girl was extubated after 21 days of ventilation, however due to a very severe opioid withdrawal syndrome with extreme agitation, she was re-intubated. After a further two weeks on methadone and sedatives, she was extubated again, this time successfully, One month later she was discharged from the hospital, still on oral voriconazole. Fungal infection should always be considered in immunocompromised patients with clinical signs of systemic infection. Recognition and treatment of pulmonary aspergillosis is difficult and may require multi drug therapy."}
{"id": "19241524", "title": "Evaluation of quantitative PCR and culture methods for detection of house dust fungi and streptomycetes in relation to moisture damage of the house.", "content": "Evaluation of quantitative PCR and culture methods for detection of house dust fungi and streptomycetes in relation to moisture damage of the house. Microbial concentrations in vacuumed house dust samples (n = 71) were analysed by culture and quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) methods and their association with extent of moisture damage in the house was studied. Microbial concentrations measured by qPCR correlated with concentrations obtained by culture method, but were orders of magnitude higher. qPCR also had better sensitivity. Concentrations of several microbes in house dust, determined with qPCR, were associated with the extent of moisture damage in the house. This association was strongest for Penicillium brevicompactum, one of the fungi detected in highest concentrations by qPCR. Furthermore, house dust concentrations of Wallemia sebi, Trichoderma viride, Cladosporium sphaerospermum, Eurotium amstelodami and the combined assay group for Penicillium spp., Aspergillus spp. and Paecilomyces variotii were significantly associated with the extent of the moisture damage. These species or assay groups could probably be used as indicators of moisture damage in the house. This finding indicates the benefits of the qPCR method, which is sensitive enough to reveal the differences in microbial concentrations of house dust between moisture-damaged and undamaged houses."}
{"id": "19111645", "title": "Isolation of industrial strains of Aspergillus oryzae lacking ferrichrysin by disruption of the dffA gene.", "content": "Isolation of industrial strains of Aspergillus oryzae lacking ferrichrysin by disruption of the dffA gene. Based on studies using laboratory strains, the efficiency of gene disruption in Aspergillus oryzae, commonly known as koji mold, is low; thus, gene disruption has rarely been applied to the breeding of koji mold. To evaluate the efficiency of gene disruption in industrial strains of A. oryzae, we produced ferrichrysin biosynthesis gene (dffA) disruptants using three different industrial strains as hosts. PCR analysis of 438 pyrithiamine-resistant transformants showed dffA gene disruption efficiency of 42.9%-64.1%, which is much higher than previously reported. Analysis of the physiological characteristics of the disruptants indicated that dffA gene disruption results in hypersensitivity to hydrogen peroxide. To investigate the industrial characteristics of dffA gene disruptants, two strains were used to make rice koji and their properties were compared to those of the host strains. No differences were found between the dffA gene disruptants and the host strains, except that the disruptants did not produce ferrichrysin. Thus, this gene disruption technique is much more effective than conventional mutagenesis for A. oryzae breeding."}
{"id": "19080569", "title": "[The value of real-time PCR analysis of serum samples for early diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in organ transplant recipients].", "content": "[The value of real-time PCR analysis of serum samples for early diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in organ transplant recipients]. To study the value of Aspergillus real-time PCR as a tool for diagnosing invasive pulmonary aspergillosis(IPA) from serum samples in organ transplant recipients. From Jan.2004 to Mar.2006, 59 organ transplant recipients from Shanghai First People's Hospital with high possibility of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis were evaluated. Of the 59 patients, 5 had proven, 6 had probable, and 18 had possible invasive Aspergillus infection according to European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer/Mycosis Study Group definitions. A total of 274 serum samples were analyzed using real-time PCR. Seven of these immunocompromised patients were PCR positive, correlating with positive sputum cultures, positive histology, and positive signs of CT scans. False negative results were found in 2 patients. They had positive PCR results without any correlation to clinical or other diagnostic criteria. Twenty-eight immunocompromised patients with a negative PCR result showed no evidence of invasive fungal disease. Compared with sputum culture, CT scan and galactomannan test, PCR positivity preceded diagnosis by a mean of 7.9 d, 6.0 d, 1.5 d, respectively. Aspergillus real-time PCR is a helpful test for the early diagnosis of IPA in high-risk organ transplant recipients."}
{"id": "19080352", "title": "Cutaneous and eyes Aspergillus fumigatus infection.", "content": "Cutaneous and eyes Aspergillus fumigatus infection."}
{"id": "19076844", "title": "A 1-year Aspergillus terreus surveillance study at the University Hospital of Innsbruck: molecular typing of environmental and clinical isolates.", "content": "A 1-year Aspergillus terreus surveillance study at the University Hospital of Innsbruck: molecular typing of environmental and clinical isolates. Aspergillus terreus appears to have become an increasingly frequent cause of opportunistic infections in the University Hospital of Innsbruck (UHI) and is of serious concern because of in vivo and in vitro resistance to amphotericin B. In order to determine the possible relationship between environmental contamination by A. terreus and the occurrence of invasive aspergillosis, a 1-year prospective study (2004-2005) was carried out in the UHI. Isolates obtained from air samples of various high-risk settings and those from surveillance cultures of proven and probable aspergillosis (EORTC/MSG criteria) were examined by genotyping. Within 1 year, 34 and 15 A. terreus isolates were collected from the environment and from patients, respectively. Genotypic analysis with rapid amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) PCR and the combination of three different primers (R108, CII, P4) revealed 46 distinct genotypic profiles (types 1-46). No strain similarity was detected among and within the patients and environmental areas, indicating a great genomic diversity in A. terreus, which is common in the environment of Innsbruck and a source of invasive infections in immunosuppressed patients. Genotypical diversity was found in clinical and environmental A. terreus isolates."}
{"id": "19069089", "title": "[Classification and phylogeny of pathogenic fungi].", "content": "[Classification and phylogeny of pathogenic fungi]. The clinical isolates are traditionally classified based on morphology, but in recent years a polyphasic taxonomy that combines morphological, physiologic and molecular phylogenetic analyses is used to characterize them. Numerous common pathogenic species, traditionally considered homogeneous, are indeed polyphyletic. Classifications of Candida albicans, Cryptococcus neoformans and Aspergillus fumigatus and relatives based on molecular phylogenetic analyses have been developed. The strains of C. albicans group are divided into 5 genotypes by PCR method. The strains of Cr. neoformans are divided into 3 varieties (var. grubii, var. neoformans, var. gattii) and into 5 serotypes. The strains of A.fumigatus and relative are divided into 5 clades based on DNA sequence analysis."}
{"id": "19055059", "title": "[Molecular and immunological methods applied in diagnosis of mycoses].", "content": "[Molecular and immunological methods applied in diagnosis of mycoses]. The diagnosis of fungal infections remains a problem for the management of fungal diseases, particularly in the immunocompromised patients. Systemic Candida infections and invasive aspergillosis can be a serious problem for individuals who need intensive care. Traditional methods used for the identification and typing of medically important fungi, such as morphological and biochemical analysis, are time-consuming. For the diagnosis of mycoses caused by pathogenic fungi faster and more specific methods, especially after the dramatic increase in nosocomial invasive mycoses are needed. New diagnostic tools to detect circulating fungal antigens in biological fluids and PCR-based methods to detect species or genus-specific DNA or RNA have been developed. Antigen detection is limited to searching only one genus. Molecular genetic methods, especially PCR analysis, are becoming increasingly important as a part of diagnostics in the clinical mycology laboratory. Various modifications of the PCR method are used to detect DNA in clinical material, particularly multiple, nested and real-time PCR. Molecular methods may be used to detection of nucleic acids of fungi in clinical samples, to identify fungal cultures at the species level or to evaluate strain heterogeneity differences within the species. This article reviews some of the recent advances in the possibility of molecular diagnosis of fungal infections."}
{"id": "19024171", "title": "Molecular and biochemical evaluation of genetic effect of Calotropis procera (Ait.) latex on Aspergillus terreus (Thom).", "content": "Molecular and biochemical evaluation of genetic effect of Calotropis procera (Ait.) latex on Aspergillus terreus (Thom). The present study was conducted to observe the genotoxic effect of latex of Calotropis procera. Dense conidial suspensions of Aspergillus terreus Thorn were treated with different concentrations of Calotropis latex and assayed for percentage survival, auxotrophic mutants, DNA and total protein contents and further subjected to RAPD and SDS-PAGE tests. It was found that latex of Calotropis procera had potent lethal and mutagenic activities. Percentage survival decreased as concentration or time of exposure increased. Frequency of auxotrophic mutants increased with increase in concentration or exposure time. Most auxotrophic mutants were amino acid requiring mutants. DNA and total protein contents of each mutant was significantly lower than wild type of Aspergillus terreus. RAPD demonstrated polymorphic genetic bands which were the electrophoretic products of PCR for all mutants compared with the wild type strain. SDS-PAGE results expressed a polymorphism of protein bands as well. All these results indicated the mutagenicity of latex of Calotropis procera."}
{"id": "19019289", "title": "[Aspergillosis for the pulmonologist].", "content": "[Aspergillosis for the pulmonologist]. Aspergillus is involved in various lung illnesses related to type of exposition and immunity host response, local (tracheobronchial) and global. Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis is due to a hypersensitivity response, diagnosis must be considered in presence of severe asthma with radiologic opacities, blood eosinophilia and elevated total serum IgE levels. Bronchial colonization is often accidentally discovered, but needs a monitoring. Pulmonary aspergilloma, often asymptomatic, grows in a preexisting cavity. Aspergillus bronchitis is a prolonged superficious endobronchial infection. Pseudomembranous necrotizing tracheobronchitis is a microinvasive bronchial infection, which prognosis is very bad. Acute invasive pulmonary aspergillosis affects quite always immunocompromised patients, but cases are not exceptional in patients with prior lung disease. Chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis may be divided in chronic cavitary and chronic fibrosing pulmonary aspergillosis, and subacute invasive aspergillosis according to the course of the disease, radiological outcome first. Management of diseases caused by Aspergillus is evolving with new diagnostic tools (PCR, Aspergillus antigenemia) and with new generation antifungal drugs."}
{"id": "18959152", "title": "Development and evaluation of a real-time quantitative PCR assay for Aspergillus flavus.", "content": "Development and evaluation of a real-time quantitative PCR assay for Aspergillus flavus. Aspergillus flavus is a ubiquitous mold and the most common mold contaminating foodstuffs. Many strains of A. flavus produce aflatoxins. In addition it is an allergen and an opportunistic pathogen of animals and plants. A. flavus often is underestimated in traditional culture analyses due to the expertise required and the cost associated with speciating members of the genus Aspergillus. The goal of this study was to develop and validate a primer and probe set for the rapid detection and quantitation of A. flavus in pure culture using real-time quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QPCR) amplification. Unique DNA regions were located in the genome of the target organism by sequence comparison with the GenBank database, and several candidate oligonucleotides were identified from the scientific literature for potential use with the TaqMan QPCR technology. Three primer and probe sets were designed and validated for specificity and sensitivity in laboratory experiments. Initial screening to test for sensitivity was performed with seven A. flavus isolates and selected nontarget fungi. Specificity testing was conducted with the selected primer and probe set, which amplified all nine A. flavus isolates tested, including an aflatoxin producing strain. The primers did not amplify DNA extracted from 39 other fungal species (comprising 16 genera), including 18 other Aspergillus species and six Penicillium species. No amplification of human or bacterial DNA was observed; however cross-reactivity was observed with Aspergillus oryzae. PCR analysis of DNA dilutions and the use of an internal positive control demonstrated that 67% of the fungal DNA samples assayed contained PCR inhibitors. The assay validated for the target organism is capable of producing PCR results in less than 1 h after DNA extraction. The results of this research demonstrate the capabilities of QPCR for the enhanced detection and enumeration of fungi of significance to human health."}
{"id": "18944078", "title": "Use of pyrosequencing to quantify incidence of a specific Aspergillus flavus strain within complex fungal communities associated with commercial cotton crops.", "content": "Use of pyrosequencing to quantify incidence of a specific Aspergillus flavus strain within complex fungal communities associated with commercial cotton crops. Atoxigenic strains of Aspergillus flavus have been used as aflatoxin management tools on over 50,000 hectares of commercial crops since 2000. To assess treatment efficacy, atoxigenic strain incidence is routinely monitored by vegetative compatibility analyses (VCA) that require culturing, generation of auxotrophs, and complementation with tester mutants. Two pyrosequencing assays (PA) that require no culturing were developed for monitoring incidences of atoxigenic strains on ginned cottonseed. The assays, which quantify frequencies of characteristic single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the aflR and pksA genes, were validated against standard VCA on cottonseed collected from commercial gins in South Texas, Arizona, and Southern California where the atoxigenic strain AF36 is used to manage aflatoxin contamination. Cottonseed washings were subjected to both VCA and PA. PA was performed directly on DNA isolated from particulates pelleted from the wash water by centrifugation. Addition of CaCl(2) and diatomaceous earth prior to pelleting increased the amount of DNA isolated. Accuracy and reproducibility of the PA were contrasted with those for the VCA that has been used for over a decade. Correlation coefficients between VCA and PA indicated good correspondence between the results from the two assays (r = 0.91 for aflR assay and r = 0.80 for pksA assay). PAs were highly variable for samples with low incidences of A. flavus due to variability in the initial polymerase chain reaction step. This held for both DNA isolated from cottonseed washes and for mixtures of purified DNA. For samples yielding low quantities of A. flavus DNA, averaging of results from 4 to 5 replicates was required to achieve acceptable correlations with VCA. Pyrosequencing has the potential to become a powerful tool for monitoring atoxigenic strains within complex A. flavus communities without limitations imposed by traditional culturing methods."}
{"id": "18931291", "title": "High-temperature ethanol fermentation and transformation with linear DNA in the thermotolerant yeast Kluyveromyces marxianus DMKU3-1042.", "content": "High-temperature ethanol fermentation and transformation with linear DNA in the thermotolerant yeast Kluyveromyces marxianus DMKU3-1042. We demonstrate herein the ability of Kluyveromyces marxianus to be an efficient ethanol producer and host for expressing heterologous proteins as an alternative to Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Growth and ethanol production by strains of K. marxianus and S. cerevisiae were compared under the same conditions. K. marxianus DMKU3-1042 was found to be the most suitable strain for high-temperature growth and ethanol production at 45 degrees C. This strain, but not S. cerevisiae, utilized cellobiose, xylose, xylitol, arabinose, glycerol, and lactose. To develop a K. marxianus DMKU3-1042 derivative strain suitable for genetic engineering, a uracil auxotroph was isolated and transformed with a linear DNA of the S. cerevisiae ScURA3 gene. Surprisingly, Ura(+) transformants were easily obtained. By Southern blot hybridization, the linear ScURA3 DNA was found to have inserted randomly into the K. marxianus genome. Sequencing of one Lys(-) transformant confirmed the disruption of the KmLYS1 gene by the ScURA3 insertion. A PCR-amplified linear DNA lacking K. marxianus sequences but containing an Aspergillus alpha-amylase gene under the control of the ScTDH3 promoter together with an ScURA3 marker was subsequently used to transform K. marxianus DMKU3-1042 in order to obtain transformants expressing Aspergillus alpha-amylase. Our results demonstrate that K. marxianus DMKU3-1042 can be an alternative cost-effective bioethanol producer and a host for transformation with linear DNA by use of S. cerevisiae-based molecular genetic tools."}
{"id": "18854937", "title": "Molecular detection of invasive aspergillosis in hematologic malignancies.", "content": "Molecular detection of invasive aspergillosis in hematologic malignancies. Aspergillus species are the most frequent causes of invasive mold infections in immunocompromised patients, particularly those who underwent chemotherapy for hematologic malignancies. The aim of this study was to determine the incidence and efficiency of the PCR-enzyme linked immunosorbent assay method (PCR-ELISA) for early detection of Aspergillus species in patients with hematologic malignancies. From 2004 to 2006, 194 patients with hematologic malignancies (who received chemotherapy) were evaluated for invasive aspergillosis (IA) in Shiraz, southern Iran. Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid anticoagulant whole blood samples were collected prospectively once a week and stored at -20 degrees C until examination. All collected blood samples were assayed for the presence of the bands on ethidium bromide stained gel and for hybridization. The female-to-male ratio was 61:133, the mean age of patients was 33.7 years, and mean of hospitalization period was 21.2 days. PCR-ELISA was positive in 14 (7.2%) patients who exhibited clinical and radiologic signs of IA. The etiologic agents were Aspergillus flavus (11 cases) and Aspergillus fumigatus (three cases). The mean time of positivity of PCR-ELISA in the blood before the appearance of clinical signs was 12.6 days. PCR was found to be the earliest indicator of IA preceding nonspecific clinical and radiologic findings. The sensitivity, specificity, positive, and negative predictive values of PCR-ELISA to detect DNA-specific for Aspergillus species in patients with proven and probable IA were 66%, 96%, 62.5%, and 97%, respectively. In case patients were treated with antifungal drugs, and the treatment was successful, fungal PCR assay became negative after 14 days and if the treatment failed, assay was positive until death. We demonstrated, in the present study, the incidence of IA in leukemic patients and the usefulness of molecular assay for early diagnosis and monitoring of the treatment of IA."}
{"id": "18845828", "title": "Detection of circulating Aspergillus fumigatus DNA by real-time PCR assay of large serum volumes improves early diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in high-risk adult patients under hematologic surveillance.", "content": "Detection of circulating Aspergillus fumigatus DNA by real-time PCR assay of large serum volumes improves early diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in high-risk adult patients under hematologic surveillance. Detection of galactomannan antigen (GMA) in serum is the standard assay for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) in high-risk patients with hematological disorders. Detection of Aspergillus DNA in serum has been proposed, but its sensitivity is lower than that of GMA when small serum volumes (SSV) are used. In this study, we investigated whether extraction of DNA from large serum volumes (LSV) improves diagnostic yield. In a 13-month prospective study, we compared the performances of twice-weekly screening of serum for GMA by an enzyme immunoassay and weekly screening for Aspergillus fumigatus DNA by a real-time PCR (RT-PCR) assay of 1.0 ml (LSV) or 100 mul (SSV) of serum. We included 124 patients (138 treatment episodes), with 17 episodes of EORTC (European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer)/MSG (Mycoses Study Group)-documented IA. In all, 1,870 samples were screened for GMA. The sensitivity (Se), specificity (Sp), and positive and negative predictive values (PPV and NPV, respectively) of GMA for IA were 88.2%, 95.8%, 75%, and 98.3%, respectively. We screened 938 samples for Aspergillus DNA by using LSV; 404 of these samples were also tested with SSV. The Se, Sp, PPV, and NPV of RT-PCR were 100%, 96.7%, 81%, and 100%, respectively, with LSV and 76.5%, 96.7%, 81.3%, and 95.6%, respectively, with SSV. DNA detection gave a positive result when performed on LSV in two cases of IA where the GMA assay result remained negative. Furthermore, in four IA cases, DNA was detected earlier than GMA. The use of LSV for extraction improved the performance of the RT-PCR, which appears highly sensitive and specific for the early diagnosis of IA in high-risk patients with hematological disorders."}
{"id": "18838595", "title": "Proteomic and transcriptomic analysis of Aspergillus fumigatus on exposure to amphotericin B.", "content": "Proteomic and transcriptomic analysis of Aspergillus fumigatus on exposure to amphotericin B. Amphotericin B (AMB) is the most widely used polyene antifungal drug for the treatment of systemic fungal infections, including invasive aspergillosis. It has been our aim to understand the molecular targets of AMB in Aspergillus fumigatus by genomic and proteomic approaches. In transcriptomic analysis, a total of 295 genes were found to be differentially expressed (165 upregulated and 130 downregulated), including many involving the ergosterol pathway, cell stress proteins, cell wall proteins, transport proteins, and hypothetical proteins. Proteomic profiles of A. fumigatus alone or A. fumigatus treated with AMB showed differential expression levels for 85 proteins (76 upregulated and 9 downregulated). Forty-eight of them were identified with high confidence and belonged to the above-mentioned categories. Differential expression levels for Rho-GDP dissociation inhibitor (Rho-GDI), secretory-pathway GDI, clathrin, Sec 31 (a subunit of the exocyst complex), and RAB GTPase Ypt51 in response to an antifungal drug are reported here for the first time and may represent a specific response of A. fumigatus to AMB. The expression of some of these genes was validated by real-time reverse transcription-PCR. The AMB responsive genes/proteins observed to be differentially expressed in A. fumigatus may be further explored for novel drug development."}
{"id": "18832929", "title": "Invasive aspergillosis: diagnosis, prophylaxis and treatment.", "content": "Invasive aspergillosis: diagnosis, prophylaxis and treatment. Invasive aspergillosis is a common cause of morbidity and mortality in hematopoietic stem cells transplant recipients. Owing to its intrinsic high mortality rate, early diagnosis and treatment are critical. This review will therefore address the most important recent advances in diagnosing, preventing and treating invasive aspergillosis in hematopoietic stem cells transplant. The present review will focus on therapeutic and prophylactic aspects, with particular regard to clinical use of drugs other than voriconazole (which has a well known and consolidated role for first-line therapy), combination therapy and prophylactic regimens, particularly with posaconazole. This review will also briefly deal with the clinical role of diagnostic tests such as the detection of galactomannan in body fluids other than blood, beta-D-glucan in serum and fungal DNA by PCR in body fluids. Galactomannan antigen detection is a rather reliable diagnostic test for invasive aspergillosis, particularly when a lower threshold of sensitivity is used. PCR is still to be validated. Liposomal amphotericin B at 3 mg/kg per day showed a similar efficacy in invasive aspergillosis as reported for voriconazole. Therapeutic drug monitoring of Aspergillus-active azoles should be implemented whenever possible in order to maximize the antifungal effect and minimize toxicity. Posaconazole showed to be active in prophylaxis, though its effectiveness in the global patient population is still controversial."}
{"id": "18832298", "title": "Identification of TmcN as a pathway-specific positive regulator of tautomycetin biosynthesis in Streptomyces sp. CK4412.", "content": "Identification of TmcN as a pathway-specific positive regulator of tautomycetin biosynthesis in Streptomyces sp. CK4412. Tautomycetin (TMC) is a novel activated T-cell-specific immunosuppressive compound with a unique structure, containing an ester bond linkage between a terminal cyclic anhydride moiety and a linear polyketide chain bearing an unusual terminal alkene. A 3 kb gene, tmcN, with a deduced product of 1029 amino acid residues, located on the 3'-terminus of an approximately 70 kb contiguous TMC biosynthetic gene cluster, was found to have amino acid sequence homology with bacterial regulatory proteins. In silico database comparisons revealed that TmcN belongs to the large ATP-binding regulators of the LuxR protein family. Gene disruption of tmcN from the Streptomyces sp. CK4412 chromosome resulted in significantly reduced antifungal activity against Aspergillus niger, as well as the absence of TMC. In addition, complementation by an integrative plasmid carrying tmcN restored TMC biosynthesis, strongly suggesting that TmcN is a positive regulator of TMC biosynthesis. Gene expression analysis by RT-PCR of the TMC biosynthetic genes revealed that a TmcN mutant strain exhibited reduced expression levels for most of the biosynthetic genes except for its own tmcN. It is thus suggested that TmcN is a pathway-specific positive regulator that activates transcription of the TMC biosynthetic pathway genes in Streptomyces sp. CK4412."}
{"id": "18820909", "title": "Improved PCR method for the creation of saturation mutagenesis libraries in directed evolution: application to difficult-to-amplify templates.", "content": "Improved PCR method for the creation of saturation mutagenesis libraries in directed evolution: application to difficult-to-amplify templates. Saturation mutagenesis constitutes a powerful method in the directed evolution of enzymes. Traditional protocols of whole plasmid amplification such as Stratagene's QuikChange sometimes fail when the templates are difficult to amplify. In order to overcome such restrictions, we have devised a simple two-primer, two-stage polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method which constitutes an improvement over existing protocols. In the first stage of the PCR, both the mutagenic primer and the antiprimer that are not complementary anneal to the template. In the second stage, the amplified sequence is used as a megaprimer. Sites composed of one or more residues can be randomized in a single PCR reaction, irrespective of their location in the gene sequence.The method has been applied to several enzymes successfully, including P450-BM3 from Bacillus megaterium, the lipases from Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Candida antarctica and the epoxide hydrolase from Aspergillus niger. Here, we show that megaprimer size as well as the direction and design of the antiprimer are determining factors in the amplification of the plasmid. Comparison of the results with the performances of previous protocols reveals the efficiency of the improved method."}
{"id": "18798037", "title": "Isolation of microorganisms and substances inhibitory to aflatoxin production.", "content": "Isolation of microorganisms and substances inhibitory to aflatoxin production. Aflatoxins are toxic and carcinogenic secondary metabolites produced by Aspergillus flavus and A. parasiticus. The contamination of crops, feeds, and foods with aflatoxins can have serious effects on the health of humans and animals. Although many studies have been done to develop aflatoxin-control strategies, most are limited in their effectiveness. As part of an effort to develop control procedures, we have devised simple and safe methods that are useful for identifying microorganisms that effectively inhibit aflatoxin production by fungi. These include the microtitre agar plate assay using norsolorinic acid-accumulating mutant fungi, the ultraviolet light photography method using an instant film, the tip culture method, a convenient RNA extraction method for reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis, and other methods. Results of a recent trial have shown that Achromobacter xylosoxidans significantly inhibited aflatoxin production by A. parsiticus, and that the main inhibitory substance produced by the bacterium was cyclo(L-leucyl-L-prolyl). This result confirms that the methods described herein are useful for identifying microorganisms that inhibit aflatoxin production by fungi and could contribute to the development of methods to reduce aflatoxin contamination in commodities."}
{"id": "18796135", "title": "Transcriptomic analysis of the exit from dormancy of Aspergillus fumigatus conidia.", "content": "Transcriptomic analysis of the exit from dormancy of Aspergillus fumigatus conidia. Establishment of aspergillosis is depending upon the exit from dormancy and germination of the conidia of Aspergillus fumigatus in the lung. To gain an understanding of the molecular mechanisms underlying the early steps of conidial germination, we undertook a transcriptomic analysis using macroarrays constructed with PCR fragments from > 3,000 genes (around one third of the annotated A. fumigatus genome). Major results of this analysis are the following: (i) conidia stored pre-packaged mRNAs transcripts (27% of genes have transcripts in the resting conidia; (ii) incubation at 37 degrees C in a nutritive medium induced up- and down-regulation of genes: 19% of the total number of genes deposited on the array were up-regulated whereas 22% of the genes with pre-packaged mRNA in the resting conidia were down-regulated; (iii) most modifications were seen during the first 30 min of germination whereas very little modification of gene expression occurred during the following hour; (iv) one-year old conidia and one-week old conidia behaved similarly at transcriptional level. Transcriptomic data indicate that the exit from dormancy is associated with a shift from a fermentative metabolism to a respiratory metabolism as well as a trend toward immediate protein synthesis."}
{"id": "18791013", "title": "Codon optimization increases steady-state mRNA levels in Aspergillus oryzae heterologous gene expression.", "content": "Codon optimization increases steady-state mRNA levels in Aspergillus oryzae heterologous gene expression. We investigated the effect of codon optimization on the expression levels of heterologous proteins in Aspergillus oryzae, using the mite allergen Der f 7 as a model protein. A codon-optimized Der f 7 gene was synthesized according to the frequency of codon usage in A. oryzae by recursive PCR. Both native and optimized Der f 7 genes were expressed under the control of a high-level-expression promoter with their own signal peptides or in a fusion construct with A. oryzae glucoamylase (GlaA). Codon optimization markedly increased protein and mRNA production levels in both nonfused and GlaA-fused Der f 7 constructs. For constructs with native codons, analysis by 3' rapid amplification of cDNA ends revealed that poly(A) tracts tended to be added within the coding region, producing aberrant mRNAs that lack a termination codon. Insertion of a termination codon between the carrier GlaA and native Der f 7 proteins in the GlaA fusion construct resulted in increases in mRNA and secreted-carrier-GlaA levels. These results suggested that mRNAs without a termination codon as a result of premature polyadenylation are degraded, possibly through the nonstop mRNA decay pathway. We suggest that codon optimization in A. oryzae results in elimination of cryptic polyadenylation signals in native Der f 7, thereby circumventing the production of truncated transcripts and resulting in an increase in steady-state mRNA levels."}
{"id": "18780236", "title": "Field evaluation of a personal, bioaerosol cyclone sampler.", "content": "Field evaluation of a personal, bioaerosol cyclone sampler. A personal cyclone sampler (cyclone) was operated continuously alongside a 25-mm filter sampler (filter), a slit impactor (Burkard slide), and a high-volume cyclone sampler (Burkard cyclone) at an outdoor location with abundant naturally occurring fungi (N = 30; sampling time: 12.5 +/- 2.3 hr). Air concentrations (spore m(-3)) of 28 fungal groups were determined for all samplers by microscopy. Cyclone performance was judged using various indices to determine if it agreed with the other samplers in determination of the frequencies with which the fungal groups were observed, as well as their proportions of the total air concentration. Fungal diversity estimates were similar for all samplers and in the range of what has been reported nationally, i.e., observation of 9-11 equal groups per sample, but spore concentration dominated by 2-3 groups. Plots of paired cyclone:comparison sampler ratios against average concentrations identified biases. For example, ratios were correlated with concentration and there was greater uncertainty at lower concentrations. Mean ratios for cyclone:filter comparisons were not significantly different from one for ascospores, Aspergillus-Penicillium spp., basidiospores, Cladosporium spp., or total spore m(-3). However, agreement was less consistent with the Burkard slide (0.74, 1.12, 0.91, 1.09, and 0.92, respectively) and the Burkard cyclone (2.31, 1.62, 1.43, 1.91, and 1.33, respectively). Concentrations of cell equivalent m(-3) also were determined for the filter and two cyclone samples by polymerase chain reaction. Cell equivalents for Aspergillus fumigatus and Penicillium brevicompactum were compared with Aspergillus-Penicillium spp. spores, and Cladosporium cladosporioides and Cladosporium herbarum cell equivalents were compared with Cladosporium spp. spores. Cell equivalent:spore ratios below one for A. fumigatus and P. brevicompactum indicated that these species comprised smaller factions of total spores or were collected less efficiently than the larger C. cladosporioides and C. herbarum spores. The personal cyclone was shown to be suitable for collection of ambient airborne fungal spores and for analysis by microscopy and polymerase chain reaction."}
{"id": "18752198", "title": "Genetic characterization of Brazilian strains of Aspergillus flavus using DNA markers.", "content": "Genetic characterization of Brazilian strains of Aspergillus flavus using DNA markers. The Aspergillus genus belongs to a filamentous fungal group characterized by wide dispersion in the environment. Some species are associated with diseases, especially in immunocompromised patients, while others are of economical importance due to aflatoxin production or biotechnological applications. Its species identification is nowadays performed by traditional techniques combined with molecular markers, resulting in a higher efficiency of isolate characterization. In the present study, internal transcribed spacer, inter-simple sequence repeats (ISSR), and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) molecular markers were used, with the aim of genetically characterizing strains of Aspergillus flavus and strains of other species of the A. flavus group. High genetic diversity was revealed by RAPD and by ISSR, in which the use of the (GACA)4 primer yielded a higher diversity than with the (GTG)5 primer, although the latter showed a characteristic banding profile for each species. These data were used to create a similarity matrix for the construction of dendrograms by means of the UPGMA method. The ISSR and RAPD profiles showed that among the strains previously identificated as A. flavus, one should be A. oryzae, one A. parasiticus and two A. tamarii. On the other hand, a strain previously identified as A. parasiticus should be A. flavus. All these strains were retested by traditional methods and their new species identification was confirmed. These results strongly support the need for using molecular markers as an auxiliary tool in differentiating fungal species and strains."}
{"id": "18720289", "title": "Chamber evaluation of a personal, bioaerosol cyclone sampler.", "content": "Chamber evaluation of a personal, bioaerosol cyclone sampler. A personal cyclone sampler (cyclone) was operated in a 0.9-m3 chamber, side by side with a 25-mm filter sampler (filter) and either a slit impactor (Air-O-Cell) or a single-stage, multiple-hole, agar impactor (N6). Aerosols of two fungal spores were collected for 5 min to 5 hr-Aspergillus versicolor: 10, 20, 40, 80, 160, and 320 min; concentration: 10(2)-10(5) spore m(-3); Scopulariopsis brevicaulis: 5, 10, 15, 20, 25, and 30-min; concentration: 10(3)-10(5) spore m(-3) (six replicates for each sampling time). For each fungus, air concentrations were determined by a 15-channel optical particle counter (particle m(-3); N = 36), microscopy (spore m(-3); cyclone and filter, N = 36; Air-O-Cell, N = 18), culture (colony forming unit m(-3); cyclone and filter, N = 36; N6, N = 18), and polymerase chain reaction (cell equivalent m(-3); cyclone and filter, N = 36). Samplers were significantly correlated with each other as were the three analyses (correlation coefficients = 0.79-1.00 and 0.87-0.98, respectively). Ratios were calculated for simultaneous measurements with the cyclone and comparison samplers and for paired colony:spore, colony:cell equivalent, and cell equivalent:spore measurements for the cyclone and filter samples. The cyclone equaled or underestimated the other samplers for both fungi and all analyses (mean ratio: 0.75-1.04). A. versicolor colony and cell equivalent measurements exceeded spore measurements although microscopy should detect all spores not just culturable ones, perhaps due to difficulty observing the smaller spores or detection of DNA in cell fragments in addition to intact spores. Plots of the ratios of paired measurements against their averages identified biases between samplers and analyses. For example, ratios were correlated with spore concentration, and there was greater uncertainty at lower concentrations. These chamber tests have shown that the cyclone is suitable for collection of airborne fungal spores over a wide concentration range and time period and for analysis by microscopy, culture, and polymerase chain reaction."}
{"id": "18713314", "title": "Evolutionary history of the ancient cutinase family in five filamentous Ascomycetes reveals differential gene duplications and losses and in Magnaporthe grisea shows evidence of sub- and neo-functionalization.", "content": "Evolutionary history of the ancient cutinase family in five filamentous Ascomycetes reveals differential gene duplications and losses and in Magnaporthe grisea shows evidence of sub- and neo-functionalization. * The cuticle is the first barrier for fungi that parasitize plants systematically or opportunistically. Here, the evolutionary history is reported of the multimembered cutinase families of the plant pathogenic Ascomycetes Magnaporthe grisea, Fusarium graminearum and Botrytis cinerea and the saprotrophic Ascomycetes Aspergillus nidulans and Neurospora crassa. * Molecular taxonomy of all fungal cutinases demonstrates a clear division into two ancient subfamilies. No evidence was found for lateral gene transfer from prokaryotes. The cutinases in the five Ascomycetes show significant copy number variation, they form six clades and their extreme sequence diversity is highlighted by the lack of consensus intron. The average ratio of gene duplication to loss is 2 : 3, with the exception of M. grisea and N. crassa, which exhibit extreme family expansion and contraction, respectively. * Detailed transcript profiling in vivo, categorizes the M. grisea cutinases into four regulatory patterns. Symmetric or asymmetric expression profiles of phylogenetically related cutinase genes suggest subfunctionalization and neofunctionalization, respectively. * The cutinase family-size per fungal species is discussed in relation to genome characteristics and lifestyle. The ancestry of the cutinase gene family, together with the expression divergence of its individual members provides a first insight into the drivers for niche differentiation in fungi."}
{"id": "18705871", "title": "Ctf1, a transcriptional activator of cutinase and lipase genes in Fusarium oxysporum is dispensable for virulence.", "content": "Ctf1, a transcriptional activator of cutinase and lipase genes in Fusarium oxysporum is dispensable for virulence. Cutinolytic enzymes are secreted by fungal pathogens attacking the aerial parts of the plant, to facilitate penetration of the outermost cuticular barrier of the host. The role of cutinases in soil-borne root pathogens has not been studied thus far. Here we report the characterization of the zinc finger transcription factor Ctf1 from the vascular wilt fungus Fusarium oxysporum, a functional orthologue of CTF1alpha that controls expression of cutinase genes and virulence in the pea stem pathogen Fusarium solani f. sp. pisi. Mutants carrying a Deltactf1 loss-of-function allele grown on inducing substrates failed to activate extracellular cutinolytic activity and expression of the cut1 and lip1 genes, encoding a putative cutinase and lipase, respectively, whereas strains harbouring a ctf1(C) allele in which the ctf1 coding region was fused to the strong constitutive Aspergillus nidulans gpdA promoter showed increased induction of cutinase activity and gene expression. These results suggest that F. oxysporum Ctf1 mediates expression of genes involved in fatty acid hydrolysis. However, expression of lip1 during root infection was not dependent on Ctf1, and virulence of the ctf1 mutants on tomato plants and fruits was indistinguishable from that of the wild-type. Thus, in contrast to the stem pathogen F. solani, Ctf1 is not essential for virulence in the root pathogen F. oxysporum."}
{"id": "18695956", "title": "Multiplex detection of mutations.", "content": "Multiplex detection of mutations. Rapid and reliable detection of mutations at the genetic level is an integral part of modern molecular diagnostics. These mutations can range from dominant single nucleotide polymorphisms within specific loci to codominant heterozygotic insertions and they present considerable challenges to investigators in developing rapid nucleic acid-based amplification assays that can distinguish wild-type from mutant alleles. The recent improvements of real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using self-reporting fluorescence probes have given researchers a powerful tool in developing assays for mutation detection that can be multiplexed for high-throughput screening of multiple mutations and cost effectiveness. Here we describe an application of a multiplexed real-time PCR assay using Molecular Beacon probes for the detection of mutations in codon 54 of the CYP51A gene in Aspergillus fumigatus conferring triazole resistance."}
{"id": "18688769", "title": "[Comparison of four methods for efficient isolation of Aspergillus DNA from peripheral blood samples].", "content": "[Comparison of four methods for efficient isolation of Aspergillus DNA from peripheral blood samples]. The main goal of this study was to find the best method for Aspergillus DNA isolation from peripheral blood samples. The method should be very effective but not expensive or time consuming to be suitable for routine diagnostics use. We compared four different methods for Aspergillus DNA isolation - one method with enzymatic lysis of the fungal cell wall and three methods that combine chemical and mechanical lysis (using high speed cell disruption with glass beads). Peripheral blood samples were inoculated with defined amount of Aspergillus fumigatus suspension and used for DNA isolation. Isolated DNA was then quantitatively analyzed with in-house real-time PCR method using specific probe. Enzymatic method seems not to be useful in a routine diagnostics mainly because of its low efficiency and too long processing time. Better could be the methods using both chemical and mechanical cell disruption that can isolate fungal DNA with high efficiency in a relatively short time. The method using ZR Fungal/Bacterial DNA Kit (Zymo Research, USA) was chosen for routine use in our laboratory because it is cheap, fast and very efficient."}
{"id": "18687497", "title": "A polyphasic approach to the identification of ochratoxin A-producing black Aspergillus isolates from vineyards in Sicily.", "content": "A polyphasic approach to the identification of ochratoxin A-producing black Aspergillus isolates from vineyards in Sicily. Aspergillus strains belonging to section Nigri isolated during a two year survey in eight Sicilian vineyards located on the slopes of Mount Etna (Sicily, Italy) were analysed analyzed in order to characterize species responsible for ochratoxin A (OTA) contamination of grapes. The polyphasic approach permitted analysis of biodiversity of Aspergillus isolates in relation to their morphology, ochratoxigenicity and genetic variability. We assessed OTA production by A. carbonarius, A. niger, A. tubingensis and A. japonicus using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. A. carbonarius isolates were the strongest OTA producers. A subset of 66 representative strains was selected for further DNA-based characterization. PCR assays using species-specific primers discriminated between A. niger, A. carbonarius and A. japonicus on the basis of the target sequences for each species. The PCR-based methods matched morphological characterization in identifying all the black aspergilli (BA) isolates tested, whereas RFLP analysis with RsaI of isolates positive to PCRs with A. niger specific primers identified three A. tubingensis isolates. The identification of thirteen isolates was further confirmed by ITS analysis. By this method, each of the isolates was identified and assigned to an Aspergillus species. The fAFLP analysis of 40 isolates highlighted the power of this technique to discriminate different species and single strains, to verify the presence of mixed populations in the same vineyard, through homogeneous species clusters. No correlation was observed between the clusters and OTA production level or origin."}
{"id": "18681941", "title": "Farnesol induces the transcriptional accumulation of the Aspergillus nidulans Apoptosis-Inducing Factor (AIF)-like mitochondrial oxidoreductase.", "content": "Farnesol induces the transcriptional accumulation of the Aspergillus nidulans Apoptosis-Inducing Factor (AIF)-like mitochondrial oxidoreductase. Farnesol (FOH) is a non-sterol isoprenoid produced by dephosphorylation of farnesyl pyrophosphate, a catabolite of the cholesterol biosynthetic pathway. These isoprenoids inhibit proliferation and induce apoptosis. It has been shown previously that FOH triggers morphological features characteristic of apoptosis in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. Here, we investigate which pathways are influenced through FOH by examining the transcriptional profile of A. nidulans exposed to this isoprenoid. We observed decreased mRNA abundance of several genes involved in RNA processing and modification, transcription, translation, ribosomal structure and biogenesis, amino acid transport and metabolism, and ergosterol biosynthesis. We also observed increased mRNA expression of genes encoding a number of mitochondrial proteins and characterized in detail one of them, the aifA, encoding the Apoptosis-Inducing Factor (AIF)-like mitochondrial oxidoreductase. The DeltaaifA mutant is more sensitive to FOH (about 8.0% and 0% survival when exposed to 10 and 100 microM FOH respectively) than the wild type (about 97% and 3% survival when exposed to 10 and 100 microM FOH respectively). These results suggest that AifA is possibly important for decreasing the effects of FOH and reactive oxygen species. Furthermore, we showed an involvement of autophagy and protein kinase C in A. nidulans FOH-induced apoptosis."}
{"id": "18678866", "title": "Ergot alkaloid biosynthesis in Aspergillus fumigatus. Overproduction and biochemical characterization of a 4-dimethylallyltryptophan N-methyltransferase.", "content": "Ergot alkaloid biosynthesis in Aspergillus fumigatus. Overproduction and biochemical characterization of a 4-dimethylallyltryptophan N-methyltransferase. The putative gene fgaMT was identified in the biosynthetic gene cluster of fumigaclavines in Aspergillus fumigatus. The coding region of fgaMT was amplified by PCR from a cDNA library, cloned into pQE60, and overexpressed in Escherichia coli. FgaMT comprises 339 amino acids with a molecular mass of about 38.1 kDa. The soluble dimeric His(6)-FgaMT was purified to near homogeneity and characterized biochemically. FgaMT was found to catalyze the N-methylation of 4-dimethylallyltryptophan in the presence of S-adenosylmethionine, resulting in the formation of 4-dimethylallyl-l-abrine, which was identified by NMR and mass spectrometry analysis. Therefore, FgaMT represents the second pathway-specific enzyme in the biosynthesis of ergot alkaloids. The enzyme did not require metal ions for its enzymatic reaction and showed a relatively high specificity toward the prenyl moiety at position C-4 of the indole ring. 4-Dimethylallyltryptophan derivatives with modification at the indole ring were also accepted by FgaMT as substrates. K(m) values for 4-dimethylallyltryptophan and S-adenosylmethionine were determined at 0.12 and 2.4 mm, respectively. The turnover number was 2.0 s(-1)."}
{"id": "18652906", "title": "Characterization and population analysis of the mating-type genes in Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Characterization and population analysis of the mating-type genes in Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus. We characterize the mating-type genes in Aspergillus flavus,Aspergillus parasiticus and Petromyces alliaceus. A single MAT1-1 or MAT1-2 gene was detected in the genomes of A. flavus and A. parasiticus, which is consistent with a potential heterothallic organization of MAT genes in these species. In contrast, the only known, functionally homothallic species in Aspergillus section Flavi, P. alliaceus, has tightly linked (<2kb) MAT1-1 and MAT1-2 genes, typical of other self-fertile homothallic euascomycetes. This is the first example of linked MAT genes within a homothallic species of Aspergillus. We tested the null hypothesis of no significant difference in the frequency of MAT1-1 and MAT1-2 in A. flavus and A. parasiticus sampled from a single peanut field in Georgia. For each species, mating-type frequencies were determined for the total population samples and for samples that were clone-corrected based on vegetative compatibility groups (VCGs) and aflatoxin gene cluster haplotypes. There was no significant difference in the frequency of the two mating types for A. flavus and A. parasiticus in either VCG or haplotype clone-corrected samples. The existence of both mating-type genes in equal proportions in A. flavus and A. parasiticus populations, coupled with their expression at the mRNA level and the high amino acid sequence identity of MAT1-1 (77%) and MAT1-2 (83%) with corresponding homologs in P. alliaceus, indicates the potential functionality of these genes and the possible existence of a sexual state in these agriculturally important species."}
{"id": "18644959", "title": "Establishing in vitro-in vivo correlations for Aspergillus fumigatus: the challenge of azoles versus echinocandins.", "content": "Establishing in vitro-in vivo correlations for Aspergillus fumigatus: the challenge of azoles versus echinocandins. Two clinical isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus, designated AT and DK, were recently obtained from patients failing caspofungin and itraconazole therapy, respectively. The isolates were tested by microdilution for susceptibility to itraconazole, voriconazole, posaconazole, ravuconazole, and caspofungin and by Etest for susceptibility to amphotericin B and caspofungin. Susceptibility testing documented that the DK isolate was azole resistant (itraconazole and posaconazole MICs, >4 microg/ml; voriconazole MIC, 2 microg/ml; ravuconazole MIC, 4 microg/ml), and the resistance was confirmed in a hematogenous mouse model, with mortality and the galactomannan index as the primary and secondary end points. Sequencing of the cyp51A gene revealed the M220K mutation, conferring multiazole resistance. The Etest, but not microdilution, suggested that the AT isolate was resistant to caspofungin (MIC, >32 microg/ml). In the animal model, this isolate showed reduced susceptibility to caspofungin. Sequencing of the FKS1 gene revealed no mutations; the enzyme retained full sensitivity in vitro; and investigation of the polysaccharide composition showed that the beta-(1,3)-glucan proportion was unchanged. However, gene expression profiling by Northern blotting and real-time PCR demonstrated that the FKS gene was expressed at a higher level in the AT isolate than in the susceptible control isolate. To our knowledge, this is the first report to document the presence of multiazole-resistant clinical isolates in Denmark and to demonstrate reduced susceptibility to caspofungin in a clinical A. fumigatus isolate with increased expression of the FKS gene. Further research to determine the prevalence of resistance in A. fumigatus worldwide, and to develop easier and reliable tools for the identification of such isolates in routine laboratories, is warranted."}
{"id": "18627580", "title": "Real-time PCR on the first galactomannan-positive serum sample for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis in liver transplant recipients.", "content": "Real-time PCR on the first galactomannan-positive serum sample for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis in liver transplant recipients. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is a life-threatening complication of liver transplantation. Detection of circulating galactomannan (GM) in serum samples is a method to improve the microbiological diagnosis in patients at risk for IA. However, the assay is hampered by false-positive results. The search for circulating Aspergillus DNA in the first GM-positive sample could improve the specificity of the test. Among 484 liver transplant recipients followed in a single center over 4 years, 25 patients had at least 1 GM-positive serum sample. The threshold of GM positivity was a ratio >or=1. These 25 patients were classified by the clinicians as probable IA (n=11), possible IA (n=2), and no IA (n=12) using the EORTC/MSG criteria with blinding to the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) results. After 1 mL aliquots of the first GM-positive serum sample were thawed, 2 independent DNA extractions were performed using the MagNA Pure Compact apparatus. Real-time amplification targeted at Aspergillus fumigatus mitochondrial DNA was performed on 10 microL of the final eluate in duplicate in the 2 independent DNA extractions using a LightCycler instrument. A sample was considered positive when the crossing point was <or=43 cycles in at least 2 out of the 4 replicates. Among the 13 probable or possible IA, 8 patients were PCR positive. The other 12 patients who had no IA were all PCR negative. Our data suggest that a concomitant real-time PCR performed on the first GM-positive sample improves the specificity of the first GM-positive assay result."}
{"id": "18602989", "title": "Mold species in dust from the International Space Station identified and quantified by mold-specific quantitative PCR.", "content": "Mold species in dust from the International Space Station identified and quantified by mold-specific quantitative PCR. Dust was collected over a period of several weeks in 2007 from HEPA filters in the U.S. Laboratory Module of the International Space Station (ISS). The dust was returned on the Space Shuttle Atlantis, mixed, sieved and the DNA was extracted. Using a DNA-based method called mold-specific quantitative PCR (MSQPCR), 39 molds were measured in the dust. Potential opportunistic pathogens Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus niger and potential moderate toxin producers Penicillium chrysogenum and Penicillium brevicompactum were noteworthy. No cells of the potential opportunistic pathogens Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus terreus, Fusarium solani or Candida albicans were detected."}
{"id": "18594296", "title": "Diagnosis of histoplasmosis in immunosuppressed patients.", "content": "Diagnosis of histoplasmosis in immunosuppressed patients. To define the most appropriate studies for making a diagnosis of histoplasmosis in immunosuppressed patients. As is true of all fungal infections in immunosuppressed patients, heightened awareness of the epidemiology and clinical manifestations of histoplasmosis is essential in making an early diagnosis. Increasingly, Histoplasma antigen detection is used to help establish a diagnosis of histoplasmosis. Most of the reported data are on patients with AIDS, but limited data suggest the usefulness of this assay in other immunosuppressed patients as well. False positive reactions occur with other fungal infections, especially blastomycosis, and patients who have histoplasmosis may have a false positive serum Aspergillus galactomannan assay. The identification of the yeast phase of Histoplasma capsulatum in tissue biopsy samples and, uncommonly, in circulating blood phagocytes is also helpful in establishing a diagnosis quickly. PCR techniques have yet to prove useful for the rapid diagnosis of histoplasmosis, and serology is often negative in immunosuppressed patients. Culture remains definitive and should always be performed to confirm the results of the rapid diagnostic studies. Rapid techniques, mostly antigen detection in serum and urine and histopathological identification of Histoplasma capsulatum in tissues, are the most important rapid diagnostic tests for histoplasmosis in immunosuppressed patients."}
{"id": "18588984", "title": "Expression of a fungal glucoamylase in transgenic rice seeds.", "content": "Expression of a fungal glucoamylase in transgenic rice seeds. Glucoamylase, which catalyses the hydrolysis of the alpha-1,4 glycosidic bonds of starch, is an important industrial enzyme used in starch enzymatic saccharification. In this study, a glucoamylase gene from Aspergillus awamori, under the control of the promoter of seed storage protein Gt1, was introduced into rice by Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. Significant glucoamylase activity was detected specifically in the seeds but not other tissues of the transgenic rice lines. The highest enzymatic activity was found in the transgenic line Bg17-2, which was estimated to have about 500 units per gram of seeds (one unit is defined as the amount of enzyme that produces 1 micromol of reducing sugar in 1 min at 60 degrees C using soluble starch as substrate). The optimum pH for the activity of the rice produced enzyme is 5.0-5.5, and the optimum temperature is around 60 degrees C. One part of this transgenic glucoamylase rice seed flour fully converted 25 parts of corn starch pre-liquefied by an alpha-amylase also produced by a transgenic rice into glucose in 16 h incubation. This study suggests that this hydrolysis enzyme may substitute commercial fermentation enzymes for industrial starch conversion."}
{"id": "18588521", "title": "Diagnostic and therapeutic approach to persistent or recurrent fevers of unknown origin in adult stem cell transplantation and haematological malignancy.", "content": "Diagnostic and therapeutic approach to persistent or recurrent fevers of unknown origin in adult stem cell transplantation and haematological malignancy. Persistent or recurrent fevers of unknown origin (PFUO) in neutropenic patients on broad-spectrum antibiotics have traditionally been treated with empirical antifungal therapy (EAFT). The lack of survival benefit seen with the use of amphotericin B deoxycholate (AmB-D) as EAFT has been attributed to its toxicities. More recently, newer, less toxic and more expensive antifungal agents such as the lipid formulations of AmB, the newer azoles (fluconazole, itraconazole and voriconazole) and caspofungin have been analysed in a number of EAFT trials. Compared with AmB-D the newer agents have superior safety but are of equivalent efficacy. This lack of survival advantage is related to the fact that the trigger for commencement of EAFT is late and non-specific. Thus, alternative approaches are required. New sensitive serological and molecular tests for the detection of Aspergillus antigens and genomic DNA have been developed and evaluated in accuracy studies. These tests have been incorporated into management strategies (i.e. pre-emptive strategies) to direct antifungal therapy. The pre-emptive approach has been shown to be safe and feasible but its impact on clinically important patient outcomes such as survival is less clear. Other advances include the introduction of effective, non-toxic mould-active antifungal prophylaxis and patient risk-group stratification. In this paper we provide new evidence-based algorithms for the diagnosis and treatment of PFUO in adult patients undergoing stem cell transplantation and chemotherapy for haematological malignancy which incorporate these newer diagnostic tests and are directed by the risk category of the patient and type of antifungal prophylaxis the patient is receiving."}
{"id": "18575630", "title": "A cytosine methyltransferase homologue is essential for sexual development in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "A cytosine methyltransferase homologue is essential for sexual development in Aspergillus nidulans. The genome defense processes RIP (repeat-induced point mutation) in the filamentous fungus Neurospora crassa, and MIP (methylation induced premeiotically) in the fungus Ascobolus immersus depend on proteins with DNA methyltransferase (DMT) domains. Nevertheless, these proteins, RID and Masc1, respectively, have not been demonstrated to have DMT activity. We discovered a close homologue in Aspergillus nidulans, a fungus thought to have no methylation and no genome defense system comparable to RIP or MIP. We report the cloning and characterization of the DNA methyltransferase homologue A (dmtA) gene from Aspergillus nidulans. We found that the dmtA locus encodes both a sense (dmtA) and an anti-sense transcript (tmdA). Both transcripts are expressed in vegetative, conidial and sexual tissues. We determined that dmtA, but not tmdA, is required for early sexual development and formation of viable ascospores. We also tested if DNA methylation accumulated in any of the dmtA/tmdA mutants we constructed, and found that in both asexual and sexual tissues, these mutants, just like wild-type strains, appear devoid of DNA methylation. Our results demonstrate that a DMT homologue closely related to proteins implicated in RIP and MIP has an essential developmental function in a fungus that appears to lack both DNA methylation and RIP or MIP. It remains formally possible that DmtA is a bona fide DMT, responsible for trace, undetected DNA methylation that is restricted to a few cells or transient but our work supports the idea that the DMT domain present in the RID/Masc1/DmtA family has a previously undescribed function."}
{"id": "18571996", "title": "Development of a novel PCR assay for the identification of the black yeast, Exophiala (Wangiella) dermatitidis from adult patients with cystic fibrosis (CF).", "content": "Development of a novel PCR assay for the identification of the black yeast, Exophiala (Wangiella) dermatitidis from adult patients with cystic fibrosis (CF). Cystic fibrosis (CF) patients may suffer increased morbidity and mortality through colonisation, allergy and invasive infection from fungi. The black yeast, Exophiala dermatitidis (synonym Wangiella dermatitidis) has been found with increasing frequency in sputum specimens of CF patients, with reported isolation rates ranging from 1.1 to 15.7%. At present, no diagnostic PCR exists to aid with the clinical laboratory detection and identification of this organism. A novel species-specific PCR-based assay was developed for the detection of E. dermatitidis, based on employment of rDNA operons and interspacer (ITS) regions between these rDNA operons. Two novel primers, (designated ExdF & ExdR) were designed in silico with the aid of computer-aided alignment software and with the alignment of multiple species of Exophiala, as well as with other commonly described yeasts and filamentous fungi within CF sputum, including Candida, Aspergillus and Scedosporium. An amplicon of approximately 455 bp was generated, spanning the partial ITS1 region - the complete 5.8S rDNA region - partial ITS2 region, employing ExdF (forward primer [16-mer], 5'-CCG CCT ATT CAG GTC C-3' and ExdR (reverse primer [16-mer], 5'-TCT CTC CCA CTC CCG C-3', was employed and optimised on extracted genomic DNA from a well characterised culture of E. dermatitidis, as well as with high quality genomic DNA template from a further 16 unrelated fungi, including Candida albicans, C. dubliniensis, C. parapsilosis, C. glabrata, Scedosporium apiospermum, Penicillium sp., Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus versicolor, Pichia guilliermondii, Rhodotorula sp., Trichosporon sp., Aureobasidium pullulans, Fusarium sp., Mucor hiemalis, Bionectria ochroleuca, Gibberella pulicaris. Results demonstrated that only DNA from E. dermatitidis gave an amplification product of the expected size, whilst none of the other fungi were amplifiable. Subsequent employment of this primer pair detected this yeast from mycological cultures from 2/50 (4%) adult CF patients. These two patients were the only patients who were previously shown to have a cultural history of E. dermatitidis from their sputum. E. dermatitidis is a slow-growing fungus, which usually takes up to two weeks to culture in the microbiology laboratory and therefore is slow to detect conventionally, with the risk of bacterial overgrowth from common co-habiting pan- and multiresistant bacterial pathogens from sputum, namely Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Burkholderia cepacia complex organisms, hence this species-specific PCR assay may help detect this organism from CF sputum more specifically and rapidly. Overall, employment of this novel assay may help in the understanding of the occurrence, aetiology and epidemiology of E. dermatitidis, as an emerging fungal agent in patients with CF."}
{"id": "18568882", "title": "Aspergillus fumigatus antigens activate immortalized human corneal epithelial cells via toll-like receptors 2 and 4.", "content": "Aspergillus fumigatus antigens activate immortalized human corneal epithelial cells via toll-like receptors 2 and 4. To evaluate the role of toll-like receptors (TLR) 2 and 4 in host responses to Aspergillus fumigatus by use of cultured telomerase-immortalized human corneal epithelial cells (HCECs). HCECs were stimulated with inactive antigens from A. fumigatus. The expression of TLR2 and TLR4, phosphorylation of Ikappa B-alpha (pIkappa B-alpha), and release of interleukin (IL)-1beta and IL-6 was measured with and without inhibitors to TLR2 and TLR4. Exposure of HCECs to A. fumigatus antigens resulted in up-regulation of TLR2 and TLR4, activation of pIkappa B, and release of IL-1beta and IL-6 in HCECs, effects that could be inhibited by treatment with TLR2 and TLR4 antibodies. TLR2 and TLR4-nuclear factor-kappa B signaling pathways in corneal epithelium play important roles in inflammatory responses against A. fumigatus antigens."}
{"id": "18546027", "title": "Differentiation of Aspergillus niger by random amplification of polymorphic DNA.", "content": "Differentiation of Aspergillus niger by random amplification of polymorphic DNA. The randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) patterns of whole-cell lysates from five Aspergillus niger isolates, including one reference strain, two isolated from deep freeze, and two environmental strains from soil and plant infections, were investigated. PCR-RAPD analysis of genomic DNA was performed using eight primers (Tube-A1, Tube-A6, Tube-A17, Tube-B8, Tube-B11, Tube-B15, Tube-C5, Tube-C6). The RAPD assay discriminated between all strains. Comparison of deep freeze isolates showed identical RAPD patterns in some of the reference and environmental isolates. The data indicates that the RAPD technique is useful for fingerprinting A. niger."}
{"id": "18543126", "title": "A method for construction, cloning and expression of intron-less gene from unannotated genomic DNA.", "content": "A method for construction, cloning and expression of intron-less gene from unannotated genomic DNA. The present century has witnessed an unprecedented rise in genome sequences owing to various genome-sequencing programs. However, the same has not been replicated with cDNA or expressed sequence tags (ESTs). Hence, prediction of protein coding sequence of genes from this enormous collection of genomic sequences presents a significant challenge. While robust high throughput methods of cloning and expression could be used to meet protein requirements, lack of intron information creates a bottleneck. Computational programs designed for recognizing intron-exon boundaries for a particular organism or group of organisms have their own limitations. Keeping this in view, we describe here a method for construction of intron-less gene from genomic DNA in the absence of cDNA/EST information and organism-specific gene prediction program. The method outlined is a sequential application of bioinformatics to predict correct intron-exon boundaries and splicing by overlap extension PCR for spliced gene synthesis. The gene construct so obtained can then be cloned for protein expression. The method is simple and can be used for any eukaryotic gene expression."}
{"id": "18541161", "title": "Occurrence of Penicillium verrucosum in retail wheat flours from the Spanish market.", "content": "Occurrence of Penicillium verrucosum in retail wheat flours from the Spanish market. In Spain, low ochratoxin A (OTA) levels have been detected in wheat and different wheat products but no information has been published about the fungi involved in this OTA contamination. Some species of the genera Penicillium and Aspergillus are known to form OTA but few of them are known to contaminate foods with this mycotoxin. Penicillium verrucosum, an important OTA producer typical of temperate and cold climates, is much more frequently found on cereals in countries where they occasionally have OTA problems as in North European countries compared with South Europe, where levels of OTA generally seem to be lower or is not detected. The aim of this study was to determine, identify and characterize the occurrence of potential OTA-producing Aspergillus spp. and Penicillium spp. from retail wheat flours purchased in the Spanish market and used for human consumption. A total of 105 Aspergillus isolates were analyzed in order to know whether they are able to produce OTA and/or citrinin (CIT). None of these isolates were able to produce these mycotoxins. However, 17 suspected P. verrucosum isolates were recovered and confirmed by RAPD analyses. Eleven isolates were OTA producers and 14 isolates produced CIT. Our results confirm the potential risk of OTA and CIT production in wheat flours if stored improperly and the occurrence of P. verrucosum in South European countries. This was the only species able to produce these mycotoxins."}
{"id": "18538431", "title": "High genetic variability in non-aflatoxigenic A. flavus strains by using Quadruplex PCR-based assay.", "content": "High genetic variability in non-aflatoxigenic A. flavus strains by using Quadruplex PCR-based assay. Aflatoxigenic Aspergillus flavus isolates always show, by using a multiplex PCR-system, four DNA fragments specific for aflR, nor-1, ver-1, and omt-A genes. Non-aflatoxigenic A. flavus strains give variable DNA banding pattern lacking one, two, three or four of these genes. Recently, it has been found and reported that some aflatoxin non-producing A. flavus strains show a complete set of genes. Because less is known about the incidence of structural genes aflR, nor-1, ver-1 and omt-A in aflatoxin non-producing strains of A. flavus, we decided to study the frequencies of the aflatoxin structural genes in non-aflatoxigenic A. flavus strains isolated from food and feed commodities. The results can be summarized as following: 36.5% of the examined non-aflatoxigenic A. flavus strains showed DNA fragments that correspond to the complete set of genes (quadruplet pattern) as found in aflatoxigenic A. flavus. Forty three strains (32%) showed three DNA banding patterns grouped in four profiles where nor-1, ver-1 and omt-A was the most frequent profile. Twenty five (18.7%) of non-aflatoxigenic A. flavus strains yielded two DNA banding pattern whereas sixteen (12%) of the strains showed one DNA banding pattern. In one strain, isolated from poultry feed, no DNA bands were found. The nor-1 gene was the most representative between the four aflatoxin structural assayed genes. Lower incidence was found for aflR gene. Our data show a high level of genetic variability among non-aflatoxigenic A. flavus isolates that require greater attention in order to design molecular experiment to distinguish true aflatoxigenic from non-aflatoxigenic A. flavus strains."}
{"id": "18521930", "title": "Bronchogenic carcinoma and secondary aspergillosis--common yet unexplored: evaluation of the role of bronchoalveolar lavage-polymerase chain reaction and some nonvalidated serologic methods to establish early diagnosis.", "content": "Bronchogenic carcinoma and secondary aspergillosis--common yet unexplored: evaluation of the role of bronchoalveolar lavage-polymerase chain reaction and some nonvalidated serologic methods to establish early diagnosis. More cases of bronchogenic carcinoma have been reported in recent years, and these patients are more prone to secondary aspergillosis. However, the frequency of secondary aspergillosis in bronchogenic carcinoma still has not been defined clearly in the literature. The current study population was comprised of 69 patients with bronchogenic carcinoma and 16 healthy controls. Histopathologic examination was done to identify carcinoma cell types and to categorize aspergillosis types. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluids were collected for direct fungal examination, culture, Aspergillus polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and galactomannan (GM) detection using a 1-stage immunoenzymatic sandwich microplate assay; and blood samples were collected for fungal serology by double immunodiffusion (DID), enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), and dot blot assay (DBA). The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value were analyzed for various nonvalidated tests. Twenty-five patients had follow-up data available for an analysis of clinical and diagnostic outcomes. The cohort included patients with squamous cell carcinoma (n = 47), adenocarcinoma (n = 16), small cell carcinoma (n = 3), large cell carcinoma (n = 2), and undiagnosed type (n = 1), and patients were categorized with definite invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) (n = 6), probable IPA (n = 17), possible IPA (n = 13), and non-IPA (n = 33). Most patients were in the group ages 45 years to <60 years, and there was a preponderance of men (10.5:1). Cultures from 20 of 69 patients (29%) revealed the growth of Aspergillus species. Anti-Aspergillus antibodies were detected in 26 of 69 patients (37.7%) each by DID and DBA, whereas antibodies were detected in 28 of 69 patients (40.6%) by ELISA. GM was detected in BAL fluids from 25 of 69 patients (36.2%), whereas Aspergillus DNA was detected in 32 of 69 patients (46.4%) by PCR. The sensitivity of PCR and serologic tests (ELISA, DID, and DBA) was 100% for definite IPA, whereas the sensitivity of PCR was comparatively higher than that of serologic tests for probable IPA, possible IPA, and non-IPA. The current study indicated that there frequently is an association between bronchogenic carcinoma and secondary aspergillosis, and definite IPA and probable IPA are common clinical problems in patients with nonsmall cell lung cancer."}
{"id": "18520326", "title": "High prevalence of fastidious bacteria in 1520 cases of uveitis of unknown etiology.", "content": "High prevalence of fastidious bacteria in 1520 cases of uveitis of unknown etiology. The etiologic evaluation of uveitis is frequently unsuccessful when noninvasive methods are used. We conducted a prospective study to evaluate systematic screening for pathogens of uveitis. All patients with uveitis referred to the participating tertiary ophthalmology departments from January 2001 to September 2007 underwent intraocular and serum specimen collection. The standardized protocol for laboratory investigations included universal polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based detection of any bacteria and mycoses, specific PCR-based detection of fastidious (difficult-to-grow) bacteria and herpes viruses, and culture of vitreous fluid. Sera were tested for fastidious bacteria. Among the 1321 included patients (1520 specimens), infection was diagnosed in 147 (11.1%) patients: 78 (53%) were caused by fastidious bacteria that included spirochetes, Bartonella species, intracellular bacteria (Chlamydia species, Rickettsia species, Coxiella burnetii), and Tropheryma whipplei; 18 by herpes viruses; and 9 by fungi. Bartonella quintana, Coxiella burnetii, Paracoccus yeei, Aspergillus oryzae, and Cryptococcus albidus were found to be associated with uveitis for the first time, to our knowledge. We recommend applying a 1-step diagnostic procedure that incorporates intraocular, specific microbial PCR with serum analyses in tertiary centers to determine the etiology of uveitis."}
{"id": "18512442", "title": "Effect of gaseous chlorine dioxide on indoor microbial contaminants.", "content": "Effect of gaseous chlorine dioxide on indoor microbial contaminants. Traditional and modern techniques for bioaerosol enumeration were used to evaluate the relative efficiency of gaseous chlorine dioxide (ClO2) in reducing the indoor microbial contamination under field and laboratory conditions. The field study was performed in a highly microbially contaminated house, which had had an undetected roof leak for an extended period of time and exhibited large areas of visible microbial growth. Air concentrations of culturable fungi and bacteria, total fungi determined by microscopic count and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays, endotoxin, and (1 --> 3)-beta-D-glucan were determined before and after the house was tented and treated with ClO2. The laboratory study was designed to evaluate the efficiency of ClO2 treatment against known concentrations of spores of Aspergillus versicolor and Stachybotrys chartarum on filter paper (surrogate for surface treatment). These species are commonly found in damp indoor environments and were detected in the field study. Upon analysis of the environmental data from the treated house, it was found that the culturable bacteria and fungi as well as total count of fungi (as determined by microscopic count and PCR) were decreased at least 85% after the ClO2 application. However, microscopic analyses of tape samples collected from surfaces after treatment showed that the fungal structures were still present on surfaces. There was no statistically significant change in airborne endotoxin and (1 --> 3)-beta-D-glucan concentration in the field study. The laboratory study supported these results and showed a nonsignificant increase in the concentration of (1 --> 3)-beta-D-glucan after ClO2 treatment."}
{"id": "18510764", "title": "Development and optimization of quantitative PCR for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis with bronchoalveolar lavage fluid.", "content": "Development and optimization of quantitative PCR for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis with bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. The diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) remains challenging. Culture and histopathological examination of bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid are useful but have suboptimal sensitivity and in the case of culture may require several days for fungal growth to be evident. Detection of Aspergillus DNA in BAL fluid by quantitative PCR (qPCR) offers the potential for earlier diagnosis and higher sensitivity. It is important to adopt quality control measures in PCR assays to address false positives and negatives which can hinder accurate evaluation of diagnostic performance. BAL fluid from 94 episodes of pneumonia in 81 patients was analyzed. Thirteen episodes were categorized as proven or probable IPA using Mycoses Study Group criteria. The pellet and the supernatant fractions of the BAL were separately assayed. A successful extraction was confirmed with a human 18S rRNA gene qPCR. Inhibition in each qPCR was measured using an exogenous DNA based internal amplification control (IAC). The presence of DNA from pathogens in the Aspergillus genus was detected using qPCR targeting fungal 18S rRNA gene. Human 18S rRNA gene qPCR confirmed successful DNA extraction of all samples. IAC detected some degree of initial inhibition in 11 samples. When culture was used to diagnose IPA, the sensitivity and specificity were 84.5% and 100% respectively. Receiver-operating characteristic analysis of qPCR showed that a cutoff of 13 fg of Aspergillus genomic DNA generated a sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive value of 77%, 88%, 50%, 96% respectively. BAL pellet and supernatant analyzed together resulted in sensitivity and specificity similar to BAL pellet alone. Some patients did not meet standard criteria for IPA, but had consistently high levels of Aspergillus DNA in BAL fluid by qPCR. The Aspergillus qPCR assay detected Aspergillus DNA in 76.9% of subjects with proven or probable IPA when the concentrated BAL fluid pellet fraction was used for diagnosis. There was no benefit from analyzing the BAL supernatant fraction. Use of both extraction and amplification controls provided optimal quality control for interpreting qPCR results and therefore may increase our understanding of the true potential of qPCR for the diagnosis of IPA."}
{"id": "18510557", "title": "Stress induction of mycotoxin biosynthesis genes by abiotic factors.", "content": "Stress induction of mycotoxin biosynthesis genes by abiotic factors. Systematic expression analysis of mycotoxin biosynthesis genes by real-time PCR and microarray was carried out to examine the relationship between growth and general expression patterns in relation to single environmental factors such as temperature, water activity (a(w)) and pH and water activity x temperature interactions. For single parameters, one major peak of expression occurred close to optimum growth conditions. However, a second minor peak was observed under suboptimal growth conditions, when intermediate environmental stress was imposed on Aspergillus parasiticus (afl genes), Penicillium verrucosum (ota genes) and Fusarium culmorum (tri genes). This expression profile pattern was more pronounced in relation to changes in temperature and a(w) than to pH. In a two-factorial experimental design with temperature xa(w) regimes, again two peaks of expression were observed for cluster genes after microarray analysis, one close to those giving optimal growth and one under imposed stress conditions. Interestingly, when the activity of single genes of the microarray data were plotted in relation to the two parameters, again a two-peak expression profile became obvious independently for both parameters. Expression of the mycotoxin biosynthesis genes was followed exactly by phenotypic mycotoxin production. This expression profile appears to be generic across the mycotoxigenic fungi examined."}
{"id": "18500936", "title": "Caspofungin-mediated beta-glucan unmasking and enhancement of human polymorphonuclear neutrophil activity against Aspergillus and non-Aspergillus hyphae.", "content": "Caspofungin-mediated beta-glucan unmasking and enhancement of human polymorphonuclear neutrophil activity against Aspergillus and non-Aspergillus hyphae. We investigated whether caspofungin and other echinocandins have immune-enhancing properties that influence human polymorphonuclear neutrophil (PMN)-mediated mold hyphal damage. Using aniline blue staining, we compared patterns of beta-glucan exposure in Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus terreus, Rhizopus oryzae, Fusarium solani, Fusarium oxysporum, Scedosporium prolificans, and Scedosporium apiospermum hyphae after caspofungin exposure. We also determined PMN-mediated hyphal damage occurring with or without preexposure to caspofungin or with preexposure to the combination of caspofungin and anti-beta-glucan monoclonal antibody, using 2,3-bis (2-methoxy-4-nitro-5-sulfophenyl)-5-[(phenylamino) carbonyl]-sH-tetrazolium hydroxide (XTT) assay. Preincubation with caspofungin (32 microg/mL for R. oryzae; 0.0625 microg/mL for other isolates) increased exposure to beta-glucan. PMN-induced damage increased after caspofungin exposure and was further augmented by the addition of anti-beta-glucan antibody. Preincubation with micafungin or anidulafungin had similar effects on PMN-induced damage of A. fumigatus hyphae. Finally, preexposure of A. fumigatus, but not S. prolificans, to caspofungin induced expression of Dectin-1 by PMN. The results of the present study suggest inducement of beta-glucan unmasking by echinocandins and enhancement of PMN activity against mold hyphae, thereby supporting the immunopharmacologic mode of action of echinocandins."}
{"id": "18498318", "title": "Characterization of Aspergillus flavus strains from Brazilian Brazil nuts and cashew by RAPD and ribosomal DNA analysis.", "content": "Characterization of Aspergillus flavus strains from Brazilian Brazil nuts and cashew by RAPD and ribosomal DNA analysis. The aim of this study was to determine the genetic variability in Aspergillus flavus populations from Brazil nut and cashew and develop a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) detection method. Chomatography analysis of 48 isolates identified 36 as aflatoxigenic (75%). One hundred and forty-one DNA bands were generated with 11 random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) primers and analysed via unweighted pair group analysis, using arithmetic means (UPGMA). Isolates grouped according to host, with differentiation of those from A. occidentale also according to geographical origin. Aspergillus flavus-specific PCR primers ASPITSF2 and ASPITSR3 were designed from ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacers (ITS 1 and 2), and an internal amplification control was developed, to prevent false negative results. Specificity to only A. flavus was confirmed against DNA from additional aspergilli and other fungi. RAPD-based characterization differentiated isolates according to plant host. The PCR primer pair developed showed specificity to A. flavus, with a detection limit of 10 fg. Genetic variability observed in A. flavus isolates from two Brazilian agroecosystems suggested reproductive isolation. The PCR detection method developed for A. flavus represents progress towards multiplex PCR detection of aflatoxigenic and nonaflatoxigenic strains in Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point systems."}
{"id": "18495860", "title": "Practical method for detection and identification of Candida, Aspergillus, and Scedosporium spp. by use of rolling-circle amplification.", "content": "Practical method for detection and identification of Candida, Aspergillus, and Scedosporium spp. by use of rolling-circle amplification. A sensitive rolling-circle amplification (RCA)-based method utilizing species-specific padlock probes targeted to the internal transcribed spacer 2 region of the fungal ribosomal DNA gene complex was developed. The assay was rapid (2 hours) and specific. Of 28 fungal isolates (16 of Candida, six of Aspergillus, and six of Scedosporium spp.), all were all identified correctly."}
{"id": "18486503", "title": "Involvement of the nadA gene in formation of G-group aflatoxins in Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Involvement of the nadA gene in formation of G-group aflatoxins in Aspergillus parasiticus. The nadA gene is present at the end of the aflatoxin gene cluster in the genome of Aspergillus parasiticus as well as in Aspergillus flavus. RT-PCR analyses showed that the nadA gene was expressed in an aflatoxin-inducible YES medium, but not in an aflatoxin-non-inducible YEP medium. The nadA gene was not expressed in the aflR gene-deletion mutant, irrespective of the culture medium used. To clarify the nadA gene's function, we disrupted the gene in aflatoxigenic A. parasiticus. The four nadA-deletion mutants that were isolated commonly accumulated a novel yellow-fluorescent pigment (named NADA) in mycelia as well as in culture medium. When the mutants and the wild-type strain were cultured for 3 days in YES medium, the mutants each produced about 50% of the amounts of G-group aflatoxins that the wild-type strain produced. In contrast, the amounts of B-group aflatoxins did not significantly differ between the mutants and the wild-type strain. The NADA pigment was so unstable that it could non-enzymatically change to aflatoxin G(1) (AFG(1)). LC-MS measurement showed that the molecular mass of NADA was 360, which is 32 higher than that of AFG(1). We previously reported that at least one cytosol enzyme, together with two other microsome enzymes, is necessary for the formation of AFG(1) from O-methylsterigmatocystin (OMST) in the cell-free system of A. parasiticus. The present study confirmed that the cytosol fraction of the wild-type A.parasiticus strain significantly enhanced the AFG(1) formation from OMST, whereas the cytosol fraction of the nadA-deletion mutant did not show the same activity. Furthermore, the cytosol fraction of the wild-type strain showed the enzyme activity catalyzing the reaction from NADA to AFG(1), which required NADPH or NADH, indicating that NADA is a precursor of AFG(1); in contrast, the cytosol fraction of the nadA-deletion mutant did not show the same enzyme activity. These results demonstrated that the NadA protein is the cytosol enzyme required for G-aflatoxin biosynthesis from OMST, and that it catalyzes the reaction from NADA to AFG(1), the last step in G-aflatoxin biosynthesis."}
{"id": "18484303", "title": "Highly sensitive PCR-based detection method specific for Aspergillus flavus in wheat flour.", "content": "Highly sensitive PCR-based detection method specific for Aspergillus flavus in wheat flour. Aspergillus flavus is frequently found in food, producing a wide variety of toxins, aflatoxins being the most relevant in food safety. A specific PCR-based protocol for this species is described which allowed discrimination from other closely related species having different profiles of secondary metabolites from the Aspergillus Section Flavi, particularly A. parasiticus. The specific primers were designed on the multi-copy internal transcribed region of the rDNA unit (ITS1-5.8S-ITS2 rDNA) and were tested in a wide sample of related species and other fungal species commonly found in food. The PCR assay was coupled with a fungal enrichment and a DNA extraction method for wheat flour to enhance the sensitivity of the diagnostic protocol. The results indicated that the critical PCR amplification product was clearly observed for wheat flour contaminated by 10(2) spores after 16 h of incubation."}
{"id": "18480229", "title": "Real-time PCR method for detection of zygomycetes.", "content": "Real-time PCR method for detection of zygomycetes. Zygomycete infections can be devastating in immunocompromised hosts. Difficulties in the histopathologic differentiation of this class from other filamentous fungi (e.g., Aspergillus spp., Fusarium spp.) may lead to delays in diagnosis and initiation of appropriate treatment, thereby significantly affecting patient outcome. A real-time PCR assay was developed to detect species of the zygomycete genera Absidia, Apophysomyces, Cunninghamella, Mucor, Rhizopus, and Saksenaea in culture and tissue samples. Primers and fluorescence resonance energy transfer hybridization probes were designed to detect a 167-bp conserved region of the multicopy zygomycete cytochrome b gene. A plasmid containing target sequence from Mucor racemosus was constructed as a positive control. The analytical sensitivity of the assay is 10 targets/mul, and a specificity panel consisting of other filamentous fungi, yeasts (Candida spp.), and bacteria demonstrated no cross-reactivity in the assay. The clinical sensitivity and specificity of the assay from culture isolates were 100% (39/39) and 92% (59/64), respectively. Sensitivity and specificity determined using a limited number of fresh tissue specimens were both 100% (2/2). The sensitivity seen with formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded tissues was 56% (35/62), and the specificity was 100% (19/19). The speed, sensitivity, and specificity of the PCR assay indicate that it is useful for the rapid and accurate detection of zygomycetes."}
{"id": "18474582", "title": "Assessment of Aspergillus fumigatus burden in pulmonary tissue of guinea pigs by quantitative PCR, galactomannan enzyme immunoassay, and quantitative culture.", "content": "Assessment of Aspergillus fumigatus burden in pulmonary tissue of guinea pigs by quantitative PCR, galactomannan enzyme immunoassay, and quantitative culture. Early diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis is problematic in some patient groups due to the lack of rapid, sensitive, specific, and reliable diagnostic tests. Fungal burden and therapeutic efficacy were assessed by survival, quantitative culture (CFU counts), galactomannan enzyme immunoassay (GM-EIA), and quantitative PCR (qPCR) in a new guinea pig model of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis using an aerosol challenge. At 1 day postinfection, qPCR determined that the pulmonary fungal burden was 2 log(10) higher than that determined by CFU counting and increased significantly (P < 0.03) over time. In contrast, the tissue burden assessed by CFU counting did not rise over the course of the study. Therapy with the antifungal drug voriconazole produced statistically significant decreases in pulmonary fungal burden, as detected by CFU counting (P < 0.02), qPCR, and GM-EIA (both P < 0.0002). Daily assessment of the progression of fungal infection in serum was performed by qPCR and GM-EIA. GM-EIA demonstrated a statistically significant reduction in the fungal load on days 6 and 7 in voriconazole-treated animals compared to time-matched controls (P < 0.02). Confirmation of fungal tissue burden by two or more methods should provide a more precise account of the burden, allowing improved assessment of diagnostic and therapeutic strategies in invasive pulmonary aspergillosis."}
{"id": "18468512", "title": "A novel defensin from the lentil Lens culinaris seeds.", "content": "A novel defensin from the lentil Lens culinaris seeds. A novel 47-residue plant defensin was purified from germinated seeds of the lentil Lens culinaris by ammonium sulfate precipitation, gel filtration, chromatography, and RP-HPLC. The molecular mass (5440.41Da) and complete amino acid sequence (KTCENLSDSFKGPCIPDGNCNKHCKEKEHLLSGRCRDDFRCWCTRNC) of defensin, termed Lc-def, were determined. Lc-def has eight cysteines forming four disulfide bonds. The total RNA was isolated from lentil germinated seeds, RT-PCR and subsequent cloning were performed, and cDNA was sequenced. A 74-residue predefensin contains a putative signal peptide (27 amino acid) and a mature protein. Lc-def shows high sequence homology with legumes defensins, exhibits an activity against Aspergillus niger, but does not inhibit proteolytic enzymes."}
{"id": "18455823", "title": "Characteristic fungi observed in the fermentation process for Puer tea.", "content": "Characteristic fungi observed in the fermentation process for Puer tea. The fermentation process for Puer tea, a unique Chinese tea produced by microbial activities, was investigated by physicochemical and microbial analyses. The temperature of a windrow-shaped pile of tea leaves increased instantly at the beginning of fermentation and stayed at around 50 degrees C until day 35, then decreased gradually to room temperature at the end of fermentation, at day 50. Water content was approximately 30% or less, and pH value was maintained at a weakly acidic level of 5 to 6 throughout the fermentation, conditions that are favorable for propagation of fungi including yeasts. Polyphenol, the characteristic component of tea leaves, decreased continually from day 10 to day 50 of fermentation, corresponding well with the fact that the total concentration of fungi steadily increased during the same period. PCR followed by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis revealed that there were at least two major fungi: Aspergillus niger, which has been well known among Puer tea manufacturers, and Blastobotrys adeninivorans, which is newly recognized in the present study. Furthermore, both of these fungi were observed in the DGGE fingerprint when other commercial Puer tea products were analyzed. These results prompted us to deduce that both A. niger and B. adeninivorans play important roles in the nutritional enhancement of tea leaves during Puer tea fermentation."}
{"id": "18449403", "title": "Quantitative PCR analysis of fungi and bacteria in building materials and comparison to culture-based analysis.", "content": "Quantitative PCR analysis of fungi and bacteria in building materials and comparison to culture-based analysis. Prolonged moisture on building materials can lead to microbial growth on them. Microbes can emit spores, metabolites and structural parts into the indoor air and thus, cause adverse health effects of people living and working in these buildings. So far, culture methods have been used for assessment of microbial contamination of building materials. In this work, we used quantitative PCR (qPCR) for the detection of selected fungal and bacterial groups in 184 building materials of different types and compared the results with culture-based analysis. Nine either commonly found species, genera or groups of fungi, or those considered as moisture damage indicators, and one bacterial genus, Streptomyces, were determined using qPCR. Fungi and mesophilic actinomycetes were also cultivated using standard media and conditions of the routine analysis. The bacterial genus Streptomyces and the fungal group Penicillium/Aspergillus/Paecilomyces were the most prevalent microbial groups in all building material types, followed by Stachybotrys chartarum and Trichoderma viride/atroviride/koningii. The highest prevalences, concentrations and species diversity was observed on wooden materials. In general, the results of the two methods did not correlate well, since concentrations of fungi and streptomycetes were higher and their occurrence more prevalent when determined by qPCR compared to culture-based results. However, with increasing concentrations, the correlation generally increased. The qPCR assay did not detect Aspergillus versicolor and Acremonium strictum as often as culture."}
{"id": "18449222", "title": "Aspergillus flavus aflatoxin occurrence and expression of aflatoxin biosynthesis genes in soil.", "content": "Aspergillus flavus aflatoxin occurrence and expression of aflatoxin biosynthesis genes in soil. The carcinogen aflatoxin B1 (AFB1) produced by Aspergillus flavus is a major food safety concern in crops. However, information on AFB1 occurrence in soil and crop residue is scarce. A series of experiments investigated the occurrence of AFB1 in soil and corn residues and ascertained the ecology of A. flavus in a Dundee silt loam soil. Samples of untilled soil (0-2 cm) and residues were collected in March 2007 from plots previously planted with a corn isoline containing the Bacillus thuringiensis (Bt) endotoxin gene or the parental non-Bt isoline. AFB1 levels were significantly different in various corn residues. The highest AFB1 levels were observed in cobs containing grain, with 145 and 275 ng.g-1 in Bt and non-Bt, respectively (P > or = F = 0.001). Aflatoxin levels averaged 3.3 and 9.6 ng.g-1 in leaves and (or) stalks and cobs without grain, respectively. All soils had AFB1 ranging from 0.6 to 5.5 ng.g-1 with similar levels in plots from Bt and non-Bt corn. Based on cultural methods, soil contained from log10 3.1 to 4.5 A. flavus cfu.g-1 with about 60% of isolates producing aflatoxin. Laboratory experiments demonstrated that AFB1 is rapidly degraded in soil at 28 degrees C (half-life < or = 5 days). The potential of the soil A. flavus to produce aflatoxins was confirmed by molecular methods. Transcription of 5 aflatoxin biosynthesis genes, including aflD, aflG, aflP, aflR, and aflS, were detected by reverse transcription - polymerase chain reaction analysis in soil. Although AFB1 appears to be transient in soils, it is clear that AFB1 is produced in surface soil in the presence of corn residues, as indicated by A. flavus cfu levels, AFB1 detection, and expression of aflatoxin biosynthetic genes."}
{"id": "18436593", "title": "Molecular diagnosis of sepsis in neutropenic patients with haematological malignancies.", "content": "Molecular diagnosis of sepsis in neutropenic patients with haematological malignancies. The rapid diagnosis of an infectious cause in the course of fever of unknown origin plays a pivotal role in the correct management of neutropenic patients. In this study, blood samples from febrile oncohaematological patients were tested using a novel commercial real-time PCR assay (LightCycler SeptiFast; Roche Molecular Systems) and blood culture (BacT/Alert 3D; bioM\u00e9rieux). Twenty-one (20.4 %) and 34 (33 %) of the 103 samples under study tested positive by blood culture and PCR, respectively. The analysis of concordance evidenced a low correlation between the two approaches (83 %), mainly due to samples that tested negative by culture but positive using the molecular approach. Among 14 discordant cases negative by culture but positive by PCR, 12 were observed in sequential samples of patients with initial concordant results on samples drawn before the administration of a specific antimicrobial therapy. Moreover, DNA of a fastidious organism, Aspergillus fumigatus, not easily detectable by the cultural approach was rapidly detected in the two remaining discordant cases. Overall, the characteristics featured by the molecular method could be of interest in the development of new algorithms for the diagnosis of sepsis in critical patients."}
{"id": "18430128", "title": "Contribution of new diagnostic approaches to antifungal treatment plans in high-risk haematology patients.", "content": "Contribution of new diagnostic approaches to antifungal treatment plans in high-risk haematology patients. In high-risk patient cohorts, such as patients after solid-organ or allogeneic stem-cell transplantation, or patients with acute leukaemia, early diagnosis of invasive fungal infections (IFIs) is essential, as delayed or missing diagnosis of IFI results in increasing rates of mortality. However, diagnosis of most IFIs, especially of invasive aspergillosis, is difficult because classic tests have low sensitivity and specificity, and radiology often provides non-specific and transient results. The limited sensitivity and specificity of conventional assays for the detection of IFI and the growing number of immunocompromised patients who are at risk for opportunistic fungal infections have led to the development of new assays. These methods include antigen detection systems, such as ELISAs, and different molecular methods (PCR assays). Serological tests, such as the detection of the carbohydrate galactomannan, are standardised and commercially available. However, they still need to be evaluated in large patient cohorts, especially children. The benefit of antibody detection remains unclear if patients are under immune suppression or are heavily colonised but not infected. A range of different PCR assays (conventional, nested, real-time) have been developed, targeting different gene regions (cytochrome P450, heat-shock proteins, 18S, 5.8S, 28S, internal transcribed spacer), including a variety of amplicon detection methods, such as gel electrophoresis, hybridisation with specific probes, ELISA and restriction fragment length polymorphism. These molecular assays provide high potential in terms of sensitivity and specificity, but vary widely in their feasibility and up to now have not been standardised. Taken together, new non-culture-based diagnostic assays are appropriate as simple and rapid screening tests with high sensitivities and quick turnaround times. Thus, they might help to reduce empirical antifungal therapy and might be valuable tools to allow early initiation and monitoring of pre-emptive antifungal therapy. In this review, we assess the performance of a variety of non-culture-based tests for the detection of IFI in high-risk haematological patients, with emphasis on the impact of the assays on different management strategies."}
{"id": "18429996", "title": "Use of (1-3)-beta-d-glucan concentrations in dust as a surrogate method for estimating specific fungal exposures.", "content": "Use of (1-3)-beta-d-glucan concentrations in dust as a surrogate method for estimating specific fungal exposures. Indoor exposure to fungi has been associated with respiratory symptoms,often attributed to their cell wall component, (1-3)-beta-D-glucan. Performing(1-3)-beta-D-glucan analysis is less time consuming and labor intensive than cultivation or microscopic counting of fungal spores. This has prompted many to use(1-3)-beta-D-glucan as a surrogate for fungal exposure. The aim of this study was to examine which indoor fungal species are major contributors to the (1-3)-beta-D-glucan concentration in field dust samples. We used the quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QPCR) method to analyze 36 indoor fungal species in 297 indoor dust samples. These samples were also simultaneously analyzed for (1-3)-beta-D-glucan concentration using the endpoint chromogenic Limulus Amebocyte lysate assay. Linear regression analysis, followed by factor analysis and structural equation modeling, were utilized in order to identify fungal species that mostly contribute to the (1-3)-beta-D-glucan concentration in field dust samples. The study revealed that Cladosporium and Aspergillus genera, as well as Epicoccum nigrum, Penicillium brevicompactum and Wallemia sebi were the most important contributors to the (1-3)-beta-D-glucan content of these home dust samples. The species that contributed most to the (1-3)-beta-D-glucan concentration were also the most prevalent in indoor environments. However, Alternaria alternata, a common fungal species in indoor dust, did not seem to be a significant source of (1-3)-beta-D-glucan. This study revealed that the (1-3)-beta-D-glucan content of different fungal species varies widely. (1-3)-beta-D-glucan inhouse dust from the Greater Cincinnati area may be a good marker for some fungal species of the Cladosporium and Aspergillus genera. In contrast, Alternaria alternata did not contribute much to the (1-3)-beta-D-glucan load. Therefore, (1-3)-beta-D-glucan concentration in field samples as a surrogate for total fungal exposure should be used with caution."}
{"id": "18419373", "title": "Effect of building construction on Aspergillus concentrations in a hospital.", "content": "Effect of building construction on Aspergillus concentrations in a hospital. Air samples taken in a hospital undergoing construction and analyzed with a quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) assay for the Aspergillus genus did not show elevated concentrations of Aspergillus or particulate matter with a diameter of 5 microm or less in patient areas. Air samples from the construction zone indicated the containment system, which used polyethylene film barrier and negative pressure, was effective."}
{"id": "18415839", "title": "Expression of genes in normal human monocytes in response to Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Expression of genes in normal human monocytes in response to Aspergillus fumigatus. The objective of these studies was to investigate genes of importance in the pathogenesis of Aspergillus infections. To do so, we employed microarray methodology to explore gene expression in human monocytes infected with Aspergillus conidia as compared with unstimulated monocytes and those stimulated with lipopolysaccharide (LPS) signaling through TOLL-like receptor 4 (TLR4). We found 997 (P<or=0.05) differentially expressed (DE) genes in monocytes stimulated with conidia from Aspergillus fumigatus and 4976 (P<or=0.05) DE genes in monocytes stimulated with LPS. A total of 454 genes were only regulated by A. fumigatus stimulation. Selected genes were verified with qRT-PCR. Our study revealed significant changes in the expression of a number of genes of potential importance in the interaction between Aspergillus conidia and monocytes, including immune response genes and genes involved in apoptosis and initiation of Th1 response. Several of these changes in gene expression were unique to Aspergillus conidia and were not seen with LPS stimulation. These results do not support a role for TLR4 in the response to conidia. Further studies of genes regulated only by Aspergillus conidia may be of interest in the exploration of the pathogenesis of Aspergillus infections in man."}
{"id": "18401744", "title": "Prokaryotic expression, purification and characterization of Aspergillus sulphureus beta-mannanase and site-directed mutagenesis of the catalytic residues.", "content": "Prokaryotic expression, purification and characterization of Aspergillus sulphureus beta-mannanase and site-directed mutagenesis of the catalytic residues. Wild type (WT) DNA sequence, which encoded a mature beta-mannanase of Aspergillus sulphureus, composed of 1,152 nucleotides (nt), was amplified from pUCm-T-mann by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Based on this DNA fragment, mutants designated as E(206)G and E(314)G were constructed by overextension PCR (OE-PCR). Glutamic acids of the 206th and 314th sites in the amino acid sequence of beta-mannanase were separately replaced by glycine in these two mutants. The WT and mutant genes were ligated into prokaryotic vector pET-28a (+) and transformed into the Escherichia coli BL21 strain, respectively. The recombinant enzyme proteins were expressed by IPTG induction and detected by Western blot. The recombinant proteins purified with Ni-NTA column were dialyzed to correctly refold. The WT recombinant beta-mannanase showed optimal activity at 50 degrees C and pH 2.4. The kinetic parameters of K (m) and V (max) for purified beta-mannanase were 1.38 mg/ml and 72.99 U/mg, respectively. However, the mutant proteins did not show any activity. It was demonstrated that E(206) and E(314) were the catalytic residues of beta-mannanase."}
{"id": "18385440", "title": "Evaluation of novel broad-range real-time PCR assay for rapid detection of human pathogenic fungi in various clinical specimens.", "content": "Evaluation of novel broad-range real-time PCR assay for rapid detection of human pathogenic fungi in various clinical specimens. In the present study, a novel broad-range real-time PCR was developed for the rapid detection of human pathogenic fungi. The assay targets a part of the 28S large-subunit ribosomal RNA (rDNA) gene. We investigated its application for the most important human pathogenic fungal genera, including Aspergillus, Candida, Cryptococcus, Mucor, Penicillium, Pichia, Microsporum, Trichophyton, and Scopulariopsis. Species were identified in PCR-positive reactions by direct DNA sequencing. A noncompetitive internal control was applied to prevent false-negative results due to PCR inhibition. The minimum detection limit for the PCR was determined to be one 28S rDNA copy per PCR, and the 95% detection limit was calculated to 15 copies per PCR. To assess the clinical applicability of the PCR method, intensive-care patients with artificial respiration and patients with infective endocarditis were investigated. For this purpose, 76 tracheal secretion samples and 70 heart valve tissues were analyzed in parallel by real-time PCR and cultivation. No discrepancies in results were observed between PCR analysis and cultivation methods. Furthermore, the application of the PCR method was investigated for other clinical specimens, including cervical swabs, nail and horny skin scrapings, and serum, blood, and urine samples. The combination of a broad-range real-time PCR and direct sequencing facilitates rapid screening for fungal infection in various clinical specimens."}
{"id": "18378656", "title": "Aspergillus nidulans natural product biosynthesis is regulated by mpkB, a putative pheromone response mitogen-activated protein kinase.", "content": "Aspergillus nidulans natural product biosynthesis is regulated by mpkB, a putative pheromone response mitogen-activated protein kinase. The Aspergillus nidulans putative mitogen-activated protein kinase encoded by mpkB has a role in natural product biosynthesis. An mpkB mutant exhibited a decrease in sterigmatocystin gene expression and low mycotoxin levels. The mutation also affected the expression of genes involved in penicillin and terrequinone A synthesis. mpkB was necessary for normal expression of laeA, which has been found to regulate secondary metabolism gene clusters."}
{"id": "18367576", "title": "Repetitive-sequence-based PCR using the DiversiLab system for identification of Aspergillus species.", "content": "Repetitive-sequence-based PCR using the DiversiLab system for identification of Aspergillus species. Repetitive-sequence-based PCR (rep-PCR) using the DiversiLab system was investigated for identification of Aspergillus. Ninety-five clinical isolates, identified by conventional methods, and five ATCC strains were tested. Sequencing of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region (ITS1-5.8S-ITS2) was performed on 2 isolates with discrepant rep-PCR and conventional results and 15 randomly selected outlier isolates. One isolate not identified by sequencing was excluded from analysis. After resolving discrepancies, all but one A. glaucus strain had >or=85% similarity to one or more strains of the same Aspergillus species in the mold database, thereby providing accurate identification. No isolate was misidentified."}
{"id": "18364120", "title": "Triggering of toll-like receptors 2 and 4 by Aspergillus fumigatus conidia in immortalized human corneal epithelial cells to induce inflammatory cytokines.", "content": "Triggering of toll-like receptors 2 and 4 by Aspergillus fumigatus conidia in immortalized human corneal epithelial cells to induce inflammatory cytokines. Cornea epithelial cells play early and crucial roles in the initiation of ocular surface responses to pathogens. Participation of toll-like receptor (TLR) 2 and TLR4, which are major forms of fungi receptors, may be involved in Aspergillus fumigatus induced immune responses. The objective of the present study was to examine whether inactive Aspergillus fumigatus conidia induce NF-kappaB activation and production of proinflammatory cytokines, and whether the expression of TLR2 and TLR4 were amplified by conidia in cultured immortalized human corneal epithelial cells (THCEs). This may contribute to our knowledge of the mechanism by which the host cornea can successfully defend against invasive fungi. Aspergillus fumigatus conidia were used to challenge THCE cells. THCE cells were harvested after 0.5, 1, 2 or 4 hours incubation. Real-time quantitative PCR was performed to determine the expression of TLR2, TLR4, TNF-alpha and IL-8. Western blotting was performed to determine the expression of NF-kappaB. Enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) was performed to determine the expression of TNF-alpha and IL-8. And the release of TNF-alpha and IL-8 in the cell supernatant were also assessed by ELISA with or without pretreatment with TLR2 and TLR4 neutralizing antibodies. Aspergillus fumigatus conidia elicited the expression of TLR2, TLR4, TNF-alpha and IL-8 mRNA in THCEs. Exposure of THCE cells to Aspergillus fumigatus conidia resulted in NF-kappaB activation, which increased at 30 minutes (increased from 11.35+/-2.74 in the controls to 19.12+/-3.48, P<0.05) and thereafter increased steadily up to 4 hours after challenge (P<0.01). Concomitant with NF-kappaB activation, secretion of TNF-alpha and IL-8 in conidia-challenged cells was increased in a time-dependent manner. Incubation of THCE cells with TLR2 antibody or TLR4 antibody before conidia challenge resulted in inhibition of conidia-induced TNF-alpha and IL-8 secretion (P<0.05), TLR2 antibody and TLR4 antibody together significantly increased inhibition of the conidia-induced secretion of TNF-alpha and IL-8 from THCE cells (P<0.01). Aspergillus fumigatus conidia stimulates THCEs inflammatory response through a pathway dependent on TLR2 and TLR4 signaling."}
{"id": "18355911", "title": "Surfactant protein D alters allergic lung responses in mice and human subjects.", "content": "Surfactant protein D alters allergic lung responses in mice and human subjects. Surfactant protein (SP) D has been proposed to be protective in allergic airway responses. We aimed to determine the effect of SP-D deficiency on murine and human airway allergy. Immunologic responses of SP-D gene-deficient mice (Sftpd-/-) at baseline and after 4 intranasal Aspergillus fumigatus exposures were assessed. In addition, the significance of a single nucleotide polymorphism (Met(11)Thr) in the human SP-D gene (known to decrease SP-D function) was investigated. Macrophage and neutrophil bronchoalveolar lavage fluid levels and large airway mucus production were increased in naive Sftpd-/- mice in association with increased lung CCL17 levels and CD4+ T cell numbers. T(H)2-associated antibody levels (IgG1 and IgE) were significantly lower in 4- to 5-week-old Sftpd-/- mice (P < .05). Accordingly, naive Sftpd-/- splenocytes released significantly less IL-4 and IL-13 on anti-CD3/CD28 stimulation (P < .01). After intranasal allergen exposures, a modest decrease in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid eosinophilia and IL-13 levels was observed in Sftpd-/- mice compared with values seen in wild-type mice in association with decreased airway resistance (P < .01). A single nucleotide polymorphism in the SFTPD gene, affecting SP-D levels and pathogen binding, was associated with decreased atopy in black subjects and potentially lower asthma susceptibility in white subjects. Sftpd-/- mice have an impaired systemic T(H)2 response at baseline and reduced inflammation and airway responses after allergen exposure. Translational studies revealed that a polymorphism in the SFTPD gene was associated with lower atopy and possibly asthma susceptibility. Taken together, these results support the hypothesis that SP-D-dependent innate immunity influences atopy and asthma."}
{"id": "18353931", "title": "Automated and manual methods of DNA extraction for Aspergillus fumigatus and Rhizopus oryzae analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR.", "content": "Automated and manual methods of DNA extraction for Aspergillus fumigatus and Rhizopus oryzae analyzed by quantitative real-time PCR. Quantitative real-time PCR (qPCR) may improve the detection of fungal pathogens. Extraction of DNA from fungal pathogens is fundamental to optimization of qPCR; however, the loss of fungal DNA during the extraction process is a major limitation to molecular diagnostic tools for pathogenic fungi. We therefore studied representative automated and manual extraction methods for Aspergillus fumigatus and Rhizopus oryzae. Both were analyzed by qPCR for their ability to extract DNA from propagules and germinated hyphal elements (GHE). The limit of detection of A. fumigatus and R. oryzae GHE in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid with either extraction method was 1 GHE/ml. Both methods efficiently extracted DNA from A. fumigatus, with a limit of detection of 1 x 10(2) conidia. Extraction of R. oryzae by the manual method resulted in a limit of detection of 1 x 10(3) sporangiospores. However, extraction with the automated method resulted in a limit of detection of 1 x 10(1) sporangiospores. The amount of time to process 24 samples by the automated method was 2.5 h prior to transferring for automation, 1.3 h of automation, and 10 min postautomation, resulting in a total time of 4 h. The total time required for the manual method was 5.25 h. The automated and manual methods were similar in sensitivity for DNA extraction from A. fumigatus conidia and GHE. For R. oryzae, the automated method was more sensitive for DNA extraction of sporangiospores, while the manual method was more sensitive for GHE in BAL fluid."}
{"id": "18331444", "title": "Assessment of the lightcycler PCR assay for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in paediatric patients with onco-haematological diseases.", "content": "Assessment of the lightcycler PCR assay for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in paediatric patients with onco-haematological diseases. A reliable diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) is hampered by the difficulty in obtaining suitable tissue samples. To evaluate the sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value (PPV) and negative predictive value (NPV) of the LightCycler PCR for the diagnosis of IA, 536 blood samples were collected over a 22-month period from 62 paediatric patients (median age 10 years, range 1-18) considered at risk of IA. The galactomannan antigen (GM) and fungal DNA were assessed on serial blood samples. IA was diagnosed in eight of 62 patients (13%): proven, five, probable, three. Sensitivity, specificity, PPV and NPV of LightCycler PCR varied according to the number of positive samples used to define positivity: 88%; 37%; 17% and 95% for single sample positivity; and 63%, 81%, 33% and 94% for serial sample positivity respectively. The concordance between positivity of LightCycler PCR assay and the diagnosis of IA was 79%. The single positivity of LightCycler PCR assay showed a good sensitivity for the diagnosis of IA in paediatric patients. The high NPV makes LightCycler PCR a promising tool in addition to GM testing to design a strategy of pre-emptive antifungal therapy, although further validation studies are needed."}
{"id": "18317823", "title": "Quick and reliable galactomannan detection in crude minced lung specimens from haematological patients with suspected invasive fungal infection: results from a case series.", "content": "Quick and reliable galactomannan detection in crude minced lung specimens from haematological patients with suspected invasive fungal infection: results from a case series. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is the leading direct or contributory cause of death in patients with haematological malignancies. Early diagnosis remains difficult and often elusive due the heterogeneity of clinical presentations and the low sensitivity of both histological examination and cultures of specimens obtained from patients at risk. We report two cases of IA, both of which lacked both histological and cultural evidence of IA from pulmonary specimens. In both patients, detection of galactomannan (GM) by enzyme immunoassay (EIA) on pulmonary tissue homogenates led to the diagnosis of IA, which was confirmed by Aspergillus DNA (real time PCR). In conclusion, we provide preliminary evidence that lung homogenates may be prepared for GM EIA assays, which may contribute to quick diagnosis of IA on otherwise negative samples. We feel that our results open up the opportunity of a prospective and comparative evaluation of this diagnostic technique."}
{"id": "18310042", "title": "Tetracycline alters drug susceptibility in Candida albicans and other pathogenic fungi.", "content": "Tetracycline alters drug susceptibility in Candida albicans and other pathogenic fungi. The tetracycline (TET) promoter has been used in several systems as an inducible regulator of gene expression. In control analyses, the standard Candida albicans laboratory strain SC5314 was found to have altered susceptibility to a variety of antifungal drugs in the presence of relatively high concentrations (50-200 microg ml(-1)) of TET. Altered susceptibility was most notable with exposure to amphotericin B (AMB), with a 32-fold increase in susceptibility, and terbinafine (TRB), with a 32-fold decrease in susceptibility. The TET/AMB synergy was observed in several clinical isolates of C. albicans and in the distantly related species Aspergillus fumigatus and Cryptococcus neoformans. The TET/AMB synergy is not related to efflux pump activity, as determined by FACS analyses and by analysis of a strain containing efflux pump deletions. Gene expression analyses by luciferase and by quantitative real-time reverse transcriptase PCR failed to identify significant alterations in expression of any genes associated with resistance. C. albicans grown with TET for 48 h does show a reduction in total cellular ergosterol. Analysis of growth curves suggests that the TET effect is associated with lack of a diauxic shift, which is related to a loss of mitochondrial function. MitoTracker fluorescent dye was used to demonstrate that TET has a direct effect on mitochondrial function. These results demonstrate the need for careful analysis of TET effects when using a TET-inducible promoter, especially in studies that involve antifungal drugs. This study defines some limits to the use of the TET-inducible promoter, and identifies effects on cells that are the result of TET exposure alone, not the result of expression of a targeted gene."}
{"id": "18298443", "title": "Functional characterization of the Aspergillus fumigatus CRZ1 homologue, CrzA.", "content": "Functional characterization of the Aspergillus fumigatus CRZ1 homologue, CrzA. The protein phosphatase calcineurin is an important mediator connecting calcium-dependent signalling to various cellular responses in multiple organisms. In fungi calcineurin acts largely through regulating Crz1p-like transcription factors. Here we characterize an Aspergillus fumigatus CRZ1 homologue, CrzA and demonstrate its mediation of cellular tolerance to increased concentrations of calcium and manganese. In addition to acute sensitivity to these ions, and decreased conidiation, the crzA null mutant suffers altered expression of calcium transporter mRNAs under high concentrations of calcium, and loss of virulence when compared with the corresponding complemented and wild-type strains. We use multiple expression analyses to probe the transcriptional basis of A. fumigatus calcium tolerance identifying several genes having calA and/or crzA dependent mRNA accumulation patterns. We also demonstrate that contrary to previous findings, the gene encoding the Aspergillus nidulans calcineurin subunit homologue, cnaA, is not essential and that the cnaA deletion mutant shares the morphological phenotypes observed in the corresponding A. fumigatus mutant, DeltacalA. Exploiting the A. nidulans model system, we have linked calcineurin activity with asexual developmental induction, finding that CrzA supports appropriate developmental induction in a calcineurin and brlA-dependent manner in both species."}
{"id": "18293184", "title": "Newer emerging pathogens of ocular non-sporulating molds (NSM) identified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based DNA sequencing technique targeting internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region.", "content": "Newer emerging pathogens of ocular non-sporulating molds (NSM) identified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based DNA sequencing technique targeting internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region. To apply Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)-based DNA sequencing targeting Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS) region for identification of non-sporulating molds (NSM) to species level which formed 12% of ocular isolates of fungi in a tertiary eye hospital in South India. Fifty ocular filamentous fungal NSM isolates recovered from 45 patients were included in the study. PCR-based DNA sequencing technique targeting ITS region was applied to identify NSM. PCR-based DNA sequencing revealed 23 established pathogens involving 8 genera (Aspergillus, Fusarium, Bipolaris, Pythium, Cochilobolus, Exserohilum, Pseudoallescheria, and Scedosporiumspecies) and 27 emerging pathogens involving 7 genera (Botryosphaeria Lasiodiplodia species, Thielavia tortuosa, Glomerulla singulata, Macrophomina phaseolina, Rhizoctonia bataticola, and Podosporaspecies) reported for the first time in literature related to ocular infections. Fifteen (30%) patients with fungal keratitis caused by NSM failed to respond to standard antifungal therapy. PCR-based DNA sequencing technique is a rapid, reliable, and valuable tool to identify 54% of NSM as newer potential pathogens of fungi causing ocular mycoses."}
{"id": "18291305", "title": "PCR-based diagnosis and quantification of mycotoxin-producing fungi.", "content": "PCR-based diagnosis and quantification of mycotoxin-producing fungi. Mycotoxins are secondary metabolites produced by filamentous fungi which have toxicologically relevant effects on vertebrates if administered in small doses via a natural route. In order to improve food safety and to protect consumers from harmful contaminants, the presence of fungi with the potential to produce such compounds must be checked at critical control points during the production of agricultural commodities as well as during the process of food and feed preparation. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based diagnosis has been applied as an alternative assay replacing cumbersome and time-consuming microbiological and chemical methods for the detection and identification of the most serious toxin producers in the fungal genera Fusarium, Aspergillus, and Penicillium. The current chapter covers the numerous PCR-based assays which have been published since the first description of the use of this technology to detect Aspergillus flavus biosynthesis genes in 1996."}
{"id": "18280542", "title": "Higher Environmental Relative Moldiness Index (ERMIsm) values measured in Detroit homes of severely asthmatic children.", "content": "Higher Environmental Relative Moldiness Index (ERMIsm) values measured in Detroit homes of severely asthmatic children. Sieved vacuum bag dust from the homes of 143 children in Detroit was analyzed by mold specific quantitative PCR (MSQPCR) and the Environmental Relative Moldiness Index (ERMIsm) was calculated for each home. Children living in these homes were grouped as non-asthmatic (n=83), moderately asthmatic (n=28) and severely asthmatic (n=32) based on prescription medication usage for their asthma management (none, occasional and daily, respectively). The mean ERMI for each group of homes was 6.2 for non-asthmatic, 6.3 for moderately asthmatic and 8.2 for severely asthmatic children. The ERMI values in the homes of severely asthmatic children were significantly greater compared to the non-asthmatics (p=0.04 in Wilcoxon Rank-sum test). Aspergillus niger and Aspergillus unguis were the primary mold species that distinguished severely asthmatic children's homes and non-asthmatic children's homes (p<0.05; Wilcoxon Rank-sum test). The determination of the home's ERMI values may aid in prioritizing home remediation efforts, particularly in those children who are at increased risk for asthma exacerbation."}
{"id": "18279049", "title": "Proinflammatory response of immature human dendritic cells is mediated by dectin-1 after exposure to Aspergillus fumigatus germ tubes.", "content": "Proinflammatory response of immature human dendritic cells is mediated by dectin-1 after exposure to Aspergillus fumigatus germ tubes. Invasive fungal infections caused by Aspergillus fumigatus represent a great challenge for immunocompromised patients. Pathogen detection is mediated by different receptors, including Toll-like receptors (TLRs), C-type lectins, and pentraxines. However, little is known about their relevance for immature human dendritic cells (iDCs). The gene expression pattern of iDCs after exposure to A. fumigatus germ tubes was studied by use of whole genome microarray analysis and real-time polymerase chain reaction. Fungal receptors were targeted by means of short interfering RNAs (siRNAs), which were used to knock down expression of TLR2, TLR4, DC-SIGN (dendritic cell-specific intercellular adhesion molecule 3-grabbing nonintegrin), PTX3 (pentraxin-related gene), dectin-1 (C-type lectin domain family 7, member A), and CARD9 (caspase recruitment domain family, member 9). Exposure to A. fumigatus induced expression of cytokines, chemokines, costimulatory molecules, and genes involved in prostaglandin synthesis, as well as genes related to fungal recognition and phagocytosis. Silencing of dectin-1 resulted in reduced expression of proinflammatory cytokines (tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-12), which was also reduced by anti-Dectin-1 antibody treatment prior to exposure to A. fumigatus, zymosan, or Candida albicans. Dectin-1 was identified as an important receptor for A. fumigatus and C. albicans on human iDCs and was found to be involved in the induction of a proinflammatory cytokine response."}
{"id": "18266800", "title": "Aspergillus \"fungus ball\" of the bladder after hematopoietic transplantation in a pediatric patient: successful treatment with intravesical voriconazole and surgery.", "content": "Aspergillus \"fungus ball\" of the bladder after hematopoietic transplantation in a pediatric patient: successful treatment with intravesical voriconazole and surgery. Aspergillosis is an important cause of mortality in allogeneic HSCT. A \"fungus ball\" formation of Aspergillus in the bladder has seldom been reported. We report a child that underwent HSCT and developed possible disseminated aspergillosis with an intravesical \"fungus ball,\" diagnosed by genitourinary MRI and PCR of the mass that was removed from the bladder. It is important to consider this complication in a patient with HC after HSCT. The treatment included a combination of systemic antifungal therapy along with intravesical voriconazole and surgical removal."}
{"id": "18266785", "title": "Changing landscape of invasive aspergillosis in allogeneic stem cell transplant recipients.", "content": "Changing landscape of invasive aspergillosis in allogeneic stem cell transplant recipients. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is an important infectious complication in allogeneic stem cell transplant (SCT) recipients. Diagnosis of IA has been difficult and often delayed and treatment outcome has been poor, with mortality rates up to 80%. This review summarizes recent developments in this field. There are indications that the incidence of IA may be decreasing due to multiple factors including better understanding of pathogenesis of IA, earlier diagnosis, and various prophylactic and preventive strategies. Recently posaconazole has shown to be effective in reducing the risk of IA in patients treated for graft-versus-host disease (GVHD). Early use of high-resolution thoracic computed tomography assisted with complimentary methods including bronchoalveolar lavage and serum galactomannan determinations are useful in early diagnosis. Our treatment armamentarium against IA has broadened significantly during the last years and there are some indications of improved outcome more recently. On the other hand, increasing use of blood progenitor grafts instead of marrow with higher risk of chronic GVHD, increasing age of SCT recipients, and wide use of donor lymphocyte infusions for treatment of minimal residual disease or relapse may affect to the opposite direction. Despite some promises and improvements, IA will continue to remain a challenge in the upcoming years."}
{"id": "18262811", "title": "Sumoylation in Aspergillus nidulans: sumO inactivation, overexpression and live-cell imaging.", "content": "Sumoylation in Aspergillus nidulans: sumO inactivation, overexpression and live-cell imaging. Sumoylation, the reversible covalent attachment of small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) peptides has emerged as an important regulator of target protein function. In Saccharomyces cerevisiae, but not in Schizosaccharyomes pombe, deletion of the gene encoding SUMO peptides is lethal. We have characterized the SUMO-encoding gene, sumO, in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. The sumO gene was deleted in a diploid and sumODelta haploids were recovered. The mutant was viable but exhibited impaired growth, reduced conidiation and self-sterility. Overexpression of epitope-tagged SumO peptides revealed multiple sumoylation targets in A. nidulans and SumO overexpression resulted in greatly increased levels of protein sumoylation without obvious phenotypic consequences. Using five-piece fusion PCR, we generated a gfp-sumO fusion gene expressed from the sumO promoter for live-cell imaging of GFP-SumO and GFP-SumO-conjugated proteins. Localization of GFP-SumO is dynamic, accumulating in punctate spots within the nucleus during interphase, lost at the onset of mitosis and re-accumulating during telophase."}
{"id": "18256487", "title": "Monitoring global gene expression of proteases and improvement of human lysozyme production in the nptB gene disruptant of Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Monitoring global gene expression of proteases and improvement of human lysozyme production in the nptB gene disruptant of Aspergillus oryzae. Aspergillus oryzae has numerous protease genes that might cause proteolytic degradation of heterologously-produced proteins. The productivity of the heterologous protein can be improved by protease gene disruption, but it is difficult to select disruption targets efficiently. In this study, we monitored the expression of 132 protease genes by DNA microarray. A group of protease genes up-regulated during cultivation was identified by clustering analysis. In this protease group, the nptB gene encoding neutral protease II was included as well as the alpA, tppA, and pepA genes, disruption of which has improved human lysozyme (HLY) production. The nptB gene was disrupted to investigate its involvement in HLY production, and nptB disruptants showed an improvement in the production. These observations suggest that monitoring the expression of protease genes is an efficient strategy in screening potential disruption targets for heterologous protein production in A. oryzae."}
{"id": "18254749", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus fumigatus-specific DNA, (1-3)-beta-D-glucan and galactomannan in serum and bronchoalveolar lavage specimens of experimentally infected rats.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus fumigatus-specific DNA, (1-3)-beta-D-glucan and galactomannan in serum and bronchoalveolar lavage specimens of experimentally infected rats. The aim of this study was to detect Aspergillus fumigatus-specific DNA by nested PCR (nPCR) in serum and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) specimens of experimentally infected rats and compare the results with (1-3)-beta-D-glucan (BDG) and galactomannan (GM) detection. Sixty Wistar rats, immunosuppressed with an intraperitoneal injection of cyclophosphamide (70 mg kg(-1)) were infected with 1 x 10(6)A. fumigatus conidia. The rats were killed on days 1, 3, 5, 7 and 9 postinfection in groups of six each and their BAL, blood and lungs were cultured. The A. fumigatus-specific DNA, BDG and GM in serum and BAL were detected by nPCR, Fungitell kit and Aspergillus Platelia kit respectively. Base line values were obtained by using sera from six healthy rats. Except the lungs, blood and BAL specimens of all the infected rats were negative for A. fumigatus culture. The BDG, GM and nPCR positivity in serum specimens was 80%, 77% and 63% respectively. The sensitivity of GM and nPCR tests in BAL specimens was 77% and 70% respectively. The data suggest that BDG and GM appear early in the course of infection, and have similar kinetics (r = 0.483, P = 0.007). Hence, their combined detection could be useful in the early diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis."}
{"id": "18234874", "title": "Rapid detection of triazole antifungal resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Rapid detection of triazole antifungal resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus. Triazole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus is an uncommon but rising phenomenon. Susceptibility testing is rarely performed and can take 48 h or longer, which is an impediment to effective therapy. Molecular diagnostic probing of well-defined resistance mechanisms, which serve as surrogate markers, provides an alternative approach to rapidly (within hours) and efficiently identify resistant strains. The mechanisms of triazole resistance in A. fumigatus are limited to amino acid substitutions in the drug target Cyp51A and include amino acid substitutions at the positions Gly 54, Gly 138, Met 220, and Leu 98, coupled with a tandem repetition in the gene promoter. We report the development of a real-time PCR assay utilizing molecular beacons to assess triazole resistance markers in A. fumigatus. When combined in a multiplex platform, the assay provides a comprehensive evaluation of drug resistance in A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "18227268", "title": "A novel oxidized low-density lipoprotein-binding protein from Pseudomonas aeruginosa.", "content": "A novel oxidized low-density lipoprotein-binding protein from Pseudomonas aeruginosa. A novel protein, PA0122, has been identified in Pseudomonas aeruginosa and shown to bind to oxidized low-density lipoprotein (Ox-LDL). The PA0122 gene was recognized based on gene expression pattern differences between two strains of P. aeruginosa isolated from the sputum of an individual with cystic fibrosis (CF). There was an approximately eightfold increase in PA0122 expression in the non-mucoid strain 383, compared to that in the mucoid strain 2192. Quantitative real-time RT-PCR (qRT-PCR) supported PA0122 transcript expression differences between strains 383 and 2192 and revealed growth-phase dependence, with the highest level of expression at early stationary phase (OD(600) 1.5). PA0122 encodes a 136 aa 'conserved hypothetical' protein that has similarity to Aspergillus fumigatus Asp-haemolysin, which is an Ox-LDL-binding protein, and possessed a motif that is homologous to the fungal aegerolysin family of proteins. Antibodies produced to purified recombinant PA0122 recognized a 16 kDa protein band in cell lysates as well as in the supernatant fractions of strain 383. The PA0122 protein expression pattern was growth phase-dependent, with maximal production observed at OD(600) 1.5 that was consistent with the PA0122 transcript expression profile. Subcellular fractionation studies revealed differences in the localization of PA0122 between strains 383 and 2192. In 383, PA0122 was observed in the cytoplasm and in membrane fractions. In 2192, PA0122 was found in the cytoplasm but was not detected in membrane fractions. Surface plasmon resonance revealed that recombinant PA0122 binds with high affinity to Ox-LDL and to its major subcomponent, lysophosphatidylcholine, but not to non-oxidized LDL."}
{"id": "18227243", "title": "Functional analyses of heterotrimeric G protein G alpha and G beta subunits in Gibberella zeae.", "content": "Functional analyses of heterotrimeric G protein G alpha and G beta subunits in Gibberella zeae. The homothallic ascomycete fungus Gibberella zeae (anamorph: Fusarium graminearum) is a major toxigenic plant pathogen that causes head blight disease on small-grain cereals. The fungus produces the mycotoxins deoxynivalenol (DON) and zearalenone (ZEA) in infected hosts, posing a threat to human and animal health. Despite its agricultural and toxicological importance, the molecular mechanisms underlying its growth, development and virulence remain largely unknown. To better understand such mechanisms, we studied the heterotrimeric G proteins of G. zeae, which are known to control crucial signalling pathways that regulate various cellular and developmental responses in fungi. Three putative Galpha subunits, GzGPA1, GzGPA2 and GzGPA3, and one Gbeta subunit, GzGPB1, were identified in the F. graminearum genome. Deletion of GzGPA1, a homologue of the Aspergillus nidulans Galpha gene fadA, resulted in female sterility and enhanced DON and ZEA production, suggesting that GzGPA1 is required for normal sexual reproduction and repression of toxin biosynthesis. The production of DON and ZEA was also enhanced in the GzGPB1 mutant, suggesting that both Galpha GzGPA1 and Gbeta GzGPB1 negatively control mycotoxin production. Deletion of GzGPA2, which encodes a Galpha protein similar to A. nidulans GanB, caused reduced pathogenicity and increased chitin accumulation in the cell wall, implying that GzGPA2 has multiple functions. Our study shows that G. zeae heterotrimeric G protein subunits can regulate vegetative growth, sexual development, toxin production and pathogenicity."}
{"id": "18212093", "title": "Aspergillus section Fumigati: antifungal susceptibility patterns and sequence-based identification.", "content": "Aspergillus section Fumigati: antifungal susceptibility patterns and sequence-based identification. This study analyzed 28 Aspergillus strains belonging to the section Fumigati that were isolated from clinical samples in Spain. All isolates sporulated slowly and were unable to grow at 48 degrees C. Phylogenetic analysis based on sequencing of partial sequences of the beta-tubulin and rodlet A genes was used to classify the 28 strains into six different clades (Neosartorya hiratsukae, Neosartorya pseudofischeri, Aspergillus viridinutans, Aspergillus lentulus, Aspergillus fumigatiaffinis, and Aspergillus fumisynnematus). Antifungal susceptibility testing showed heterogeneous patterns and grouped the strains together by species. Most A. lentulus and A. fumigatiaffinis isolates showed high MICs of amphotericin B (geometric mean [GM] MICs, >or=4.5 microg/ml), itraconazole (GM MICs, >or=6 microg/ml), voriconazole (GM MICs, >or=3 microg/ml), and ravuconazole (GM MICs, >or=3 microg/ml); N pseudofischeri and A. viridinutans showed high MICs of itraconazole (GM MICs, >or=8 microg/ml), voriconazole (GM MICs, >or=3.33 microg/ml), and ravuconazole (GM MICs, >or=2 microg/ml); and N. hiratsukae and A. fumisynnematus were susceptible to all the antifungals tested. In conclusion, a number of different species whose morphological features resemble those of Aspergillus fumigatus could succeed in producing invasive infections in the susceptible host. In addition, some of them showed high MICs for most of the antifungals available for the treatment of patients infected with these organisms. The epidemiology and clinical relevance of these species should therefore be addressed."}
{"id": "18201993", "title": "Community-acquired Legionnaires' disease caused by Legionella pneumophila serogroup 10 linked to the private home.", "content": "Community-acquired Legionnaires' disease caused by Legionella pneumophila serogroup 10 linked to the private home. We describe the case of a 66-year-old man with a culture-proven Legionella pneumonia after kidney transplantation. The patient developed the infection 15 days after discharge from a university hospital. Legionella pneumonia caused by Legionella pneumophila serogroup 5/10 was established by positive direct fluorescence assay, positive urinary-antigen detection and isolation of the causative agent. The infection was successfully treated by giving appropriate antibiotics, but the further course was complicated by invasive aspergillosis, cytomegalovirus pneumonia, failure of the transplanted kidney and development of septic anaemia. Four months after the diagnosis of Legionella pneumonia the patient died of multi-organ failure. The microbiological and epidemiological investigation revealed that strains from the water supply of the patient's private home were indistinguishable from the patient's isolate by amplified fragment length polymorphism analysis and sequence-based typing (SBT). Unrelated strains of serogroups 4, 5, 8 and 10 from the Dresden strain collection were of different SBT types. Thus, SBT is a very useful tool for epidemiological investigation of infections by L. pneumophila serogroups other than serogroup 1."}
{"id": "18193305", "title": "Diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis by galactomannan antigenemia detection using an enzyme immunoassay.", "content": "Diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis by galactomannan antigenemia detection using an enzyme immunoassay. Invasive aspergillosis is a serious and often fatal infection in patients who are neutropenic or have undergone solid organ or stem cell transplantation. Delayed diagnosis and therapy may lead to poor outcomes. Diagnosis may be facilitated by a test for galactomannan antigen detection using an enzyme immunoassay. Other rapid methods for diagnosis include (1-->3)-beta-D: -glucan determination and polymerase chain reaction. The sensitivity and specificity of galactomannan antigenemia testing in serum and bronchoalveolar lavage specimens are high in patients with hematological malignancy, neutropenia, and receipt of stem-cell transplants. False positivity can be seen with concomitant administration of some antibiotics and infection by fungi other than Aspergillus."}
{"id": "18172722", "title": "Cloning, characterization, and expression of the gene encoding alkaline protease in the marine yeast Aureobasidium pullulans 10.", "content": "Cloning, characterization, and expression of the gene encoding alkaline protease in the marine yeast Aureobasidium pullulans 10. The alkaline protease structural gene (ALP1 gene) was isolated from both the genomic DNA and cDNA of Aureobasidium pullulans 10 by inverse PCR and RT-PCR. An open reading frame of 1248 bp encoding a 415 amino-acid protein with calculated molecular weight of 42.9 kDa was characterized. The gene contained two introns, which had 54 bp and 50 bp, respectively. The promoter of ALP1 gene was located from -62 to -112 and had two CCAAT boxes and one TATA box. The terminator of ALP1gene contained the sequence with a hairpin structure (AAAAAGTT TGGTTTTT). The protein sequence deduced from ALP1 gene exhibited 55.24%, 50.35%, and 31.68% identity with alkaline proteases from Aspergillus fumigatus, Acremonium chrysogenum, and Yarrowia lipolytica, respectively. The protein was found to have the conserved serine active site and histidine active site of serine proteases in the subtilisin family. The recombinant A. pullulans alkaline protease produced in Y. lipolytica formed clear zones on the double plates with 2% casein and alkaline protease activity in the supernatant of the recombinant Y. lipolytica culture was detected, suggesting that the cloned ALP1 gene is expressed in Y. lipolytica and the expressed alkaline protease is secreted into the medium."}
{"id": "18166808", "title": "Human herpesvirus-6 DNAemia in immunosuppressed adult patients with leukemia at risk for mold infection.", "content": "Human herpesvirus-6 DNAemia in immunosuppressed adult patients with leukemia at risk for mold infection. Little is known about human herpesvirus-6 (HHV-6) in leukemia patients. We prospectively followed 37 leukemia patients at risk for mold infection. HHV-6 DNA was detected from whole blood specimens in 11 patients (30%). History of granulocyte transfusions (p=0.05) and prior relapse of leukemia (p=0.07) were the only independent predictors of HHV-6 DNAemia."}
{"id": "18166238", "title": "Elucidation of the functional genomics of antioxidant-based inhibition of aflatoxin biosynthesis.", "content": "Elucidation of the functional genomics of antioxidant-based inhibition of aflatoxin biosynthesis. Caffeic acid (3,4-dihydroxycinnamic acid, 12 mM) added to a fat-based growth medium reduces >95% of aflatoxin production by Aspergillus flavus NRRL 3357, without affecting fungal growth. Microarray analysis of caffeic acid-treated A. flavus indicated expression of almost all genes in the aflatoxin biosynthetic cluster were down-regulated, ranging from a log2 ratio of caffeic acid treated and untreated of -1.12 (medium) to -3.13 (high). The only exceptions were genes norB and the aflatoxin pathway regulator-gene, aflJ, which showed low expression levels in both treated and control fungi. The secondary metabolism regulator-gene, laeA, also showed little change in expression levels between the fungal cohorts. Alternatively, expression of genes in metabolic pathways (i.e., amino acid biosynthesis, metabolism of aromatic compounds, etc.) increased (log2 ratio >1.5). The most notable up-regulation of A. flavus expression occurred in four genes that are orthologs of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae AHP1 family of genes. These genes encode alkyl hydroperoxide reductases that detoxify organic peroxides. These increases ranged from a log2 ratio of 1.08 to 2.65 (moderate to high), according to real-time quantitative reverse transcription-PCR (qRT-PCR) assays. Based on responses of S. cerevisiae gene deletion mutants involved in oxidative stress response, caffeic, chlorogenic, gallic and ascorbic acids were potent antioxidants under oxidative stress induced by organic peroxides, tert-butyl and cumene hydroperoxides. Differential hypersensitivity to these peroxides and hydrogen peroxide occurred among different mutants in addition to their ability to recover with different antioxidants. These findings suggest antioxidants may trigger induction of genes encoding alkyl hydroperoxide reductases in A. flavus. The possibilities that induction of these genes protects the fungus from oxidizing agents (e.g., lipoperoxides, reactive oxygen species, etc.) produced during host-plant infection and this detoxification attenuates upstream signals triggering aflatoxigenesis are discussed."}
{"id": "18164254", "title": "Contaminating insert degradation by preincubation colony PCR: a method for avoiding false positives in transformant screening.", "content": "Contaminating insert degradation by preincubation colony PCR: a method for avoiding false positives in transformant screening. Colony PCR is a convenient alternative to conventional plasmid isolation and restriction digestion for high-throughput screening of recombinant colonies. However, an insert carryover from the ligation mix, adhered to colony or agar plate, generates a substantial number of false positives. To avoid this, a simple single-tube technique involving pre-PCR nuclease incubation has been developed by optimizing a buffer system that provides nuclease action and PCR amplification sequentially. Results presented in this work provide a technique that is amenable for high-throughput screening of recombinant colonies."}
{"id": "18160163", "title": "Real-time PCR based procedures for detection and quantification of Aspergillus carbonarius in wine grapes.", "content": "Real-time PCR based procedures for detection and quantification of Aspergillus carbonarius in wine grapes. Aspergillus carbonarius is the main species responsible for ochratoxin A accumulation in wine grapes and consequently, its rapid and sensitive detection is increasingly investigated. A new real-time PCR (RTi-PCR) based procedure was developed for the rapid and specific detection and quantification of A. carbonarius in wine grapes. The procedure includes the use of the pulsifier equipment to remove conidia from grapes which prevents releasing of PCR inhibitors, and DNA extraction with the EZNA Fungal DNA kit. It reduced the time for A. carbonarius DNA extraction from grapes to 30 min. Two specific primers (AcKS10L/AcKS10R) delimiting a 161 bp fragment, and a probe were designed and directed to the beta-ketosynthase domain of a polyketide synthase from A. carbonarius. Specificity was confirmed by testing primers towards purified DNA from 52 fungal strains, including reference and food isolates. Quantification was linear over at least 5 log units using both serial dilutions of purified DNA and calibrated conidial suspensions from A. carbonarius. The SYBR-Green I and TaqMan RTi-PCR approaches established were able to detect at least 2.4 and 24 genomic equivalents, respectively, using purified DNA. Results obtained from conidial suspensions, after DNA extraction, showed that at least 5 conidia per reaction should be present for a positive result with SYBR-Green I and 50 in the case of TaqMan. The quantification of fungal genomic DNA in artificially inoculated wine grapes performed successfully, with a minimum threshold of 10(3) conidia mL(-1) for accurate quantification. The developed RTi-PCR assay is a promising tool in the prediction of potential ochratoxigenic risk, even in the case of low-level infections, and suitable for a rapid, automated and high throughput analysis."}
{"id": "18160156", "title": "Quantifying fungal viability in air and water samples using quantitative PCR after treatment with propidium monoazide (PMA).", "content": "Quantifying fungal viability in air and water samples using quantitative PCR after treatment with propidium monoazide (PMA). A method is described to discriminate between live and dead cells of the infectious fungi Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus terreus, Mucor racemosus, Rhizopus stolonifer and Paecilomyces variotii. To test the method, conidial suspensions were heat inactivated at 85 degrees C or held at 5 degrees C (controls) for 1 h. Polycarbonate filters (25 mm diameter, 0.8 microm pore size) were placed on \"welled\" slides (14 mm diameter) and the filters treated with either PBS or PMA. Propidium monoazide (PMA), which enters dead cells but not live cells, was incubated with cell suspensions, exposed to blue wavelength light-emitting diodes (LED) to inactivate remaining PMA and secure intercalation of PMA with DNA of dead cells. Treated cells were extracted and the live and dead cells evaluated with quantitative PCR (QPCR). After heat treatment and DNA modification with PMA, all fungal species tested showed an approximate 100- to 1000-fold difference in cell viability estimated by QPCR analysis which was consistent with estimates of viability based on culturing."}
{"id": "18158407", "title": "Diagnosis of Aspergillus fumigatus endophthalmitis from formalin fixed paraffin-embedded tissue by polymerase chain reaction-based restriction fragment length polymorphism.", "content": "Diagnosis of Aspergillus fumigatus endophthalmitis from formalin fixed paraffin-embedded tissue by polymerase chain reaction-based restriction fragment length polymorphism. New molecular biological technique of Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR) based Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (RFLP) can identify the species from paraffin-embedded tissue section. We demonstrated Aspergillus fumigatus fungus by PCR-based RFLP technique from paraffin section of an eyeball of an eight-month-old child removed for endogenous endophthalmitis."}
{"id": "18155541", "title": "A case report of adenovirus-related acute interstitial nephritis in a patient with AIDS.", "content": "A case report of adenovirus-related acute interstitial nephritis in a patient with AIDS. In immunosuppressed individuals, such as hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients, adenoviruses (ADVs) are a well-known cause of morbidity and mortality, with limited treatment options. However, only a few cases were reported in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), and little is known about the relevance of such an infection in these patients with many other concomitant opportunistic infections. We report the case of a 34-year-old man with AIDS presenting with gross hematuria, right flank pain, and acute decrease in kidney function superimposed on chronic kidney disease. His CD4 count was 0/muL despite highly active antiretroviral therapy. A computed tomographic scan showed enlargement of the right renal pelvis. Cystoscopy showed no clots or macroscopic lesions. Urine analysis showed no bacteria or abnormal epithelial cells. ADV was found in viral culture and by using real-time polymerase chain reaction in the patient's urine and later in blood. The renal biopsy specimen showed ADV-related tubulointerstitial nephritis with intranuclear inclusions in tubular cells stained by anti-ADV antibodies, in addition to chronic tubular and vascular changes. The ADV serotype belonged to subgroup B. Cidofovir therapy was contraindicated for this patient; therefore, he was administered intravenous ribavirin. The efficiency of this treatment could not be assessed because he rapidly developed neutropenia and disseminated aspergillosis and died. This case illustrates another cause of acute kidney disease in very immunosuppressed patients with AIDS, probably underdiagnosed."}
{"id": "18088091", "title": "Two types of beta-fructofuranosidases from Aspergillus oryzae KB.", "content": "Two types of beta-fructofuranosidases from Aspergillus oryzae KB. Aspergillus oryzae KB produces two types of beta-fructofuranosidases, F1 and F2. F1 produces 1-kestose, nystose, and fructosyl nystose from sucrose through its transfructosylation action. F2 hydrolyzes sucrose to glucose and fructose. N-Terminal amino acid sequences of the purified enzymes were DYNAAPPNLST for F1 and YSGDLRPQ for F2. Each enzyme encoding gene was identified in the genome of Aspergillus oryzae. Although the KB strain showed a higher production of F2 than F1 in a low sucrose liquid medium, F2 production gradually decreased, whereas F1 production increased with increasing sucrose concentration in the medium. Synthesis of F1 and F2 mRNAs analyzed on reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction corresponded to individual enzymatic production. During liquid culture of the KB strain, F1 synthesizes fructooligosaccharides from sucrose through transfructosylation, and F2 gradually hydrolyzes it. In a highly concentrated sucrose medium, intake of sucrose into the KB strain was depressed by F1 through synthesis of transfer products, fructooligosaccharides."}
{"id": "18083888", "title": "N-glycan modification in Aspergillus species.", "content": "N-glycan modification in Aspergillus species. The production by filamentous fungi of therapeutic glycoproteins intended for use in mammals is held back by the inherent difference in protein N-glycosylation and by the inability of the fungal cell to modify proteins with mammalian glycosylation structures. Here, we report protein N-glycan engineering in two Aspergillus species. We functionally expressed in the fungal hosts heterologous chimeric fusion proteins containing different localization peptides and catalytic domains. This strategy allowed the isolation of a strain with a functional alpha-1,2-mannosidase producing increased amounts of N-glycans of the Man5GlcNAc2 type. This strain was further engineered by the introduction of a functional GlcNAc transferase I construct yielding GlcNAcMan5GlcNac2 N-glycans. Additionally, we deleted algC genes coding for an enzyme involved in an early step of the fungal glycosylation pathway yielding Man3GlcNAc2 N-glycans. This modification of fungal glycosylation is a step toward the ability to produce humanized complex N-glycans on therapeutic proteins in filamentous fungi."}
{"id": "18065667", "title": "Development of a loop-mediated isothermal amplification method for diagnosing Pneumocystis pneumonia.", "content": "Development of a loop-mediated isothermal amplification method for diagnosing Pneumocystis pneumonia. Loop-mediated isothermal amplification (LAMP) is a novel, rapid nucleic acid amplification method with high specificity and sensitivity under isothermal conditions. In this study a LAMP assay for diagnosing Pneumocystis pneumonia (PCP) was developed. Oligonucleotide primers specific for Pneumocystis species were designed corresponding to 18S rRNA gene sequences. The assay, performed for 30 min at 61 degrees C, was capable of detecting 50 copies per tube (2 x 10(3) copies ml(-1)) in 30 min and did not show cross-reactivity to other species of fungi, including the genera Candida, Aspergillus and Cryptococcus. A total of 21 of 24 clinical specimens (sputum and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid) from patients with suspected PCP tested positive using the LAMP assay by real-time fluorescence detection. The results of the LAMP reaction were also observed by real-time turbidity detection and end-point visual turbidity or fluorescence detection. With real-time fluorescence detection, melting curves of the products were effective at distinguishing specific amplification from non-specific amplification or self-amplification. Visual detection was also possible as a rapid and easy assay using only a heat block and a black light."}
{"id": "18060506", "title": "An eleven amino acid residue deletion expands the substrate specificity of acetyl xylan esterase II (AXE II) from Penicillium purpurogenum.", "content": "An eleven amino acid residue deletion expands the substrate specificity of acetyl xylan esterase II (AXE II) from Penicillium purpurogenum. The soft-rot fungus Penicillium purpurogenum secretes to the culture medium a variety of enzymes related to xylan biodegradation, among them three acetyl xylan esterases (AXE I, II and III). AXE II has 207 amino acids; it belongs to family 5 of the carbohydrate esterases and its structure has been determined by X-ray crystallography at 0.9 A resolution (PDB 1G66). The enzyme possesses the alpha/beta hydrolase fold and the catalytic triad typical of serine esterases (Ser90, His187 and Asp175). AXE II can hydrolyze esters of a large variety of alcohols, but it is restricted to short chain fatty acids. An analysis of its three-dimensional structure shows that a loop that covers the active site may be responsible for this strict specificity. Cutinase, an enzyme that hydrolyzes esters of long chain fatty acids and shows a structure similar to AXE II, lacks this loop. In order to generate an AXE II with this broader specificity, the preparation of a mutant lacking residues involving this loop (Gly104 to Ala114) was proposed. A set of molecular simulation experiments based on a comparative model of the mutant enzyme predicted a stable structure. Using site-directed mutagenesis, the loop's residues have been eliminated from the AXE II cDNA. The mutant protein has been expressed in Aspergillus nidulans A722 and Pichia pastoris, and it is active towards a range of fatty acid esters of up to at least 14 carbons. The availability of an esterase with broader specificity may have biotechnological applications for the synthesis of sugar esters."}
{"id": "18038193", "title": "A quantitative polymerase chain reaction assay for detecting and identifying fungal contamination in human allograft tissue.", "content": "A quantitative polymerase chain reaction assay for detecting and identifying fungal contamination in human allograft tissue. To complement donor selection and tissue processing, rapid and reliable detection, discrimination, and quantification of fungal pathogens are extremely important for tissues destined to be implanted into humans. The current detection method for fungal pathogens, in particular, is difficult and time-consuming. Quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR) technology is considered one of the most sensitive methods to detect low levels of DNA. Here a qPCR method is described that can detect clinically relevant, pathogenic fungal organisms. The assay allowed the quantification of fungal organisms within a tissue implant and provides a means to identify the contaminating species. The primers for the qPCR assay were designed to amplify a conserved region of the L2 region of the large ribosomal subunit (LSU) gene. This set of primers was able to detect fewer than 10 colony forming units from Aspergillus and Candida species in spiked samples. Clinical samples were also evaluated using this method and the data compared positively to the existing accepted 28-day fungal culture method for fungal detection. The qPCR method described herein significantly reduced the time required to identify fungal contamination in tissue implants."}
{"id": "18037475", "title": "Microbial and \"de novo\" transformation of dicarboxylic acids by three airborne fungi.", "content": "Microbial and \"de novo\" transformation of dicarboxylic acids by three airborne fungi. Micro-organisms and organic compounds of biogenic or anthropogenic origins are important constituents of atmospheric aerosols, which are involved in atmospheric processes and climate change. In order to investigate the role of fungi and their metabolisation activity, we collected airborne fungi using a biosampler in an urban location of Montreal, Quebec, Canada (45 degrees 28' N, 73 degrees 45' E). After isolation on Sabouraud dextrose agar, we exposed isolated colonies to dicarboxylic acids (C(2)-C(7)), a major group of organic aerosols and monitored their growth. Depending on the acid, total fungi numbers varied from 35 (oxalic acid) to 180 CFU/mL (glutaric acid). Transformation kinetics of malonic acid, presumably the most abundant dicarboxylic acid, at concentrations of 0.25 and 1.00 mM for isolated airborne fungi belonging to the genera Aspergillus, Penicillium, Eupenicillium, and Thysanophora with the fastest transformation rate are presented. The initial concentration was halved within 4.5 and 11.4 days. Other collected fungi did not show a significant degradation and the malonic acid concentration remained unchanged (0.25 and 1.00 mM) within 20 days. Degradation of acid with formation of metabolites was followed using high performance liquid chromatography-ultraviolet detection (HPLC/UV) and gas chromatography-mass spectrometry (GC/MS), as well as monitoring of (13)C labelled malonic acid degradation with solid-state nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy (NMR). Using GC/MS we identified two processes driving chemical modifications of organic aerosol solutions: (I) formation of metabolites within several days, and (II) rapid release (< or =2 min) of organic molecules from fungal species upon the insertion of taxa in organic aerosol solutions. Metabolites included aromatic compounds and alcohols (e.g. trimethylbenzene and butanol). Potential atmospheric implications of our results are discussed."}
{"id": "18026743", "title": "Characterization of fungi in chronic rhinosinusitis using polymerase chain reaction and sequencing.", "content": "Characterization of fungi in chronic rhinosinusitis using polymerase chain reaction and sequencing. The role of fungi in chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) remains unknown. Fungi were also determined as one of the responsible agents in the etio-pathogenesis, while several studies found fungi in 6-93% of the cases. The aim of this study is to test the presence of fungi in samples taken from the middle meatus of patients with CRS, using traditional culture methods and polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and to compare the efficacy of these methods. Thirty patients diagnosed with CRS, with or without nasal polyposis, undergoing an operation in the Otorhinolaryngology Clinic, were prospectively included in the study. Nasal mucosa samples from ten patients, who were operated for pathologic evaluation, and without CRS, were used as controls. Nasal samples were taken from each patient by swabbing with a cytology brush. Middle meatus culture samples were taken by using nasal cotton swab, and the polyp and/or sinus mucosa samples were taken during endoscopic sinus surgery. Fungal specific PCR, using 18S rRNA primers and standard cultures, were performed on every sample. All amplicons were sequenced. There was no fungal growth in the Sabouraud dextrose agar (SDA) medium from middle meatus samples and tissue parts. Of 30 tissue and brush samples, 3 and 2 were positive for fungal DNA, respectively. Sequence analysis showed that four amplicons were homologus to Cladosporium herbarum and one to Aspergillus amstelodami. We concluded that fungal etiology is overestimated and fungi rarely play a role in patients with CRS. Large-scale studies should be done using molecular methods."}
{"id": "18000703", "title": "A gene having sequence homology to isoamyl alcohol oxidase is transcribed during patulin production in Penicillium griseofulvum.", "content": "A gene having sequence homology to isoamyl alcohol oxidase is transcribed during patulin production in Penicillium griseofulvum. The genes for the patulin biosynthetic pathway are most likely arranged in a cluster, as is often the case for other mycotoxins. With this in mind, GeneWalking has been performed to identify genes both upstream and downstream of the isoepoxydon dehydrogenase (idh) gene. A gene present in Penicillium griseofulvum NRRL 2159A had high sequence homology to the isoamyl alcohol oxidase (iao) gene and was detected downstream of the idh gene and in the same orientation. By virtue of the presence of a signal peptide sequence, the newly identified gene coded for a secreted protein with an FAD-binding domain and potential for N-glycosylation. An open reading frame consisted of 1946 nucleotides, containing four putative introns and encoding a 22 amino acid signal peptide. The 571 amino acid mature protein contained nine cysteine residues and had 11 potential N-linked glycosylation sites. Searches using GenBank indicated that Aspergillus terreus, A. oryzae, A. fumigatus, and Gibberella zeae contain genes coding for a putative isoamyl alcohol oxidase. When the translated query was compared with the translated database, the highest scores were seen with A. clavatus (E value of 0.00), A. fumigatus (E value of 8e(-142)), and A. oryzae and A. terreus (each having an E value of 2e(-141)). Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis confirmed that the iao gene was transcribed. The amplified products were sequenced for confirmation of their identities. This is the first report of an isoamyl alcohol oxidase gene in a species of the genus Penicillium."}
{"id": "17983355", "title": "Crystallographic analysis shows substrate binding at the -3 to +1 active-site subsites and at the surface of glycoside hydrolase family 11 endo-1,4-beta-xylanases.", "content": "Crystallographic analysis shows substrate binding at the -3 to +1 active-site subsites and at the surface of glycoside hydrolase family 11 endo-1,4-beta-xylanases. GH 11 (glycoside hydrolase family 11) xylanases are predominant enzymes in the hydrolysis of heteroxylan, an abundant structural polysaccharide in the plant cell wall. To gain more insight into the protein-ligand interactions of the glycone as well as the aglycone subsites of these enzymes, catalytically incompetent mutants of the Bacillus subtilis and Aspergillus niger xylanases were crystallized, soaked with xylo-oligosaccharides and subjected to X-ray analysis. For both xylanases, there was clear density for xylose residues in the -1 and -2 subsites. In addition, for the B. subtilis xylanase, there was also density for xylose residues in the -3 and +1 subsite showing the spanning of the -1/+1 subsites. These results, together with the observation that some residues in the aglycone subsites clearly adopt a different conformation upon substrate binding, allowed us to identify the residues important for substrate binding in the aglycone subsites. In addition to substrate binding in the active site of the enzymes, the existence of an unproductive second ligand-binding site located on the surface of both the B. subtilis and A. niger xylanases was observed. This extra binding site may have a function similar to the separate carbohydrate-binding modules of other glycoside hydrolase families."}
{"id": "17981947", "title": "Analysis of fungal flora in indoor dust by ribosomal DNA sequence analysis, quantitative PCR, and culture.", "content": "Analysis of fungal flora in indoor dust by ribosomal DNA sequence analysis, quantitative PCR, and culture. In recent years increasing attention has been given to the potential health effects of fungal exposure in indoor environments. We used large-scale sequencing of the fungal internal transcribed spacer region (ITS) of nuclear ribosomal DNA to describe the mycoflora of two office buildings over the four seasons. DNA sequencing was complemented by cultivation, ergosterol determination, and quantitative PCR analyses. Sequences of 1,339 clones were clustered into 394 nonredundant fungal operational taxonomical units containing sequences from 18 fungal subclasses. The observed flora differed markedly from that recovered by cultivation, the major differences being the near absence of several typical indoor mold genera such as Penicillium and Aspergillus spp. and a high prevalence of basidiomycetes in clone libraries. A total of 55% of the total diversity constituted of unidentifiable ITS sequences, some of which may represent novel fungal species. Dominant species were Cladosporium cladosporioides and C. herbarum, Cryptococcus victoriae, Leptosphaerulina americana and L. chartarum, Aureobasidium pullulans, Thekopsora areolata, Phaeococcomyces nigricans, Macrophoma sp., and several Malassezia species. Seasonal differences were observed for community composition, with ascomycetous molds and basidiomycetous yeasts predominating in the winter and spring and Agaricomycetidae basidiomycetes predominating in the fall. The comparison of methods suggested that the cloning, cultivation, and quantitative PCR methods complemented each other, generating a more comprehensive picture of fungal flora than any of the methods would give alone. The current restrictions of the methods are discussed."}
{"id": "17973316", "title": "Early relapse after rituximab chemoimmunotherapy.", "content": "Early relapse after rituximab chemoimmunotherapy. In relapsed/refractory childhood acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) of the B-cell lineage rituximab, a monoclonal anti-CD20 antibody was used successfully in some cases. We report on a 15-year-old female with relapsed CD20-positive B-cell progenitor ALL treated with rituximab because of positive minimal residual disease signals after chemotherapy, as checked by flow cytometry and real time quantitative-PCR. Rituximab eliminated the CD20-positive subpopulation, but not the more immature leukemic cells. The patient died with fulminant aspergillosis before hematopoietic stem cell transplantation could be performed."}
{"id": "17955189", "title": "Characterization of a family 54 alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase from Aureobasidium pullulans.", "content": "Characterization of a family 54 alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase from Aureobasidium pullulans. A glycosyl hydrolase family 54 (GH54) alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase gene (abfA) of Aureobasidium pullulans was amplified by polymerase chain reaction from genomic DNA and a 498-amino-acid open reading frame deduced from the DNA sequence. Modeling of the highly conserved A. pullulans AbfA protein sequence on the crystal structure of Aspergillus kawachii AkabfB showed that the catalytic amino acid arrangement and overall structure were highly similar including the N-terminal catalytic and C-terminal arabinose binding domains. The abfA gene was expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and the heterologous enzyme was purified. The protein was monomeric, migrating at 49 kDa on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and eluting at 36 kDa upon gel filtration. AbfA showed maximal activity at 55 degrees C and between pH 3.5 and pH 4. The enzyme had a K (m) value for p-nitrophenyl-alpha-L-arabinofuranoside of 3.7 mM and a V (max) of 34.8 micromol min(-1) mg protein(-1). Arabinose acted as a noncompetitive inhibitor with a K (i) of 38.4 mM. The enzyme released arabinose from maize fiber, oat spelt arabinoxylan, and wheat arabinoxylan, but not from larch wood arabinogalactan or alpha-1,5-debranched arabinan. AbfA displayed low activity against alpha-1,5-L-arabino-oligosaccharides. The enzyme acted synergistically with endo-beta-1,4-xylanase in the breakdown of wheat arabinoxylan. Binding of AbfA to xylan from several sources confirmed the presence of a functional carbohydrate-binding module."}
{"id": "17935925", "title": "Construction of internal control for the quantitative assay of Aspergillus fumigatus using real-time nucleic acid sequence-based amplification.", "content": "Construction of internal control for the quantitative assay of Aspergillus fumigatus using real-time nucleic acid sequence-based amplification. We have developed a scheme for quantitative real-time (RTi) nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (NASBA) for the detection of Aspergillus fumigatus using internal control (IC) RNA. Construction of IC RNA began with the synthesis of nontarget sequences from Clavibacter michiganensis subsp. sepedonicus by a primary polymerase chain reaction (PCR) step, followed by a secondary PCR step using chimeric primers to produce a chimeric sequence including a T7 promoter region. Finally, chimeric IC RNAs were constructed by the use of in vitro transcription. The assay detected A. fumigatus within a range of 10(4) to 10(8) copies/mL of RNA and 10(0) to 10(8) cells. When the assay was performed with the target and IC RNA in 1 reaction in a single tube, there was little interference of the IC RNA in the measurement of the amount of target. The amount of RNA calculated using the assay was not significantly different from the amount of input RNA as indicated by Bland-Altman analysis. The IC RNA we constructed can be used in RTi-NASBA for quantitative detection of Aspergillus with good precision and accuracy."}
{"id": "17703973", "title": "Transient disruption of non-homologous end-joining facilitates targeted genome manipulations in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Transient disruption of non-homologous end-joining facilitates targeted genome manipulations in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. We have developed a transiently disrupted nkuA system in Aspergillus nidulans for efficient gene targeting. The nkuA disruption was made by inserting a counter-selectable marker flanked by a direct repeat (DR) composed of nkuA sequences. In the disrupted state, the non-homologous end-joining (NHEJ) activity is abolished and gene targeting can be performed with success rates identical to those obtained with permanent nkuA knock-out strains. When gene targeting is complete, the functional nkuA allele can be re-established via a simple selection step, thereby eliminating the risk that defective NHEJ influences subsequent analyses of the manipulated strain. Our system will facilitate construction of large numbers of defined mutations in A. nidulans. Moreover, as the system can likely be adapted to other filamentous fungi, we expect it will be particularly beneficial in species where NHEJ cannot be restored by sexual crossing."}
{"id": "17268891", "title": "RAPD typing of Aspergillus chevalieri, Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus tetrazonus (quadrilineatus) and their teleomorphs using 5'-d[AACGCGCAAC]-3' and 5'-d[CCCGTCAGCA]-3' primers.", "content": "RAPD typing of Aspergillus chevalieri, Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus tetrazonus (quadrilineatus) and their teleomorphs using 5'-d[AACGCGCAAC]-3' and 5'-d[CCCGTCAGCA]-3' primers. Sexuality in fungi has long been a matter of concerns and debates that always necessitated extensive analysis of the relationship between organisms assumed to represent different developmental forms of the same organism. Moreover, mating-virulence correlation and the growing worry of opportunistic fungal infections in immunocompromised states associated with AIDS, cancer chemotherapy and organ transplantation protocols have been critically addressed nowadays. In view of that, we genetically characterized Aspergillus chevalieri, Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus tetrazonus (quadrilineatus) and their teleomorphs with RAPD analysis using 5'-d[AACGCGCAAC]-3' and 5'-d[CCCGTCAGCA]-3' primers. The reported similarities between the sexual and the asexual forms of the tested species, using Dice coefficient, ranged between 40% and 70% which holds pretty much with the current systematics of the genus. The study presents a rapid consistent method for identification of A. chevalieri, A. nidulans, A. tetrazonus (quadrilineatus) and their teleomorphs based on the banding pattern of RAPD-generated fragments that can be reliably used ahead of further applications on these species."}
{"id": "18095762", "title": "The isoepoxydon dehydrogenase gene PCR profile is useful in fungal taxonomy.", "content": "The isoepoxydon dehydrogenase gene PCR profile is useful in fungal taxonomy. This study evaluates the specificity of PCR isoepoxydon dehydrogenase (idh) primers on fungi associated with patulin production. The DNAs of 93 strains were extracted and analysed by PCR using primers of the idh gene of patulin biosynthesis. A single band at 620 bp was obtained on 17% of the analysed strains. Different molecular weight amplicons were observed in other strains. These were employed as binary characters for numerical analysis to obtain a dendrogram. Clusters were observed, which corresponded to morphological identifications in some cases. Amplicons at 400 and/or 500 bp were related to patulin non-detection for strains, whereas a 450 bp amplicon was associated with some Aspergillus and both of the Byssochlamys nivea strains tested. Hence, the idh primers are not specific for the gene and provide other amplicon products in other species. These results were useful providing (a) profiles of DNA to identify and classify fungi and (b) insights into patulin production. The DNA profiles in this study may be useful for the potential of patulin producing fungi. Obtaining multiple bands in culture-independent PCR of environmental samples by using the primers could indicate that more than one species is present."}
{"id": "18095455", "title": "Identification and toxigenic potential of the industrially important fungi, Aspergillus oryzae and Aspergillus sojae.", "content": "Identification and toxigenic potential of the industrially important fungi, Aspergillus oryzae and Aspergillus sojae. Mold strains belonging to the species Aspergillus oryzae and Aspergillus sojae are highly valued as koji molds in the traditional preparation of fermented foods, such as miso, sake, and shoyu, and as protein production hosts in modern industrial processes. A. oryzae and A. sojae are relatives of the wild molds Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus. All four species are classified to the A. flavus group. Strains of the A. flavus group are characterized by a high degree of morphological similarity. Koji mold species are generally perceived of as being nontoxigenic, whereas wild molds are associated with the carcinogenic aflatoxins. Thus, reliable identification of individual strains is very important for application purposes. This review considers the pheno- and genotypic markers used in the classification of A. flavus group strains and specifically in the identification of A. oryzae and A. sojae strains. Separation of A. oryzae and A. sojae from A. flavus and A. parasiticus, respectively, is inconsistent, and both morphologic and molecular evidence support conspecificity. The high degree of identity is reflected by the divergent identification of reference cultures maintained in culture collections. As close relatives of aflatoxin-producing wild molds, koji molds possess an aflatoxin gene homolog cluster. Some strains identified as A. oryzae and A. sojae have been implicated in aflatoxin production. Identification of a strain as A. oryzae or A. sojae is no guarantee of its inability to produce aflatoxins or other toxic metabolites. Toxigenic potential must be determined specifically for individual strains. The species taxa, A. oryzae and A. sojae, are currently conserved by societal issues."}
{"id": "18051868", "title": "[Expression of pectin lyase 1 from Aspergillus oryzae in Escherichia coli].", "content": "[Expression of pectin lyase 1 from Aspergillus oryzae in Escherichia coli]. Pectin lyases from Aspergillus oryzae and Aspergillus niger are usually used for the production of traditional fermented foods, but these fungi produce less pectinases under natural conditions. The cDNA coding mature Pell (without signal peptide) was amplified from Aspergillus oryzae by RT-PCR. Pell cDNA was cloned into pET-28a ( + ) expression vector, then was transformed into E. coli Turner (DE3) plac I cells to express Pell with 6-His tag. For improving the efficiency of Pell expression in E. coli, the conditions of expressing the Pell in E. coli were optimized. E. coli Turner (DE3) plac I cells with pET-28a ( + )-pell was first cultivated at 37 degrees C, 220 r/min until OD600 reached about 0.8. Then, cultivation broth was added with 0.05-0.1 mmol/L IPTG and continuously incubated at 15 degrees C, at 170 r/min for 60 h for expressing of Pell. The recombinant expressed Pell activity could reach 400 u/mL medium, which is 4000-fold of Pell produced naturally by A. oryzae and superior than known recombinant amount of pectin lyases expressed in different fungi expression systems."}
{"id": "18039373", "title": "Improved protocols for functional analysis in the pathogenic fungus Aspergillus flavus.", "content": "Improved protocols for functional analysis in the pathogenic fungus Aspergillus flavus. An available whole genome sequence for Aspergillus flavus provides the opportunity to characterize factors involved in pathogenicity and to elucidate the regulatory networks involved in aflatoxin biosynthesis. Functional analysis of genes within the genome is greatly facilitated by the ability to disrupt or mis-express target genes and then evaluate their result on the phenotype of the fungus. Large-scale functional analysis requires an efficient genetic transformation system and the ability to readily select transformants with altered expression, and usually requires generation of double (or multi) gene deletion strains or the use of prototrophic strains. However, dominant selectable markers, an efficient transformation system and an efficient screening system for transformants in A. flavus are absent. The efficiency of the genetic transformation system for A. flavus based on uracil auxotrophy was improved. In addition, A. flavus was shown to be sensitive to the antibiotic, phleomycin. Transformation of A. flavus with the ble gene for resistance to phleomycin resulted in stable transformants when selected on 100 mug/ml phleomycin. We also compared the phleomycin system with one based on complementation for uracil auxotrophy which was confirmed by uracil and 5-fluoroorotic acid selection and via transformation with the pyr4 gene from Neurospora crassa and pyrG gene from A. nidulans in A. flavus NRRL 3357. A transformation protocol using pyr4 as a selectable marker resulted in site specific disruption of a target gene. A rapid and convenient colony PCR method for screening genetically altered transformants was also developed in this study. We employed phleomycin resistance as a new positive selectable marker for genetic transformation of A. flavus. The experiments outlined herein constitute the first report of the use of the antibiotic phleomycin for transformation of A. flavus. Further, we demonstrated that this transformation protocol could be used for directed gene disruption in A. flavus. The significance of this is twofold. First, it allows strains to be transformed without having to generate an auxotrophic mutation, which is time consuming and may result in undesirable mutations. Second, this protocol allows for double gene knockouts when used in conjunction with existing strains with auxotrophic mutations. To further facilitate functional analysis in this strain we developed a colony PCR-based method that is a rapid and convenient method for screening genetically altered transformants. This work will be of interest to those working on molecular biology of aflatoxin metabolism in A. flavus, especially for functional analysis using gene deletion and gene expression."}
{"id": "17987567", "title": "[Detection of invasive aspergillosis by PCR and real-time PCR--benefits and drawbacks].", "content": "[Detection of invasive aspergillosis by PCR and real-time PCR--benefits and drawbacks]. PCR detection of fungal pathogens in clinical samples has been discussed in journals for more than two decades. However, its use for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis is still controversial, despite the fact that molecular methods are routinely used in various fields of modern microbiology. These are e. g. genotyping of bacterial strains resistant to antibiotics, molecular epidemiology or routine detection of viral infections in clinical material. PCR methods have made the diagnostic applications faster, simpler and more accurate. This review deals with issues related to molecular methods for diagnosing invasive fungal infections and the main factors limiting their use in everyday clinical practice."}
{"id": "17965363", "title": "Identification of pathogenic Aspergillus species by a PCR-restriction enzyme method.", "content": "Identification of pathogenic Aspergillus species by a PCR-restriction enzyme method."}
{"id": "17944708", "title": "Molecular study of archival fungal strains isolated from cases of lacaziosis (Jorge Lobo's disease).", "content": "Molecular study of archival fungal strains isolated from cases of lacaziosis (Jorge Lobo's disease). Lacazia loboi, the aetiological agent of lacaziosis (Jorge Lobo's disease), is an uncultivated anomalous fungal microbe closely related to Paracoccidioides brasiliensis, both restricted Latin American Pathogens. Early reports suggesting that L. loboi had been isolated in pure culture from cases of lacaziosis, only added more confusion to the already confusing aetiology of this disease. These strains were later identified as unusual contaminants and some of them as P. brasiliensis. Recent phylogenetic analysis grouped L. loboi as the sister taxon to P. brasiliensis, thus it was postulated that the original P. brasiliensis strains recovered from cases of lacaziosis, could be the aetiological agent of the disease. Using molecular methodologies, we investigated the archival P. brasiliensis isolate No. 525 from a case of lacaziosis, as well as other archival isolates, identified earlier as common contaminants, all recovered from similar cases of the disease. Phylogenetic analysis, using the 18S small subunit rDNA sequences of these isolates showed that strain No. 525 was a typical P. brasiliensis isolate and the other studied strains were indeed contaminants. This study unequivocally indicates that the aetiological agent of lacaziosis is yet to be cultured."}
{"id": "17933253", "title": "[Detection of Candida DNA in simulated blood samples by polymerase chain reaction].", "content": "[Detection of Candida DNA in simulated blood samples by polymerase chain reaction]. Although blood culture method is accepted as gold standard in the laboratory diagnosis of invasive candidiasis seen in immunocompromised patients, cultivation of blood is considered as not a reliable and rapid method for the diagnosis of candidemia, since it may be negative in approximately half of the patients, slow growth rate of Candida in routine culture media and requirement of large amounts of blood for the isolation. The aim of this study was to detect Candida DNA in simulated blood samples by using polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Simulated samples were prepared by using blood samples of healthy volunteers. These samples were inoculated into tubes with EDTA and BACTEC 9240 blood culture bottles in which no growth was detected and with standard strains of C. albicans, C. tropicalis, C. parapsilosis, C. krusei, Escherichia coli and Staphylococcus aureus together with the clinical isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus, C. kefyr, C. glabrata, C. lusitaniae, C. guilliermondii and Rhodotorula sp. Additionally, blood culture samples of 23 cases whose blood culture bottles signaled as positive and revealed growth of Candida in agar plates were examined. DNA extraction of all samples were performed according to the standard procedure proposed by the MN Nucleospin Tissue Kit (Macherey-Nagel, Germany) for tissue samples; following the pre-treatment with erythrocyte, leukocyte and fungus cell wall lysis buffers. DNAs were amplified with PCR, using primers specific for the 5S rDNA region (PCon 1 and PCon 2 primers) and PCR products were obtained by electrophoresis in 2% agarose gel. Presence of a 105 base pair (bp) product was considered as positive. The lowest detection limit of PCR has been determined as 10(2)-10(3) cfu/ml Candida for our simulated samples. The presence of a 105 bp band has been observed in samples prepared with all Candida strains included in the study. Blood samples spiked with E. coli, S. aureus, A. fumigatus and Rhodotorula sp. and negative blood samples has been found negative in terms of Candida DNA. The same 105 bp product has been observed for blood culture samples with Candida growth. The PCR method applied in this study takes approximately seven hours and the cost was calculated approximately 6.00 U.S. dollars per patient. As a result, it has been determined that Candida DNA can be detected in a shorter time by PCR using specific primers for 5S rDNA gene from simulated samples prepared with either blood or BACTEC blood culture bottles."}
{"id": "17929218", "title": "[Molecular genetic methods in medical mycology: current state and perspectives].", "content": "[Molecular genetic methods in medical mycology: current state and perspectives]. Molecular genetic methods are becoming increasingly important as a part of diagnostics in the clinical mycology laboratory. The methods may be used to detect nucleic acids of fungi in clinical samples, to identify fungal cultures to the species level or to evaluate inter-strain differences within the species. For these purposes, numerous techniques have been developed over the past years. Recently, the effort to accept some of them as a widely accepted standard has increased, particularly in rapid diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. Various modifications of the PCR are used to detect DNA in clinical material, particularly nested and real-time PCR. Restriction endonuclease analysis, usually followed by Southern blot hybridization, as well as karyotyping by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis are often used as typing methods. In addition, a group of PCR-based typing techniques is developed extensively. These include random amplified polymorphic DNA, amplified fragment length polymorphism, inter-repeat PCR, p olymorphic microsatellite markers, amplification with sequence-specific primers, multilocus sequence typing and DNA microarray technique. The latter methods are considered to be most likely accepted as the gold standard in the future."}
{"id": "17923996", "title": "Genetic diversity of environmental Aspergillus flavus strains in the state of S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil by random amplified polymorphic DNA.", "content": "Genetic diversity of environmental Aspergillus flavus strains in the state of S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil by random amplified polymorphic DNA. Aspergillus flavus is a very important toxigenic fungus that produces aflatoxins, a group of extremely toxic substances to man and animals. Toxigenic fungi can grow in feed crops, such as maize, peanuts, and soybeans, being thus of high concern for public health. There are toxigenic and non-toxigenic A. flavus variants, but the necessary conditions for expressing the toxigenic potential are not fully understood. Therefore, we have studied total-DNA polymorphism from toxigenic and non toxigenic A. flavus strains isolated from maize crops and soil at two geographic locations, 300 km apart, in the Southeast region of Brazil. Total DNA from each A. flavus isolate was extracted and subjected to polymerase chain reaction amplification with five randomic primers through the RAPD (random amplified polymorphic DNA) technique. Phenetic and cladistic analyses of the data, based on bootstrap analyses, led us to conclude that RAPD was not suitable to discriminate toxigenic from non toxigenic strains. But the present results support the use of RAPD for strain characterization, especially for preliminary evaluation over extensive collections."}
{"id": "17905324", "title": "Aspergillus vertebral osteomyelitis in chronic leukocyte leukemia patient diagnosed by a novel panfungal polymerase chain reaction method.", "content": "Aspergillus vertebral osteomyelitis in chronic leukocyte leukemia patient diagnosed by a novel panfungal polymerase chain reaction method. Vertebral osteomyelitis and disciitis caused by Aspergillus spp is a rare event. Early diagnosis and early antifungal therapy are critical in improving the prognosis for these patients. The diagnosis of invasive fungal infections is, in many cases, not straightforward and requires invasive procedures so that histological examination and culture can be performed. Furthermore, current traditional microbiological tests (ie, cultures and stains) lack the sensitivity for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. To present a case of vertebral osteomyelitis caused by Aspergillus spp diagnosed using a novel polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay. Case report. Aspergillus DNA was detected in DNA extracted from the necrotic bone tissue by using a \"panfungal\" PCR novel method. Treatment with voriconazole was started based on the diagnosis. Using this novel technique enabled us to diagnose accurately an unusual bone pathogen that requires a unique treatment."}
{"id": "17900727", "title": "Detection and quantification of Aspergillus westerdijkiae in coffee beans based on selective amplification of beta-tubulin gene by using real-time PCR.", "content": "Detection and quantification of Aspergillus westerdijkiae in coffee beans based on selective amplification of beta-tubulin gene by using real-time PCR. Aspergillus westerdijkiae is a new species of fungus that was recently dismembered from Aspergillus ochraceus taxon. Most isolates of A. westerdijkiae are able to produce large amounts of a mycotoxin called ochratoxin A (OA). OA has been found in food and beverages, such as coffee. A. westerdijkiae is very similar to A. ochraceus, and several isolates previously identified as A. ochraceus are now identified as A. westerdijkiae. By using sequences of the beta-tubulin gene, we analyzed several isolates from Brazilian coffee bean samples, previously identified as A. ochraceus, to compare with those of A. westerdijkiae. In fact, most (84%) were identified as A. westerdijkiae. Since this species consistently produces large amounts of OA, we developed a specific primer-pair for detecting and quantifying it in coffee beans by using real-time PCR. The primers Bt2Aw-F 5'TGATACCTTGGCGCTTGTGACG and Bt2Aw-R 5'CGGAAGCCTAAAAAATGAAGAG provided an amplicon of 347 bp in all A. westerdijkiae isolates, and no cross-reaction was observed using DNA from A. ochraceus. The sensitivity of real-time PCR was more than 100 times higher than the cfu technique."}
{"id": "17897192", "title": "Molecular characterization of Aspergillus section Flavi isolates collected from peanut fields in Argentina using AFLPs.", "content": "Molecular characterization of Aspergillus section Flavi isolates collected from peanut fields in Argentina using AFLPs. The objectives of this study were: (i) to evaluate genetic relatedness among Aspergillus section Flavi strains isolated from soil and peanut seeds in Argentina; (ii) to determine if AFLP molecular markers could be useful to identify isolates up to species level, and to correlate these markers with the isolates' toxigenic potentials and/or vegetative compatibility group (VCG) affiliations. Amplified fragment length polymorphism (AFLPs) analysis was applied to compare 82 isolates of Aspergillus section Flavi. Cluster analysis showed a clear separation of A. flavus and A. parasiticus, and comparison of fingerprints revealed several specific markers for each group of isolates. AFLP analysis indicates that no genotypical differences can be established between aflatoxigenic and nonaflatoxigenic producers in both species analysed. In addition, candidate AFLP markers associated with a particular VCG were not found. There was a concordance between morphological identification and separation up to species level using molecular markers. The findings of specific bands for A. flavus and A. parasiticus may be useful for the design of specific PCR primers in order to differentiate these species and detect them in food. The present study provides new data on molecular characterization of Aspergillus section Flavi in Argentina."}
{"id": "17893168", "title": "Negative impact of Aspergillus galactomannan and DNA detection in the diagnosis of fungal rhinosinusitis.", "content": "Negative impact of Aspergillus galactomannan and DNA detection in the diagnosis of fungal rhinosinusitis. A proportion of patients with chronic rhinosinusitis, especially if nasal polyps are present, have a diagnosis of fungal rhinosinusitis. The diagnosis is difficult to establish because the symptoms and clinical and radiological signs are non-specific. Also current diagnostic methods, i.e. histology, fungal staining and culture, are insensitive. The performance of the Aspergillus galactomannan (GM) ELISA and real-time PCR for Aspergillus fumigatus mitochondrial DNA was evaluated for the detection of Aspergillus in sinus mucus samples from 25 patients with chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyposis. The results were compared with those from nasal lavage fluid from 19 healthy volunteers. Seven patients (28 %) were diagnosed as having fungal rhinosinusitis according to the presence of filaments in histology or direct microscopy using Calcofluor white. All fungal rhinosinusitis patients were negative in the GM ELISA. GM ELISA was positive in five patients whose samples were negative using conventional methods and A. fumigatus PCR. Two out of seven patients with fungal rhinosinusitis were positive by A. fumigatus PCR: one also had a positive A. fumigatus culture, and one had hyphae consistent with Aspergillus in histology. One additional patient had a weak positive PCR result, but other fungal tests were negative. In control subjects, the GM ELISA was positive in 21 %, whereas direct microscopy, culture and A. fumigatus PCR were negative in all samples. Direct microscopy and culture together with histology remain pivotal in defining fungal rhinosinusitis diagnosis. A. fumigatus PCR may have additional value in allowing the diagnosis to be made sooner, whereas the GM ELISA is not reliable in diagnosing Aspergillus infection of the paranasal sinuses."}
{"id": "17890344", "title": "Aspergillus volatiles regulate aflatoxin synthesis and asexual sporulation in Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Aspergillus volatiles regulate aflatoxin synthesis and asexual sporulation in Aspergillus parasiticus. Aspergillus parasiticus is one primary source of aflatoxin contamination in economically important crops. To prevent the potential health and economic impacts of aflatoxin contamination, our goal is to develop practical strategies to reduce aflatoxin synthesis on susceptible crops. One focus is to identify biological and environmental factors that regulate aflatoxin synthesis and to manipulate these factors to control aflatoxin biosynthesis in the field or during crop storage. In the current study, we analyzed the effects of aspergillus volatiles on growth, development, aflatoxin biosynthesis, and promoter activity in the filamentous fungus A. parasiticus. When colonies of Aspergillus nidulans and A. parasiticus were incubated in the same growth chamber, we observed a significant reduction in aflatoxin synthesis and asexual sporulation by A. parasiticus. Analysis of the headspace gases demonstrated that A. nidulans produced much larger quantities of 2-buten-1-ol (CA) and 2-ethyl-1-hexanol (EH) than A. parasiticus. In its pure form, EH inhibited growth and increased aflatoxin accumulation in A. parasiticus at all doses tested; EH also stimulated aflatoxin transcript accumulation. In contrast, CA exerted dose-dependent up-regulatory or down-regulatory effects on aflatoxin accumulation, conidiation, and aflatoxin transcript accumulation. Experiments with reporter strains carrying nor-1 promoter deletions and mutations suggested that the differential effects of CA were mediated through separate regulatory regions in the nor-1 promoter. The potential efficacy of CA as a tool for analysis of transcriptional regulation of aflatoxin biosynthesis is discussed. We also identify a novel, rapid, and reliable method to assess norsolorinic acid accumulation in solid culture using a Chroma Meter CR-300 apparatus."}
{"id": "17886188", "title": "Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) identification of Aspergillus niger and Aspergillus tubingensis based on the calmodulin gene.", "content": "Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) identification of Aspergillus niger and Aspergillus tubingensis based on the calmodulin gene. Aspergillus niger and A. tubingensis, species belonging to section Nigri, are commonly found in plant products and processed food, such as grapes, cereals, coffee, and derived products. These two species are very difficult to differentiate by classical morphological criteria and some isolates are known to produce ochratoxin A. The exact identification of these two species is very important to avoid the overestimation of toxicological contamination and related risks. A polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based identification and detection assay was developed as a tool to identify A. niger and A. tubingensis, using molecular differences obtained by sequencing the calmodulin gene. Two pairs of species-specific primers were designed and empirically evaluated for PCR identification of A. niger and A. tubingensis. Species-specific PCR products generated by each primer set were 505 bp (A. tubingensis) and 245 bp (A. niger) in length, which could be potentially useful for a multiplex PCR assay. The sensitivity of this assay was about 10 pg DNA in a 25-microl PCR reaction volume, using pure total DNA of the two species. The method described in this study represents a rapid and reliable procedure to assess the presence in food products of two ochratoxigenic species of section Nigri."}
{"id": "17886187", "title": "Rapid polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-single-stranded conformational polymorphism (SSCP) screening method for the identification of Aspergillus section Nigri species by the detection of calmodulin nucleotide variations.", "content": "Rapid polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-single-stranded conformational polymorphism (SSCP) screening method for the identification of Aspergillus section Nigri species by the detection of calmodulin nucleotide variations. Single-stranded conformational polymorphism (SSCP) analysis for genetic diversity studies has been widely applied to detect indirectly sequence differences up to a single base in amplified DNA fragments of the same length, representing an alternative to gene sequencing. In this study SSCP analysis was used to detect sequence variations contained in an about 180-bp region of the calmodulin gene in order to identify Aspergillus section Nigri species. The method described shows that fluorescence-based SSCP analysis by capillary electrophoresis is cheaper and faster than direct sequencing, and suitable for computer-assisted analyses allowing discrimination between the Aspergillus species belonging to the Nigri section: A. aculeatus, Aspergillus 'atypic uniseriate', A. brasiliensis, A. carbonarius, A. ellipticus, A. foetidus, A. heteromorphus, A. ibericus, A. japonicus, A. niger, and A. tubingensis."}
{"id": "17886186", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus carbonarius and other black aspergilli from grapes by DNA OLISA microarray.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus carbonarius and other black aspergilli from grapes by DNA OLISA microarray. Black aspergilli, and particularly Aspergillus carbonarius, are responsible for ochratoxin A production in grapes. Correct identification of these species is essential for toxicological risk assessment in grape and wine. A low-complexity oligonucleotide microarray (OLISA, Apibio, F) based on DNA oligonucleotides probes, obtained from sequences of the calmodulin gene, was set up in order to detect A. carbonarius, A. japonicus/A. aculeatus and A. ibericus isolated from grape. The designed microarray distinguished all Aspergillus species and the detection limit for A. carbonarius was 3.2 pg of DNA as a template for the PCR reaction. This microarray offers a quick and parallel analysis to detect individual Aspergillus species in pure cultures and in naturally contaminated grape samples."}
{"id": "17886178", "title": "Analysis of aflatoxin regulatory factors in serial transfer-induced non-aflatoxigenic Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Analysis of aflatoxin regulatory factors in serial transfer-induced non-aflatoxigenic Aspergillus parasiticus. Aflatoxins (AFs) are carcinogenic secondary metabolites of Aspergillus parasiticus. In previous studies, non-toxigenic A. parasiticus sec- (for secondary metabolism negative) variants were generated through serial transfer of mycelia from their toxigenic sec+ (for secondary metabolism positive) parents for genetic and physiological analysis for understanding regulation of AF biosynthesis. Previous studies have shown no difference in the DNA sequence of aflR, a positive regulator of AF production, in the sec+ and sec- strains. In this study, AflJ, another positive regulator of AF production, laeA, a global regulator of secondary metabolism, and the intergenic region between aflR and aflJ, were analysed to determine if they play a role in establishment of the sec- phenotype. The study showed that while this sequence identity extended to the aflJ as well as the aflJ-aflR intergenic region, expression of aflR in the sec- strain was several fold lower than that observed in the sec+ strain, while aflJ expression was barely detectable in the sec- strain. Western blot analysis indicated that despite AflR protein being present in the sec- strain, no toxin production resulted. Introduction of a second copy of aflR into the sec- strain increased aflR expression, but did not restore AF production. Lastly, reverse transcription-PCR analysis revealed that laeA was expressed in both sec+ and sec- strains. These results suggest that although aflR, aflJ and laeA are necessary for AF production, they are not sufficient. We propose that the aflR and aflJ expression may be regulated by element(s) downstream from laeA or from pathways not influenced by laeA."}
{"id": "17886177", "title": "Aflatoxin formation and gene expression in response to carbon source media shift in Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Aflatoxin formation and gene expression in response to carbon source media shift in Aspergillus parasiticus. Aflatoxins are toxic and carcinogenic polyketide metabolites produced by fungal species, including Aspergillus flavus and A. parasiticus. The biosynthesis of aflatoxins is modulated by many environmental factors, including the availability of a carbon source. The gene expression profile of A. parasiticus was evaluated during a shift from a medium with low concentration of simple sugars, yeast extract (YE), to a similar medium with sucrose, yeast extract sucrose (YES). Gene expression and aflatoxins (B1, B2, G1, and G2) were quantified from fungal mycelia harvested pre- and post-shifting. When compared with YE media, YES caused temporary reduction of the aflatoxin levels detected at 3-h post-shifting and they remained low well past 12 h post-shift. Aflatoxin levels did not exceed the levels in YE until 24 h post-shift, at which time point a tenfold increase was observed over YE. Microarray analysis comparing the RNA samples from the 48-h YE culture to the YES samples identified a total of 2120 genes that were expressed across all experiments, including most of the aflatoxin biosynthesis genes. One-way analysis of variance (ANOVA) identified 56 genes that were expressed with significant variation across all time points. Three genes responsible for converting norsolorinic acid to averantin were identified among these significantly expressed genes. The potential involvement of these genes in the regulation of aflatoxin biosynthesis is discussed."}
{"id": "17886176", "title": "Function and regulation of aflJ in the accumulation of aflatoxin early pathway intermediate in Aspergillus flavus.", "content": "Function and regulation of aflJ in the accumulation of aflatoxin early pathway intermediate in Aspergillus flavus. aflJ resides within the aflatoxin biosynthetic gene cluster adjacent to the pathway regulatory gene aflR and is involved in aflatoxin production, but its function is unknown. Over-expression of aflJ in the aflatoxin-producing strain 86-10 resulted in increased aflatoxin. In an effort to study the function and regulation of aflJ, strain 649-1 lacking the entire biosynthetic cluster was transformed with either reporter constructs, expression constructs, or cosmid clones and analysed for gene expression or metabolite accumulation. Over-expression of aflJ did not result in elevated transcription of ver-1, omtA or aflR. To determine if over-expression of aflJ leads to an increase in early pathway intermediates, strain 649-1 was transformed with cosmid 5E6 and either gpdA::aflJ alone, gpdA::aflR alone, or aflJ and aflR together. Cosmid 5E6 contains the genes pksA, nor-1, fas-1, and fas-2, which are required for the biosynthesis of the early pathway intermediate averantin. 649-1 transformants containing 5E6 alone produced no detectable averantin. In contrast, 5E6 transformants with gpdA::aflR produced averantin, but only half as much as those transformants containing both aflR and aflJ. Northern blot analysis showed that 5E6 transformants containing both aflR and aflJ had five times more pksA transcripts and four times more nor-1 transcripts than 5E6 transformants containing gpdA::aflR alone. Further, aflJ transcription was regulated by aflR. Over-expression of aflR resulted in elevated aflJ transcription. aflJ appears to modulate the regulation of early genes in aflatoxin biosynthesis."}
{"id": "17881255", "title": "Transposons in biotechnologically relevant strains of Aspergillus niger and Penicillium chrysogenum.", "content": "Transposons in biotechnologically relevant strains of Aspergillus niger and Penicillium chrysogenum. In the past 15 years, many class I and class II transposons were identified in filamentous fungi. However, little is known about the influence of transposons during industrial strain development. The availability of the complete genome sequences of the industrially relevant fungi Aspergillus niger and Penicillium chrysogenum has enabled an analysis of transposons present in these two fungi. Here, a compilation of the transposon-like sequences identified is provided. We investigated a yet undescribed A. niger retrotransposon, ANiTa1, as well as two P. chrysogenum transposons (PeTra1 and PeTra2), which are the first P. chrysogenum transposons ever described, in more detail. Analysis of the genomic distribution of selected transposable elements in five strains of A. niger and seven strains of P. chrysogenum revealed the transposon distribution to be virtually identical. However, one element, Vader-previously published-from A. niger, showed strain-specific differences in transposon distribution, suggesting transposition activity during classical strain improvement programs."}
{"id": "17878557", "title": "Opportunistic Aspergillus pathogens measured in home and hospital tap water by quantitative PCR (QPCR).", "content": "Opportunistic Aspergillus pathogens measured in home and hospital tap water by quantitative PCR (QPCR). Opportunistic fungal pathogens are a concern because of the increasing number of immunocompromised patients. The goal of this research was to test a simple extraction method and rapid quantitative PCR (QPCR) measurement of the occurrence of potential pathogens, Aspergillus fumigatus, A. flavus, A. terreus and A. niger, in home tap water and a hospital water supply. Water samples were taken from the kitchen tap in the homes of 60 patients who were diagnosed with legionellosis. Water samples were also taken from three locations in a hospital that generated all of its hot water by flash heating. Opportunistic infectious agents Aspergillus fumigatus, A. flavus, A. terreus and A. niger were measured using QPCR. Aspergillus terreus DNA was found in 16.7% and A. fumigatus DNA in 1.7% of the samples taken from the kitchen tap. None of the Aspergillus species were found in any of the hospital water samples.The development of a simple DNA extraction method along with QPCR analysis is suitable for rapid screening of tap water for opportunistic fungal pathogens. This simple method can be used to obtain pathogen occurrence results in about 3 h, instead of waiting days to weeks for culture data. Obtaining pathogen occurrence data in a timely manner could promote the elimination of the pathogens from the water supply of immunocompromised patients."}
{"id": "17868942", "title": "Selection of reference genes for normalisation of specific gene quantification data of Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Selection of reference genes for normalisation of specific gene quantification data of Aspergillus niger. Aspergillus niger is a widely used expression host for homologous and heterologous protein production in biotechnological processes. In order to increase product yields, a thorough optimisation of these cultivation processes is necessary. Considering mRNA as the key molecule, which transports the genetic information between DNA and protein production side, the quantification of product specific gene expression provides useful information about product formation already on the level of transcription. Quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR) is a powerful tool to obtain data about gene transcription. However, using this technique the choice of an appropriate reference system is a crucial aspect to provide optimal data normalisation. A prominent approach is the use of so called housekeeping genes as internal references. However, validation of the usability of these reference genes is the fundamental step before starting with qRT-PCR experiments. Adequate reference genes for A. niger have not been published so far. Therefore, 10 possible candidate genes from different functional classes were selected and their applicability as internal references validated. Transcript levels of these genes were compared in sets of 9, 41 and 19 samples from diverse cultivations of A. niger. Under the chosen experimental conditions, the genes act, sarA and cox5 have been identified as genes with the most stable gene expression. The three reference genes were used to normalise qRT-PCR data for glaA gene expression which showed a high correlation with glucoamylase production in continuous cultivations."}
{"id": "17854403", "title": "Transcriptional control of nmrA by the bZIP transcription factor MeaB reveals a new level of nitrogen regulation in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Transcriptional control of nmrA by the bZIP transcription factor MeaB reveals a new level of nitrogen regulation in Aspergillus nidulans. Fungi can use a diverse range of nitrogen sources. Some nitrogen sources sustain a rapid growth rate and are used in preference to less readily metabolized nitrogen sources. The mechanisms involved in this control of nitrogen utilization have been studied in the model filamentous ascomycete, Aspergillus nidulans. The GATA transcription factor AreA is necessary for the expression of nitrogen-catabolic permeases and enzymes. AreA activity is controlled by multiple mechanisms including regulated areA transcript levels and regulated AreA nuclear export. During nitrogen sufficiency, AreA activation is also prevented by the co-repressor NmrA. We have investigated nitrogen signalling to NmrA. NmrA overexpression prevents AreA function irrespective of the nitrogen status. The mRNA levels of areA and nmrA are inversely regulated, suggesting that the relative levels of AreA and NmrA are critical in determining AreA activation. The bZIP transcription factor MeaB was found to activate nmrA expression and a conserved element, TTGCACCAT, bound by MeaB in vitro is present in the promoters of NmrA homologues in other filamentous ascomycetes. Expression of meaB was not strongly regulated suggesting that transcriptional activation by MeaB is modulated by the nitrogen status. This work highlights a new level of complexity in the regulation of nitrogen catabolism."}
{"id": "17822042", "title": "[Rapid improvement of lipase production in Penicillium expansum by genome shuffling].", "content": "[Rapid improvement of lipase production in Penicillium expansum by genome shuffling]. In the present study, the genome shuffling was used to improve lipase production of Penicillium expansum. A lipase producing mutant strain-Penicillium expansum FS8486 and a wild type of Aspergillus Tamarii FS-132 isolated from soil of a volcano in Xinjiang were used as the parental strains. After two rounds of genome shuffling, several elite daughter strains were screened. The lipase activity in one of the daughter strains was increased 317% over the starting strain FS8486. Comparisons of the morphology, RAPD (Random Amplification of Polymorphic DNA) polymorphism and the fatty acid compositions between the daughter and the parental strains suggested that the filial generation were generated by genome shuffling. In this study, the genome shuffling used successfully first time in eukaryotic microorganism and increases the production of the desired metabolite in short time, the study will be useful to spread the genome shuffling in eukaryotic microbial breeding."}
{"id": "17822032", "title": "[Cloning and characterization of a novel glutathione transferase gene from Penicillium chrysogenum].", "content": "[Cloning and characterization of a novel glutathione transferase gene from Penicillium chrysogenum]. Glutathione transferases (GSTs) are a family of multifunctional proteins that mainly catalyze the conjugation of intracellular glutathione (GSH) to a wide variety of endogenous and exogenous electrophilic compounds. GSTs play important roles in stress tolerance and in the detoxification metabolism in organisms. A novel GST gene, Pc gstB, was cloned from penicillin producing fungus Penicillium chrysogenum using RT-PCR. The open reading frame (ORF) of Pc gstB was 651 bp and encoded a peptide of 216 residues. The deduced amino acids sequence had conserved GST domain and showed 65% identity to the characterized Aspergillus fumigutus gstB. The entire ORF of Pc gstB was inserted into vector pTrc99A and transformed into Escherichia coli DH5alpha. Recombinant PcGstB was overexpressed and its GST activity toward substrate 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB) was validated."}
{"id": "17806041", "title": "The value of computed tomography-guided percutaneous lung biopsy for diagnosis of invasive fungal infection in immunocompromised patients.", "content": "The value of computed tomography-guided percutaneous lung biopsy for diagnosis of invasive fungal infection in immunocompromised patients. We assessed Calcofluor white staining, Aspergillus polymerase chain reaction, and a galactomannan enzyme immunoassay for diagnosis of fungal infection with use of computed tomography-guided percutaneous lung biopsy specimens obtained from 61 patients. The sensitivity and specificity of computerized tomography, Aspergillus polymerase chain reaction, and galactomannan enzyme immunoassay were 100% and 50%, 100% and 86%, and 88% and 94%, respectively."}
{"id": "17804102", "title": "PCR-based diagnosis and quantification of mycotoxin producing fungi.", "content": "PCR-based diagnosis and quantification of mycotoxin producing fungi. Mycotoxins are secondary metabolites produced by filamentous fungi which have toxicologically relevant effects on vertebrates when administered in small doses via a natural route. In order to improve food safety and to protect consumers from harmful contaminants, presence of fungi with the potential to produce such compounds must be checked at critical control points during production of agricultural commodities as well as during the process of food and feed preparation. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) based diagnosis has been applied as an alternative assay replacing cumbersome and time consuming microbiological and chemical methods for detection and identification of the most serious toxin producers in the fungal genera Fusarium, Aspergillus, and Penicillium. The current review covers the numerous PCR-based assays which have been published over the last decade since the first description of the use of this technology to detect aflatoxin biosynthesis genes in A. flavus."}
{"id": "17802916", "title": "Development and validation of a molecular method for the diagnosis of medically important fungal infections.", "content": "Development and validation of a molecular method for the diagnosis of medically important fungal infections. The increasing incidence of severe fungal infections highlights the need for rapid and precise identification methods in clinical mycology. The aim of this study was to develop and validate a culture-indipendent molecular approach that could allow the detection of fungal pathogens in clinical samples, with particular attention to the identification of drug-resistant Candida and Aspergillus species. A real-time multiplex PCR assay was developed using TaqMan probes specific for highly discriminating ITS sequences. In its multiplex format the assay showed a high specificity, clearly discriminating among different species, as well as a high sensitivity (20 CFU/1 mL sample), making it a potentially useful starting point for the development of a more complete molecular diagnostic assay."}
{"id": "17761478", "title": "The Pan-AC assay: a single-reaction real-time PCR test for quantitative detection of a broad range of Aspergillus and Candida species.", "content": "The Pan-AC assay: a single-reaction real-time PCR test for quantitative detection of a broad range of Aspergillus and Candida species. In view of the growing incidence and the high mortality of invasive aspergillosis and candidiasis, adequate diagnostic techniques permitting timely onset of treatment are of paramount importance. More than 90 % of all invasive fungal infections in immunocompromised individuals can be attributed to Candida and Aspergillus species. To date, standardized techniques permitting rapid, sensitive and, no less importantly, economic screening for the clinically most relevant fungi are lacking. In the present report, a real-time quantitative PCR assay, developed for the detection of the most common pathogenic Candida and Aspergillus species, is described. The single-reaction PCR assay targets a judiciously selected region of the 28S subunit of the fungal rDNA gene. The unique design of the universal primer/probe system, including a pan-Aspergillus and pan-Candida (Pan-AC) hydrolysis probe, facilitates the detection of numerous Aspergillus species (e.g. Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus terreus, Aspergillus versicolor and Aspergillus nidulans) and Candida species (e.g. Candida albicans, Candida glabrata, Candida krusei, Candida tropicalis, Candida parapsilosis, Candida kefyr, Candida guilliermondii, Candida lusitaniae and Candida dubliniensis). The assay permits highly reproducible detection of 10 fg fungal DNA, which corresponds to a fraction of a fungal genome, and facilitates accurate quantification of fungal load across a range of at least five logs. Upon standardization of the technique using cultured fungal strains, the applicability in the clinical setting was assessed by investigating a series of clinical specimens from patients with documented fungal infections (n=17). The Pan-AC assay provides an attractive and economic approach to the screening and monitoring of invasive aspergillosis and candidiasis, which is readily applicable to routine clinical diagnosis."}
{"id": "17728508", "title": "Comparison of the real-time nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (RTi-NASBA) with conventional NASBA, and galactomannan assay for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Comparison of the real-time nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (RTi-NASBA) with conventional NASBA, and galactomannan assay for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. We compared a real time-nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (RTi-NASBA) with conventional NASBA, galactomannan enzyme immunosorbent assay (GMEIA), and Mycology Study Group of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC/MSG) criteria for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA). From May 2004 to May 2005, blood samples (314 in total) were collected twice a week from 78 patients with hematologic diseases during neutropenic fever after chemotherapy or hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Results were compared with each other on the basis of EORTC/ MSG criteria. The cutoff of conventional NASBA was set to be 3.5; GM 0.5; RTi-NASBA, 20% above the negative control. There were 22 patients with IA (7 probables and 15 possibles) and 56 patients with nonfungal infection. The Kappa statistic for RTi-NASBA versus conventional NASBA was 0.80 (0.66-0.82; p<0.001) indicating that there was fairly good accordance between two tests. RTi-NASBA showed sensitivity 0.96, specificity 0.43, positive- and negative-predictive value 0.40 and 0.96, respectively. GM showed good specificity (0.98), while the sensitivity (0.45) was poor. When we use the combination of GM with either of two NASBAs, the sensitivity was improved up to 100%. In conclusion, RTi-NASBA could be a good alternative to the conventional one for the screening of IA."}
{"id": "17722701", "title": "Role of the transcriptional activator xlnR of Fusarium oxysporum in regulation of xylanase genes and virulence.", "content": "Role of the transcriptional activator xlnR of Fusarium oxysporum in regulation of xylanase genes and virulence. Fungal infection of plants involves degradation of the host cell wall through the action of lytic enzymes secreted by the pathogen. The role of these enzymes in virulence is difficult to determine due to their functional redundancy and, therefore, remains controversial. Here, we have studied XlnR, a zinc-finger transcription factor from the vascular wilt pathogen Fusarium oxysporum that is orthologous to the major transcriptional activator of xylanase genes in Aspergillus spp. Transcription of the xlnR gene was activated by inducing carbon sources such as oat spelt xylan (OSX) and repressed by glucose. Targeted knockout of xlnR in F. oxysporum resulted in lack of transcriptional activation of structural xylanase genes, both in culture and during infection of tomato plants, as well as in dramatically reduced extracellular xylanase activity. By contrast, overexpression of xlnR under the control of the Aspergillus nidulans gpdA promoter did not significantly increase xylanase activity, suggesting that XlnR is regulated not only at the transcriptional but also at the post-translational level. The deltaxlnR mutants were still fully virulent on tomato plants. Thus, XlnR, the major transcriptional activator of xylanase genes, is not an essential virulence determinant in F. oxysporum."}
{"id": "17719249", "title": "Arginine catabolism in Aspergillus nidulans is regulated by the rrmA gene coding for the RNA-binding protein.", "content": "Arginine catabolism in Aspergillus nidulans is regulated by the rrmA gene coding for the RNA-binding protein. Expression of Aspergillus nidulans arginine catabolism genes, agaA and otaA, is regulated at the level of transcription by a specific induction and two global carbon and nitrogen repression systems. Post-transcriptional and/or post-translational mechanisms have also been proposed to operate additionally. Gene tagging with transposon impala allowed us to select the rrmA gene. RRMA protein contains three conserved RRM domains, typical for RNA-binding proteins. The gene has a complex structure with several potential transcription start sites, an exceptionally long intron in 5'UTR and few uORFs in the intron. RRMA is highly conserved among fungi. Its homologues, Csx1p of Schizosaccharomyces pombe and Ngr1p of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, participate in the post-transcriptional regulation of specific genes by modifying transcript stability. Levels of otaA and agaA transcripts in the rrmA::impala loss of function mutant grown under inducing conditions are significantly higher than in the wild type strain. We propose that RRMA participates in a mechanism promoting agaA and otaA mRNA degradation. The rrmA::impala mutation has pleiotropic character and results in a slow growth phenotype indicating that rrmA functions are not limited to the regulation of arginine catabolism."}
{"id": "17715373", "title": "DNA microarray-based detection and identification of fungal pathogens in clinical samples from neutropenic patients.", "content": "DNA microarray-based detection and identification of fungal pathogens in clinical samples from neutropenic patients. The increasing incidence of invasive fungal infections (IFI) in immunocompromised patients emphasizes the need to improve diagnostic tools. We established a DNA microarray to detect and identify DNA from 14 fungal pathogens (Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus terreus, Candida albicans, Candida dubliniensis, Candida glabrata, Candida lusitaniae, Candida tropicalis, Fusarium oxysporum, Fusarium solani, Mucor racemosus, Rhizopus microsporus, Scedosporium prolificans, and Trichosporon asahii) in blood, bronchoalveolar lavage, and tissue samples from high-risk patients. The assay combines multiplex PCR and consecutive DNA microarray hybridization. PCR primers and capture probes were derived from unique sequences of the 18S, 5.8S, and internal transcribed spacer 1 regions of the fungal rRNA genes. Hybridization with genomic DNA of fungal species resulted in species-specific hybridization patterns. By testing clinical samples from 46 neutropenic patients with proven, probable, or possible IFI or without IFI, we detected A. flavus, A. fumigatus, C. albicans, C. dubliniensis, C. glabrata, F. oxysporum, F. solani, R. microsporus, S. prolificans, and T. asahii. For 22 of 22 patients (5 without IFI and 17 with possible IFI), negative diagnostic results corresponded with negative microarray data. For 11 patients with proven (n = 4), probable (n = 2), and possible IFI (n = 5), data for results positive by microarray were validated by other diagnostic findings. For 11 of 11 patients with possible IFI, the microarray results provided additional information. For two patients with proven and probable invasive aspergillosis, respectively, microarray results were negative. The assay detected genomic DNA from 14 fungal pathogens from the clinical samples, pointing to a high significance for improving the diagnosis of IFI."}
{"id": "17707328", "title": "Infectious uveitis in immunocompromised patients and the diagnostic value of polymerase chain reaction and Goldmann-Witmer coefficient in aqueous analysis.", "content": "Infectious uveitis in immunocompromised patients and the diagnostic value of polymerase chain reaction and Goldmann-Witmer coefficient in aqueous analysis. To establish the causes of uveitis in immunocompromised patients and to determine the contribution of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and Goldmann-Witmer coefficient (GWC) analysis of aqueous humor in patients with an infectious etiology. Retrospective case series of 56 consecutive immunocompromised patients with uveitis. All patients underwent full ophthalmologic examination and laboratory blood analysis for uveitis. Aqueous humor analyses were performed using PCR and GWC for cytomegalovirus (CMV), herpes simplex virus (HSV), varicella zoster virus (VZV), and Toxoplasma gondii. Of 56 immunocompromised patients, 43 (77%), all posterior and panuveitis, had intraocular infections. Twenty-one (49%) had CMV, three (7%) had VZV, 11 (26%) had T. gondii, six (14%) had Treponema pallidum, and one (2%) each had Aspergillus and Candida. In AIDS patients, CMV was the most common cause. A strong correlation between AIDS and ocular syphilis was also observed (P = .007). In nonAIDS immunocompromised patients, T. gondii was most frequently detected. Twenty-seven patients were examined by both PCR and GWC; five (18.5%) were positive by both assays, 15 (55.5%) were positive by PCR alone and seven (26%) by GWC alone. Viral infections were detected by PCR in 16 of 17 (94%) cases; T. gondii in four of 10 (40%) patients. Using GWC, a viral infection was diagnosed in three of 17 (18%) and T. gondii in nine of 10 (90%) cases. In immunocompromised patients, PCR is superior in diagnosing viral infections. Analysis of intraocular antibody production played a decisive role in the diagnosis of ocular toxoplasmosis."}
{"id": "17692974", "title": "Retrotransposon insertion-site context (RISC) typing: a novel typing method for Aspergillus fumigatus and a convenient PCR alternative to restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis.", "content": "Retrotransposon insertion-site context (RISC) typing: a novel typing method for Aspergillus fumigatus and a convenient PCR alternative to restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. Retrotransposon(-like) sequences in Aspergillus fumigatus have been used as typing targets through restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP)/Southern blotting approaches. Differences in fingerprints between unrelated isolates are the result of variations in copy-number and differences in the regions flanking the retrotransposon elements. Here, we present retrotransposon insertion-site context (RISC) typing as a novel and convenient PCR-based typing alternative to the RFLP approach. RISC typing aims at amplifying the sequences flanking the retrotransposon-like sequences in A. fumigatus and allows large numbers of isolates to be analyzed in a timely fashion with excellent discriminatory power."}
{"id": "17688585", "title": "Evidence for post-translational regulation of NrtA, the Aspergillus nidulans high-affinity nitrate transporter.", "content": "Evidence for post-translational regulation of NrtA, the Aspergillus nidulans high-affinity nitrate transporter. Here, influx and efflux of (13)NO(3)(-), and net fluxes of (14)NO(3)(-) and (14)NO(2)(-), were measured in Aspergillus nidulans mutants niaD171 and niiA5, devoid of nitrate reductase (NR) and nitrite reductase (NiR) activities, respectively. Transcript and protein abundances of NrtA, the A. nidulans principal high-affinity NO(3)(-) transporter, were determined using semiquantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and western blots, respectively. (13)NO(3)(-) influx in niaD171 was negligible relative to wild-type values, whereas efflux to influx ratios increased nine-fold. Nevertheless, NrtA mRNA and NrtA protein were expressed at levels more than two-fold and three-fold higher, respectively, in niaD171 than in the wild-type strain. This is the first demonstration of diminished high-affinity NO(3)(-) influx associated with elevated transporter levels, providing evidence that, in addition to transcriptional regulation, control of NrtA expression operates at the post-translational level. This mechanism allows for rapid control of NO(3)(-) transport at the protein level, reduces the extent of futile cycling of NO(3)(-) that would otherwise represent a significant energy drain when influx exceeds the capacity for assimilation or storage, and may be responsible for the rapid switching between the on and off state that is associated with simultaneous provision of NH(4)(+) to mycelia absorbing NO(3)(-)."}
{"id": "17682776", "title": "The effect of elevated temperature on gene transcription and aflatoxin biosynthesis.", "content": "The effect of elevated temperature on gene transcription and aflatoxin biosynthesis. The molecular regulation of aflatoxin biosynthesis is complex and influenced by several environmental conditions; one of these is temperature. Aflatoxins are produced optimally at 28-30 C, and production decreases as temperatures approach 37 C, the optimum temperature for fungal growth. To better characterize the influence of temperature on aflatoxin biosynthesis, we monitored the accumulation of aflatoxin and the expression of more than 5000 genes in Aspergillus flavus at 28 C and 37 C. A total of 144 genes were expressed differentially (P < 0.001) between the two temperatures. Among the 103 genes more highly expressed at 28 C, approximately 25% were involved in secondary metabolism and about 30% were classified as hypothetical. Genes encoding a catalase and superoxide dismutase were among those more highly expressed at 37 C. As anticipated we also found that all the aflatoxin biosynthetic genes were much more highly expressed at 28 C relative to 37 C. To our surprise expression of the pathway regulatory genes aflR and aflS, as well as aflR antisense, did not differ between the two temperatures. These data indicate that the failure of A. flavus to produce aflatoxin at 37 C is not due to lack of transcription of aflR or aflS. One explanation is that AFLR is nonfunctional at high temperatures. Regardless, the factor(s) sensing the elevated temperatures must be acute. When aflatoxin-producing cultures are transferred to 37 C they immediately stop producing aflatoxin."}
{"id": "17680211", "title": "Rapid isolation of fungal genomic DNA suitable for long distance PCR.", "content": "Rapid isolation of fungal genomic DNA suitable for long distance PCR. A quick and reliable method for screening fungal transformants for specific genetic modifications is essential for many molecular applications. We have compared the applicability of a few rapid DNA extraction methods for Myrothecium and Aspergillus and tested the resulting DNA as to its suitability for PCR. For Myrothecium gramineum, the highest DNA concentration was obtained with the procedure described by N. Vanittanakom et al. (J Clin Microbiol 2002, 40: 1739-1742). For A. nidulans, concentrations higher than 100 ng/mul were reached with the glass bead, the LiCl, the boiling, the liquid N(2) and the protoplast-based method. Samples of M. gramineum resulting from the boiling and the liquid N(2) procedure were suitable for the amplification of fragments up to 2.3 kb. The direct use of mycelium from M. gramineum in the PCR tube can be employed for the reproducible amplification of fragments up to 1 kb. Amplification of fragments up to 4.3 kb requires the use of the Elongase Mix on samples extracted with the liquid N(2) procedure."}
{"id": "17672321", "title": "[RAPD analysis of Aspergilli and its application in brewing industry].", "content": "[RAPD analysis of Aspergilli and its application in brewing industry]. Phylogenetic analysis of sixteen Aspergilli was done by RAPD technology, using Aspergillus oryzae AS3.951, Aspergillus flavus GIM3.18 and Aspergillus sojae AS3.495 as controls. First, genome DNA of the sixteen test strains were prepared by improved extraction method, and their quality was verified by electrophoresis and spectrophotometry. They displayed an identical band (approximately 20 kb) in agarose gel electrophoresis, which conformed to the fact that these strains all belong to Aspergillus. OD260/OD280 of the prepared DNA ranged from 1.80 to 1.90, illustrating that they were good enough to be used as templates in the following RAPD-PCR experiment. Then, three appropriate primers (Primerl, Primer2, Primer5) for RAPD-PCR were screened from nine random primers, and repetitive experiments demonstrated that the RAPD-PCR polymorphic patterns of the sixteen test strains based on these three primers were stable. There were usually 8-14 bands in their RADP-PCR patterns, where the number of the main bands was 4-9 and the secondary bands were abundant. There were totally 181 bands in their RAPD-PCR patterns, where the percentage of polymorphic bands reached to 40.9% (74 bands). The similarity coefficient between the strains was calculated based on their RAPD-PCR patterns, ranging from 8.0% to 96.6%. All these data suggests that the genetic polymorphism of the strains is abundant and they have evident genetic differentiation. The phylogenetic tree of the sixteen test strains was reconstructed according to their RAPD-PCR patterns with Primer1, Primer2 and Primer5. It basically corresponded to traditional morphological taxonomy, demonstrating that the application of RAPD molecular marker in the phylogenetic analysis of these Aspergilli is feasible. Besides, the aflatoxin-producing strains (GIM3.17, CICC2219, CICC2357, CICC2390, CICC2402, CICC2404) could be easily discriminated by RAPD molecular marker, whereas it is difficult to distinguish them by conventional morphological taxonomy. Consequently, RAPD molecular marker provides a novel clue to discriminating aflatoxin-producing strains in brewing industry."}
{"id": "17671663", "title": "Quantitative PCR analysis of molds in the dust from homes of asthmatic children in North Carolina.", "content": "Quantitative PCR analysis of molds in the dust from homes of asthmatic children in North Carolina. The vacuum bag (VB) dust from the homes of 19 asthmatic children in North Carolina (NC) was analyzed by mold specific quantitative PCR. These results were compared to the analysis of the VB dust from 176 homes in the HUD, American Healthy Home Survey of homes in the US. The Environmental Relative Moldiness Index (ERMI) was calculated for each of the homes. The mean and standard deviation (SD) of the ERMI values in the homes of the NC asthmatic children was 16.4 (6.77), compared to the HUD survey VB ERMI value mean and SD of 11.2 (6.72), and was significantly greater (t-test, p = 0.003) in the NC asthmatic children's homes. The molds Chaetomium globosum, Aspergillus fumigatus, and the Eurotium Group were the primary species in the NC homes of asthmatics, making the ERMI values significantly higher (p < 0.02 for each). Vacuum bag dust analysis may be a useful method for estimating the mold burden in a home."}
{"id": "17650201", "title": "A multiplex RT-PCR approach to detect aflatoxigenic strains of Aspergillus flavus.", "content": "A multiplex RT-PCR approach to detect aflatoxigenic strains of Aspergillus flavus. To develop a multiplex reverse transciption-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) protocol to discriminate aflatoxin-producing from aflatoxin-nonproducing strains of Aspergillus flavus. The protocol was first optimized on a set of strains obtained from laboratory collections and then validated on A. flavus strains isolated from corn grains collected in the fields of the Po Valley (Italy). Five genes of the aflatoxin gene cluster of A. flavus, two regulatory (aflR and aflS) and three structural (aflD, aflO and aflQ), were targeted with specific primers to highlight their expression in mycelia cultivated under inducing conditions for aflatoxins production. 48-h-old cultures expressed the complete set of the genes analysed here whereas 24-h-old ones did not. Genomic PCR (quadruplex PCR) was also performed in parallel using chromosomal DNA extracted from the same set of strains to correlate the integrity of the genes with their expression. We show that a good correlation exists between gene expression of the aflatoxin genes, here analysed by multipex RT-PCR, and aflatoxin production, except for one strain that apparently transcribed all the relevant genes but did not produce aflatoxin in the medium. This is the first example of the application of a combination of multiplex PCR and RT-PCR approaches to screen a population of A. flavus for the presence of aflatoxigenic and nonaflatoxigenic strains. The proposed protocol will be helpful in evaluating the risk posed by A. flavus in natural environments and might also be a useful tool to monitor its presence during the processing steps of food and feed commodities."}
{"id": "17647207", "title": "Responses in the mycelial growth of Aspergillus niger isolates to arsenic contaminated environments and their resistance to exogenic metal stress.", "content": "Responses in the mycelial growth of Aspergillus niger isolates to arsenic contaminated environments and their resistance to exogenic metal stress. Isolates of Aspergillus niger, selected from coal dust sediment of a mine containing As (400 mg/kg), pH 3.3-2.8, and from river sediment found near the mine (As, 363 mg/kg, Sb, 93 mg/kg), pH 5.2-4.8, growing on Czapek-Dox agar exhibited distinct responses in the mycelial growth in arsenic contaminated environments. The radial growth of the isolate from the coal dust in comparison to the control strain from an environment without pollution was reduced approximately to one-half. It formed black, very small compact colonies, with dense sporulation. The opposite, the strain from the river sediment, grew better in Czapek-Dox agar like the control. It formed larger colonies with dense centre and strong sporulation. Also, the culture from river sediment developed faster than the coal dust isolate and control strain. Differences were also recorded in size and thickness of conidia heads, phialide, metulae, and conidiophores. Both isolates from contaminated localities exhibited higher tolerance to exogenic toxic effects of As5+, Cd2+ and Cu2+ (5, 25 or 50 mg/l) than the control culture. Tolerance was monitored using the growth of biomass in liquid Czapek-Dox medium. We confirmed the morphological identification of our isolates to A. niger species with the PCR method. The results refer to complicated relations between biotic and abiotic effects that may directly affect the processes observed in the in situ environment."}
{"id": "17646981", "title": "De novo synthesis, constitutive expression of Aspergillus sulphureus beta-xylanase gene in Pichia pastoris and partial enzymic characterization.", "content": "De novo synthesis, constitutive expression of Aspergillus sulphureus beta-xylanase gene in Pichia pastoris and partial enzymic characterization. The endo-beta-1, 4-xylanase gene xynA from Aspergillus sulphureus, encoded a lack-of-signal peptide protein of 184 amino acids, was de novo synthesized by splicing overlap extension polymerase chain reaction according to Pichia pastoris protein's codon bias. The synthetic DNA, composed of 572 nucleotides, was ligated into the downstream sequence of an alpha-mating factor in a constitutive expression vector pGAPzalphaA and electrotransformed into the P. pastoris X-33 strain. The transformed yeast screened by Zeocin was able to constitutively secrete the xylanase in yeast-peptone-dextrose liquid medium. The heterogenous DNA was stabilized in the strain by 20-times passage culture. The recombinant enzyme was expressed with a yield of 120 units/mL under the flask culture at 28 degrees C for 3 days. The enzyme showed optimal activity at 50 degrees C and pH 2.4-3.4. Residual activity of the raw recombinant xylanase was not less than 70% when fermentation broth was directly heated at 80 degrees C for 30 min. However, the dialyzed xylanase supernatant completely lost the catalytic activity after being heated at 60 degrees C for 30 min. The recombinant xylanase showed no obvious activity alteration by being pretreated with Na(2)HPO(4)-citric acid buffer of pH 2.4 for 2 h. The xylanase also showed resistance to certain metal ions (Na(+), Mg(2+), Ca(2+), K(+), Ba(2+), Zn(2+), Fe(2+), and Mn(2+)) and EDTA. These biochemical characteristics suggest that the recombinant xylanase has a prospective application in feed industry as an additive."}
{"id": "17646966", "title": "Management of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in non-neutropenic critically ill patients.", "content": "Management of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in non-neutropenic critically ill patients. During recent years, a rising incidence of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) in non-neutropenic critically ill patients has been reported. Critically ill patients are prone to develop disturbances in immunoregulation during their stay in the ICU, which render them more vulnerable for fungal infections. Risk factors such as chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), prolonged use of steroids, advanced liver disease, chronic renal replacement therapy, near-drowning and diabetes mellitus have been described. Diagnosis of IPA may be difficult and obtaining histo- or cytopathological demonstration of the fungus in order to meet the gold standard for IPA is not always feasible in these patients. Laboratory markers used as a non-invasive diagnostic tool, such as the galactomannan antigen test (GM), 1,3-beta-glucan, and Aspergillus PCR, show varying results. Antifungal therapy might be considered in patients with persistent pulmonary infection who exhibit risk factors together with positive cultures or sequentially positive GM and Aspergillus PCR in serum, in whom voriconazole is the drug of choice. The benefit of combination antifungal therapy lacks sufficient evidence so far, but this treatment might be considered in patients with breakthrough infections or refractory disease."}
{"id": "17636383", "title": "Aspergillus niger lipase: gene cloning, over-expression in Escherichia coli and in vitro refolding.", "content": "Aspergillus niger lipase: gene cloning, over-expression in Escherichia coli and in vitro refolding. From the N-terminal amino acid sequence of the lipase from Aspergillus niger F044, a potential homologous gene A84689 to the lipanl (the gene encoding the lipase from Aspergillus niger F044) was identified. A pair of primers were designed according to the nucleotide sequence of A84689, and the lipanl was cloned by PCR. Nucleotide sequencing revealed that the lipanl has an ORF of 1,044 bp, containing three introns. The deduced amino acid sequence corresponds to 297 amino acid residues. The cloned cDNA fragment encoding the mature lipase from Aspergillus niger F044 was over-expressed in Escherichia coli BL21(De3) and the recombinant protein was refolded in vitro by dilution followed by DEAE Sepharose Fast Flow chromatography."}
{"id": "17634313", "title": "Reverse line blot hybridization assay for identification of medically important fungi from culture and clinical specimens.", "content": "Reverse line blot hybridization assay for identification of medically important fungi from culture and clinical specimens. We evaluated a combined panfungal PCR-reverse line blot (RLB) hybridization assay based on internal transcribed spacer 1 (ITS1) and ITS2 region polymorphisms to identify 159 Candida, Cryptococcus neoformans, and Aspergillus isolates (22 species). Its utility to identify fungal pathogens directly from 27 clinical specimens was also determined. ITS sequence analysis was performed to resolve discrepant identifications or where no RLB result was obtained. Species-specific ITS2- and ITS1-based probes correctly identified 155 of 159 isolates (98%) and 149 (93.7%) isolates, respectively. All strains were unambiguously differentiated with the exception of cross-reactivity between the Candida norvegensis probe and Candida haemulonii DNA product. Species identification of the pathogen was made for all 21 specimens (sensitivity of 100%) where species-specific probes were included in the RLB; however, there was no ITS2 probe-based hybridization signal for two specimens. Results were concordant with the culture results for 18 (85.7%) specimens. The assay was able to provide species identification in the absence of a culture result (two specimens) and to detect mixed infection (one specimen). The results indicate that the RLB assay is capable of reliably detecting yeasts and Aspergillus spp. in clinical specimens and that the incorporation of both ITS1- and ITS2-targeted probes is required for optimal sensitivity. The test has potential utility in the early diagnosis of invasive fungal infection, since \"fungal\" DNA was detected in all 27 specimens. Prior to incorporation of probes to detect other fungal species, ITS sequencing may be performed to achieve species identification."}
{"id": "17630312", "title": "Gene overexpression and biochemical characterization of the biotechnologically relevant chlorogenic acid hydrolase from Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Gene overexpression and biochemical characterization of the biotechnologically relevant chlorogenic acid hydrolase from Aspergillus niger. The full-length gene that encodes the chlorogenic acid hydrolase from Aspergillus niger CIRM BRFM 131 was cloned by PCR based on the genome of the strain A. niger CBS 513.88. The complete gene consists of 1,715 bp and codes for a deduced protein of 512 amino acids with a molecular mass of 55,264 Da and an acidic pI of 4.6. The gene was successfully cloned and overexpressed in A. niger to yield 1.25 g liter(-1), i.e., 330-fold higher than the production of wild-type strain A. niger CIRM BRFM131. The histidine-tagged recombinant ChlE protein was purified to homogeneity via a single chromatography step, and its main biochemical properties were characterized. The molecular size of the protein checked by mass spectroscopy was 74,553 Da, suggesting the presence of glycosylation. ChlE is assembled in a tetrameric form with several acidic isoforms with pIs of around 4.55 and 5.2. Other characteristics, such as optimal pH and temperature, were found to be similar to those determined for the previously characterized chlorogenic acid hydrolase of A. niger CIRM BRFM 131. However, there was a significant temperature stability difference in favor of the recombinant protein. ChlE exhibits a catalytic efficiency of 12.5 x 10(6) M(-1) s(-1) toward chlorogenic acid (CGA), and its ability to release caffeic acid from CGA present in agricultural by-products such as apple marc and coffee pulp was clearly demonstrated, confirming the high potential of this enzyme."}
{"id": "17621825", "title": "Fungal allergens induce cathelicidin LL-37 expression in chronic rhinosinusitis patients in a nasal explant model.", "content": "Fungal allergens induce cathelicidin LL-37 expression in chronic rhinosinusitis patients in a nasal explant model. Fungus is thought to play an important role in some subgroups of chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) patients with eosinophilic mucus (EMCRS). The cathelicidin LL-37 is an important innate defense peptide with antimicrobial activity but its responses in CRS and EMCRS patients have not been established. We investigated the innate immune responses of LL-37 in nasal tissue from CRS and EMCRS patients to fungal allergen challenge. The levels of LL-37 produced by nasal tissue and secreted in response to fungal allergen challenge were determined by a nasal tissue explant in vitro model. LL-37 mRNA and protein levels were quantified by real-time reverse-transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and immunoassay methods. LL-37 mRNA expression in CRS, but not EMCRS patients, is significantly upregulated by Aspergillus (mean fourfold increase) and Alternaria (mean sixfold increase) extracts in a dose-response manner (p < 0.001). LL-37 peptide levels in the nasal tissue from CRS patients are increased in response to Alternaria (p < 0.05). In contrast, with EMCRS patients, the expression of LL-37 peptide in nasal tissue is increased with Aspergillus (p < 0.001) but is reduced with Alternaria. We also observed a trend where levels of secreted LL-37 were decreased with higher doses of Alternaria and Aspergillus extracts. LL-37 is significantly up-regulated at the mRNA and protein level in CRS patients in response to fungal allergens. However, EMCRS patients do not show increased LL-37 at either the mRNA or the protein level in response to Alternaria."}
{"id": "17617703", "title": "The glucoamylase-encoding gene (glaB) is expressed in solid-state culture with a low water content.", "content": "The glucoamylase-encoding gene (glaB) is expressed in solid-state culture with a low water content. Solid-state culture encourages high-level enzyme secretion by Aspergillus oryzae. Using the real-time quantitative reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, we confirmed that expression of the glucoamylase-encoding gene in A. oryzae cultured in solid-state culture depends on the water content of the culture."}
{"id": "17617057", "title": "Invasive fungal infection in renal transplant recipients demonstrated by panfungal polymerase chain reaction.", "content": "Invasive fungal infection in renal transplant recipients demonstrated by panfungal polymerase chain reaction. Invasive fungal infections following renal transplant are associated with high morbidity and mortality rates. This study reports our experience using molecular assay to diagnose invasive fungal infections in renal graft recipients. One hundred twenty patients who had undergone renal transplant at the Organ Transplant Unit of Nemazi Hospital in Shiraz, Iran, between September 2004 and January 2006 were followed up for fungal infections for 6 months following transplant. Blood samples were cultured by bedside inoculation to BACTEC fungal medium. Whole blood specimens were collected prospectively once per week and were evaluated for any invasive fungal infections using panfungal polymerase chain reaction and polymerase chain reaction-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. The female-to-male ratio was 44.2% to 55.8%, the mean age of the recipients was 34.7 years, and the mean length of hospitalization was 10.92 days. The sensitivity and specificity for proven and probable infections were 80% and 95.6%, respectively. Using panfungal polymerase chain reaction- enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, 4 recipients were diagnosed as having invasive fungal infections. The etiologic agents were C. albicans in 3 patients, and C. albicans and A. fumigatus in 1 patient. The mean interval of polymerase chain reaction-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay positivity in blood samples before clinical signs was 27 days (range, 7-60 days). Polymerase chain reaction-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay may improve early diagnosis of invasive fungal infections; however, correlating the results of polymerase chain reaction-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay with clinical outcomes in renal transplant recipients will require further evaluation."}
{"id": "17608701", "title": "Transformation of taxol-producing endophytic fungi by restriction enzyme-mediated integration (REMI).", "content": "Transformation of taxol-producing endophytic fungi by restriction enzyme-mediated integration (REMI). The REMI method was used to introduce the plasmid pV2 harboring the hygromycin B phosphotransferase (hph) gene controlled by the Aspergillus nidulans trpC promoter and the trpC terminator into a taxol-producing endophytic fungus BT2. REMI transformation yielded stable transformants capable of continuing to grow on PDA medium containing 125 mug mL(-1) hygromycin B. The transformation efficiency was about 5-6 transformants mug(-1) plasmid DNA. The presence of hph gene in transformants was confirmed by PCR and Southern blot analyses. To the authors' knowledge, this is the first report on the transformation of taxol-producing endophytic fungi by the REMI technique. This study provides an effective approach for improving taxol production of endophytic fungi by the genetic engineering of taxol biosynthetic pathway genes in the future."}
{"id": "17605910", "title": "[Experimental study of fast diagnosis of mycotic keratitis using molecular biology technical].", "content": "[Experimental study of fast diagnosis of mycotic keratitis using molecular biology technical]. To establish a method for fast diagnosis of mycotic keratitis using multi-PCR system. Detecting 9 important medical fungi species (Fusarium solani, Fusarium moniliform, Fusarium equiseti, Fusarium graminum, Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus niger, Penicillium implicatum and Curvularia lunata) through a multi-PCR system. This method was used to identify the clinical cultured isolates and clinical samples. In this multi-PCR system, Fusarium species amplified a fragment of 360 bp, Aspergillus species amplified a fragment of 430 bp, Penicillium implicatum species amplified a fragment of 245 bp, and Curvularia lunata species amplified a fragment of 300 bp. Human DNA and DNA of other microorganism in human ocular infection obtained negative results in this multi-PCR system. The sensitivity of the multi-PCR system was 10 fg. Important clinical fungi could be detected and identified by the multi-PCR system. The multi-PCR method was proved to be a fast, sensitive and specific technology and has a good prospect in clinical application."}
{"id": "17604424", "title": "A systematic literature review on the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from bronchoalveolar lavage clinical samples.", "content": "A systematic literature review on the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from bronchoalveolar lavage clinical samples. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from bronchoalveolar lavage clinical samples (BAL) has been used to assist in the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. Several studies have been published regarding the utility of this test, although no systematic review of the literature has been performed to date. The objective of this systematic review was to evaluate the efficacy of PCR from BAL for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in high risk patients. MEDLINE and LILACS databases (1980-2006) searches to identify articles related to PCR in diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. For inclusion, the study had to report sufficient data to calculate sensitivity, specificity and diagnostic odds ratio of the PCR-based technique. Patients with proven and probably invasive aspergillosis were considered. Forty-five articles met our initial inclusion criteria of which 15 articles were selected. Combining the results from the different reports, the overall sensitivity and specificity values of PCR-based techniques were 79% and 94%, respectively. Contamination, specific primers and method of PCR were important variables that could complicate interpretation of these tests. The present study showed support for the clinical value of PCR from BAL for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in patients with risk factors for this disease."}
{"id": "17600362", "title": "Prospective screening in liver transplant recipients by panfungal PCR-ELISA for early diagnosis of invasive fungal infections.", "content": "Prospective screening in liver transplant recipients by panfungal PCR-ELISA for early diagnosis of invasive fungal infections. Invasive fungal infections after liver transplantation (LT) have resulted in high mortality and potentially fatal complications. This study was undertaken to determine the accuracy of the panfungal polymerase chain reaction enzyme link immunosorbent assay (PCR-ELISA) method in early diagnosis of invasive fungal infections in liver transplant recipients (LTRs). A total of 48 liver recipients (cadaver donors) were followed for fungal infections for a period of at least 6 months. All clinical samples were cultured and a direct microscopic examination was performed. Blood samples were cultured by bedside inoculation onto BACTEC medium. Whole blood specimens were collected prospectively once per week and were evaluated for any invasive fungal infections by panfungal PCR and PCR-ELISA. Among 48 transplant recipients between September 2004 and January 2006 (22 females, 28 males, mean age = 34.4 yr), 40 recipients (83.3%) had Candida colonization in different sites of their body before LT. In proven and probable recipients for panfungal PCR-ELISA, the sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values were 83.3%, 91.7%, 76.9%, and 94.3%, respectively. By PCR assay, fungal infections were diagnosed in 10 recipients (20.8%). The mean interval time from transplantation to development of fungal infection was 61.4 days (range, 20-150 days) and time of infection in blood before any clinical signs was 7-70 days with mean of 21.4 days. The etiologic agents were Candida albicans (9 cases) and Aspergillus fumigatus (1 case). Use of PCR-ELISA in LTRs may not only improve the ability of early diagnosis of invasive fungal infections (IFIs) when positive results are obtained, but also would provide more confidence to exclude a diagnosis of IFIs when negative results are obtained."}
{"id": "17595473", "title": "Application of semi-nested polymerase chain reaction targeting internal transcribed spacer region for rapid detection of panfungal genome directly from ocular specimens.", "content": "Application of semi-nested polymerase chain reaction targeting internal transcribed spacer region for rapid detection of panfungal genome directly from ocular specimens. The incidence of fungal endophthalmitis has dramatically increased in recent years and rapid detection of fungi using nucleic acid-based amplification techniques is helpful in management. To evaluate semi-nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) targeting internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region for detection of panfungal genome in ocular specimens. Z test for two proportion. Standardization of PCR targeting ITS primers was carried out by determining analytical sensitivity and specificity. The sensitivity and specificity of PCR was determined by serial tenfold dilutions of C. albicans (ATCC 24433) DNA and DNA extracts of laboratory isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus, Fusarium lichenicola (4), other fungal and closely related bacterial strains and also human DNA. Semi-nested PCR was applied onto a total of 168 ocular specimens with clinically suspected fungal etiology during 2003-2005. PCR was specific and sensitive to detect 1fg of fungal DNA with ITS primers. PCR detected fungal genome in 90 (53.57%) in comparison with the conventional technique, positive in 34 (20.23%) by smear examination and in 42 (25%) by culture. The increase in clinical sensitivity by 28.57% using PCR was found to be statistically significant { P < 0.001 using Z test for two proportion}. The accuracy of the test was found to be 70.85%. PCR proved to be a rapid diagnostic technique for detection of panfungal genome directly from clinical specimens."}
{"id": "17581930", "title": "Molecular typing of Aspergillus terreus isolates collected in Houston, Texas, and Innsbruck, Austria: evidence of great genetic diversity.", "content": "Molecular typing of Aspergillus terreus isolates collected in Houston, Texas, and Innsbruck, Austria: evidence of great genetic diversity. Aspergillus terreus isolates collected from patients at The M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, TX, and at The University Hospital of Innsbruck, Austria, were analyzed using random amplification of polymorphic DNA-PCR with three different primers. No strain similarity in either institution was detected, indicating great genetic diversity of A. terreus."}
{"id": "17574786", "title": "Diagnostic value of DNA, (1-3)-beta-d-glucan, and galactomannan detection in serum and bronchoalveolar lavage of mice experimentally infected with Aspergillus terreus.", "content": "Diagnostic value of DNA, (1-3)-beta-d-glucan, and galactomannan detection in serum and bronchoalveolar lavage of mice experimentally infected with Aspergillus terreus. The aim of this study was to evaluate the diagnostic value of Aspergillus terreus-specific DNA, (1-3)-beta-d-glucan (BDG), and galactomannan (GM) in immunosuppressed mice infected intravenously with A. terreus conidia and sacrificed in groups of 12 each on days 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9. A. terreus-specific DNA, BDG, and GM in serum and bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) were detected by nested polymerase chain reaction (nPCR), Fungitell kit (Associates of Cape Cod, E. Falmouth, MA), and Aspergillus Platelia kit (Bio-Rad, Marnes-laCoquette, France), respectively. Cultures of lung homogenate of all the animals yielded A. terreus. The BDG positivity, GM positivity, and nPCR positivity in serum specimens were 43%, 78%, and 73%, respectively. Combined detection enhanced the positivity to 95% for A. terreus DNA and GM, 83% for GM and BDG, and 95% for DNA, GM, and BDG. In BAL, the GM positivity and nPCR positivity were 80% and 81%, respectively, whereas combined detection increased the positivity to 98%. Detection of GM and DNA offers a sensitive and specific diagnostic option for invasive aspergillosis."}
{"id": "17554432", "title": "Real-time PCR for detection of the Aspergillus genus.", "content": "Real-time PCR for detection of the Aspergillus genus. Aspergillus is a genus of mold that has strong indoor sources, including several species capable of acting as opportunistic pathogens. Previous studies suggest that Aspergillus could serve as an indicator for abnormal mold growth or moisture, making it an important genus for environmental monitoring. Here, a quantitative polymerase chain reaction (qPCR, or real-time PCR) assay is presented for Aspergillus. The assay shows good specificity for the genus, detecting all Aspergillus species tested, although a few non-Aspergillus species are also amplified. Sensitivity testing demonstrates that DNA representing one conidium can be detected. A validation study compared qPCR results against direct microscopy counts using A. fumigatus conidia aerosolized into a laboratory chamber. The assay was then used to quantify Aspergillus in indoor air samples, demonstrating its utility for environmental monitoring. Analysis of a small number of clinical sputum samples showed complete agreement with culturing results."}
{"id": "17552235", "title": "[Construction of a double functional recombinant strain of Pichia pastoris co-expressing phytase and mannanase and the enzymatic analyses].", "content": "[Construction of a double functional recombinant strain of Pichia pastoris co-expressing phytase and mannanase and the enzymatic analyses]. Co-expression of phytase and mannanase in Pichia pastoris is a useful way to reduce the production cost in feedstuff industry. Based on the published DNA sequences of phytase gene and mannanase gene, primers were designed and genes phyA and man were cloned by PCR from Aspergillus terreus and the plasmid pHBM1201, respectively. Then the two fragments were treated and inserted into the same expression vector pHBM907C, which contains both the methanol-inducible promoter and the transcription terminator of the AOX1 gene, resulting the plasmid pHBM907C-phyA and the plasmid pHBM907C-man. The phyA expression cassette was combined to the expression vector pHBM907C-man which contains the expression cassette of mannanase, so pHBM907C-phyA-man was obtained. The recombinant expression plasmid pHBM907C-phyA-man was digested by Sal I and introduced into the chromosomes of Pichia pastoris GS115 by using the LiCl/PEG method. Following transformation, several parameters that demonstrated the expression of phytase and mannanase were measured. Firstly, the two different Petri dishes that contain enzymatic substrates such as calcium phytate and mannose were screened simultaneously, thus 100 clones were found to be positive on both of these plates. Secondly, 6 clones among them were chosen for induced expression at shakeflasks showing the probability of high expression. After that, some relative enzymatic properties were measured. At 72 hours' induction in the condition of shake cultivation, the enzyme activity of phytase in supernatant was 120.6 U/mL, while the enzyme activity of mannanase in supernatant was 39.7 U/mL. The expression product phytase was active under pH 2.0-6.5, and the activity was up to the highest under pH 5.5. And the other expression product mannanase was active under pH 5.5-10.5, and the activity was up to the highest under pH 7.5. The optimal temperatures for the two enzyme were both around 52 degrees C: the optimal temperature for phytase activity was 50 degrees C, and that for mannanase was 55 degrees C. At last, stability test of the engineered yeast was taken, and the engineered yeast still showed an excellent stability even after 10 generation growth in the absence of selective pressure. The stable double functional engineered yeast simultaneously expressing extracellular phytase and mannanase is obtained. It will satisfy the demand for industrialized production in some degree."}
{"id": "17551789", "title": "Molecular cloning, characterization, and expression of a chitinase from the entomopathogenic fungus Paecilomyces javanicus.", "content": "Molecular cloning, characterization, and expression of a chitinase from the entomopathogenic fungus Paecilomyces javanicus. Paecilomyces javanicus is an entomopathogenic fungus of coleopteran and lepidopteran insects. Here we report on cloning, characterization, and expression patterns of a chitinase from P. javanicus. A strong chitinase activity was detected in P. javanicus cultures added to chitin. The full-length cDNA, designated PjChi-1, was cloned from mycelia by using both degenerate primer/reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) amplification and 5'-/3'-RACE extension. The 1.18-kb cDNA gene contains a 1035-bp open reading frame and encodes a 345-amino acid polypeptide with a deduced molecular mass of 37 kDa. A conserved motif for chitinase activity -F82DGIDIDWE90- was present in deduced amino acid sequence. Both RT-PCR and Northern analysis revealed that the expression of the PjChi gene was constitutive at low level, but enhanced to high level when chitin was the substrate. Fungal inhibitory assay showed that PjChi-1 inhibited the growth of phytopathogenic fungi such as Sclerotium rolfsii, Colletotrichum gloeosporioides, Aspergillus nidulans, and Rhizoctonia solani."}
{"id": "17510862", "title": "Clustering of invasive Aspergillus ustus eye infections in a tertiary care hospital: a molecular epidemiologic study of an uncommon species.", "content": "Clustering of invasive Aspergillus ustus eye infections in a tertiary care hospital: a molecular epidemiologic study of an uncommon species. Aspergillus infections are being increasingly recognized as an important cause of morbidity and blindness. We report here the first cluster of Aspergillus ustus endophthalmitis cases which occurred in a large tertiary care hospital during the period October 2003 to June 2004. In three of the cases, the patients required enucleation following cataract surgery, while the fourth involved a fatal infection in a pediatric patient hospitalized for osteopetrosis. Patient charts from the four cases were reviewed retrospectively and indicated that postoperative signs of fungal endophthalmitis developed in the patients 1-11 weeks after surgery. The molecular characterization of the isolates and their epidemiological relatedness were evaluated by Random Amplification of Polymorphic DNA (RAPD). A source investigation of this mini outbreak was performed by environmental sampling, but no isolates of A. ustus were recovered from these studies. All A. ustus strains isolated from three patients with fungal endophthalmitis had the same RAPD pattern suggesting a common source. The strain from the pediatric patient differed from the ophthalmic isolates in five electrophoretic loci. The latter was included solely as an outbreak, unrelated control to evaluate the discriminatory power of the molecular typing method employed in the analysis of the ophthalmic strains. These cases illustrate the potential for uncommon species like A. ustus to cause high morbidity and mortality in some clinical settings. Aspergillus ustus endophthalmitis is a serious and devastating complication of ocular surgery. It is unknown whether ongoing hospital construction may have contributed to this cluster of cases. Random amplification of polymorphic DNA may give valuable clues about the clonality of A. ustus strains."}
{"id": "17503296", "title": "Comparison of detection methods for Aspergillus fumigatus in environmental air samples in an occupational environment.", "content": "Comparison of detection methods for Aspergillus fumigatus in environmental air samples in an occupational environment. Methods to study occupational exposures to fungi and fungal materials in facilities where the dominant exposure is the pathogenic and allergenic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus are lacking. Air samples were collected near a conveyor in a wood chip recycling plant to compare methods that might be used to assess exposure to A. fumigatus or suitable proxies. These included total dust mass, total intact spores, culturable propagules growing > 35 degrees C, ergosterol, A. fumigatus allergen Asp f1, and quantitative polymerase chain reaction for A. fumigatus. Of these measurements, Asp f1 showed the most promise based on its relative response to measurements where there is a long history of use in industrial hygiene practice (total mass, ergosterol, total intact spores, culturable propagules)."}
{"id": "17496961", "title": "Agrobacterium-mediated insertional mutagenesis of the ochratoxigenic fungus Aspergillus westerdijkiae.", "content": "Agrobacterium-mediated insertional mutagenesis of the ochratoxigenic fungus Aspergillus westerdijkiae. Aspergillus westerdijkiae is a potent ochratoxin A (OTA) producer that has been found in coffee beans. OTA is known to have nephrotoxic effects and carcinogenic potential in animal species. Here we report for the first time the Agrobacterium-mediated transformation for Aspergillus westerdijkiae and the generation of ochratoxin-defective mutants. Conidia were transformed to hygromycin B resistance using strain AGL-1 of Agrobacterium tumefaciens. The obtained transformation frequency was up to 47 transformants per 10(6) target conidia. Among 600 transformants, approximately 5% showed morphological variations. Eight transformants with consistently reduced OTA production were obtained. Two of these transformants did not produce OTA (detection limit: 0.1 microg/kg); the other six mutants produced lower amounts of OTA (1%-32%) compared with the wild-type strain. By using thermal asymmetric interlaced polymerase chain reaction, we successfully identified a putative flavin adenine dinucleotide monooxygenase gene."}
{"id": "17479383", "title": "Swimming pools and fungi: an environmental epidemiology survey in Italian indoor swimming facilities.", "content": "Swimming pools and fungi: an environmental epidemiology survey in Italian indoor swimming facilities. A growing number of people attend swimming facilities for recreational activities, rehabilitative treatments, or sport. Filamentous fungi and yeast can be isolated from contaminated air, water and surfaces and may represent a biological risk for employees and users. Here we investigated the occurrence of mycotic species, in a sample of Italian swimming pools (n = 10). Detection and identification of isolated species were achieved by cultural and morphological methods. Results revealed moderate mycotic titres and a high biodiversity. Penicillium spp., Aspergillus spp., Cladosporium spp. and Alternaria sp., were constantly detected in air and surfaces sampled by the swimming area, while pathogenic yeast Candida albicans was never detected. Fusarium spp. was the most common taxon isolated from surfaces. For one facility, we typed the genotypic profiles and studied, by genetic typing, the spatial and temporal distribution of isolates. Phylogenetic relationships between species were analysed by alignment of small ribosomal subunit RNA sequences."}
{"id": "17467772", "title": "Comparison of mold concentrations quantified by MSQPCR in indoor and outdoor air sampled simultaneously.", "content": "Comparison of mold concentrations quantified by MSQPCR in indoor and outdoor air sampled simultaneously. Mold specific quantitative PCR (MSQPCR) was used to measure the concentrations of the 36 mold species in indoor and outdoor air samples that were taken simultaneously for 48 h in and around 17 homes in Cincinnati, Ohio. The total spore concentrations of 353 per m(3) of indoor air and 827 per m(3) of outdoor air samples were significantly different (p<or=0.05). However, only the concentrations of Aspergillus penicillioides, Cladosporium cladosporioides types 1 and 2 and Cladosporium herbarum were correlated in indoor and outdoor air samples (p-value<or=0.05 and sufficient data for estimate and absolute value rho estimate >or=0.5). These results suggest that interpretation of the meaning of short-term (<48 h) mold measurements in indoor and outdoor air samples must be made with caution."}
{"id": "17464842", "title": "Targeting polyamines of Aspergillus nidulans by siRNA specific to fungal ornithine decarboxylase gene.", "content": "Targeting polyamines of Aspergillus nidulans by siRNA specific to fungal ornithine decarboxylase gene. Aspergillus nidulans is a filamentous, ubiquitous and opportunistic pathogenic fungus, which causes fatal invasive aspergillosis among immunocompromised patients. As a prelude to the investigations on the possible control of human fungal diseases by selective targeting of fungal polyamines that are essential for fungal growth and development by RNAi strategy, we have examined the effect of siRNA specific to a key polyamine biosynthesis gene ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) on the in vitro germinating spores of A. nidulans to assess the ability of RNA species to induce RNA-mediated gene silencing. The present findings show that siRNA can cause specific silencing effect, with the phenotypic consequences leading to significant reduction in mycelial growth, target mRNA titers and cellular polyamine concentrations. This study suggests that fungal polyamine biosynthetic genes, particularly ODC may be targeted for the control of fungal infections in humans and crop plants. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of up-take of siRNA by germinating fungal spores from culture medium, and attempt to target a vital pathway in fungal pathogens for their control."}
{"id": "17460901", "title": "[Mutation research on Q23L and Q23LG272E in phytase derivated from Aspergillus fumigatus].", "content": "[Mutation research on Q23L and Q23LG272E in phytase derivated from Aspergillus fumigatus]. Aspergillus fumigatus wild-type phytase has many favorable properties, such as a good thermorstability and a broad pH optimum. However, the specific activity of the enzyme is relative low. A. fumigatus Q23L phytase resulted in a remarkable increase in specific activity around pH4.5 - 7.0, but the pH stability of Q23L was lower than A. fumigatus wild-type phytase. To increase the pH stability of Q23L, the mutant Q23LG272E was constructed by site-directed mutagenesis with PCR. The gene of A. fumigatus wild-type phytase and the mutant genes encoding the Q23LG272E and the Q23L were correctly expressed in Pichia pastoris GS115. Enzymes were purified and their enzymatic properties were determined. The results revealed that the specific activity of the Q23L improved remarkably, which increased from 51 u/mg of the wild type to 109 u/mg at pH5.5. Meanwhile, the pH stability of Q23L, decreased evidently, especially from pH3.0 to pH4.0.The pH stability of Q23LG272E in pH3.0 - 4.5 and pH6.5 - 7.0 has been improved compared with Q23L. The specific activity of Q23LG272E basically maintained at the level of Q23L. Analysis of 3-D structure and sequence similarity were used to reveal the presumable factors influencing the enzymatic properties of Q23LG272E, and discussion for the relationship between structure and function of phytase was given."}
{"id": "17449691", "title": "Plant cell wall degradation by saprophytic Bacillus subtilis strains: gene clusters responsible for rhamnogalacturonan depolymerization.", "content": "Plant cell wall degradation by saprophytic Bacillus subtilis strains: gene clusters responsible for rhamnogalacturonan depolymerization. Plant cell wall degradation is a premier event when Bacillus subtilis, a typical saprophytic bacterium, invades plants. Here we show the degradation system of rhamnogalacturonan type I (RG-I), a component of pectin from the plant cell wall, in B. subtilis strain 168. Strain 168 cells showed a significant growth on plant cell wall polysaccharides such as pectin, polygalacturonan, and RG-I as a carbon source. DNA microarray analysis indicated that three gene clusters (yesOPQRSTUVWXYZ, ytePQRST, and ybcMOPST-ybdABDE) are inducibly expressed in strain 168 cells grown on RG-I. Cells of an industrially important bacterium, B. subtilis strain natto, fermenting soybeans also express the gene cluster including the yes series during the assimilation of soybean used as a carbon source. Among proteins encoded in the yes cluster, YesW and YesX were found to be novel types of RG lyases releasing disaccharide from RG-I. Genetic and enzymatic properties of YesW and YesX suggest that strain 168 cells secrete YesW, which catalyzes the initial cleavage of the RG-I main chain, and the resultant oligosaccharides are converted to disaccharides through the extracellular exotype YesX reaction. The disaccharide is finally degraded into its constituent monosaccharides through the reaction of intracellular unsaturated galacturonyl hydrolases YesR and YteR. This enzymatic route for RG-I degradation in strain 168 differs significantly from that in plant-pathogenic fungus Aspergillus aculeatus. This is, to our knowledge, the first report on the bacterial system for complete RG-I main chain degradation."}
{"id": "17432932", "title": "Transcriptional regulation of chemical diversity in Aspergillus fumigatus by LaeA.", "content": "Transcriptional regulation of chemical diversity in Aspergillus fumigatus by LaeA. Secondary metabolites, including toxins and melanins, have been implicated as virulence attributes in invasive aspergillosis. Although not definitively proved, this supposition is supported by the decreased virulence of an Aspergillus fumigatus strain, DeltalaeA, that is crippled in the production of numerous secondary metabolites. However, loss of a single LaeA-regulated toxin, gliotoxin, did not recapitulate the hypovirulent DeltalaeA pathotype, thus implicating other toxins whose production is governed by LaeA. Toward this end, a whole-genome comparison of the transcriptional profile of wild-type, DeltalaeA, and complemented control strains showed that genes in 13 of 22 secondary metabolite gene clusters, including several A. fumigatus-specific mycotoxin clusters, were expressed at significantly lower levels in the DeltalaeA mutant. LaeA influences the expression of at least 9.5% of the genome (943 of 9,626 genes in A. fumigatus) but positively controls expression of 20% to 40% of major classes of secondary metabolite biosynthesis genes such as nonribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPSs), polyketide synthases, and P450 monooxygenases. Tight regulation of NRPS-encoding genes was highlighted by quantitative real-time reverse-transcription PCR analysis. In addition, expression of a putative siderophore biosynthesis NRPS (NRPS2/sidE) was greatly reduced in the DeltalaeA mutant in comparison to controls under inducing iron-deficient conditions. Comparative genomic analysis showed that A. fumigatus secondary metabolite gene clusters constitute evolutionarily diverse regions that may be important for niche adaptation and virulence attributes. Our findings suggest that LaeA is a novel target for comprehensive modification of chemical diversity and pathogenicity."}
{"id": "17425662", "title": "Cloning and functional expression of the mitochondrial alternative oxidase of Aspergillus fumigatus and its induction by oxidative stress.", "content": "Cloning and functional expression of the mitochondrial alternative oxidase of Aspergillus fumigatus and its induction by oxidative stress. Aspergillus fumigatus possesses a branched mitochondrial electron transport chain, with both cyanide-sensitive and -insensitive oxygen-consumption activities. Mitochondrial reactive oxygen species mediate signaling for alternative oxidase (AOX) expression. A 1173 bp-long Afaox gene encoding a 40 kDa protein has been cloned and identified. Recombinant constructs containing the Afaox ORF were transformed into Escherichia coli and Saccharomyces cerevisiae for heterologous expression. In A. fumigatus, AOX activity and mRNA expression were both induced with menadione or paraquat, suggesting an important role of AOX under oxidative stress. Therefore, positive transformants showed a cyanide-resistant and salicylhydroxamic acid-sensitive respiration, whereas in control cells the oxygen uptake was completely inhibited after KCN addition."}
{"id": "17420593", "title": "The beta-1,3-exoglucanase gene exgA (exg1) of Aspergillus oryzae is required to catabolize extracellular glucan, and is induced in growth on a solid surface.", "content": "The beta-1,3-exoglucanase gene exgA (exg1) of Aspergillus oryzae is required to catabolize extracellular glucan, and is induced in growth on a solid surface. The biological role of ExgA (Exg1), a secretory beta-1,3-exoglucanase of Aspergillus oryzae, and the expression pattern of the exgA (exg1) gene were analyzed. The exgA disruptant and the exgA-overexpressing mutant were constructed, and phenotypes of both mutants were compared. Higher mycelial growth rate and conidiation efficiency were observed for the exgA-overexpressing mutant than for the exgA disruptant when beta-1,3-glucan was supplied as sole carbon source. On the other hand, no difference in phenotype was observed between them in the presence or absence of the inhibitors of cell wall beta-glucan remodeling when grown with glucose. exgA Expression was induced in growth on solid surfaces such as filter membrane and onion inner skin. A combination of poor nutrition and mycelial attachment to a hydrophobic solid surface appears to be an inducing factor for exgA expression. These data suggest that ExgA plays a role in beta-glucan utilization, but is not much involved in cell wall beta-glucan remodeling."}
{"id": "17420584", "title": "The SskA and SrrA response regulators are implicated in oxidative stress responses of hyphae and asexual spores in the phosphorelay signaling network of Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "The SskA and SrrA response regulators are implicated in oxidative stress responses of hyphae and asexual spores in the phosphorelay signaling network of Aspergillus nidulans. Histidine-to-Aspartate (His-Asp) phosphorelay (or two-component) systems are common signal transduction mechanisms implicated in a wide variety of cellular responses to environmental stimuli in both prokaryotes and eukaryotes. For a model filamentous fungi, Aspergillus nidulans, in this study we first compiled a complete list of His-Asp phosphorelay components, including 15 genes for His-kinase (HK), four genes for response regulator (RR), and only one for histidine-containing phosphotransfer intermediate (HPt). For these RR genes, a set of deletion mutants was constructed so as to create a null allele for each. When examined these mutant strains under various conditions stressful for hyphal growth and asexual spore development, two of them (designated DeltasskA and DeltasrrA) showed a marked phenotype of hypersensitivity to oxidative stresses (particularly, to hydrogen peroxide). In this respect, expression of the vegetative-stage specific catB catalase gene was severely impaired in both mutants. Furthermore, conidia from DeltasskA were hypersensitive not only to treatment with H(2)O(2), but also to treatment at aberrantly low (4 degrees C) and high (50 degrees C) temperatures, resulting in reduced germination efficiency. In this respect, not only the catA catalase gene specific for asexual development, but also a set of genes encoding the enzymes for synthesis of certain stress tolerant compatible solutes, such as trehalose and glycerol, were markedly downregulated in conidia from DeltasskA. These results together are indicative of the physiological importance of the His-Asp phosphorelay signaling network involving the SskA and SrrA response regulators."}
{"id": "17400783", "title": "A homologue of the Aspergillus velvet gene regulates both cephalosporin C biosynthesis and hyphal fragmentation in Acremonium chrysogenum.", "content": "A homologue of the Aspergillus velvet gene regulates both cephalosporin C biosynthesis and hyphal fragmentation in Acremonium chrysogenum. The Aspergillus nidulans velvet (veA) gene encodes a global regulator of gene expression controlling sexual development as well as secondary metabolism. We have identified the veA homologue AcveA from Acremonium chrysogenum, the major producer of the beta-lactam antibiotic cephalosporin C. Two different disruption strains as well as the corresponding complements were generated as a prelude to detailed functional analysis. Northern hybridization and quantitative real-time PCR clearly indicate that the nucleus-localized AcVEA polypeptide controls the transcriptional expression of six cephalosporin C biosynthesis genes. The most drastic reduction in expression is seen for cefEF, encoding the deacetoxycephalosporine/deacetylcephalosporine synthetase. After 120 h of growth, the cefEF transcript level is below 15% in both disruption strains compared to the wild type. These transcriptional expression data are consistent with results from a comparative and time-dependent high-performance liquid chromatography analysis of cephalosporin C production. Compared to the recipient, both disruption strains have a cephalosporin C titer that is reduced by 80%. In addition to its role in cephalosporin C biosynthesis, AcveA is involved in the developmentally dependent hyphal fragmentation. In both disruption strains, hyphal fragmentation is already observed after 48 h of growth, whereas in the recipient strain, arthrospores are not even detected before 96 h of growth. Finally, the two mutant strains show hyperbranching of hyphal tips on osmotically nonstabilized media. Our findings will be significant for biotechnical processes that require a defined stage of cellular differentiation for optimal production of secondary metabolites."}
{"id": "17395518", "title": "Molecular cloning and biochemical characterization of a Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase from Scedosporium apiospermum.", "content": "Molecular cloning and biochemical characterization of a Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase from Scedosporium apiospermum. A Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase has been characterized from Scedosporium apiospermum, a fungus which often colonizes the respiratory tract of patients with cystic fibrosis. Enzyme production was stimulated by iron starvation. Purification was achieved from mycelial extract from 7-day-old cultures on Amberlite XAD-16. The purified enzyme presented a relative molecular mass of 16.4 kDa under reducing conditions and was inhibited by potassium cyanide and diethyldithiocarbamate, which are two known inhibitors of Cu,Zn-SODs. Its optimum pH was 7.0 and the enzyme retained full activity after pretreatment at temperatures up to 50 degrees C. Moreover, a 450-bp fragment of the gene encoding the enzyme was amplified by PCR using degenerate primers designed from sequence alignment of four fungal Cu,Zn-SODs. Sequence data from this fragment allowed us to design primers which were used to amplify by walking-PCR the flanking regions of the known fragment. SaSODC gene (890 bp) corresponded to a 154 amino acid polypeptide with a predicted molecular mass of 15.9 kDa. A database search for sequence homology revealed for the deduced amino acid sequence 72 and 83% identity rate with Cu,Zn-SODs from Aspergillus fumigatus and Neurospora crassa, respectively. To our knowledge, this enzyme is the first putative virulence factor of S. apiospermum to be characterized."}
{"id": "17394606", "title": "Molecular and serological diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis: new answers to old questions?", "content": "Molecular and serological diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis: new answers to old questions? Over the recent years, novel molecular and serological methods have been developed to improve diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) in patients at high risk for fungal infections, especially patients with malignant haematological diseases undergoing intensive chemotherapy. Early diagnosis and treatment are crucial in the management of fungal infections. However, diagnosis often remains difficult as most of the diagnostic tools in clinical use at present either lack specificity or acceptable sensitivity in the early phase of the infection. The clinical value, advantages and problems of current molecular and serological approaches to diagnose IA are reviewed."}
{"id": "17384199", "title": "DNA sequence characterization and molecular evolution of MAT1 and MAT2 mating-type loci of the self-compatible ascomycete mold Neosartorya fischeri.", "content": "DNA sequence characterization and molecular evolution of MAT1 and MAT2 mating-type loci of the self-compatible ascomycete mold Neosartorya fischeri. Degenerate PCR and chromosome-walking approaches were used to identify mating-type (MAT) genes and flanking regions from the homothallic (sexually self-fertile) euascomycete fungus Neosartorya fischeri, a close relative of the opportunistic human pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus. Both putative alpha- and high-mobility-group-domain MAT genes were found within the same genome, providing a functional explanation for self-fertility. However, unlike those in many homothallic euascomycetes (Pezizomycotina), the genes were not found adjacent to each other and were termed MAT1 and MAT2 to recognize the presence of distinct loci. Complete copies of putative APN1 (DNA lyase) and SLA2 (cytoskeleton assembly control) genes were found bordering the MAT1 locus. Partial copies of APN1 and SLA2 were also found bordering the MAT2 locus, but these copies bore the genetic hallmarks of pseudogenes. Genome comparisons revealed synteny over at least 23,300 bp between the N. fischeri MAT1 region and the A. fumigatus MAT locus region, but no such long-range conservation in the N. fischeri MAT2 region was evident. The sequence upstream of MAT2 contained numerous candidate transposase genes. These results demonstrate a novel means involving the segmental translocation of a chromosomal region by which the ability to undergo self-fertilization may be acquired. The results are also discussed in relation to their significance in indicating that heterothallism may be ancestral within the Aspergillus section Fumigati."}
{"id": "17375284", "title": "The light-dependent regulator velvet A of Aspergillus nidulans acts as a repressor of the penicillin biosynthesis.", "content": "The light-dependent regulator velvet A of Aspergillus nidulans acts as a repressor of the penicillin biosynthesis. The biosynthesis of the beta-lactam antibiotic penicillin in Aspergillus nidulans is catalysed by three enzymes that are encoded by the genes acvA, ipnA and aatA. Several studies have indicated that these genes are controlled by a complex regulatory network, including a variety of cis-acting DNA elements and regulatory factors. Until now, however, relatively little information is available on external signals and their transmission influencing the expression of the structural genes. Here, we show that the light-dependent regulator velvet A (VeA) acts as a repressor on the penicillin biosynthesis, mainly via repression of the acvA gene. Expression of a regulatable alcAp-veA gene fusion in an A. nidulans strain carrying, in addition, acvAp-uidA and ipnAp-lacZ gene fusions indicated that under alcAp-inducing conditions, penicillin titres and expression of acvAp-uidA were drastically reduced compared with untransformed wild-type strains. The same level of repression was found irrespective of whether the alcAp-veA gene fusion was expressed in a veA1 or DeltaveA background, with or without light. The expression of the ipnAp-lacZ gene fusion was only moderately affected indicating a less prominent effect. These findings were confirmed by the analysis of a regulatable niiAp-veA gene fusion. Under niiAp-inducing conditions, penicillin titres and acvAp-uidA expression were much lower than in untransformed wild-type strains."}
{"id": "17371828", "title": "A new Aspergillus fumigatus resistance mechanism conferring in vitro cross-resistance to azole antifungals involves a combination of cyp51A alterations.", "content": "A new Aspergillus fumigatus resistance mechanism conferring in vitro cross-resistance to azole antifungals involves a combination of cyp51A alterations. Fourteen Aspergillus fumigatus clinical isolates that exhibited a pattern of reduced susceptibility to triazole drugs were analyzed. The sequences of the cyp51A gene from all isolates showed the presence of a point mutation at t364a, which led to the substitution of leucine 98 for histidine (L98H), together with the presence of two copies of a 34-bp sequence in tandem in the promoter of the cyp51A gene. Quantitative expression analysis (real-time PCR) showed up to an eightfold increase in the level of expression of the cyp51A gene compared to that by the susceptible strain. Three PCR fragments of one azole-resistant strain (strain CM2627) that included the promoter with the tandem repeat and part of cyp51A with the t364a mutation or PCR fragments with only one of the modifications were used to replace the cyp51A gene of an azole drug-susceptible A. fumigatus wild-type strain (strain CM237). Only transformants which had incorporated the tandem repeat in the promoter of the cyp51A gene and the L98H amino acid substitution exhibited similarly reduced patterns of susceptibility to all triazole agents and similarly increased levels of cyp51A expression, confirming that the combination of both alterations was responsible for the azole-resistant phenotype."}
{"id": "17366896", "title": "[Expression of endopolygalacturonase A of Aspergillus oryzae in Escherichia coli].", "content": "[Expression of endopolygalacturonase A of Aspergillus oryzae in Escherichia coli]. Pectinases are mainly used in the food industry to clarify fruit juices and wine, improve oil extraction, remove the peel from the citrus fruit, increase the firmness of some fruits and degum fibres. The filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae, used for the production of traditional fermented foods, only could produce less pectinases under general conditions. So far only a few of PGs expressed in yeast or E. coli were reported but they did not show higher activity. The cDNA of mature PGA (without signal peptide) was synthesized with specific primers from total RNA of Aspergillus oryzae by RT-PCR. PGA cDNA was ligated into pET-28a( + ) expression vector, creating plasmid pET-28a( + )-pgA. The plasmid pET-28a( + )-pgA was transformed into E. coli Turner (DE3) plac I cells to express PGA heterogeneously. For improving the efficiency of PGA expression in E. coli, the conditions for expression of the PGA in E. coli were optimized. E. coli Turner (DE3) plac I cells with pET-28a( + )-pgA was first cultivated at 37 degrees, 220r/min until OD600nm reached about 0.8. Then, cultivation broth was added with 0.5 mmol/L IPTG and incubated at 15 degrees C, 170r/min for other 24 h for induced-expression of PGA. Our data showed that the activity of recombinant expressed PGA could reach to 70u/mL medium, which is 87.5-fold of the activity of PGA produced in culture of A. oryzae and superior than known recombinant expression amount of PGA reported by other researchers."}
{"id": "17366453", "title": "Comparison of histopathological analysis, culture, and polymerase chain reaction assays to detect invasive mold infections from biopsy specimens.", "content": "Comparison of histopathological analysis, culture, and polymerase chain reaction assays to detect invasive mold infections from biopsy specimens. With the advent of new antifungal agents, the identification of a causative pathogen is crucial to guide the antifungal treatment of invasive mold infection. However, tissue cultures often fail to grow a fungal pathogen in cases of suspected mold infection. In a prospective multicenter study, we compared the results of histopathological analysis, culture, and 2 seminested polymerase chain reaction assays identifying Aspergillus species and Zygomycetes as causative agents of invasive mold infections using respiratory tract biopsy samples obtained from 56 immunocompromised patients who had suspected mold infection. Mold hyphae were detected histopathologically in 27 (48%) of the tissue specimens. Hyphae corresponded to either aspergillosis (n=18) or zygomycosis (n=6) or could not be further specified (n=3). A mold was cultured from 14 of 18 samples with aspergillus hyphae, 2 of 6 samples with Zygomycetes hyphae, and 1 of 3 samples with unspecified hyphae. Polymerase chain reaction was superior to culture in detecting the infecting mold (26 of 27 samples vs. 17 of 27 samples, respectively; P=.006) from histopathologically positive samples. Genus or species identification by sequencing of the polymerase chain reaction products were in accordance with culture results in 16 of 18 culture-positive samples. Both polymerase chain reaction assays failed to detect fungal DNA in 1 sample that had unspecified hyphae and negative culture results. The PCR assays offer a reliable etiologic diagnosis that is superior to culture in patients with proven invasive mold infection. This may improve patient management through tailored antifungal therapy when cultures fail to grow a pathogen."}
{"id": "17343676", "title": "Efficient downregulation of alb1 gene using an AMA1-based episomal expression of RNAi construct in Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Efficient downregulation of alb1 gene using an AMA1-based episomal expression of RNAi construct in Aspergillus fumigatus. An episomal RNAi silencing construct containing the inducible cbhB promoter and a hairpin structure has been made to downregulate the alb1 gene in the human pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus. Transformation of fungal protoplasts resulted in a high number of transformants with an inducible silenced phenotype (white spores). Efficient downregulation of the alb1 gene using this system suggests that this approach may overcome the variable downregulation observed with integrative constructs."}
{"id": "17334729", "title": "Rapidly progressive invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in a diabetic man.", "content": "Rapidly progressive invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in a diabetic man. A 45-year-old man was admitted to our hospital with high fever and a large amount of gray sputum. His initial chest X-ray showed broncho-bronchiolitis and thickening of the large bronchus, and he was subsequently diagnosed with pulmonary aspergillosis based on his sputum culture, polymerase chain reaction for Aspergillus fumigatus, and mannan antigen for Aspergillus. His immune responses, including neutrophil phagocytosis function and neutrophil sterilizing function, were normal as far as we could determine. He was treated with itraconazole, amphotericin B, and meropenem trihydrate, but died of respiratory failure on the twenty-fifth hospital day. Chest X-ray showed rapidly progressive invasive shadows in both lung fields, resulting in multiple cavity formation. This was a rare case of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in a diabetic man with normal neutrophil phagocytosis function and neutrophil sterilizing function."}
{"id": "17333917", "title": "[Cloning of a phyA gene and its over expression in E. coli].", "content": "[Cloning of a phyA gene and its over expression in E. coli]. This research amplified the phyA gene with the designed and synthesized primers specific for the phyA gene full-length coding sequence. The phyA gene was from Aspergillus niger F246 by the polymerase chain reaction(PCR), which is selected and identified in our laboratory. After sequncing the coding sequence, it was confirmed that the construction of cloning vector was succeeded. The phyA gene fragment was recovered from the pMD18T-phyA and ligated with prokaryotic expression vector pET30a+ to construct the recombinant expression plasmid pET30a+ -phyA. It was expressed with IPTG induction in E. coli for high efficiency. A new protein band with apparent molecular weight 50 kDa was detected in the lysate of the transformed cell by using SDS-PAGE. The amount of the soluble fusion protein was about 40% of large intestine bacillus soluble protein of transformed cells, estimated by absorbance scanning of SDS-PAGE and protein quantitation. It's phytase activity was eight times over the natural phyase. So this research provides the basis of the study on obtaining large and high active phytase and developmant of the new microbial ecologicalagent."}
{"id": "17328980", "title": "Microsatellite based typing of Aspergillus fumigatus: strengths, pitfalls and solutions.", "content": "Microsatellite based typing of Aspergillus fumigatus: strengths, pitfalls and solutions. Microsatellites, or short tandem repeats (STR's), are popular tools to discriminate between microbial isolates. Here, we report on the robustness of a microsatellite panel for discrimination of Aspergillus fumigatus isolates. Two major PCR artefacts (stutter peaks and minus-A peaks) can complicate correct interpretation of STR data. We investigated the effect of alterations to the various components of the PCR amplification mixtures on these PCR artefacts and on the reproducibility of this assay. Some extreme conditions led to a loss of signal, but, under all conditions where a signal was obtained, identical typing results were produced. Furthermore, pitfalls with the exchange of results between labs are discussed. These pitfalls are primarily associated with sizing of the obtained PCR fragments."}
{"id": "17317214", "title": "Cloning, expression, purification, and characterization of a novel epoxide hydrolase from Aspergillus niger SQ-6.", "content": "Cloning, expression, purification, and characterization of a novel epoxide hydrolase from Aspergillus niger SQ-6. A novel epoxide hydrolase from Aspergillus niger SQ-6 has now been cloned by inverse PCR. Its gene shows eight exons including a non-coding exon at its 5'-terminal (GenBank Accession No. AY966486). Phylogenetic analysis using deduced amino acid sequence (395 aa) confirms it as an epoxide hydrolase and shares 58.3% identity with that of A. niger LCP521 (GenBank Accession No. AF238460). The predicted catalytic triad is composed of Asp(191), His(369) and Glu(343). Active recombinant epoxide hydrolase has been successfully expressed in Escherichia coli as protein fusions with a poly-His tail. Scale-up fermentation can yield 2.5g/L of recombinant protein. The electrophoretic pure recombinant protein, which shows similar characterization as natural enzyme purified from A. niger SQ-6, can be easily purified by Ni(2+)-chelated affinity and gel-filtration chromatography. Optimal pH and temperature for purified enzyme are pH 7.5 and 37 degrees C, respectively. The K(m), k(cat) and maximal velocity (V(max)) for p-nitrostyrene oxide are determined to be 1.02mM, 172s(-1) and 231micromol min(-1)mg(-1), respectively. The enzyme can be inhibited by oxidant (H(2)O(2)), solvent (Tetrahydrofuran) and several metal ions including Hg(2+), Fe(2+) and Co(2+). This (R)-stereospecific epoxide hydrolase exhibits high enantioselectivity (enantiomeric excess value, 99%) for the less hindered carbon atom of epoxide. It may be an industrial biocatalyst for the preparation of enantiopure epoxides or vicinal diols."}
{"id": "17291614", "title": "Targeting a polyketide synthase gene for Aspergillus carbonarius quantification and ochratoxin A assessment in grapes using real-time PCR.", "content": "Targeting a polyketide synthase gene for Aspergillus carbonarius quantification and ochratoxin A assessment in grapes using real-time PCR. Aspergillus carbonarius is an ochratoxin producing fungus that has been considered to be responsible of the ochratoxin A (OTA) contamination in grapes and wine. In order to monitor and quantify A. carbonarius, a specific primer pair Ac12RL_OTAF/Ac12RL_OTAR has been designed from the acyltransferase (AT) domain of the polyketide synthase sequence Ac12RL3 to amplify 141 bp PCR product. Among the mycotoxigenic fungi tested, only A. carbonarius gave a positive result. This specific primer pair was also successfully employed in real-time PCR conjugated with SYBR Green I dye for the direct quantification of this fungus in grape samples. A positive correlation (R(2)=0.81) was found between A. carbonarius DNA content and OTA concentration in 72 grape samples, allowing for the estimation of the potential risk from OTA contamination. Consequently, this work offers a quick alternative to conventional methods of OTA quantification and mycological detection and quantification of A. carbonarius in grapes."}
{"id": "17286166", "title": "Characterization of AFLAV, a Tf1/Sushi retrotransposon from Aspergillus flavus.", "content": "Characterization of AFLAV, a Tf1/Sushi retrotransposon from Aspergillus flavus. The plasmid, pAF28, a genomic clone from Aspergillus flavus NRRL 6541, has been used as a hybridization probe to fingerprint A. flavus strains isolated in corn and peanut fields. The insert of pAF28 contains a 4.5 kb region which encodes a truncated retrotransposon (AfRTL-1). In search for a full-length and intact copy of retrotransposon, we exploited a novel PCR cloning strategy by amplifying a 3.4 kb region from the genomic DNA of A. flavus NRRL 6541. The fragment was cloned into pCR 4-TOPO. Sequence analysis confirmed that this region encoded putative domains of partial reverse transcriptase, RNase H, and integrase of the predicted retrotransposon. The two flanking long terminal repeats (LTRs) and the sequence between them comprise a putative full-length LTR retrotransposon of 7799 bp in length. This intact retrotransposon sequence is named AFLAV (A. flavus Retrotransposon). The order of the predicted catalytic domains in the polyprotein (Pol) placed AFLAV in the Tf1/sushi subgroup of the Ty3/gypsy retrotransposon family. Primers derived from AFLAV sequence were used to screen this retrotransposon in other strains of A. flavus. More than fifty strains of A. flavus isolated from different geological origins were surveyed and the results show that many strains have extensive deletions in the regions encoding the capsid (Gag) and Pol."}
{"id": "17279054", "title": "Response of peripheral blood lymphocytes to fungal extracts and staphylococcal superantigen B in chronic rhinosinusitis.", "content": "Response of peripheral blood lymphocytes to fungal extracts and staphylococcal superantigen B in chronic rhinosinusitis. Previous studies have suggested that chronic rhinosinusitis may result from a hypersensitivity response of the nasal mucosa to the presence of fungal antigens or staphylococcal superantigens in the nasal mucus. Both of these groups of antigens are present so frequently in the nasal mucus of patients with chronic rhinosinusitis that their presence together is likely to be a common event. The objective of this study was to determine whether the combined presence of fungal antigens and staphylococcal superantigens exert a synergistic proinflammatory effect on peripheral blood lymphocytes from patients with chronic rhinosinusitis. Peripheral blood lymphocytes were extracted from patients with chronic rhinosinusitis with and without nasal polyposis (n = 7 for both groups) and normal controls (n = 7). These cells were cultured for 48 hours after the addition of fungal extracts (Aspergillus and Alternaria), staphylococcal superantigen type B (SEB), or a combination of these two antigens. Real-time polymerase chain reaction was used to determine the level transcription of interleukinL-5 and interferon-gamma genes. Fungal extracts alone resulted in minimal changes in the levels of cytokine expression in peripheral blood lymphocytes. SEB increased the expression of IFN-gamma, and this effect was magnified by the addition of SEB and fungal extracts together to the culture medium. There were no differences in the magnitude of responses seen in patients with and without polyps nor between patients with chronic rhinosinusitis and normal controls. SEB exerts a powerful proinflammatory effect on peripheral blood lymphocytes and fungal extracts may act synergistically to promote this action."}
{"id": "17273823", "title": "Testing the efficacy of RNA interference constructs in Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Testing the efficacy of RNA interference constructs in Aspergillus fumigatus. We recently developed a silencing vector in Aspergillus fumigatus which carries a hygromycin resistance marker and a transcriptional unit for hairpin RNA expression under the control of the inducible glucoamylase promoter (pGla) (Mouyna et al. in FEMS Microbiol Lett 237:317-324, 2004). We showed previously that this vector can be used for the RNA interference application of two genes ALB1 and FKS1 of which reduced mRNA levels occurred for both, with phenotypic consequences resembling disruptions of genes involved in melanin (ALB1) and beta(1-3)glucan biosynthesis (FKS1). We reported here the silencing of KRE6 and CRH1, two other genes putatively involved in cell wall biosynthesis using a similar construction under the control of the constitutive promoter glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (pgpdA). Silencing of the expression of these two genes was obtained. Further analysis of the transformants showed however that (1) a 100% loss of expression was never achieved for all genes tested (2) the vector used for RNAi is lost or modified over successive transfers resulting in an inhibition of the silencing. These disadvantages of RNAi indicate that classical gene disruption by gene replacement remains the most efficient method for a molecular analysis of gene function in A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "17267633", "title": "Five-hour diagnosis of dermatophyte nail infections with specific detection of Trichophyton rubrum.", "content": "Five-hour diagnosis of dermatophyte nail infections with specific detection of Trichophyton rubrum. A rapid two-step DNA extraction method and a multiplex PCR for the detection of dermatophytes in general and Trichophyton rubrum specifically were developed and evaluated with DNA extracted from pure cultures and from clinically diseased nails. DNA from the following dermatophytes was used: Epidermophyton floccosum, Microsporum audouinii, Microsporum canis, Microsporum gypseum, Microsporum nanum, Trichophyton mentagrophytes, Trichophyton rubrum, Trichophyton schoenleinii, Trichophyton soudanense, Trichophyton terrestre, Trichophyton tonsurans, Trichophyton verrucosum, and Trichophyton violaceum. Human DNA and DNA from the following nondermatophyte fungi were included as controls: Alternaria, Aspergillus niger, Candida albicans, Candida glabrata, Candida krusei, Malassezia furfur, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and Scopulariopsis brevicaulis. A total of 118 nail samples received for routine microscopy and culture for dermatophytes were subsequently tested by the two PCRs separately and in a multiplex format. Using DNA extracted from pure cultures and the pan-dermatophyte PCR, the T. rubrum-specific PCR sequentially and in a multiplex format correctly detected all dermatophytes and additionally correctly identified T. rubrum. Comparison of the traditional diagnostic evaluation (microscopy and culture) of nail samples with PCR on DNA directly extracted from the nails showed excellent agreement between PCR and microscopy, but the number of samples with dermatophyte species identification was increased considerably from 22.9% to 41.5%, mainly due to the identification of T. rubrum by PCR in microscopy-positive but culture-negative samples. In conclusion, this 5-hour diagnostic test was shown to increase not only the speed but also the sensitivity of investigation for nail dermatophytosis."}
{"id": "17261076", "title": "L-arginine influences the structure and function of arginase mRNA in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "L-arginine influences the structure and function of arginase mRNA in Aspergillus nidulans. Expression of the arginase structural gene (agaA) in Aspergillus nidulans is subject to complex transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulation. Arginase mRNA has a long 5'-UTR sequence. Analysis of this sequence in silico revealed its putative complex secondary structure, the presence of arginine-binding motifs (arginine aptamers) and a short intron with two potential 3' splicing sites. In this report we present evidence that L-arginine (i) binds directly to the arginase 5'-UTR; (ii) invokes drastic changes in the secondary structure of the 5'-UTR, unlike several other L-amino acids and D-arginine; and (iii) forces the selection of one of two 3' splice sites of an intron present in the 5'-UTR. We postulate that expression of the eukaryotic structural gene coding for arginase in A. nidulans is regulated at the level of mRNA stability, depending on riboswitch-mediated alternative splicing of the 5'-UTR intron."}
{"id": "17251398", "title": "Development of novel real-time PCR assays for detection and differentiation of eleven medically important Aspergillus and Candida species in clinical specimens.", "content": "Development of novel real-time PCR assays for detection and differentiation of eleven medically important Aspergillus and Candida species in clinical specimens. In the present study, novel real-time PCR assays targeting the fungal ITS2 region were developed for the detection and differentiation of medically important Aspergillus species (Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus niger, and Aspergillus terreus) and Candida species (Candida albicans, Candida dubliniensis, Candida glabrata, Candida krusei, Candida parapsilosis, and Candida tropicalis) using a LightCycler instrument. The combination of a group-specific and a universal primer with five Aspergillus or six Candida species-specific biprobes in one reaction mixture facilitated rapid screening and species differentiation by the characteristic peak melting temperatures of the biprobes. Both assays can be performed either as single assays or simultaneously in the same LightCycler run. The analytical sensitivity using pure cultures and EDTA-anticoagulated blood, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and tissue samples spiked with A. fumigatus and C. albicans cell suspensions was shown to be at least 1 CFU per PCR, corresponding to 5 to 10 CFU/ml blood and 10 CFU/200 microl CSF or 0.02 g tissue. To assess the clinical applicability, 26 respiratory samples, 4 tissue samples from the maxillary sinus, and 1 blood sample were retrospectively tested and real-time PCR results were compared with results from culture, histology, or a galactomannan enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Twenty samples (64.5%) were both culture positive and positive by real-time PCR. Six samples (19.4%) showed no growth of fungi but were positive by real-time PCR. However, all of the tissue samples were positive by both PCR and histology. The blood sample showed no growth of Aspergillus, but aspergillosis was confirmed by positive galactomannan ELISA, histology, and PCR results. The remaining samples (16.1%) were culture and PCR negative; also, no other signs indicating fungal infection were observed. Our data suggest that the Aspergillus and Candida assays may be appropriate for use in clinical laboratories as simple and rapid screening tests for the most frequently encountered Aspergillus and Candida species and might become an important tool in the early diagnosis of fungal infections in the future."}
{"id": "17238237", "title": "Directed evolution of glucose oxidase from Aspergillus niger for ferrocenemethanol-mediated electron transfer.", "content": "Directed evolution of glucose oxidase from Aspergillus niger for ferrocenemethanol-mediated electron transfer. A directed evolution protocol was developed for glucose oxidase (GOx) from Aspergillus niger that mimics applications conditions and employs a well-known mediator, oxidized ferrocenemethanol, in a medium throughput screen (96-well plate format). Upon reduction, oxidized ferrocenemethanol shows a color change from blue to pale yellow that can be recorded at 625 nm. Under optimized screening conditions, a CV of less than 20% was achieved in 96-well microtiter plates. For validating the screening system, two mutant libraries of GOx were generated by standard error-prone PCR conditions (0.04 mM MnCl(2)) and Saccharomyces cerevisiae was employed as host for secreted GOx expression. Two screening of approximately 2000 GOx mutants yielded a double mutant (T30S I94V) with improved pH and thermal resistance. Thermal resistance at a residual activity of 50% was increased from 58 degrees C (wild type, WT) to 62 degrees C (T30S I94V) and pH stability was improved at basic pH (pH 8-11). K(m) for glucose remained nearly unchanged (20.8 mM WT; 21.3 mM T30S I94V) and k(cat) increased (69.5/s WT; 137.7/s T30S I94V)."}
{"id": "17230581", "title": "The 160 N-terminal residues of calnexin define a novel region supporting viability in Schizosaccharomyces pombe.", "content": "The 160 N-terminal residues of calnexin define a novel region supporting viability in Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Protein secretion is a complex process that can be modulated by folding factors in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER), such as calnexin, a highly-conserved molecular chaperone involved in quality control. In Schizosaccharomyces pombe, calnexin (Cnx1p) is essential for cell viability. The calnexin/Cnx1p determinants required for viability have been mapped within the last 123 residues of its C-terminus. To better understand the role(s) of calnexin/Cnx1p in secretion, we screened for cnx1 mutants 'super-secreting' cellulase. We identified ss14_cnx1, a mutant secreting 10-fold higher levels of the glycoprotein cellulase than the wild-type strain. While cellulase did not interact with ss14_Cnx1p, the ratio of secreted activity/quantity for this enzyme was not affected, suggesting that the quality control of folding in the ER was adequate in the mutant strain. Surprisingly, the ss14_Cnx1p mutant is composed of the 160 N-terminal amino acids of the mature molecule, thus this mutant defines a novel calnexin/Cnx1p region supporting Sz. pombe viability. Interestingly, like viable mutants spanning the last 52 aa of calnexin/Cnx1p, the 160 N-terminal residues encoded by ss14_cnx1 also forms a complex with the essential BiP chaperone. These results reveal the so far unidentified importance of the N-terminal region of calnexin/Cnx1p."}
{"id": "17216451", "title": "Amino acid supplementation reveals differential regulation of aflatoxin biosynthesis in Aspergillus flavus NRRL 3357 and Aspergillus parasiticus SRRC 143.", "content": "Amino acid supplementation reveals differential regulation of aflatoxin biosynthesis in Aspergillus flavus NRRL 3357 and Aspergillus parasiticus SRRC 143. Aflatoxins are toxic and carcinogenic secondary metabolites produced by the fungi Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus. To better understand the molecular mechanisms that regulate aflatoxin production, the biosynthesis of the toxin in A. flavus and A. parasticus grown in yeast extract sucrose media supplemented with 50 mM tryptophan (Trp) were examined. Aspergillus flavus grown in the presence of 50 mM tryptophan was found to have significantly reduced aflatoxin B(1) and B(2) biosynthesis, while A. parasiticus cultures had significantly increased B(1) and G(1) biosynthesis. Microarray analysis of RNA extracted from fungi grown under these conditions revealed 77 genes that are expressed significantly different between A. flavus and A. parasiticus, including the aflatoxin biosynthetic genes aflD (nor-1), aflE (norA), and aflO (omtB). It is clear that the regulatory mechanisms of aflatoxin biosynthesis in response to Trp in A. flavus and A. parasiticus are different. These candidate genes may serve as regulatory factors of aflatoxin biosynthesis."}
{"id": "17205486", "title": "Pathogenesis of Aspergillus fumigatus and the kinetics of galactomannan in an in vitro model of early invasive pulmonary aspergillosis: implications for antifungal therapy.", "content": "Pathogenesis of Aspergillus fumigatus and the kinetics of galactomannan in an in vitro model of early invasive pulmonary aspergillosis: implications for antifungal therapy. Little is known about the pathogenesis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis and the relationship between the kinetics of diagnostic markers and the outcome of antifungal therapy. An in vitro model of the human alveolus, consisting of a bilayer of human alveolar epithelial and endothelial cells, was developed. An Aspergillus fumigatus strain expressing green fluorescent protein was used. Invasion of the cell bilayer was studied using confocal and electron microscopy. The kinetics of culture, polymerase chain reaction, and galactomannan were determined. Galactomannan was used to measure the antifungal effect of macrophages and amphotericin B. A mathematical model was developed, and results were bridged to humans. A. fumigatus penetrated the cellular bilayer 14-16 h after inoculation. Galactomannan levels were inextricably tied to fungal invasion and were a robust measure of the antifungal effect of macrophages and amphotericin B. Neither amphotericin nor macrophages alone was able to suppress the growth of A. fumigatus; rather, the combination was required. Monte Carlo simulations showed that human dosages of amphotericin B of at least 0.6 mg/kg were required to achieve adequate drug exposure. This model provides a strategy by which relationships among pathogenesis, immunological effectors, and antifungal drug therapy for invasive pulmonary aspergillosis may be further understood."}
{"id": "17202930", "title": "Surfactant protein d expression in chronic rhinosinusitis patients and immune responses in vitro to Aspergillus and alternaria in a nasal explant model.", "content": "Surfactant protein d expression in chronic rhinosinusitis patients and immune responses in vitro to Aspergillus and alternaria in a nasal explant model. Common fungi have been implicated in the pathogenesis of chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) with eosinophilic mucus (EMCRS). Surfactant protein (SP)-D plays an important role in the immune response to Aspergillus fumigatus in the lungs. We sought to determine whether SP-D is expressed in nasal mucosa and investigated the response of SP-D in vitro to fungal allergens. 1) Nasal biopsies from 59 CRS and EMCRS patients, stratified into allergic fungal sinusitis (AFS), nonallergic fungal eosinophilic sinusitis (NAFES), and nonallergic nonfungal eosinophilic sinusitis (NANFES) were studied by quantitative reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (qRT-PCR), immunostaining and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). 2) Nasal tissue from three CRS and three NANFES patients was cultured with fungal allergens in a nasal explant in vitro model for 24 hours at increasing concentrations and mRNA SP-D secreted SP-D protein levels in response to the fungi determined by qRT-PCR and ELISA. Staining for SP-D was detected in the submucosal glands from the nasal biopsies in all patient groups except for AFS. By ELISA, SP-D was undetectable in AFS and decreased in NAFES, NANFES, and CRS compared with controls. CRS patients in vitro cultured with Aspergillus and Alternaria allergens in a nasal tissue explant model induced up-regulation of SP-D by qRT-PCR. In contrast, NANFES nasal tissue explants cultured with Aspergillus allergens induced down-regulation of SP-D. We report for the first time the expression of SP-D in both diseased and normal nasal mucosa. SP-D expression in CRS patients is up-regulated by fungal allergens in an in vitro model. These results may provide potential novel therapy for treatment of CRS."}
{"id": "17194495", "title": "Cloning, functional expression and characterization of Aspergillus sulphureus beta-mannanase in Pichia pastoris.", "content": "Cloning, functional expression and characterization of Aspergillus sulphureus beta-mannanase in Pichia pastoris. Using RT-PCR and rapid amplication of cDNA ends (RACE) techniques, a 1345bp full-length cDNA fragment was obtained from Aspergillus sulphureus. The gene, designated MANN, codes for a 383-residue with a calculated mass of 41,389Da. MANN displayed amino acid sequence similarity to the beta-mannanase of Aspergillus aculeatus and Trichoderma reesei, members of the glycoside hydrolase family 5. The recombinant beta-mannanase gene was successfully expressed in a fully active form in Pichia pastoris. Southern blot analysis showed that the recombinant beta-mannanase gene had successfully integrated into the P. pastoris X-33 genome. SDS-PAGE and Western blot assays demonstrated that the recombinant beta-mannanase, a 48kDa glycosylated protein, was secreted into the culture medium. The enzyme had high specific activity toward locust bean gum and an extremely broad pH range of 2.2-8.0. It showed highest activity at pH 2.4 and 50 degrees C and was stable at temperature below 40 degrees C. The K(m) and V(max) values for locust bean gum at 50 degrees C and pH 2.4 are 0.93mgmL(-1) and 344.83Umg(-1), respectively. The isoelectric point of the recombinant protein is 4.89. The enzymatic activity of recombinant A. sulphureus beta-mannanase was not significantly affected by a range of ions or EDTA."}
{"id": "17184314", "title": "Internal amplification controls have not been employed in fungal PCR hence potential false negative results.", "content": "Internal amplification controls have not been employed in fungal PCR hence potential false negative results. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is subject to false negative results. Samples of fungi with the genes of interest (e.g. a disease or mycotoxin) may be categorized as negative and safe as a consequence. Fungi are eukaryotic organisms that are involved in many fields of human activity such as antibiotic, toxin and food production. Certain taxa are implicated in human, animal and plant diseases. However, fungi are difficult to identify and PCR techniques have been proposed increasingly for this purpose. Internal amplification controls (IACs) will ameliorate the situation and need to become mandatory. These are nucleic acids that posses a sequence which will provide a PCR product (i) using the same primers employed for the target gene, and (ii) that will not coincide on the gel with the product of the target gene. Only one group of workers employed an IAC, to respond to potential inhibition, which was reported in 1995 from this present assessment of numerous reports. Inhibitors in cultures need to be minimized, and secondary metabolites are an obvious source. The fields reviewed herein include medical mycology, mycotoxicology, environmental mycology and plant mycology. The conclusion is that previous reports are compromised because IACs have not been employed in fungal PCR; future research must include this control at an early stage."}
{"id": "17178797", "title": "Expression of immunomodulatory genes in human monocytes induced by voriconazole in the presence of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Expression of immunomodulatory genes in human monocytes induced by voriconazole in the presence of Aspergillus fumigatus. We assessed the effect of voriconazole (VRC) on the expression and release of selected cytokines and chemokines in the THP-1 human monocytic cell line in response to Aspergillus fumigatus hyphal fragments (HF) by cDNA microarray analysis, reverse transcriptase (RT) PCR, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Stimulation of THP-1 cells by HF alone caused a significant up-regulation of CCL4 (MIP1B) and CCL16, while CCL2 (MCP1) was down-regulated. By comparison, in the presence of VRC, a large number of genes such as CCL3 (MIP1A), CCL4 (MIP1B), CCL5 (RANTES), CCL7 (MCP3), CCL11 (EOTAXIN), CCL15 (MIP1Delta), CXCL6, and CXCL13 were strongly up-regulated in THP-1 cells challenged by HF, whereas CCL20 (MIP3A) and CCL21 (MIP2) were down-regulated. Among five genes differentially expressed in THP-1 cells, IL12A, IL12B, and IL-16 were down-regulated whereas IL-11 and TGFB1 were significantly up-regulated in the presence of VRC. The inflammation-related genes IFNgamma, IL1R1, and TNFA were also up-regulated in THP-1 cells exposed to HF only in the presence of VRC. RT-PCR of four selected genes validated the results of microarrays. The release of interleukin 1beta (IL-1beta) and IL-12 was significantly increased from monocytes stimulated either by HF alone (P < 0.05) or in the presence of VRC (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05, respectively). In contrast, tumor necrosis factor alpha release from monocytes was enhanced only in the presence of VRC (P < 0.01). The chemokines monocyte chemoattractant protein 1 and macrophage inflammatory protein 1beta were decreased under both conditions (P < 0.01). These results demonstrate that in the presence of VRC, HF induces a more pronounced profile of gene expression in THP-1 cells than HF alone, potentially leading to more-efficient host resistance to A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "17178246", "title": "Function analysis of steA homolog in Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Function analysis of steA homolog in Aspergillus oryzae. The asexual ascomycete Aspergillus oryzae has an steA homolog in its genome. The steA homolog of A. oryzae was transcribed in the wild-type strain but steA disruption did not affect the phenotype of the disruptant strain. On the other hand, the steA-overexpressing strain showed the restriction of vegetative hyphal growth and conidiation, and the formation of balloon-shaped structures. The restriction of vegetative hyphal growth and conidiation were partially rescued by high osmolarity. In addition, the hyphal growth of the steA-overexpressing strain was inhibited by Calcofluor white, and the strain was found to be sensitive to cell-wall-degrading reagents. Increase of secretory cell-wall-degrading enzymes of the steA-overexpressing strain was detected. These results indicate that SteA regulates cell-wall-degrading enzymes and that the phenotypes of A. oryzae steA-overexpressing strain may be due to cell wall abnormalities. steA may participate in cell wall metabolism."}
{"id": "17172527", "title": "Cerebral aspergillosis diagnosed by detection of Aspergillus flavus-specific DNA, galactomannan and (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan in clinical specimens.", "content": "Cerebral aspergillosis diagnosed by detection of Aspergillus flavus-specific DNA, galactomannan and (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan in clinical specimens. A case of cerebral aspergillosis was diagnosed by the detection of Aspergillus flavus-specific DNA in brain biopsy and serum specimens. The diagnosis was also supported by detection of elevated levels of galactomannan and (1-->3)-beta-d-glucan in serum specimens. Despite the presence of dichotomously branched septate hyphae in brain biopsy, the culture remained negative. The inability to isolate the organism in culture suggested that combined therapy of AmBisome and caspofungin was fungicidal for the fungus in the brain abscess."}
{"id": "17166958", "title": "A cautionary tale: Lack of consistency in allele sizes between two laboratories for a published multilocus microsatellite typing system.", "content": "A cautionary tale: Lack of consistency in allele sizes between two laboratories for a published multilocus microsatellite typing system. For species with low genetic diversity, typing using the differences in PCR fragment length resulting from variations in numbers of short tandem repeats has been shown to provide a high level of discrimination. This technique has been called multilocus microsatellite typing (MLMT) or multiple-locus variable-number tandem repeat analysis, and studies usually employ genetic or sequence analyzers to size PCR fragments to a high degree of precision. We set out to validate one such system that has been developed for Aspergillus fumigatus (H. A. de Valk, J. F. G. M. Meis, I. M. Curfs, K. Muehlethaler, J. W. Mouton, and C. H. W. Klaassen, J. Clin. Microbiol. 43:4112-4120, 2005). The sizes of the alleles were compared both by sequencing and from two genotyping laboratories, where they used capillary electrophoresis (CE) for sizing. Size differences of up to 6 bases were found between the actual sizes reported by sequencing and the sizes reported by CE. In addition, because the two genotyping laboratories used different machines and running conditions, differences of up to 3 bases were identified between them. As the microsatellite markers used differ by repeat units of 3 or 4 bases, it was not possible to assign PCR fragments to the correct alleles without confirming the sizes of a range of alleles by direct sequencing. Lines of best fit were plotted for each CE machine against actual sizes and will therefore enable unsequenced PCR fragments to be assigned to the correct alleles. This study highlights the care required to ensure that an MLMT system undergoes a suitable correction procedure before data can be merged between different laboratories involved in the typing of individual species."}
{"id": "17158042", "title": "Colletotrichum sublineolum genetic instability assessed by mutants resistant to chlorate.", "content": "Colletotrichum sublineolum genetic instability assessed by mutants resistant to chlorate. The fungus Colletotrichum sublineolum, causal agent of sorghum anthracnose, presents high variability, genetic instability and host specialization. The aims of the present work were to investigate the mechanisms involved in the genetic instability in this species. Mutants resistant to chlorate and unable to use nitrate (Nit mutants), were obtained spontaneously, isolated and characterized for complementation pattern, reversion frequency and RAPD profile. The results showed that chlorate-resistant mutants could be divided into six phenotypic classes that probably represented mutations in the structural nitrate reductase locus (nit1), in the structural nitrite reductase locus (nit6 and niiA of Neurospora and Aspergillus, respectively), in the specific regulator locus (nit3), in the main regulator locus (nit2), in loci that codified the cofactor containing molybdenum necessary for nitrate reductase activity (NitM), and one or more genes responsible for nitrate intake (crn). In addition, the genetic control of this metabolism in C. sublineolum seems to be similar to other fungi species such as Aspergillus, Neurospora and Fusarium. The high reversion frequency (10(-4) to 10(-5)) presented by nit1 mutants suggests that the instability in evaluated strains could be a result of transposable elements activity. The RAPD analysis enabled confirmation that the Nit mutants have a similar genetic background to original strain, and that polymorphism exists among wild-type strains, nit1 mutants and revertants of C. sublineolum. These are important aspects for the later direction of molecular analysis, where these mutants will be used as a tool to isolate the active transposable elements in the C. sublineolum genome."}
{"id": "17122000", "title": "Development and clinical application of a panfungal PCR assay to detect and identify fungal DNA in tissue specimens.", "content": "Development and clinical application of a panfungal PCR assay to detect and identify fungal DNA in tissue specimens. Given the rise in the incidence of invasive fungal infections (IFIs) and the expanding spectrum of fungal pathogens, early and accurate identification of the causative pathogen is essential. We developed a panfungal PCR assay that targets the internal transcribed spacer 1 (ITS1) region of the ribosomal DNA gene cluster to detect fungal DNA in fresh and formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded (PE) tissue specimens from patients with culture-proven (n=38) or solely histologically proven (n=24) IFIs. PCR products were sequenced and compared with sequences in the GenBank database to identify the causal pathogen. The molecular identification was correlated with results from histological examination and culture. The assay successfully detected and identified the fungal pathogen in 93.6% and 64.3% of culture-proven and solely histologically proven cases of IFI, respectively. A diverse range of fungal genera were identified, including species of Candida, Cryptococcus, Trichosporon, Aspergillus, Fusarium, Scedosporium, Exophiala, Exserohilum, Apophysomyces, Actinomucor, and Rhizopus. For five specimens, molecular analysis identified a pathogen closely related to that identified by culture. All PCR-negative specimens (n=10) were PE tissues in which fungal hyphae were visualized. The results support the use of the panfungal PCR assay in combination with conventional laboratory tests for accurate identification of fungi in tissue specimens."}
{"id": "17016743", "title": "APHO1 from the yeast Arxula adeninivorans encodes an acid phosphatase of broad substrate specificity.", "content": "APHO1 from the yeast Arxula adeninivorans encodes an acid phosphatase of broad substrate specificity. The extracellular acid phosphatase-encoding Arxula adeninivorans APHO1 gene was isolated using degenerated specific oligonucleotide primers in a PCR screening approach. The gene harbours an ORF of 1449 bp encoding a protein of 483 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 52.4 kDa. The sequence includes an N-terminal secretion sequence of 17 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence exhibits 54% identity to phytases from Aspergillus awamori, Asp. niger and Asp. ficuum and a more distant relationship to phytases of the yeasts Candida albicans and Debaryomyces hansenii (36-39% identity). The sequence contains the phosphohistidine signature and the conserved active site sequence of acid phosphatases. APHO1 expression is induced under conditions of phosphate limitation. Enzyme isolates from wild and recombinant strains with the APHO1 gene expressed under control of the strong A. adeninivorans-derived TEF1 promoter were characterized. For both proteins, a molecular mass of approx. 350 kDa, corresponding to a hexameric structure, a pH optimum of pH 4.8 and a temperature optimum of 60 degrees C were determined. The preferred substrates include p-nitrophenyl-phosphate, pyridoxal-5-phosphate, 3-indoxyl-phosphate, 1-naphthylphosphate, ADP, glucose-6-phosphate, sodium-pyrophosphate, and phytic acid. Thus the enzyme is a secretory acid phosphatase with phytase activity and not a phytase as suggested by strong homology to such enzymes."}
{"id": "16959342", "title": "Nucleotide polymorphisms associated with Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS) regions of ocular isolates of Aspergillus flavus.", "content": "Nucleotide polymorphisms associated with Internal Transcribed Spacer (ITS) regions of ocular isolates of Aspergillus flavus. To analyse the genetic similarity among ocular isolates of Aspergillus flavus by Polymerase chain reaction based Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (PCR-RFLP) and DNA sequencing. Seven ocular isolates of A. flavus from 5 patients (3 from paient 1, and four isolates from patients no. 2, 3, 4, and 5 respectively) consisting of 2 Aqueous Humor (AH), 2 Vitreous fluid (VF), 1 eviscerated material, 1 corneal button were included in the study. The three specimens from 1 were one each of AH, VF and corneal button. The fungal isolates were amplified using primers targeting ITS region and the amplicons were subjected to PCR-RFLP using Hae-III enzyme and DNA sequencing to analyse the genetic similarity. A. flavus isolates yielded a specific product of 595 bp after amplification. All the seven A. flavus isolates showed similar pattern of digestion with Hae-III . However, DNA sequencing of ITS amplicons revealed 97.7% genetic similarity and 2.3% dissimilarity with nucleotide polymorphisms -- single, double and multiple pertaining to inversion, substitution, insertion and deletion in comparison with that of standard strain of A. flavus ATCC 16883 [Accession Number ]. A. flavus isolated from AH, VF and corneal button from the same patient showed similar nucleotide polymorphisms as against other isolates which exhibited distinct polymorphisms. This pattern of nucleotide polymorphisms in A. flavus isolates is novel and first time reported in literature to the best of our knowledge. DNA sequencing proves to be a useful molecular tool in screening for nucleotide polymorphisms among fungal isolates."}
{"id": "17661641", "title": "Molecular diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis: the long and winding road.", "content": "Molecular diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis: the long and winding road. Invasive aspergillosis is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in patients with hematological malignancies and stem cell transplant recipients. Early diagnosis and therapy are important to improve prognosis in these patients. Difficulties in establishing an early diagnosis have prompted investigations towards new and alternative diagnostic methods. During the last decade, PCR-based assays have emerged as valuable experimental tools to improve diagnostic workup and clinical management of patients with suspected or proven invasive aspergillosis. However, implementation of these molecular tools in the routine diagnostic laboratory is hampered by a lack of standardization."}
{"id": "17461323", "title": "An outbreak of Aspergillus meningitis following spinal anaesthesia for caesarean section in Sri Lanka: a post-tsunami effect?", "content": "An outbreak of Aspergillus meningitis following spinal anaesthesia for caesarean section in Sri Lanka: a post-tsunami effect? An outbreak of Aspergillus fumigatus meningitis occurred in 5 women following spinal anaesthesia, performed between 21 June and 17 July 2005 for caesarean section, in Colombo, Sri Lanka. The patients' median age was 27 years. Different teams in 2 maternity hospitals gave spinal anaesthesia. Mean incubation period was 11.2 days. Fever, headache and nuchal rigidity were common presentations. Remittent fever continued despite broad-spectrum intravenous antibiotics. Papilloedema, lateral rectus palsy, cerebral infarction and haemorrhage developed later. Three patients died. Cerebrospinal fluid pleocytosis with low glucose yielded negative PCR for fungi. Fungal cultures subsequently grew Aspergillus fumigatus. A post-mortem of the first patient confirmed Aspergillus meningitis, followed by treatment with amphotericin B and voriconazole, that saved the lives of others. Visual and hearing impairment in one and complete recovery in the other were observed a year after treatment. Examination of unused plastic syringes, needles, cannulae, and ampoules of anaesthetic agents confirmed that 43 syringes from three different manufactures were contaminated with Aspergillus fumigatus. The stores for drugs and devices of the Ministry of Health were examined and found to be full of tsunami donations, while regular procurements of the Ministry were kept in a poorly maintained humid warehouse. Inadequate space for tsunami donations was identified as the most plausible explanation for sub-optimal storage. Withdrawal and incineration of all unused syringes controlled the outbreak. The survival of those aggressively treated for Aspergillus meningitis suggests in hindsight that the availability of diagnostic tests and specific treatment, and early recognition of the outbreak could have saved the lives of victims who died. Early life-threatening side-effects and permanent long term sequelae of antifungal medication stress the need to be cautious with empirical treatment in immuno-competent low-risk individuals."}
{"id": "17426786", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus spp. in biological samples by real-time PCR.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus spp. in biological samples by real-time PCR. Recently, the proportion of invasive infections caused by the filamentous fungi of the Aspergillus genus are growing in immunocompromised persons particularly in transplant recipients and neutropenic patients. Unfortunately, laboratory diagnostics of invasive aspergillosis remains extremely difficult, mainly with regard to the sensitivity of the methods and to the correct interpretation of the results in particular. The aim of this work was to design a standard and reproducible Aspergillus DNA detection method and its validation. The second aim was to practically use this method for diagnosis of Aspergillus DNA in various samples in patients. Real-time PCR with two hybridization probes. Amplification and on-line quantification was carried out on a LightCycler 1.5 Instrument. Specificity of the reaction was tested for A. fumigatus, A. flavus, A. niger and A. terreus, and its sensitivity was determined at 5 copies per ml. The reproducibility of the results was comparable to other methods, reported in the literature. Applicability of the real-time PCR was assessed for detection of Aspergillus DNA in 354 various clinical samples taken from 179 patients at risk of invasive aspergillosis over the period of 33 months. Of 354 samples 103 (29.10 %) taken from 65 patients (36.31 %) were evaluated as positive. Over one year, the percentage of positive samples was mostly about 30 % or less per month. Our results demonstrate the high sensitivity, specificity and reproducibility of this technique, and its usefulness for rapid laboratory diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis."}
{"id": "17406574", "title": "Fusion PCR and gene targeting in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Fusion PCR and gene targeting in Aspergillus nidulans. We describe a rapid method for the production of fusion PCR products that can be used, generally without band purification, to transform Aspergillus nidulans. This technique can be used to replace genes; tag genes with fluorescent moeties or epitope tags; or replace endogenous promoters with regulatable promoters, by introducing an appropriate selective cassette (e.g., fluorescent protein + selectable marker). The relevant genomic fragments and cassette are first amplified separately by PCR using primers that produce overlapping ends. A second PCR using 'nested' primers fuses the fragments into a single molecule with all sequences in the desired order. This procedure allows a cassette to be amplified once, frozen and used subsequently in many fusion PCRs. Transformation of nonhomologous recombination deficient (nkuADelta) strains of A. nidulans with fusion PCR products results in high frequencies of accurate gene targeting. Fusion PCR takes less than 2 d. Protoplast formation and transformation takes less than 1 d."}
{"id": "17406500", "title": "Identification and analysis of essential Aspergillus nidulans genes using the heterokaryon rescue technique.", "content": "Identification and analysis of essential Aspergillus nidulans genes using the heterokaryon rescue technique. In the heterokaryon rescue technique, gene deletions are carried out using the pyrG nutritional marker to replace the coding region of target genes via homologous recombination in Aspergillus nidulans. If an essential gene is deleted, the null allele is maintained in spontaneously generated heterokaryons that consist of two genetically distinct types of nuclei. One nuclear type has the essential gene deleted but has a functional pyrG allele (pyrG+). The other has the wild-type allele of the essential gene but lacks a functional pyrG allele (pyrG-). Thus, a simple growth test applied to the uninucleate asexual spores formed from primary transformants can identify deletions of genes that are non-essential from those that are essential and can only be propagated by heterokaryon rescue. The growth tests also enable the phenotype of the null allele to be defined. Diagnostic PCR can be used to confirm deletions at the molecular level. This technique is suitable for large-scale gene-deletion programs and can be completed within 3 weeks."}
{"id": "17270725", "title": "High-throughput genotyping of filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae based on colony direct polymerase chain reaction.", "content": "High-throughput genotyping of filamentous fungus Aspergillus oryzae based on colony direct polymerase chain reaction. High-throughput genotyping of Aspergillus oryzae was achieved using an FTA card for the extraction of a genomic DNA template for polymerase chain reaction from a fungal colony growing on an agar plate. This method was then applied to detect other fungal species from agar slants and food materials. This method offers a convenient tool for the genotyping of filamentous fungi without using an organic solvent or specialized equipment."}
{"id": "17236162", "title": "Differential expression of genes involved in iron metabolism in Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Differential expression of genes involved in iron metabolism in Aspergillus fumigatus. The ability of fungi to survive in many environments is linked to their capacity to acquire essential nutrients. Iron is generally complexed and available in very limited amounts. Like bacteria, fungi have evolved highly specific systems for iron acquisition. Production and uptake of iron-chelating siderophores has been shown to be important for certain human bacterial pathogens, as well as in fungal pathogens such as Cryptococcus neoformans and Fusarium graminearum. This system also enables the opportunistic fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus to infect and subsequently colonize the human lung. In this study, advantage was taken of genome sequence data available for both Aspergillus nidulans and A. fumigatus either to partially clone or to design PCR primers for 10 genes putatively involved in siderophore biosynthesis or uptake in A. fumigatus. The expression of these genes was then monitored by semi-quantitative and quantitative real-time PCR over a range of iron concentrations. As expected, the putative biosynthetic genes sidA, sidC and sidD were all strongly up-regulated under iron starvation conditions, although the variable degree of induction indicates complex regulation by a number of transcriptional factors, including the GATA family protein SreA. In contrast, the gene sidE shows no iron-regulation, suggesting that SidE may not be involved in siderophore biosynthesis. The characterisation of the expression patterns of this subset of genes in the iron regulon facilitates further studies into the importance of iron acquisition for pathogenesis of A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "17196019", "title": "Fungi in bottled water: a case study of a production plant.", "content": "Fungi in bottled water: a case study of a production plant. A one-year fungal survey of a water bottling plant was conducted in order to evaluate the incidence and fluctuations of the mycobiota. The dominant fungal genera in order of highest numbers isolated were Penicillium, Cladosporium and Trichoderma followed by Aspergillus, Paecilomyces, and others. As expected, the highest number of isolates were collected during the warmer months, particularly May and June. Indeed during these two months there were more fungi present in the water, indicating that during those times of the year when fungal contamination is high, 0.4 mm filters should be changed on a more regular basis. In order to assess whether contamination was single or multi-loci, molecular methods based on the PCR were used for Penicillium brevicompactum. Overall, fungal contamination arose from multiple sources. Some P. brevicompactum strains were very \"alike\" and were detected during different sampling times, indicating that they were endemic to the plant. There was no evidence to suggest that fungi detected in the source water passed through to other parts of the plant. However, there was evidence that fungal strains isolated from the water filter were detected elsewhere in the factory, confirming the need to change filters more regularly during periods of high fungal contamination. In order to improve quality control a HACCP programme was implemented and Best Practice Guidelines introduced."}
{"id": "17189178", "title": "Identification of genes from Aspergillus oryzae that are preferentially expressed in membrane-surface liquid culture.", "content": "Identification of genes from Aspergillus oryzae that are preferentially expressed in membrane-surface liquid culture. We identified 22 genes from Aspergillus oryzae that are preferentially expressed in membrane-surface liquid culture (MSLC), among which Ser/Thr protein kinase (aopk1) and phosphatase (aoppt) genes were cloned. We also revealed that aopk1 encodes a protein with an N-terminal sequence 150 amino acid residues longer than that predicted from the registered sequence in GenBank."}
{"id": "17185280", "title": "Mold and endotoxin levels in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina: a pilot project of homes in New Orleans undergoing renovation.", "content": "Mold and endotoxin levels in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina: a pilot project of homes in New Orleans undergoing renovation. After Hurricane Katrina, many New Orleans homes remained flooded for weeks, promoting heavy microbial growth. A small demonstration project was conducted November 2005-January 2006 aiming to recommend safe remediation techniques and safe levels of worker protection, and to characterize airborne mold and endotoxin throughout cleanup. Three houses with floodwater lines between 0.3 and 2 m underwent intervention, including disposal of damaged furnishings and drywall, cleaning surfaces, drying remaining structure, and treatment with a biostatic agent. We measured indoor and outdoor bioaerosols before, during, and after intervention. Samples were analyzed for fungi [culture, spore analysis, polymerase chain reaction (PCR)] and endotoxin. In one house, realtime particle counts were also assessed, and respirator-efficiency testing was performed to establish workplace protection factors (WPF). At baseline, culturable mold ranged from 22,000 to 515,000 colony-forming units/m3, spore counts ranged from 82,000 to 630,000 spores/m3, and endotoxin ranged from 17 to 139 endotoxin units/m3. Culture, spore analysis, and PCR indicated that Penicillium, Aspergillus, and Paecilomyces predominated. After intervention, levels of mold and endotoxin were generally lower (sometimes, orders of magnitude). The average WPF against fungal spores for elastomeric respirators was higher than for the N95 respirators. During baseline and intervention, mold and endotoxin levels were similar to those found in agricultural environments. We strongly recommend that those entering, cleaning, and repairing flood-damaged homes wear respirators at least as protective as elastomeric respirators. Recommendations based on this demonstration will benefit those involved in the current cleanup activities and will inform efforts to respond to future disasters."}
{"id": "17139616", "title": "Effects of mutations in the GanB/RgsA G protein mediated signalling on the autolysis of Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Effects of mutations in the GanB/RgsA G protein mediated signalling on the autolysis of Aspergillus nidulans. Physiological changes taking place in carbon-starved, autolysing cultures of Aspergillus (Emericella) nidulans strains with mutations in the GanB/RgsA heterotrimeric G protein signalling pathway were studied and compared. Deletion of the ganB, rgsA or both genes did not alter markedly either the autolytic loss of biomass or the extracellular chitinase production. However, they caused a significant decrease in the proteinase formation, which was detected by measuring both extracellular enzyme activity and the transcription of the prtA gene. The deletion mutants also showed significantly higher specific gamma -glutamyltranspeptidase activities than the control strain. Deletion of the rgsA gene affected the glutathione peroxidase and catalase formation, as well as the peroxide content of the cells. The concomitant initiations of cell death and developmental genomic programmes may be interconnected via heterotrimeric G-protein signalling and subsequent changes in intracellular ROS levels in ageing A. nidulans."}
{"id": "17130677", "title": "Microarray-based identification of novel biomarkers in asthma.", "content": "Microarray-based identification of novel biomarkers in asthma. Bronchial asthma is a complicated and diverse disorder affected by genetic and environmental factors. It is widely accepted that it is a Th2-type inflammation originating in lung and caused by inhalation of ubiquitous allergens. The complicated and diverse pathogenesis of this disease yet to be clarified. Functional genomics is the analysis of whole gene expression profiling under given condition, and microarray technology is now the most powerful tool for functional genomics. Several attempts to clarify the pathogenesis of bronchial asthma have been carried out using microarray technology, providing us some novel biomarkers for diagnosis, therapeutic targets or understanding pathogenic mechanisms of bronchial asthma. In this article, we review the outcomes of these analyses by the microarray approach as applied to this disease by focusing on the identification of novel biomarkers."}
{"id": "17127630", "title": "Evaluation of pan-fungal PCR assay and Aspergillus antigen detection in the diagnosis of invasive fungal infections in high risk paediatric cancer patients.", "content": "Evaluation of pan-fungal PCR assay and Aspergillus antigen detection in the diagnosis of invasive fungal infections in high risk paediatric cancer patients. Profound and prolonged neutropenia following chemotherapy is a major risk factor for systemic fungal infection. As the early diagnosis of invasive fungal infection (IFI) is difficult, these infections are still associated with high morbidity and mortality. Recently, Pan-fungal polymerase chain reaction (PCR) has been a promising aid in rapid, early diagnosis of IFI. During the past few years, increasing numbers of suspected IFIs were encountered at our institution in patients with prolonged neutropenia after intensified immunosuppressive chemotherapy. The aim of this study was to investigate the diagnostic utility of both the aspergillus galactomannan (GM) antigen and the pan-fungal PCR assay in the diagnosis of IFI in high risk febrile neutropenic paediatric cancer patients. During one year period, 91 febrile neutropenic (FN) paediatric cases at high risk for developing IFI while receiving chemotherapy were investigated at National Cancer Institute, Egypt. These patients were subjected to clinical evaluation, chest CT scan, conventional blood cultures for bacterial and fungal pathogens, aspergillus GM antigen detection and PCR assay utilizing pan-fungal primers. Of the 91 FN episodes, 15 were proven IFI; whereas 27 cases were either probable (n=13) or possible IFI (n=14), and 49 were unlikely to be IFI episodes. Based on positive results for proven/probable IFI and compared to culture results, Pan-fungal PCR showed sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values of 75%, 92%, 84% and 87%; respectively. Aspergillus antigen test showed a sensitivity of 79%, specificity of 61%, positive and negative predictive values of 54% and 83%; respectively. A negative PCR in the proven and probable cases was closely related to previous antifungal therapy for a prior history of IFI. In patients at high risk for IFI, neither the sensitivity, nor specificity of the GM test was sufficient. The results of PCR assay was reasonably specific but not very sensitive and had a chance of missing the diagnosis of IFI. The PCR assay seems a promising test for objectively defining IFI, but is not recommended as the only tool for diagnosing IFI. Combining microscopy, culture, and PCR may improve the diagnostic outcome."}
{"id": "17101590", "title": "Protease-dependent activation of nasal polyp epithelial cells by airborne fungi leads to migration of eosinophils and neutrophils.", "content": "Protease-dependent activation of nasal polyp epithelial cells by airborne fungi leads to migration of eosinophils and neutrophils. Proteases in fungi interact with nasal epithelial cells and enhance the production of inflammatory cytokines in vitro. These cytokines induced the migration of eosinophils and neutrophils. Protease-activated receptors (PARs) might also play a role in the process of epithelial cell activation. The nasal epithelium is the first barrier encountered by airborne allergens and an active participant in airway inflammation. Fungi have been increasingly recognized as important pathogens in sinusitis and consist of several allergenic proteins. Nasal polyp epithelial cells were obtained from patients and stimulated with Alternaria, Aspergillus, and Cladosporium. Interleukin-8 (IL-8), granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF), and regulated on activation normal T expressed and secreted (RANTES) were measured to determine the activation of epithelial cells. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction test (RT-PCR) for PAR mRNA expression in nasal epithelial cells was performed. Eosinophil and neutrophil migration was induced with nasal polyp epithelial cells conditioned media (HPECM). Fungi enhanced the production of chemical mediators from nasal epithelial cells. When nasal epithelial cells were activated with fungi, PAR2 and PAR3 mRNAs were more strongly expressed than in nonactivated cells. Eosinophil migration was induced by RANTES and eotaxin, and neutrophil migration was induced by IL-8 in HPECM."}
{"id": "17086560", "title": "Catalytic relationships between type I and type II iterative polyketide synthases: The Aspergillus parasiticus norsolorinic acid synthase.", "content": "Catalytic relationships between type I and type II iterative polyketide synthases: The Aspergillus parasiticus norsolorinic acid synthase. Norsolorinic acid synthase (NSAS) is a type I iterative polyketide synthase that occurs in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus parasiticus. PCR was used to clone fragments of NSAS corresponding to the acyl carrier protein (ACP), acyl transferase (AT) and beta-ketoacyl-ACP synthase (KS) catalytic domains. Expression of these gene fragments in Escherichia coli led to the production of soluble ACP and AT proteins. Coexpression of ACP with E. coli holo-ACP synthase (ACPS) let to production of NSAS holo-ACP, which could also be formed in vitro by using Streptomyces coelicolor ACPS. Analysis by mass spectrometry showed that, as with other type I carrier proteins, self-malonylation is not observed in the presence of malonyl CoA alone. However, the NSAS holo-ACP serves as substrate for S. coelicolor MCAT, S. coelicolor actinorhodin holo-ACP and NSAS AT domain-catalysed malonate transfer from malonyl CoA. The AT domain could transfer malonate from malonyl CoA to NSAS holo-ACP, but not hexanoate or acetate from either the cognate CoA or FAS ACP species to NSAS holo-ACP. The NSAS holo-ACP was also active in actinorhodin minimal PKS assays, but only in the presence of exogenous malonyl transferases."}
{"id": "17086160", "title": "[Use of PCR based diagnosis for common invasive fungal infections in the intensive care unit].", "content": "[Use of PCR based diagnosis for common invasive fungal infections in the intensive care unit]. Deep-seated Candida infections and invasive aspergilloma are becoming a serious problem for individuals who need intensive care. The laboratory diagnosis of such infections is sometimes delayed due to relatively slow growth of these yeasts from clinical specimens. Several studies seem to indicate that early detection of deep-seated and invasive fungal infections is possible using genomic amplification methods. In the present study, we used a novel PCR assay that can assay five clinically common species (C. albicans, C. parapsilosis, C. tropicalis, C. glablata, and A. fumigatus) simultaneously. We evaluated the utility of this PCR based diagnosis with seven patients with candidiases. This assay is more sensitive than the culture result in 26 clinical samples (chi(2)=5.16, p < 0.05). In the clinical course of each patient, the number of detected fungal species gradually increased. More than two species were detected from single or several clinical specimens, and these patients would die within 14 days compared with the 61 day period individuals with zero or one species would live (p < 0.005). Before super infections of fungus, an antifungal drug could be applied to a suspected patient in the ICU. To improve sensitivity of this diagnosis from blood samples, we evaluated them after one day incubation at 34 degree. We found a PCR product in 10 of 20 blood samples taken from five children after bone marrow transplantation. One of four negative samples became positive after more than 48 hours of incubation."}
{"id": "17075620", "title": "A two-stage cyclone using microcentrifuge tubes for personal bioaerosol sampling.", "content": "A two-stage cyclone using microcentrifuge tubes for personal bioaerosol sampling. Personal aerosol samplers are widely used to monitor human exposure to airborne materials. For bioaerosols, interest is growing in analyzing samples using molecular and immunological techniques. This paper presents a personal sampler that uses a two-stage cyclone to collect bioaerosols into disposable 1.5 ml Eppendorf-type microcentrifuge tubes. Samples can be processed in the tubes for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) or immunoassays, and the use of multiple stages fractionates aerosol particles by aerodynamic diameter. The sampler was tested using fluorescent microspheres and aerosolized fungal spores. The sampler had first and second stage cut-off diameters of 2.6 microm and 1.6 microm at 2 l min(-1)(geometric standard deviation, GSD = 1.45 and 1.75), and 1.8 microm and 1 microm at 3.5 l min(-1)(GSD = 1.42 and 1.55). The sampler aspiration efficiency was >or=98% at both flow rates for particles with aerodynamic diameters of 3.1 microm or less. For 6.2 microm particles, the aspiration efficiency was 89% at 2 l min(-1) and 96% at 3.5 l min(-1). At 3.5 l min(-1), the sampler collected 92% of aerosolized Aspergillus versicolor and Penicillium chrysogenum spores inside the two microcentrifuge tubes, with less than 0.4% of the spores collecting on the back-up filter. The design and techniques given here are suitable for personal bioaerosol sampling, and could also be adapted to design larger aerosol samplers for longer-term atmospheric and indoor air quality sampling."}
{"id": "17045941", "title": "Successful treatment of disseminated scedosporium infection in 2 lung transplant recipients: review of the literature and recommendations for management.", "content": "Successful treatment of disseminated scedosporium infection in 2 lung transplant recipients: review of the literature and recommendations for management. Scedosporium species (sp) can cause disseminated disease in lung transplant recipients with almost universal mortality. We present 2 cases of disseminated disease, which responded to voriconazole therapy. In the first case, polymerase chain reaction was used to make a rapid diagnosis and allow differentiation from Aspergillus sp. In this patient, Scedosporium sp could be isolated in the urine despite therapy, and direct irrigation of the renal tract with voriconazole was used with apparent efficacy. In the other case, withdrawal of therapy resulted in clinical relapse, suggesting that lifelong therapy is probably required."}
{"id": "17039272", "title": "A simple polymerase chain reaction-sequencing analysis capable of identifying multiple medically relevant filamentous fungal species.", "content": "A simple polymerase chain reaction-sequencing analysis capable of identifying multiple medically relevant filamentous fungal species. Due to the accumulating evidence that suggests that numerous unhealthy conditions in the indoor environment are the result of abnormal growth of the filamentous fungi (mold) in and on building surfaces it is necessary to accurately determine the organisms responsible for these maladies and to identify them in an accurate and timely manner. Historically, identification of filamentous fungal (mold) species has been based on morphological characteristics, both macroscopic and microscopic. These methods may often be time consuming and inaccurate, necessitating the development of identification protocols that are rapid, sensitive, and precise. To this end, we have devised a simple PAN-PCR approach which when coupled to cloning and sequencing of the clones allows for the unambiguous identification of multiple fungal organisms. Universal primers are used to amplify ribosomal DNA sequences which are then cloned and transformed into Escherichia coli. Individual clones are then sequenced and individual sequences analyzed and organisms identified. Using this method we were capable of identifying Stachybotrys chartarum, Penicillium purpurogenum, Aspergillus sydowii, and Cladosporium cladosporioides from a mixed culture. This method was found to be rapid, highly specific, easy to perform, and cost effective."}
{"id": "17035619", "title": "Serial Aspergillus antigen monitoring in pediatric bone marrow transplant patients.", "content": "Serial Aspergillus antigen monitoring in pediatric bone marrow transplant patients. Invasive aspergillosis carries a high mortality rate in immunocompromised patients, such as bone marrow transplant patients. Favorable outcomes are dependent on early detection and treatment. Positive galactomannan antigenemia has been included as a microbiological criterion for probable or possible diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. Detection of circulating Aspergillus DNA in the first positive galactomannan sample, with serial monitoring, could help in diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in bone marrow transplant patients. Morbidity and mortality from aspergillosis can possibly be reduced if an early diagnosis is made and appropriate treatment initiated. An effective and accurate way of early detection of invasive aspergillosis is serial Aspergillus antigen monitoring."}
{"id": "17024507", "title": "Detection of imported histoplasmosis in serum of HIV-infected patients using a real-time PCR-based assay.", "content": "Detection of imported histoplasmosis in serum of HIV-infected patients using a real-time PCR-based assay. A new real-time PCR-based assay was used for detecting DNA of Histoplasma capsulatum in serum samples collected from four HIV-infected patients with proven histoplasmosis. The assay targeted the ITS1 region of rDNA and its in vitro sensitivity, specificity and reproducibility were evaluated. The technique detected DNA of H. capsulatum in all of the HIV-infected patients with proven histoplasmosis (4/4, 100%). The PCR result was positive for seven of the ten (70%) samples studied. The assay's specificity was determined to be 100%, since the method was negative for 25 other serum samples (10 from patients with proven aspergillosis and 15 from healthy controls). The PCR assay is a new and promising diagnostic alternative and further investigation is warranted."}
{"id": "17018254", "title": "Glucose-mediated repression of autolysis and conidiogenesis in Emericella nidulans.", "content": "Glucose-mediated repression of autolysis and conidiogenesis in Emericella nidulans. Glucose-mediated repression of autolysis and sporulation was studied in submerged Emericellanidulans (anam. Aspergillus nidulans) cultures. Null mutation of the creA gene, which encodes the major carbon catabolite repressor CreA in E. nidulans, resulted in a hyperautolytic phenotype characterized by increased extracellular hydrolase production and dry cell mass declination. Interestingly, glucose, as well as the glucose antimetabolite 2-deoxy-d-glucose, repressed autolysis and sporulation in both the control and the creA null mutant strains suggesting that these processes were also subjected to CreA-independent carbon regulation. For example, the glucose-mediated, but CreA-independent, repression of the sporulation transcription factor BrlA was likely to contribute to the negative regulation of conidiogenesis by glucose. Although CreA played a prominent role in the regulation of autolysis via the repression of genes encoding important autolytic hydrolases like ChiB chitinase and PrtA protease the age-related production of the chitinase activity was also negatively affected by the down-regulation of brlA expression. However, neither CreA-dependent nor CreA-independent elements of carbon regulation affected the initiation and regulation of cell death in E. nidulans under carbon starvation."}
{"id": "16963420", "title": "[A SCAR marker for resistance to Aspergillus flavus in peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.)].", "content": "[A SCAR marker for resistance to Aspergillus flavus in peanut (Arachis hypogaea L.)]. Aflatoxin contamination is an important constraint to peanut (Archis hypogaea L. ) industry worldwide. Genetic improvement for host resistance in peanut to fungal infection and aflatoxin (Aspergillus flavus) production is among the approaches for integrated management of the problem. However, the progress in peanut breeding for resistance to aflatoxin is slow due to various reasons, among which, lack of cost-effective method for resistance identification in breeding materials or segregating progenies has been encountered in most breeding programs. Hence there is a need to develop a rapid and reliable screening method for selecting A. flavus infection resistance in peanut. Here we report a SCAR (Sequence characterized Amplified Region) marker \"AFs-412\" converted from AFLP (amplified fragment length polymorphism) marker \"E45/M53-440\" which closely linked with resistance to A. flavus infection. Twenty peanut genotypes with resistance to infection of A. flavus were used to verify the reliability of the resistance markers, and high correlation between the molecular markers and the resistance result. The result shows that the potential of the markers which can be used in other resistant peanut genotypes to seed infection by Aspergillus flavus."}
{"id": "16962256", "title": "Phylogenomic analysis of non-ribosomal peptide synthetases in the genus Aspergillus.", "content": "Phylogenomic analysis of non-ribosomal peptide synthetases in the genus Aspergillus. Fungi from the genus Aspergillus are important saprophytes and opportunistic human fungal pathogens that contribute in these and other diverse ways to human well-being. Part of their impact on human well-being stems from the production of small molecular weight secondary metabolites, which may contribute to the ability of these fungi to cause invasive fungal infections and allergic diseases. In this study, we identified one group of enzymes responsible for secondary metabolite production in five Aspergillus species, the non-ribosomal peptide synthetases (NRPS). Hidden Markov models were used to search the genome databases of A. fumigatus, A. flavus, A. terreus, A. nidulans, and A. oryzae for domains conserved in NRPS proteins. A genealogy of adenylation domains was utilized to identify orthologous and unique NRPS among the Aspergillus species examined, as well as gain an understanding of the potential evolution of Aspergillus NRPS. mRNA abundance of the 14 NRPS identified in the A. fumigatus genome was analyzed using real-time reverse transcriptase PCR in different environmental conditions to gain a preliminary understanding of the possible functions of the NRPSs' peptide products. Our results suggest that Aspergillus species contain conserved and unique NRPS genes with a complex evolutionary history. This result suggests that the genus Aspergillus produces a substantial diversity of non-ribosomally synthesized peptides. Further analysis of these genes and their peptide products may identify important roles for secondary metabolites produced by NRPS in Aspergillus physiology, ecology, and fungal pathogenicity."}
{"id": "16944291", "title": "Mycotoxin contamination of food in Europe: early detection and prevention strategies.", "content": "Mycotoxin contamination of food in Europe: early detection and prevention strategies. This paper reviews the early detection and prevention strategies which have been employed in Europe for the control of mycotoxin contamination of food in the context of a hazard analysis critical control point (HACCP) framework. The critical control points (CCPs) in the whole food chain where mycotoxins such as trichothecenes and ochratoxins are important have been identified. Ecological studies on the effect of environmental factors which are marginal for growth and mycotoxin production have been identified for Fusarium culmorum and F. graminearum (deoxynivlenol production), and for Penicillium verrucosum and Aspergillus ochraceus (ochratoxin production) in relation to cereal production and for A. carbonarius in relation to grapes and wine production (ochratoxin formation). To minimise the entry of these mycotoxins into the food chain, effective and rapid diagnostic tools are required to monitor the CCPs effectively. To this end the potential use of molecular imprinted polymers, lateral flow devices and molecular-based techniques for the rapid detection and quantification of the mycotoxigenic moulds or their toxins have also been developed."}
{"id": "16944283", "title": "Understanding the genetics of regulation of aflatoxin production and Aspergillus flavus development.", "content": "Understanding the genetics of regulation of aflatoxin production and Aspergillus flavus development. Aflatoxins are polyketide-derived, toxic, and carcinogenic secondary metabolites produced primarily by two fungal species, Aspergillus flavus and A. parasiticus, on crops such as corn, peanuts, cottonseed, and treenuts. Regulatory guidelines issued by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) prevent sale of commodities if contamination by these toxins exceeds certain levels. The biosynthesis of these toxins has been extensively studied. About 15 stable precursors have been identified. The genes involved in encoding the proteins required for the oxidative and regulatory steps in the biosynthesis are clustered in a 70 kb portion of chromosome 3 in the A. flavus genome. With the characterization of the gene cluster, new insights into the cellular processes that govern the genes involved in aflatoxin biosynthesis have been revealed, but the signaling processes that turn on aflatoxin biosynthesis during fungal contamination of crops are still not well understood. New molecular technologies, such as gene microarray analyses, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and chromatin immunoprecipitation are being used to understand how physiological stress, environmental and soil conditions, receptivity of the plant, and fungal virulence lead to episodic outbreaks of aflatoxin contamination in certain commercially important crops. With this fundamental understanding, we will be better able to design improved non-aflatoxigenic biocompetitive Aspergillus strains and develop inhibitors of aflatoxin production (native to affected crops or otherwise) amenable to agricultural application for enhancing host-resistance against fungal invasion or toxin production. Comparisons of aflatoxin-producing species with other fungal species that retain some of the genes required for aflatoxin formation is expected to provide insight into the evolution of the aflatoxin gene cluster, and its role in fungal physiology. Therefore, information on how and why the fungus makes the toxin will be valuable for developing an effective and lasting strategy for control of aflatoxin contamination."}
{"id": "16943359", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus DNA in cerebrospinal fluid from patients with cerebral aspergillosis by a nested PCR assay.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus DNA in cerebrospinal fluid from patients with cerebral aspergillosis by a nested PCR assay. Invasive aspergillosis (IA), a complication with high mortality rates, especially in disseminated IA with cerebral involvement, is difficult to diagnose. Biopsy of cerebral lesions is often not feasible, and culture of Aspergillus spp. from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is frequently negative. New molecular methods have emerged for diagnosing IA. So far, there are only few reports of Aspergillus DNA detection in CSF. After modifying the DNA extraction protocol, we detected Aspergillus DNA in CSF samples by a previously described nested PCR assay. In six patients with hematologic malignancy and cerebral aspergillosis, CSF samples were investigated for Aspergillus DNA. IA was classified according to the EORTC/MSG 2002 criteria. Two patients each had proven, probable, and possible IA. Thirty-five CSF samples were investigated for Aspergillus DNA by nested PCR. Samples with positive results in the nested PCR assay were quantified by LightCycler PCR assay. Fourteen CSF samples showed positive results in the nested PCR assay. Of these, six samples gave positive results in real-time PCR. The range of CFU per ml was 2,154 to 63,100,000. The highest number of CFU per ml was found in a CSF sample of a patient with acute lymphocytic leukemia and probable cerebral aspergillosis. Detection of Aspergillus DNA in CSF samples is thus possible and has the potential to improve diagnosis of cerebral aspergillosis. Further prospective studies with larger numbers of patients must be performed to evaluate the clinical significance of Aspergillus PCR with CSF samples."}
{"id": "16939324", "title": "Valine pathway is more crucial than phenyl propanoid pathway in regulating capsaicin biosynthesis in Capsicum frutescens mill.", "content": "Valine pathway is more crucial than phenyl propanoid pathway in regulating capsaicin biosynthesis in Capsicum frutescens mill. Capsaicin, a pungency factor alkaloid of Capsicum fruits, is biosynthesized by enzymatic condensation of vanillylamine, a phenyl propanoid intermediate, and 8-methyl-nonenoic acid, a fatty acid derivative from the leucine/valine pathway by capsaicin synthase. Biotic elicitors, such as aqueous mycelial extracts of Rhizopus oligosporus and Aspergillus niger, and abiotic elicitors, such as salicylic acid and methyl jasmonate, were incorporated to cell-suspension cultures of Capsicum frutescens. The maximum elicitation of capsaicinoids to the extent of 6-folds was noticed when mycelial extracts of R. oligosporus were incorporated to cell-suspension cultures. The phenyl propanoid intermediates were elicited to the extent of 3-4-fold, whereas the levels of 8-methyl-nonanoic acid increased 6-fold in R. oligosporus mycelial-extract-treated cultures. The enzymatic assays of caffeic acid O-methyl transferases, keto acyl synthase, and capsaicin synthase were performed in elicited and nonelicited cell-suspension cultures. These enzymes were overexpressed in R. oligosporus mycelial-extract-treated suspension cultures, which was also confirmed by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction studies. This is the first paper on the overexpression of 8-methyl-nonanoic acid leading to capsaicin biosynthesis using elicitors."}
{"id": "16933623", "title": "[Identification of a bacterium with activities of inhibiting growth of fungi].", "content": "[Identification of a bacterium with activities of inhibiting growth of fungi]. HB02 is characterized as a new microbiological agent that has the potential to decrease the toxicity of mildewed wheat containing Deoxynivalenol (DON). To explore whether HB02 could inhibit the growth of fungi, a spore suspension of Aspergillus flavus or Gibberellazeae was incubated with or without HB02 in PYG medium at 28 degrees C for 15d. The mycelium was weighed after 3, 6, 9, 12, 15 d of incubation, respectively. The result showed that the growth of these two important fungi was significantly inhibited by co-cultivation with HB02. Besides, HB02 was confirmed as Lactobacillus curvatus by its microbiological characters and the 16s-23s rRNA sequence. In conclusion, HB02, identified as Lactobacillus curvatus, prevent the effects of mycotoxins in contaminated feed by inhibiting the growth of fungi. Other detoxification ways of HB02 remain further study."}
{"id": "16914647", "title": "Comparison of DNA extraction methods for Aspergillus fumigatus using real-time PCR.", "content": "Comparison of DNA extraction methods for Aspergillus fumigatus using real-time PCR. Newer methods such as PCR are being investigated in order to improve the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. One of the major obstacles to using PCR to diagnose aspergillosis is a reliable, simple method for extraction of the fungal DNA. The presence of a complex, sturdy cell wall that is resistant to lysis impairs extraction of the DNA by conventional methods employed for bacteria. Numerous fungal DNA extraction protocols have been described in the literature. However, these methods are time-consuming, require a high level of skill and may not be suitable for use as a routine diagnostic technique. Here, a number of extraction methods were compared: a freeze-thaw method, a freeze-boil method, enzyme extraction and a bead-beating method using Mini-BeadBeater-8. The quality and quantity of the DNA extracted was compared using real-time PCR. It was found that the use of a bead-beating method followed by extraction with AL buffer (Qiagen) was the most successful extraction technique, giving the greatest yield of DNA, and was also the least time-consuming method assessed."}
{"id": "16913971", "title": "Antigen detection, serology, and molecular diagnosis of invasive mycoses in the immunocompromised host.", "content": "Antigen detection, serology, and molecular diagnosis of invasive mycoses in the immunocompromised host. Understanding the uses and limitations of methods for rapid diagnosis of fungal disease is essential in order to diagnose and treat these infections early in their course. Antigen detection methods are useful for diagnosis of aspergillosis, cryptococcosis, histoplasmosis, blastomycosis, paracoccidioidomycosis, and penicilliosis marneffei. The accuracy of the beta-glucan assay for diagnosis of aspergillosis and candidiasis and its role in fungal diagnosis remains unclear, in part because the few published studies report widely varying specificity. Serologic tests for antibodies are also useful for diagnosis of histoplasmosis and coccidioidomycosis, but their sensitivity may be reduced by immunosuppression. While molecular diagnostic methods have been described and are available at some reference and university laboratories, their role in patient care remains uncertain, largely because of the lack of well-characterized assays and studies establishing their accuracy. Culture methods, although essential for establishing the diagnosis in some cases, have limitations for rapid diagnosis, namely insensitivity, need for invasive procedures, and delayed growth."}
{"id": "16907730", "title": "Cloning, sequence analysis and heterologous expression of the Myrothecium gramineum orotidine-5'-monophosphate decarboxylase gene.", "content": "Cloning, sequence analysis and heterologous expression of the Myrothecium gramineum orotidine-5'-monophosphate decarboxylase gene. A 2918 bp sequence coding for the orotidine-5'-monophosphate decarboxylase enzyme (OMPD) was isolated from the genome of Myrothecium gramineum. This sequence was analysed and, remarkably, it is the first OMPD gene of a Sordariomycete that has an intron. The gene codes for an enzyme of 282 amino acids. The nucleotide sequence and the amino acid sequence were compared with fungal OMPD sequences. They show the highest similarity to OMPD genes and enzymes of Aspergillus sp., Penicillium sp. and Cladosporium fulvum. The functionality of the gene as a selection marker was proven by complementation of the uracil auxotrophy of Aspergillus nidulans FGSC A722."}
{"id": "16894889", "title": "[Overproduction of glucoamylase by recombinant Aspergillus niger harboring multiple copies of glaA].", "content": "[Overproduction of glucoamylase by recombinant Aspergillus niger harboring multiple copies of glaA]. The glucoamylase gene (glaA) of Aspergillus niger CICIM F0410 was cloned, sequenced and expressed. The integrated plasmid pBC-Hygro-glaA carrying the glaA was constructed and transformed into A. niger F0410. Transformants with multiple copies of glaA integrated in the chromosome were selected by 150 microg/mL hygromycin B and identified by real-time PCR. Two to three multiples of glaA in the chromosome were found to be optimal for higher expression of glucoamylase. Shake-flask fermentation under optimal conditions showed that glucoamylase secreted by the transformant GB0506 was 17.5% higher than parental strain F0410 at the end of fermentation. In conclusion, increasing copy number of glaA by chromosomal integration significantly improves the yield of glucoamylase in the industrial strain of A. niger."}
{"id": "16893395", "title": "Cytokine profiling of pulmonary aspergillosis.", "content": "Cytokine profiling of pulmonary aspergillosis. Aspergillus fumigatus is ubiquitous and yet causes invasive, chronic and allergic disease of the lung. Chronic cavitary pulmonary aspergillosis (CCPA) is a slowly destructive form of pulmonary aspergillosis, without immunocompromise. We hypothesized that CCPA cytokine gene polymorphisms would differ from patients with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) and uninfected controls. We have profiled functional cytokine gene polymorphisms for interleukin (IL)-10, IL-15, transforming growth factors (TGF)-beta1, tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha and interferon (IFN)-gamma in patients with CCPA (n = 24) who were compared with other forms of aspergillosis (mostly ABPA) (n = 15) and with ethnically matched controls (n = 65-330). Results are described with reference to the high-producing genotype in each case. Susceptibility to aspergillosis (all patients compared with normal controls) was associated with higher frequency of the IL-15 +13689*A allele (OR = 2.37, P = 0.0028) and A/A genotype (chi(2) = 10.31, P < 0.001), with a lower frequency of the TNF-alpha-308*A/A genotype (chi(2) = 11.05, P < 0.01). Within the aspergillosis patients, CCPA is associated with lower frequency of the IL-10 -1082*G allele (OR = 0.38, P = 0.0006) and G/G genotype (chi(2) = 22.45, P < 0.001) and with a lower frequency of the TGF-beta1 +869 *T allele (OR +0.42, P < 0.0029) and T/T genotype (chi(2) = 17.82, P < 0.001) compared with non-CCPA patients and normal controls. Patients infected with Aspergillus appear to be higher producers of IL-15, a Th2-promoting cytokine, and lower producers of TNF-alpha, a cytokine central in protective responses. CCPA occurs in patients who are genetically lower producers of both IL-10 and TGF-beta1. As these cytokines are regulatory and anti-inflammatory, CCPA may be a consequence of poor inflammatory response control in the lung."}
{"id": "16874411", "title": "Generation and analysis of expressed sequence tags from Botrytis cinerea.", "content": "Generation and analysis of expressed sequence tags from Botrytis cinerea. Botrytis cinerea is a filamentous plant pathogen of a wide range of plant species, and its infection may cause enormous damage both during plant growth and in the post-harvest phase. We have constructed a cDNA library from an isolate of B. cinerea and have sequenced 11,482 expressed sequence tags that were assembled into 1,003 contigs sequences and 3,032 singletons. Approximately 81% of the unigenes showed significant similarity to genes coding for proteins with known functions: more than 50% of the sequences code for genes involved in cellular metabolism, 12% for transport of metabolites, and approximately 10% for cellular organization. Other functional categories include responses to biotic and abiotic stimuli, cell communication, cell homeostasis, and cell development. We carried out pair-wise comparisons with fungal databases to determine the B. cinerea unisequence set with relevant similarity to genes in other fungal pathogenic counterparts. Among the 4,035 non-redundant B. cinerea unigenes, 1,338 (23%) have significant homology with Fusarium verticillioides unigenes. Similar values were obtained for Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Aspergillus nidulans (22% and 24%, respectively). The lower percentages of homology were with Magnaporthe grisae and Neurospora crassa (13% and 19%, respectively). Several genes involved in putative and known fungal virulence and general pathogenicity were identified. The results provide important information for future research on this fungal pathogen."}
{"id": "16872530", "title": "Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis: role of early diagnosis and surgical treatment in patients with acute leukemia.", "content": "Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis: role of early diagnosis and surgical treatment in patients with acute leukemia. Aspergillus is a ubiquitous soil-dwelling fungus known to cause significant pulmonary infection in immunocompromised patients. The incidence of aspergillosis has increased during the past two decades and is a frequently lethal complication of acute leukemia patients that occurs following both chemotherapy and bone marrow transplantation. The diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) according to the criteria that are established by European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer and Mycoses Study Group raise difficulties in severely ill patients. Despite established improvements in field of diagnosis (galactomannan antigen, quantitative PCR, real-time PCR for Aspergillus spp., and findings of computed tomography) and treatment with new antifungals, it is still a major problem in patients with acute leukemia. However, prompt and effective treatment of IPA is crucial because most patients will need subsequent chemotherapy for underlying hematologic disease as soon as possible. We report a 33-year-old male patient with acute promyelocytic leukemia diagnosed in 1993 that developed invasive pulmonary aspergillosis due to A. flavus at relapse in 2003. The patient was successfully treated with liposomal amphotericin B and underwent surgical pulmonary resection. The operative course was uneventful. This report emphasizes the clinical picture, applicability of recent advances in diagnostic and therapeutic approaches for IPA. For early identification of a patient infected with IPA, a high index of suspicion and careful clinical and radiological examinations with serial screening for galactomannan should be established. If aspergillosis is suspected, anti-aspergillosis drug should be administered immediately, and if a unique pulmonary lesion remains, surgical resection should be considered to prevent reactivation during consecutive chemotherapy courses and to improve the outcome."}
{"id": "16842569", "title": "Molecular detection and identification of Candida and Aspergillus spp. from clinical samples using real-time PCR.", "content": "Molecular detection and identification of Candida and Aspergillus spp. from clinical samples using real-time PCR. This report describes the development of a real-time LightCycler assay for the detection and identification of Candida and Aspergillus spp., using the MagNa Pure LC Instrument for automated extraction of fungal DNA. The assay takes 5-6 h to perform. The oligonucleotide primers and probes used for species identification were derived from the DNA sequences of the 18S rRNA genes of various fungal pathogens. All samples were screened for Aspergillus and Candida to the genus level in the real-time PCR assay. If a sample was Candida-positive, typing to species level was performed using five species-specific probes. The assay detected and identified most of the clinically relevant Aspergillus and Candida spp. with a sensitivity of 2 CFU/mL blood. Amplification was 100% specific for all Aspergillus and Candida spp. tested. To assess clinical applicability, 1,650 consecutive samples (1,330 blood samples, 295 samples from other body fluids and 25 biopsy samples) from patients with suspected invasive fungal infections were analysed. In total, 114 (6.9%) samples were PCR-positive, 5.3% for Candida and 1.7% for Aspergillus spp. In patients with positive PCR results for Candida and Aspergillus, verification with conventional methods was possible in 83% and 50% of cases, respectively. In conclusion, the real-time PCR assay allows sensitive and specific detection and identification of fungal pathogens in vitro and in vivo."}
{"id": "16835842", "title": "Presence of opportunistic oil-degrading microorganisms operating at the initial steps of oil extraction and handling.", "content": "Presence of opportunistic oil-degrading microorganisms operating at the initial steps of oil extraction and handling. Hydrocarbon-degrading microorganisms from natural environments have been isolated and identified using culture-dependent or molecular techniques. However, there has been little research into the occurrence of microorganisms incorporated into crude oil in the initial steps of extraction and handling, which can reduce the quality of stored petroleum. In the present study, a packed-column reactor filled with autoclaved perlite soaked with crude oil was subjected to a continuous flow of sterile medium in order to determine the presence of potential hydrocarbon degraders. Microorganisms developed on the surface of the perlite within a period of 73 days. DNA was extracted from the biofilm and then PCR-amplified using 16S rRNA bacterial and archaeal primers and 18S rRNA eukaryotic primers. No amplification was obtained using archaeal primers. However, denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) revealed the presence of unique bands indicating bacterial and eukaryotic amplification. Excision of these bands, sequencing, and subsequent BLAST search showed that they corresponded to Bacillus sp. and Aspergillus versicolor. The fungus was later isolated from intact perlite in agar plates. A bacterial clone library was used to confirm the presence in the biofilm of a unique hydrocarbon-degrading bacterium closely related to Bacillus sp. Analysis of the petroleum components by gas chromatography showed that there n-alkanes, aromatic hydrocarbons, and carbazoles were degraded."}
{"id": "16832727", "title": "Amplification of DNA encoding entire type I polyketide synthase domains and linkers from streptomyces species.", "content": "Amplification of DNA encoding entire type I polyketide synthase domains and linkers from streptomyces species. Polyketides are a group of bioactive compounds from bacteria, plants, and fungi. To increase the availability of analogs for testing, the active sites of polyketide synthases are often substituted with homologous domains having altered substrate specificities. This study reports the design of polymerase chain reaction primers that enables isolation of entire active site domains from type I polyketide synthases with native interdomain linkers. This bypasses the need for further genetic screening to obtain functional units for use in genetic engineering. This is especially important in bioprospecting projects exploring new environments for bioresources."}
{"id": "16830186", "title": "Review of epidemiology, diagnosis, and treatment of invasive mould infections in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients.", "content": "Review of epidemiology, diagnosis, and treatment of invasive mould infections in allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients. Invasive mould infections are a major cause of morbidity and mortality in hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients (HSCT). Allogeneic HSCT recipients are at substantially higher risk than autologous HSCT recipients. Although neutropenia following the conditioning regimen remains an important risk factor for opportunistic fungal infections, most cases of invasive mould infection in allogeneic HSCT recipients occur after neutrophil recovery in the setting of potent immunosuppressive therapy for graft-versus-host disease. Invasive aspergillosis is the most common mould infection. However, there has been an increased incidence of less common non-Aspergillus moulds that include zygomycetes, Fusarium sp., and Scedosporium sp. Reflecting a key need, important advances have been made in the antifungal armamentarium. Voriconazole has become a new standard of care as primary therapy for invasive aspergillosis based on superiority over amphotericin B. There is significant interest in combination therapy for invasive aspergillosis pairing voriconazole or an amphotericin B formulation with an echinocandin. There have also been advances in novel diagnostic methods that facilitate early detection of invasive fungal infections that include galactomannan and beta-glucan antigen detection and PCR using fungal specific primers. We review the epidemiology, diagnosis, and management of invasive mould infection in HSCT, with a focus on allogeneic recipients. We also discuss options for prevention and early treatment of invasive mould infections."}
{"id": "16825512", "title": "A consensus on fungal polymerase chain reaction diagnosis?: a United Kingdom-Ireland evaluation of polymerase chain reaction methods for detection of systemic fungal infections.", "content": "A consensus on fungal polymerase chain reaction diagnosis?: a United Kingdom-Ireland evaluation of polymerase chain reaction methods for detection of systemic fungal infections. The limitations of classical diagnostic methods for invasive fungal infections (IFIs) have led to the development of molecular techniques to aid in the detection of IFIs. Despite good published performance, interlaboratory reproduction of these assays is variable, and no consensus has been reached for an optimal method. This publication describes the first multicenter study of polymerase chain reaction methods, for the detection of Aspergillus and Candida species, currently used in the UK and Ireland by distribution and analysis of multiple specimen control panels. All three Candida methods were comparable, achieving a satisfactory level of detection (10 cfu), and the method of preference was dependent on the requirements of the particular laboratory. The results for the five Aspergillus assays were more variable, but two methods (2Asp and 4Asp) were superior (10(1) conidia). Formally, the overall performances of the two Aspergillus assays were comparable (kappa statistic = 0.77). However, on the Roche LightCycler, there was a clear sample-type effect that greatly reduced the detection limit of the 4Asp method when testing whole blood samples. Therefore, the preferred Aspergillus method relied on the amplification platform available to the user. This study represents the initial process to achieve a consensus method for the diagnosis of IFIs."}
{"id": "16822232", "title": "A new group of exo-acting family 28 glycoside hydrolases of Aspergillus niger that are involved in pectin degradation.", "content": "A new group of exo-acting family 28 glycoside hydrolases of Aspergillus niger that are involved in pectin degradation. The fungus Aspergillus niger is an industrial producer of pectin-degrading enzymes. The recent solving of the genomic sequence of A. niger allowed an inventory of the entire genome of the fungus for potential carbohydrate-degrading enzymes. By applying bioinformatics tools, 12 new genes, putatively encoding family 28 glycoside hydrolases, were identified. Seven of the newly discovered genes form a new gene group, which we show to encode exoacting pectinolytic glycoside hydrolases. This group includes four exo-polygalacturonan hydrolases (PGAX, PGXA, PGXB and PGXC) and three putative exo-rhamnogalacturonan hydrolases (RGXA, RGXB and RGXC). Biochemical identification using polygalacturonic acid and xylogalacturonan as substrates demonstrated that indeed PGXB and PGXC act as exo-polygalacturonases, whereas PGXA acts as an exo-xylogalacturonan hydrolase. The expression levels of all 21 genes were assessed by microarray analysis. The results from the present study demonstrate that exo-acting glycoside hydrolases play a prominent role in pectin degradation."}
{"id": "16821724", "title": "Primer R108 performs best in the RAPD strain typing of three Aspergillus species frequently isolated from patients.", "content": "Primer R108 performs best in the RAPD strain typing of three Aspergillus species frequently isolated from patients. We evaluated the suitability of various primers for the RAPD (random amplified polymorphic DNA) accurate species identification and strain typing of Aspergillus clinical isolates. Five primers described previously were tested for their discriminatory power in three Aspergillus species (A. fumigatus, A. niger agg. and A. flavus - 23 clinical isolates and 2 reference strains). Clustering of RAPD fingerprints corresponded well with the identification based on morphological features. All isolates were resolved as different strains using the primer R108 and the RAPD protocol optimized for a Robocycler thermal cycler. RAPD with the primer R108 thus can be considered to be a valuable, simple and powerful tool for identification and strain delineation of Aspergillus spp."}
{"id": "16814894", "title": "Discovery, cloning and heterologous expression of secreted potato proteins reveal erroneous pre-mRNA splicing in Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Discovery, cloning and heterologous expression of secreted potato proteins reveal erroneous pre-mRNA splicing in Aspergillus oryzae. A novel transposon assisted signal trapping (TAST) technology, developed to specifically select only the secreted proteins, was used to discover novel extracellular plant proteins from Solarium tuberosum infected with Phytophthora infestans. Analysis of 384 hits provided 191 P. infestans and S. tuberosum sequences of secreted proteins, with an approx. 2/3 of these originating from potato. Subsequent screening for interesting genes was carried out using bioinformatics. A selected variety of the discovered sequences are presented, including a novel S. tuberosum xyloglucan endotransglucosylase (StXTH), which was cloned and subjected to detailed heterologous expression studies in Aspergillus oryzae. RT-PCR analysis of mRNA from A. oryzae StXTH1 transformants revealed that parts of the mRNA pool had been incorrectly processed, and only weak and inconsistent indications of active protein could be detected. A high AT content of StXTH1 and the occurrence of A. oryzae intron donor, acceptor, and branch point recognition sites resulted in erroneous intron interpretation (cryptic introns) of parts of the mRNA coding sequence. This may explain the difficulties generally experienced in expressing plant genes in filamentous fungi."}
{"id": "16798978", "title": "Multiplex single-color PCR with amplicon melting analysis for identification of Aspergillus species.", "content": "Multiplex single-color PCR with amplicon melting analysis for identification of Aspergillus species."}
{"id": "16791762", "title": "Major complications following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.", "content": "Major complications following hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Tens of thousands of patients undergo hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) annually, 15 to 40% of whom are admitted to the intensive care unit. Pulmonary complications are the most life threatening conditions that develop in HSCT recipients. Both infectious and noninfectious complications occur more frequently in allogeneic HSCT. The management of HSCT recipients requires knowledge of their immune status, appropriate diagnostic evaluation, and early treatment. During the pre-engraftment phase (0 to 30 days after transplant), the most prevalent pathogens causing infection are bacteria and Candida species and, if the neutropenia persists, Aspergillus species. The early post-engraftment phase (30 to 100 days) is characterized by cytomegalovirus (CMV), Pneumocystis jiroveci, and Aspergillus infections. During the late posttransplant phase (> 100 days), allogeneic HSCT recipients are at risk for CMV, community-acquired respiratory virus, and encapsulated bacterial infections. Antigen and polymerase chain reaction assays are important for the diagnosis of CMV and Aspergillus infections. Diffuse alveolar hemorrhage (DAH) and peri-engraftment respiratory distress syndrome occur in both allogeneic and autologous HSCT recipients, usually during the first 30 days. Bronchiolitis obliterans occurs exclusively in allogeneic HSCT recipients with graft versus host disease. Idiopathic pneumonia syndrome occurs at any time following transplant. Bronchoscopy is usually helpful for the diagnosis of the infectious pulmonary complications and DAH."}
{"id": "16784880", "title": "Gene duplication event in family 12 glycosyl hydrolase from Phytophthora spp.", "content": "Gene duplication event in family 12 glycosyl hydrolase from Phytophthora spp. A total of 18 paralogs of xyloglucan-specific endoglucanases (EGLs) from the glycosyl hydrolase family 12 were identified and characterized in Phytophthora sojae and Phytophthora ramorum. These genes encode predicted extracellular enzymes, with sizes ranging from 189 to 435 amino acid residues, that would be capable of hydrolyzing the xyloglucan component of the host cell wall. In two cases, four and six functional copies of these genes were found in tight succession within a region of 5 and 18 kb, respectively. The overall gene copy number and relative organization appeared well conserved between P. sojae and P. ramorum, with apparent synteny in this region of their respective genomes. Phylogenetic analyses of Phytophthora endoglucanases of family 12 and other known members of EGL 12, revealed a close relatedness with a fairly conserved gene sub-family containing, among others, sequences from the fungi Emericella desertorum and Aspergillus aculeatus. This is the first report of family 12 EGLs present in plant pathogenic eukaryotes."}
{"id": "16784444", "title": "Comparison of different protocols for DNA preparation and PCR for the detection of fungal pathogens in vitro.", "content": "Comparison of different protocols for DNA preparation and PCR for the detection of fungal pathogens in vitro. Although a large number of different PCR protocols for the detection of fungal DNA from clinical samples have been described, a generally recognised standardisation has not yet been developed. In a first step, we compared six different methods to isolate DNA under in vitro conditions from Aspergillus fumigatus, Candida albicans and Saccharomyces cerevisiae with respect to efficiency and expenditure of time. To this end, methods were tested that are based on both mechanical and enzymatic/thermic lysis. Thereby, enzymatic/thermic lysis were shown to be superior to mechanical lysis, although these methods of DNA isolation were more time consuming. The subsequent comparison of three different PCR protocols showed real-time PCR to be the most sensitive method."}
{"id": "16779647", "title": "Rust and downy mildew resistance in pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum) mediated by heterologous expression of the afp gene from Aspergillus giganteus.", "content": "Rust and downy mildew resistance in pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum) mediated by heterologous expression of the afp gene from Aspergillus giganteus. The cDNA encoding the antifungal protein AFP from the mould Aspergillus giganteus was introduced into two pearl millet (Pennisetum glaucum) genotypes by particle bombardment. Stable integration and expression of the afp gene was confirmed in two independent transgenic T0 plants and their progeny using Southern blot and RT-PCR analysis. In vitro infection of detached leaves and in vivo inoculation of whole plants with the basidomycete Puccinia substriata, the causal agent of rust disease, and the oomycete Sclerospora graminicola, causal agent of downy mildew, resulted in a significant reduction of disease symptoms in comparison to wild type control plants. The disease resistance of pearl millet was increased by up to 90% when infected with two diverse, economically important pathogens. This is the first report of genetic enhancement of Pennisetum glaucum against fungal infections."}
{"id": "16772427", "title": "Microscopic, cultural and molecular evidence of disseminated invasive aspergillosis involving the lungs and the gastrointestinal tract.", "content": "Microscopic, cultural and molecular evidence of disseminated invasive aspergillosis involving the lungs and the gastrointestinal tract. A patient with acute promyelocytic leukaemia developed invasive aspergillosis post chemotherapy during a pancytopenic episode, clinically involving the lungs and the gastrointestinal tract. Dichotomously branched septate fungal hyphae were demonstrated microscopically in stools and sputa. Cultures of the samples yielded Aspergillus flavus, which were identical by RFLP and random amplification of polymorphic DNA analyses and antifungal MICs, proving disseminated disease. To the best of the author's knowledge, this is the first time that boluses of fungal hyphae have been demonstrated microscopically in the stools of a patient with gastrointestinal aspergillosis."}
{"id": "16759234", "title": "A nonribosomal peptide synthetase (Pes1) confers protection against oxidative stress in Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "A nonribosomal peptide synthetase (Pes1) confers protection against oxidative stress in Aspergillus fumigatus. Aspergillus fumigatus is an important human fungal pathogen. The Aspergillus fumigatus genome contains 14 nonribosomal peptide synthetase genes, potentially responsible for generating metabolites that contribute to organismal virulence. Differential expression of the nonribosomal peptide synthetase gene, pes1, in four strains of Aspergillus fumigatus was observed. The pattern of pes1 expression differed from that of a putative siderophore synthetase gene, sidD, and so is unlikely to be involved in iron acquisition. The Pes1 protein (expected molecular mass 698 kDa) was partially purified and identified by immunoreactivity, peptide mass fingerprinting (36% sequence coverage) and MALDI LIFT-TOF/TOF MS (four internal peptides sequenced). A pes1 disruption mutant (delta pes1) of Aspergillus fumigatus strain 293.1 was generated and confirmed by Southern and western analysis, in addition to RT-PCR. The delta pes1 mutant also showed significantly reduced virulence in the Galleria mellonella model system (P < 0.001) and increased sensitivity to oxidative stress (P = 0.002) in culture and during neutrophil-mediated phagocytosis. In addition, the mutant exhibited altered conidial surface morphology and hydrophilicity, compared to Aspergillus fumigatus 293.1. It is concluded that pes1 contributes to improved fungal tolerance against oxidative stress, mediated by the conidial phenotype, during the infection process."}
{"id": "16758737", "title": "[Diagnosis and treatment of aspergillosis in the patients with chronic granulomatous disease].", "content": "[Diagnosis and treatment of aspergillosis in the patients with chronic granulomatous disease]. Chronic granulomatous disease is a rare defect of phagocytosis. Increased susceptibility to infections is limited to catalase positive bacteria and fungi. Aspergillus spp was reported as the increased clinical problem and the main cause of the deaths."}
{"id": "16735072", "title": "Digestion of DNA regions to discriminate ochratoxigenic and non-ochratoxigenic strains in the Aspergillus niger aggregate.", "content": "Digestion of DNA regions to discriminate ochratoxigenic and non-ochratoxigenic strains in the Aspergillus niger aggregate. Aspergillus strains belonging to the Aspergillus niger aggregate, either isolated from Italian grapes or received from public collections, were analysed in order to discriminate between the ochratoxin A (OTA) producing and the non-producing strains by means of the analysis of Internal Transcribed Spacers (ITS), Intergenic Spacers (IGS) and of a beta-tubulin gene portion. A. niger and Aspergillus awamori were identified observing the macro- and microscopic features of the colonies and the strains ochratoxigenicity was evaluated through Thin Layer Chromatography and/or High Performance Liquid Chromatography. PCR amplification of ITS, IGS and beta-tubulin gene portion produced 600, 440 and 550 bp amplicons, respectively, in all the analysed strains. The digestion of the IGS amplicon with Hinf I and of the other two amplicons with Rsa I, revealed one main profile type (\"T-C-C\") associated with the A. niger aggregate strains which lack the ability to produce OTA."}
{"id": "16715542", "title": "Amplification and diversity analysis of ketosynthase domains of putative polyketide synthase genes in Aspergillus ochraceus and Aspergillus carbonarius producers of ochratoxin A.", "content": "Amplification and diversity analysis of ketosynthase domains of putative polyketide synthase genes in Aspergillus ochraceus and Aspergillus carbonarius producers of ochratoxin A. The diversity of polyketide synthase (PKS) genes in Aspergillus ochraceus NRRL 3174 and Aspergillus carbonarius 2Mu134 has been investigated using different primer pairs previously developed for the ketosynthase (KS) domain of fungal PKSs. Nine different KS domain sequences in A. ochraceus NRRL 3174 as well as five different KS domain sequences in A. carbonarius 2Mu134 have been identified. The identified KS fragments were distributed in five different clusters on the phylogenetic tree, indicating that they most probably represent PKSs responsible for different functions."}
{"id": "16714021", "title": "Genomic and experimental evidence for a potential sexual cycle in the pathogenic thermal dimorphic fungus Penicillium marneffei.", "content": "Genomic and experimental evidence for a potential sexual cycle in the pathogenic thermal dimorphic fungus Penicillium marneffei. All meiotic genes (except HOP1) and genes encoding putative pheromone processing enzymes, pheromone receptors and pheromone response pathways proteins in Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus nidulans and a putative MAT-1 alpha box mating-type gene were present in the Penicillium marneffei genome. A putative MAT-2 high-mobility group mating-type gene was amplified from a MAT-1 alpha box mating-type gene-negative P. marneffei strain. Among 37 P. marneffei patient strains, MAT-1 alpha box and MAT-2 high-mobility group mating-type genes were present in 23 and 14 isolates, respectively. We speculate that P. marneffei can potentially be a heterothallic fungus that does not switch mating type."}
{"id": "16708193", "title": "Square-plate culture method allows detection of differential gene expression and screening of novel, region-specific genes in Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Square-plate culture method allows detection of differential gene expression and screening of novel, region-specific genes in Aspergillus oryzae. When grown on solid agar medium, the mycelium of a filamentous fungus, Aspergillus oryzae, forms three morphologically distinct regions: the tip (T), white (W), and basal (B) regions. In this study, we developed the square-plate culture method, a novel culture method that enabled the extraction of mRNA samples from the three regions and analyzed the differential gene expression of the A. oryzae mycelium in concert with the microarray technique. Expression of genes involved in protein synthesis was predominant in the T region; relative expression was, at most, six times higher in the T region compared to the other regions. Genes encoding hypothetical proteins were expressed at high levels in the W and B regions. In addition, genes coding transporters/permeases were predominantly transcribed in the B region. By analyzing the expression patterns of genes in the three regions, we demonstrated the dynamic changes in the regulation of gene expression that occur along the mycelium of filamentous fungi. Consequently, our study established a method to analyze and screen for region-specific genes whose function may be essential for morphogenesis and differentiation in filamentous fungi and whose traits may be beneficial to the biotechnology industry."}
{"id": "16702099", "title": "The role of the sakA (Hog1) and tcsB (sln1) genes in the oxidant adaptation of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "The role of the sakA (Hog1) and tcsB (sln1) genes in the oxidant adaptation of Aspergillus fumigatus. The Hog1 MAP kinase pathway regulates stress adaptation in several fungi. To assess its role in stress adaptation in Aspergillus fumigatus, we constructed mutants in genes encoding the sensor histidine kinase (HK) tcsB as well as sakA, which are homologues of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae sln1 and Hog1, respectively. Compared to the wild type strain (Wt), growth of sakA (sakAtriangle up) mutant was reduced, and growth inhibition was increased when H(2)O(2), menadione, or SDS was added to the media. On the other hand, the tcsB mutant (tcsBtriangle up) was similar to the Wt strain in regard to growth and morphology, although a partial sensitivity to SDS was observed. Western blot analysis of Wt and the tcsBtriangle up strains indicated that when stressed with H(2)O(2), phosphorylation of Hog1p still occurs in the mutant. Since in Candida albicans, Hog1 regulates transcription of at least one histidine kinase, we performed RT-PCR of 6 histidine kinase genes as well as the ssk1 and skn7 response regulator genes of A. fumigatus. No significant differences in transcription were observed with the sakAtriangle up when compared to the Wt, indicating that the sakA does not regulate transcription of these genes. Our studies indicate that the A. fumigatus sakA is required for optimal growth of the organism with or without oxidant stress, while tcsB gene is dispensable."}
{"id": "16699570", "title": "Development of AFLP-derived, functionally specific markers for environmental persistence studies of fungal strains.", "content": "Development of AFLP-derived, functionally specific markers for environmental persistence studies of fungal strains. The ability to rapidly identify and quantify a microbial strain in a complex environmental sample has widespread applications in ecology, epidemiology, and industry. In this study, we describe a rapid method to obtain functionally specific genetic markers that can be used in conjunction with standard or real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to determine the abundance of target fungal strains in selected environmental samples. The method involves sequencing of randomly cloned AFLP (amplified fragment length polymorphism) products from the target organism and the design of PCR primers internal to the AFLP fragments. The strain-specific markers were used to determine the fate of three industrially relevant fungi, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus oryzae, and Chaetomium globosum, during a 4 month soil microcosm experiment. The persistence of each of the three fungal strains inoculated separately into intact soil microcosms was determined by PCR analyses of DNA directly extracted from soil. Presence and absence data based on standard PCR and quantification of the target DNA by real-time PCR showed that all three strains declined after inoculation (approximately 14-, 32-, and 4-fold for A. niger, A. oryzae, and C. globosum, respectively) but remained detectable at the end of the experiment, suggesting that these strains would survive for extended periods if released into nature."}
{"id": "16697479", "title": "Development of a quantitative real-time PCR assay for the detection of Aspergillus carbonarius in grapes.", "content": "Development of a quantitative real-time PCR assay for the detection of Aspergillus carbonarius in grapes. Aspergillus carbonarius is the main species responsible for the production of ochratoxin A (OTA) in wine grapes. To monitor and quantify A. carbonarious in grapes, a quantitative real-time PCR assay was developed as a possible tool for predicting the potential ochratoxigenic risk. DNA extraction from grape berries was performed by using conventional extraction and clean up through EZNA Hi-bond spin columns. A TaqMan probe was used to quantify A. carbonarius genomic DNA in grape berries samples. An exogenous internal positive control was used to overcome DNA recovery losses due to matrix inhibition. The quantification of fungal genomic DNA in naturally contaminated grape was performed using the TaqMan signal versus spectrophotometrically measured DNA quantities (Log10) calibration curve with a linearity range from 50 to 5 x 10(-4) ng of DNA. A positive correlation (R2=0.92) was found between A. carbonarious DNA content and OTA concentration in naturally contaminated grape samples. This is the first application of TaqMan real-time PCR for identifying and quantifying A. carbonarius genomic DNA occurring in grapes. The rapid DNA extraction method for grapes, together with the commercial availability of reagents and instrumentation, allows to perform a remarkable number of reproducible assays (96-well format) in less than 4 h."}
{"id": "16690149", "title": "RFLP characterization of Aspergillus niger aggregate species from grapes from Europe and Israel.", "content": "RFLP characterization of Aspergillus niger aggregate species from grapes from Europe and Israel. In order to characterize by molecular methods the Aspergillus niger aggregate species involved in the ochratoxin A (OTA) contamination of European wine grapes and table grapes from Israel, a total of 173 strains were studied. The ITS-5.8S rDNA fragments of 173 A. niger agreggate strains from grapes included in this study were amplified and their PCR amplicons were RsaI digested in order to classify the strains in the RFLP types, N and T. All of the strains belonging to the A. niger aggregate were classified into the two RFLP types previously defined: type N (43%) and type T (57%). Twenty out of the 173 strains of A. niger aggregate produced OTA (0.1 to 10.5 mug g(-1)). All the OTA producing species belonged to the N-RFLP type."}
{"id": "16673111", "title": "Aspergillus oryzae strains with a large deletion of the aflatoxin biosynthetic homologous gene cluster differentiated by chromosomal breakage.", "content": "Aspergillus oryzae strains with a large deletion of the aflatoxin biosynthetic homologous gene cluster differentiated by chromosomal breakage. Recently we divided Aspergillus oryzae RIB strains into group 1, having seven aflatoxin biosynthesis homologous genes (aflT, nor-1, aflR, norA, avnA, verB, and vbs), and group 2, having three homologues (avnA, verB, and vbs). Here, partial aflatoxin homologous gene cluster of RIB62 from group 2 was sequenced and compared with that of RIB40 from group 1. RIB62 showed a large deletion upstream of ver-1 with more than half of the aflatoxin homologous gene cluster missing including aflR, a positive transcriptional regulatory gene. Adjacent to the deletion of the aflatoxin homologous gene cluster, RIB62 has a unique sequence of about 8 kb and a telomere. Southern analysis of A. oryzae RIB strains with four kinds of probe derived from the unique sequence of RIB62 showed that all group 2 strains have identical hybridizing signals. Polymerase chain reaction with specific primer set designed to amplify the junction between ver-1 and the unique sequence of RIB62 resulted in the same size of DNA fragment only from group 2 strains. Based on these results, we developed a useful genetic tool that distinguishes A. oryzae group 2 strains from the other groups' strains and propose that it might have differentiated from the ancestral strains due to chromosomal breakage."}
{"id": "16672397", "title": "In vitro release by Aspergillus fumigatus of galactofuranose antigens, 1,3-beta-D-glucan, and DNA, surrogate markers used for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "In vitro release by Aspergillus fumigatus of galactofuranose antigens, 1,3-beta-D-glucan, and DNA, surrogate markers used for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. Aspergillus markers are becoming increasingly important for the early diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. The kinetics of release of these surrogate markers, however, is largely unknown. We investigated the release of beta-(1-5)-galactofuranosyl (galf) antigens (Platelia Aspergillus), 1,3-beta-D-glucan (BG) (Fungitell), and DNA (PCR) in an in vitro model of Aspergillus fumigatus. The results showed that release is correlated to the growth phase of the fungus, which depends on available nutrients. Whereas galf antigens and BG are released during logarithmic growth, DNA is released only after mycelium breakdown. During early logarithmic growth, galf antigens seem to be released somewhat earlier than BG. Furthermore, galf antigen concentrations of more than 120,000 times the serum cutoff value (0.5 ng/ml) can be measured, while BG concentrations reach a value only 978 times the serum cutoff value (60 pg/ml). During lytical growth, release of galf antigens further increased to a maximum level, which depended on pH. After that, the concentration of galf antigens stayed high (pH 7.4) or decreased to zero within 4 days (pH 5.0). In contrast to galf antigens, BG concentration decreased after 1 day of growth. The decrease of galf components seems to be due to the enzyme beta-galactofuranosidase, which is able to destroy galf epitopes and whose activity fluctuates in the culture filtrates in parallel with galf antigen concentration. Fungal DNA seems to be released only due to autolysis caused by nutrient limitation. In conclusion, several factors clearly influence the release of surrogate markers in vitro. These same factors might also play a role at the infection site of Aspergillus disease in humans."}
{"id": "16650956", "title": "Single-stranded conformation polymorphism of large subunit of ribosomal RNA is best suited to diagnosing fungal infections and differentiating fungi at species level.", "content": "Single-stranded conformation polymorphism of large subunit of ribosomal RNA is best suited to diagnosing fungal infections and differentiating fungi at species level. In the last decade, various polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based methods have been developed using ribosomal RNA (rRNA) for the identification of medically important fungi. In the present study, large subunit (LSU) and small subunit (SSU) of fungal rRNA were amplified and analyzed by single-stranded conformation polymorphism (SSCP) of nested PCR, restriction digestion, and SSCP of digested products. The relationship between several clinical isolates of patients suffering from aspergillosis, candidiasis, cryptococcosis, keratitis, and skin and nail infections has been established with standard fungal cultures using the SSU- and LSU-specific primers. Single-stranded conformation polymorphism of restriction profile of amplified products of LSU-specific primers was successfully used to differentiate fungi up to genus and species level."}
{"id": "16649078", "title": "A polyketide synthase gene required for biosynthesis of the aflatoxin-like toxin, dothistromin.", "content": "A polyketide synthase gene required for biosynthesis of the aflatoxin-like toxin, dothistromin. Dothistromin is a polyketide toxin, produced by a fungal forest pathogen, with structural similarity to the aflatoxin precursor versicolorin B. Biochemical and genetic studies suggested that there are common steps in the biosynthetic pathways for these metabolites and showed similarities between some of the genes. A polyketide synthase gene (pksA) was isolated from dothistromin-producing Dothistroma septosporum by hybridization with an aflatoxin ortholog from Aspergillus parasiticus. Inactivation of this gene in D. septosporum resulted in mutants that could not produce dothistromin but that could convert exogenous aflatoxin precursors, including norsolorinic acid, into dothistromin. The mutants also had reduced asexual sporulation compared to the wild type. So far four other genes are known to be clustered immediately alongside pksA. Three of these (cypA, moxA, avfA) are predicted to be orthologs of aflatoxin biosynthetic genes. The other gene (epoA), located between avfA and moxA, is predicted to encode an epoxide hydrolase, for which there is no homolog in either the aflatoxin or sterigmatocystin gene clusters. The pksA gene is located on a small chromosome of approximately 1.3 Mb in size, along with the dothistromin ketoreductase (dotA) gene."}
{"id": "16622700", "title": "Transcriptome analysis of Aspergillus fumigatus exposed to voriconazole.", "content": "Transcriptome analysis of Aspergillus fumigatus exposed to voriconazole. For a comprehensive evaluation of genes that have their expression modulated during exposure of the mycelia to voriconazole, we performed a large-scale analysis of gene expression in Aspergillus fumigatus using a microarray hybridization approach. By comparing the expression of genes between the reference time and after addition of voriconazole (30, 60, 120, and 240 min), we identified 2,271 genes differentially expressed in the wild-type strain. To validate the expression of some of these genes during exposure to voriconazole, we analyzed 13 genes showing higher expression in the presence of voriconazole by real-time RT-PCR. Although the magnitudes of induction differed between the two experimental systems, in about 85% of the cases they were in good agreement with the microarray data. To our knowledge this is the first study of microarray hybridization analysis for a filamentous fungus exposed to an antifungal agent. In our study, we have observed: (i) a decreased mRNA expression of various ergosterol biosynthesis genes; (ii) increased mRNA levels of genes involved in a variety of cell functions, such as transporters, transcription factors, proteins involved in cell metabolism, and hypothetical proteins; and (iii) the involvement of the cyclic AMP-protein kinase signaling pathway in the increased mRNA expression of several of these genes."}
{"id": "16619113", "title": "Efficient genetic transformation system for the ochratoxigenic fungus Aspergillus carbonarius.", "content": "Efficient genetic transformation system for the ochratoxigenic fungus Aspergillus carbonarius. Aspergillus carbonarius is a potent ochratoxin A producer that has been found in products such as grapes, coffee, spices, and cocoa. Ochratoxin A has nephrotoxic effect, and it has been classified as a possible carcinogenic substance for humans. Here we describe for the first time a transformation system for A. carbonarius, providing an important step towards its genetic manipulation. Conidia were transformed to acquire hygromycin B resistance using the AGL-1 strain of Agrobacterium tumefaciens. Genetic transformation was evaluated growing A. tumefaciens cells in induction medium containing or not acetosyringone prior to co-cultivation. The mean transforming efficiencies in IM+AS and IM-AS conditions were 62.2 and 44.5 transformants per 10(5) conidia, respectively. The hph gene was random integrated into the genome of A. carbonarius. Fungal sequences flanking the insertion site could be amplified by TAIL-PCR."}
{"id": "16616453", "title": "Use of 65 kDa mannoprotein gene primers in Real Time PCR identification of Candida albicans in biological samples.", "content": "Use of 65 kDa mannoprotein gene primers in Real Time PCR identification of Candida albicans in biological samples. A method for the detection and quantification of Candida albicans in biological samples (blood, urine and serum) was developed with the use of Real-Time PCR utilizing CaMP65-specific primers. Two different systems were used for the detection in the LightCycler platform (Roche): the SYBR green fluorescent dye with melting peak analysis and the 5'nuclease fluorescent-probe detection. The amplification was highly specific for C. albicans, providing no cross-reaction on genomic DNA extracted from other Candida species or Aspergillus. The sensitivity in simulated biological samples was especially high (1 genome) when applied to sera and urine, and in blood samples the limit of detection was higher by ten-fold. Finally, the real-time PCR was employed in order to detect and quantify C. albicans in the sera from patients with invasive candidiasis."}
{"id": "16607954", "title": "[Study on the asexual sporulation of Aspergillus niger under blue light induction and analysis of its subtractive library].", "content": "[Study on the asexual sporulation of Aspergillus niger under blue light induction and analysis of its subtractive library]. The effect of blue light (BL) on the morphological development of Aspergillus niger was studied by the scanning electron microscopy (SEM) observation. Comparing with the darkness, BL was able to stimulate development of sporangiophore and conidiosphore, promote grownth of mycelium. Suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) was conducted with tester cDNA which was from 39 to approximately 40h-old mycelium cultured under darkness and driver cDNA which was from mycelium illuminated for 3 to approximately 4h under BL after dark growth. Some cDNA bands were obtained by suppression PCR (polymerase chain reaction) with the subtractive cDNA. Positive bacterial clones were randomly picked and identified by colony PCR method. Through sequence alignments from GenBank, most of differential cDNA fragments were highly identical with some redox enzymes existing in mitochondria, and the quantitative measurement of these differential mRNA by real time RT-PCR indicated that relative expression of the identified gene fragments under BL induction was higher than that under darkness. Furthermore, the result suggested that some respiratory chain redox enzymes of mitochondria were involved in the photoresponse and consequently influence the metabolism. Among differential cDNA fragments two unkown sequences were found and their complete gene and gene function remained to be investigated."}
{"id": "16572845", "title": "[Recombinant Aspergillus niger glucose oxidase expressed in Trichoderma reesei].", "content": "[Recombinant Aspergillus niger glucose oxidase expressed in Trichoderma reesei]. It was expected that recombinant Aspergillus niger glucose oxidase could be expressed in Trichoderma reesei with stable activity. T. reesei CBHI promoter--CBHI ss. gene--A. niger glucose oxidase gene--T. reesei CBHI terminator--A. nidulans gpd promoter--E. coli Hygromycin B phosphotransferase gene--A. nidulans trpC terminator--pUC19 (pCBHGOD) vector was constructed in E. coli DH5alpha by PCR application and gene cloning methods. T. reesei QM9414 protoplast was transformed by T. reesei CBHI promoter-CBHI ss. Gene--A. niger glucose oxidase gene--T. reesei CBHI terminator-A. nidulans gpd promoter--E. coli Hygromycin B phosphotransferase gene--A. nidulans trpC terminator linear DNA fragment (CBHGOD fragment) that was made by digestion of pCBHGOD with Kpn I. T. reesei mutant clone with homologous recombinant A. niger glucose oxidase gene was selected by PCR method. Recombinant glucose oxidase was produced by mutant T. reesei strain under induction of wheat straw for 5 days. Recombinant glucose oxidase molecular mass was showed the same as native A. niger glucose oxidase standard from Sigma company by Western blot analysis. Recombinant glucose oxidase activity was 25u/mL in medium. The yield was 0.5 g/L in comparison with Sigma company glucose oxidase standard. There was no recombinant GOD degradation during Trichoderma reesei cultivation that was showed in Western blot analysis. Trichoderma reesei has capability to be a new recombinant host for Aspergillus niger GOD production."}
{"id": "16552065", "title": "Functional genomics of innate host defense molecules in normal human monocytes in response to Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Functional genomics of innate host defense molecules in normal human monocytes in response to Aspergillus fumigatus. Aspergillus fumigatus induces the release of innate immune-related molecules from phagocytic cells early in the course of infection. Little is known, however, about the complex expression profiles of the multiple genes involved in this response. We therefore investigated the kinetics of early gene expression in human monocytes (HMCs) infected with conidia of A. fumigatus using DNA microarray analysis. Total RNA from HMCs at 0, 2, 4, and 6 h was extracted, linearly amplified, hybridized onto Affymetrix HG133 Plus 2.0 gene chips, and analyzed with an Affymetrix scanner. Changes in gene expression were calculated as a ratio of those expressed by infected versus control HMCs. Aspergillus fumigatus induced differential regulation of expression in 1,827 genes (P < 0.05). Genes encoding cytokines and chemokines involved in host defense against A. fumigatus, including interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), IL-8, CXCL2, CCL4, CCL3, and CCL20, as well as the opsonin long pentraxin 3, were up-regulated during the first 2 to 6 h, coinciding with an increase in phagocytosis. Simultaneously, genes encoding CD14, ficolin1, and MARCO were down-regulated, and genes encoding IL-10 and matrix metalloproteinase 1 were up-regulated. Up-regulation of the genes encoding heat shock proteins 40 and 110 and connexins 26 and 30 may point to novel molecules whose role in the pathogenesis of aspergillosis has not been previously reported. Verification of the transcriptional profiling was obtained for selected genes by reverse transcription-PCR and enzyme immunoassay. Thus, A. fumigatus conidia induced a coordinated expression of genes important in host defense and immunomodulation."}
{"id": "16517870", "title": "Simultaneous detection and identification of Candida, Aspergillus, and Cryptococcus species by reverse line blot hybridization.", "content": "Simultaneous detection and identification of Candida, Aspergillus, and Cryptococcus species by reverse line blot hybridization. We report on a reverse line blot (RLB) assay, utilizing fungal species-specific oligonucleotide probes to hybridize with internal transcribed spacer 2 region sequences amplified using a nested panfungal PCR. Reference and clinical strains of 16 Candida species (116 strains), Cryptococcus neoformans (five strains of Cryptococcus neoformans var. neoformans, five strains of Cryptococcus neoformans var. grubii, and six strains of Cryptococcus gatti), and five Aspergillus species (68 strains) were all correctly identified by the RLB assay. Additional fungal species (16 species and 26 strains) not represented on the assay did not exhibit cross-hybridization with the oligonucleotide probes. In simulated clinical specimens, the sensitivity of the assay for Candida spp. and Aspergillus spp. was 10(0.5) cells/ml and 10(2) conidia/ml, respectively. This assay allows sensitive and specific simultaneous detection and identification of a broad range of fungal pathogens."}
{"id": "16517184", "title": "Ochratoxin A biosynthetic genes in Aspergillus ochraceus are differentially regulated by pH and nutritional stimuli.", "content": "Ochratoxin A biosynthetic genes in Aspergillus ochraceus are differentially regulated by pH and nutritional stimuli. Expression of the polyketide synthase (pks) gene which is involved in ochratoxin A (OTA) biosynthesis in Aspergillus ochraceus is linked to production of the mycotoxin, with high levels of pks mRNA accumulation occurring in cultures producing OTA, as assessed by real-time reverse transcription (RT)-PCR. OTA production is regulated by nutrient availability, with supplementation of OTA restrictive potato dextrose broth with yeast extract resulting in a 39-fold increase in production of the mycotoxin. This effect appears to be mediated at the level of gene transcription as there is a concomitant increase in pks mRNA accumulation. OTA production is also strongly influenced by culture pH with large amounts of OTA being produced at pH values <7.0 with reduced amounts being produced at higher pH values. pks transcript levels again mirrored the OTA production profile observed at the different pH values. The transcription of two putative p450 type monooxygenase genes, namely p450-H11 and p450-B03 genes closely mirrored that of the pks gene under all growth conditions tested, suggesting their involvement together with the pks in OTA biosynthesis. The expression profile of the p450-B03 gene in particular is very similar to that of the pks gene, indicating that this gene may be clustered with the pks as part of the OTA biosynthetic gene cluster."}
{"id": "16506053", "title": "Depletion of Aspergillus nidulans cotA causes a severe polarity defect which is not suppressed by the nuclear migration mutation nudA2.", "content": "Depletion of Aspergillus nidulans cotA causes a severe polarity defect which is not suppressed by the nuclear migration mutation nudA2. The Aspergillus nidulans homologue of Neurospora crassa cot-1, cotA, encoding a member of the NDR protein kinase family, has been cloned and expressed under the control of the conditional alcA promoter. Depletion of CotA by repression of the alcA promoter led to a severe growth defect accompanied by loss of polarity. Germlings show greatly enlarged volume of the spores and hyphae, accompanied by an increase in number of nuclei per compartment, though the nucleus/volume ratio is not significantly altered. The depleted CotA phenotype was not suppressed by a nuclear migration mutation nudA2. Double mutants showed an additive, defective phenotype, unlike the suppression of the cot-1 ts mutation by ropy mutations seen in N. crassa, suggesting a different relationship between nuclear migration and the cot signalling pathway in A. nidulans. A functional CotA-GFP fusion protein was found in punctate regions of fluorescence similar to the distribution reported for human NDR2, and as a cap at the hyphal tip."}
{"id": "16499984", "title": "Succession of bacterial and fungal communities during a traditional pot fermentation of rice vinegar assessed by PCR-mediated denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis.", "content": "Succession of bacterial and fungal communities during a traditional pot fermentation of rice vinegar assessed by PCR-mediated denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. Denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) based on small subunit rRNA gene was applied to a traditional rice vinegar fermentation process in which the conversion of rice starch into acetic acid proceeded in a pot. The fungal DGGE profile indicated that the transition from Aspergillus oryzae to Saccharomyces sp. took place at the initial stage at which alcohol production was observed. The early stage was characterized by the coexistence of Saccharomyces sp. and lactic acid bacteria. Almost all of the bacterial DGGE bands related to lactic acid bacteria were replaced by bands derived from Lactobacillus acetotolerance and Acetobacter pasteurianus at the stage at which acetic acid started to accumulate. The microbial succession, tested in three different pots, was found to be essentially identical. Among the bacteria isolated at the early stage, some species differed from those detected by DGGE. This is the first report to reveal the microbial community succession that occurs during a unique vinegar fermentation process, as determined by a culture-independent method."}
{"id": "16499151", "title": "Mold infestation of wet spray-applied cellulose insulation.", "content": "Mold infestation of wet spray-applied cellulose insulation. Mold investigations were conducted in four buildings that had been insulated with wet spray-applied cellulose insulation (WSACI). Bulk WSACI samples were collected and analyzed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QPCR) methods. Airborne mold was evaluated using both Burkard total mold spore and Andersen culturable/viable sampling methods. Although reportedly treated with biocidal borates, QPCR analyses indicated that elevated concentrations of mold cells (reported as spore equivalents per gram) may be present in WSACI. QPCR analyses showed the following: (1) very high concentrations of Penicillium chrysogenum in samples from two of four buildings; (2) very high concentrations of Stachybotrys chartarum in samples from one building and a more moderate presence in a second; (3) moderately high concentrations of Aspergillus versicolor in samples from one building and more moderate concentrations in a second; (4) the presence of the opportunistic pathogen, Aspergillus fumigatus, in samples from three of the four buildings, and (5) the presence of 22 of 23 target mold species. Elevated airborne total mold spore concentrations were observed in all four of the buildings investigated. Culturable/viable airborne mold concentrations were moderately elevated in three of the four buildings. Mold genera/types present were relatively consistent among airborne mold samples collected by both methods and bulk sample analyses. Results of this study suggest that WSACI has the potential to cause elevated airborne mold levels in buildings where it has been applied and pose significant mold exposure and public health risks."}
{"id": "16494509", "title": "Invasive aspergillosis in children with hematologic malignancies.", "content": "Invasive aspergillosis in children with hematologic malignancies. The respiratory tract is the most common system affected by aspergillosis in children with hematologic malignancies. However, Aspergillus spp. tend to invade blood vessels, resulting in systemic dissemination to multiple organs including, but not limited to, the brain, bones, liver, kidneys, and skin. Because early diagnosis and treatment are critical to the patient's outcome, a high index of suspicion should be maintained in children with hematologic malignancies who are neutropenic and have prolonged fever that is unresponsive to systemic antibacterials. Several diagnostic modalities should be used simultaneously in order to establish the diagnosis in an expeditious manner. Detailed radiographic evaluations with plain radiographs, and CT scans of the chest, sinuses, brain, and other organs should be performed as soon as clinical suspicion is raised. Detection of circulating antigens, such as galactomannan and 1,3-beta-glucan, and polymerase chain reaction appear promising in aiding in the diagnosis. A definitive diagnosis requires both a positive culture from a sterile site and evidence of tissue damage demonstrated by imaging studies or microscopic evaluations of sites of infection. Because the mortality rate is very high, empiric systemic antifungal therapy with amphotericin B, or one of its lipid formulations, should be initiated while laboratory investigations to substantiate or refute the diagnosis are continued. Surgical intervention is associated with a high mortality rate but may be of benefit in children with localized disease."}
{"id": "16487239", "title": "Elevated levels of mannan-binding lectin [corrected] (MBL) and eosinophilia in patients of bronchial asthma with allergic rhinitis and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis associate with a novel intronic polymorphism in MBL.", "content": "Elevated levels of mannan-binding lectin [corrected] (MBL) and eosinophilia in patients of bronchial asthma with allergic rhinitis and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis associate with a novel intronic polymorphism in MBL. Mannan-binding lectin (MBL), an important component of innate immunity, binds to a range of foreign antigens and initiates the lectin complement pathway. Earlier studies have reported high plasma MBL levels in allergic patients in comparison to healthy controls. In view of varied plasma MBL levels being determined by genetic polymorphisms in its collagen region, we investigated the association of single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in the collagen region of human MBL with respiratory allergic diseases. The study groups comprised patients of bronchial asthma with allergic rhinitis (n = 49) and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (APBA) (n = 11) and unrelated age-matched healthy controls of Indian origin (n = 84). A novel intronic SNP, G1011A of MBL, showed a significant association with both the patient groups in comparison to the controls (P < 0.01). Patients homozygous for the 1011A allele showed significantly higher plasma MBL levels and activity than those homozygous for the 1011G allele (P < 0.05). The 1011A allele also showed a significant correlation with high peripheral blood eosinophilia (P < 0.05) and low forced expiratory volume in 1 s (FEV(1)) (P < 0.05) of the patients. We conclude that the 1011A allele of MBL may contribute to elevated plasma MBL levels and activity and to increased severity of the disease markers in patients of bronchial asthma with allergic rhinitis and ABPA."}
{"id": "16484077", "title": "Selection and identification of fungi isolated from sugarcane bagasse and their application for phenanthrene removal from soil.", "content": "Selection and identification of fungi isolated from sugarcane bagasse and their application for phenanthrene removal from soil. This work investigated the identification and selection of fungi isolated from sugarcane bagasse and their application for phenanthrene (Phe) removal from soil. Fungi were identified by PCR amplification of ITS regions as Aspergillus terrus, Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus niger, Penicillium glabrum and Cladosporium cladosporioides. A primary selection of fungi was accomplished in plate, considering Phe tolerance of every strain in two different media: potato dextrose agar (PDA) and mineral medium (MM). The radial extension rate (r(r)) in PDA exhibited significant differences (p<0.05) at 200 and 400 ppm of Phe. A secondary selection of A. niger, C. cladosporoides, and P. glabrum sp. was achieved based on their tolerance to 200, 400, 600 and 800 ppm of Phe, in solid culture at a sugarcane bagasse/contaminated soil ratio of 95:5, in Toyamas, Czapeck and Wunder media. Under these conditions, a maximum (70%) Phe removal by A. niger was obtained. In addition C. cladosporioides and A. niger were able to remove high (800 ppm) Phe concentrations."}
{"id": "16466900", "title": "Rapid identification of fungal pathogens in BacT/ALERT, BACTEC, and BBL MGIT media using polymerase chain reaction and DNA sequencing of the internal transcribed spacer regions.", "content": "Rapid identification of fungal pathogens in BacT/ALERT, BACTEC, and BBL MGIT media using polymerase chain reaction and DNA sequencing of the internal transcribed spacer regions. We report a direct polymerase chain reaction/sequence (d-PCRS)-based method for the rapid identification of clinically significant fungi from 5 different types of commercial broth enrichment media inoculated with clinical specimens. Media including BacT/ALERT FA (BioM\u00e9rieux, Marcy l'Etoile, France) (n = 87), BACTEC Plus Aerobic/F (Becton Dickinson, Microbiology Systems, Sparks, MD) (n = 16), BACTEC Peds Plus/F (Becton Dickinson) (n = 15), BACTEC Lytic/10 Anaerobic/F (Becton Dickinson) (n = 11) bottles, and BBL MGIT (Becton Dickinson) (n = 11) were inoculated with specimens from 138 patients. A universal DNA extraction method was used combining a novel pretreatment step to remove PCR inhibitors with a column-based DNA extraction kit. Target sequences in the noncoding internal transcribed spacer regions of the rRNA gene were amplified by PCR and sequenced using a rapid (24 h) automated capillary electrophoresis system. Using sequence alignment software, fungi were identified by sequence similarity with sequences derived from isolates identified by upper-level reference laboratories or isolates defined as ex-type strains. We identified Candida albicans (n = 14), Candida parapsilosis (n = 8), Candida glabrata (n = 7), Candida krusei (n = 2), Scedosporium prolificans (n = 4), and 1 each of Candida orthopsilosis, Candida dubliniensis, Candida kefyr, Candida tropicalis, Candida guilliermondii, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Cryptococcus neoformans, Aspergillus fumigatus, Histoplasma capsulatum, and Malassezia pachydermatis by d-PCRS analysis. All d-PCRS identifications from positive broths were in agreement with the final species identification of the isolates grown from subculture. Earlier identification of fungi using d-PCRS may facilitate prompt and more appropriate antifungal therapy."}
{"id": "16463092", "title": "Comparison of aflatoxigenic and nonaflatoxigenic isolates of Aspergillus flavus using DNA amplification fingerprinting techniques.", "content": "Comparison of aflatoxigenic and nonaflatoxigenic isolates of Aspergillus flavus using DNA amplification fingerprinting techniques. Aspergillus flavus is a filamentous fungus that produces mycotoxins in many food and feed crops, such as maize (Zea mays L.). Isolates were analyzed for toxin production by nucleic acid profiles in an attempt to differentiate aflatoxigenic from nonaflatoxigenic isolates. A total of 41 aflatoxigenic and 34 nonalfatoxigenic isolates were included in the study. The isolates were evaluated initially using DNA amplification fingerprinting (DAF) without clear resolution of the groups. A weak association of aflatoxigenic isolates was observed, as evidenced by their clustering in 18 of 81 trees recovered from maximum parsimony analysis of binary characters derived from arbitrary signatures from amplification profiles (ASAP) data; nonaflatoxigenic isolates exhibited a pattern of paraphyletic laddering. Up to five markers unambiguously supported the aflatoxigenic isolate grouping, but the presence of alternative conflicting topologies in equally parsimonious trees precluded the observation of meaningful statistical support. With additional markers for genome of A. flavus, this method could be used to resolve toxigenic from nontoxigenic strains. This additional work could resolve aflatoxigenic isolates of A. flavus present on maize plants using ASAP, which would reduce labor intense costs and potentially lead to faster determination of resistant cultivars in breeding efforts."}
{"id": "16462306", "title": "Pneumonia with marked pleural effusion caused by Aspergillus infection.", "content": "Pneumonia with marked pleural effusion caused by Aspergillus infection. We present a case of pneumonia with marked pleural effusion caused by Aspergillus infection in a 2-year-old Japanese girl with Down's syndrome. The patient was previously diagnosed with acute myeloid leukemia, developing the pneumonia during induction treatment. Although no pathogens could be isolated from any clinical specimens, 135,000 copies/mL of Aspergillus DNA were detected in the pleural fluid using real time polymerase chain reaction. The copy numbers of DNA decreased rapidly after appropriate antifungal treatment."}
{"id": "16455889", "title": "Occurrence and kinetics of false-positive Aspergillus galactomannan test results following treatment with beta-lactam antibiotics in patients with hematological disorders.", "content": "Occurrence and kinetics of false-positive Aspergillus galactomannan test results following treatment with beta-lactam antibiotics in patients with hematological disorders. Several reports have described a high rate of false-positive Aspergillus galactomannan (GM) test results for patients treated with piperacillin-tazobactam. In this retrospective study, we first examined the relationships between intravenous administration of three beta-lactam antibiotics and the occurrence of false-positive GM test results in hematology patients. We then estimated the kinetics of clearance of GM after the cessation of treatment. Sequential serum samples from 69 patients that had received beta-lactams were analyzed by using a Platelia Aspergillus test. A significant association was found between GM positivity (>/=0.5) and the administration of beta-lactams (P < 0.0001). The direct role of beta-lactams in patients' serum positivity was assessed by testing 39 batches of beta-lactams, of which 27 were positive for GM. None of the latter were positive according to a fungus- and Aspergillus-specific PCR. The kinetics of the decrease of GM was analyzed on sequential serum samples obtained after treatment. By use of a nonlinear regression model, the average time to negative antigen was assessed to be 5.5 days (95% confidence interval [CI], 4.1 to [7.0]), with a half-life of elimination of GM of 2.4 days (95% CI, 1.8 to 3.0). This study confirms that the administration of beta-lactams containing GM is responsible for false-positive diagnostic results, even up to 5 days after the cessation of treatment."}
{"id": "16453271", "title": "Prospective evaluation of a polymerase chain reaction-ELISA targeted to Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus flavus for the early diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in patients with hematological malignancies.", "content": "Prospective evaluation of a polymerase chain reaction-ELISA targeted to Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus flavus for the early diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in patients with hematological malignancies. Current laboratory and radiological methods for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) lack sensitivity and specificity. We prospectively evaluated the diagnostic value of twice-weekly screening for circulating Aspergillus fumigatus and A. flavus DNA with a polymerase chain reaction-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (PCR-ELISA). Among the 201 adult patients with hematological malignancies who were included in the study, 55 IA cases were diagnosed. On the basis of the analysis of 1205 serum samples from 167 patients, the sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of the PCR-ELISA for proven and probable IA cases were 63.6%, 89.7%, 63.6%, and 89.7%, respectively, when samples with 2 consecutive positive results were used. The use of a combination of the PCR-ELISA and a galactomannan (GM) assay increased the sensitivity to 83.3%, increased the negative predictive value to 97.6%, and decreased the specificity to 69.8%. In most patients with IA, PCR-ELISA positivity anticipated or was simultaneous with the initiation of antifungal therapy, the abnormalities found by computed tomography, the mycological/histological diagnosis, and the GM positivity. Overall, 56.3% of the patients had at least 1 positive sample, and the false single-positive rate was 44.8%. In addition to serial screening for GM antigenemia and radiological surveillance, PCR-ELISA may improve the rates of early diagnosis of IA and the management of patients with hematological malignancies."}
{"id": "16451404", "title": "Diagnostic approaches for immunocompromised paediatric patients with pulmonary infiltrates.", "content": "Diagnostic approaches for immunocompromised paediatric patients with pulmonary infiltrates. Pulmonary infiltrates in immunocompromised children often pose problems in terms of deciding on further diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, but few studies have evaluated the value of non-invasive and invasive diagnostic methods in paediatric populations. Both galactomannan ELISA and PCR protocols appear to be less useful in children than in adults. Invasive procedures, such as bronchoalveolar lavage or lung biopsy, can yield a pathohistological diagnosis and/or the isolation of a pathogen. Prospective studies in paediatric patients are needed urgently to assess the value of different diagnostic procedures and to define an effective and safe diagnostic strategy for the individual child."}
{"id": "16448506", "title": "The aflatoxin pathway regulator AflR induces gene transcription inside and outside of the aflatoxin biosynthetic cluster.", "content": "The aflatoxin pathway regulator AflR induces gene transcription inside and outside of the aflatoxin biosynthetic cluster. Aflatoxin contamination of food and feed is a major concern due to the carcinogenic properties of this mycotoxin. Previous studies using classical approaches have identified a cluster of genes responsible for aflatoxin production under the control of the pathway-specific transcriptional regulator aflR, but it is unknown whether aflR controls expression of other genes within the genome. Transcription profiling comparing wild type and DeltaaflR strains of Aspergillus parasiticus grown under conditions conducive for aflatoxin production identified only 23 upregulated genes in the wild type. These included 20 genes in the aflatoxin biosynthetic cluster, and three additional genes outside the aflatoxin biosynthetic cluster (nadA, hlyC, and niiA), all with AflR binding sites. This report is the first to demonstrate genes outside the biosynthetic cluster as being associated with aflR expression."}
{"id": "16443301", "title": "Effect of water activity on ochratoxin A production by Aspergillus niger aggregate species.", "content": "Effect of water activity on ochratoxin A production by Aspergillus niger aggregate species. The effect of water activity (a(w)) (0.82-0.99) on growth and ochratoxin A (OTA) production by twelve Aspergillus niger aggregate strains, cultured in Czapek Yeast Autolysate agar (CYA) and Yeast Extract Sucrose agar (YES), was studied for an incubation period of 30 days. The strains were selected to include diverse sources, different reported abilities to produce OTA and different ITS-5.8 S rDNA Restriction Fragment Length Polymorphism (RFLP) pattern. They were characterized by Random Amplification of Polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and ITS-5.8 S rDNA and 28 S rDNA (D1/D2) sequencing. Regardless of the a(w) value tested, YES was a better culture medium than CYA for OTA production. The a(w) range for OTA production was narrower than that for growth. OTA was produced from 0.90, 0.92, 0.94 or 0.96 to 0.99 a(w) depending on the strain and the culture medium. The molecular study differentiated strains into two groups which corresponded to the RFLP types N and T although it did not distinguish them by their source of isolation or OTA producing abilities. Our results show that A. niger aggregate strains are able to grow and produce OTA over a wide a(w) range. These results will lead to a better understanding of the contribution of A. niger aggregate in OTA contamination of food and feed."}
{"id": "16421792", "title": "Polymerase chain reaction for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis: getting closer but still a ways to go.", "content": "Polymerase chain reaction for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis: getting closer but still a ways to go."}
{"id": "16421791", "title": "The evolution and evaluation of a whole blood polymerase chain reaction assay for the detection of invasive aspergillosis in hematology patients in a routine clinical setting.", "content": "The evolution and evaluation of a whole blood polymerase chain reaction assay for the detection of invasive aspergillosis in hematology patients in a routine clinical setting. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is associated with high mortality. Successful outcome with treatment is linked to early diagnosis. The utility of classic diagnostic methods, however, is limited. To aid in the diagnosis of IA, we retrospectively assessed our diagnostic service, using real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and galactomannan sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). A total of 203 patients at risk of invasive fungal infection were screened by PCR, and 116 of the patients were also tested by ELISA. The patient group comprised 176 patients with hematological malignancy and 28 control patients with evidence of invasive candidal infection. Consensus European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer and Mycoses Study Group criteria were used to classify fungal infection, which, by definition, excluded the PCR result. The PCR method was sensitive (up to 92.3% sensitivity) and specific (up to 94.6% specificity) and had good agreement with the galactomannan ELISA (76.7%) and high-resolution computed tomography scan results. A negative PCR result can be used to rule out IA and to limit the need for empirical antifungal therapy; thus, it has a role in diagnosing IA infections, especially in combination with antigen testing. PCR-positive cases classified as \"false positives\" regularly reflect the limitations of classic microbiological procedures or restricted use of consensus clinical methods employed to classify infection."}
{"id": "16416267", "title": "Diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis and mucormycosis in immunocompromised patients by seminested PCR assay of tissue samples.", "content": "Diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis and mucormycosis in immunocompromised patients by seminested PCR assay of tissue samples. Aspergillosis and mucormycosis are the most common mold infections in patients with hematological malignancies. Infections caused by species of the genus Aspergillus and the order Mucorales require different antifungal treatments depending on the in vitro susceptibility of the causative strain. Cultures from biopsy specimens frequently do not grow fungal pathogens, even from histopathologically proven cases of invasive fungal infection. Two seminested PCR assays were evaluated by amplifying DNA of zygomycetes and Aspergillus spp. from organ biopsies of 21 immunocompromised patients. The PCR assays correctly identified five cases of invasive aspergillosis and six cases of mucormycosis. They showed evidence of double mold infection in two cases. Both assays were negative in five negative controls and in two patients with yeast infections. Sequencing of the PCR products was in accordance with culture results in all culture-positive cases. In six patients without positive cultures but with positive histopathology, sequencing suggested a causative organism. Detection of fungal DNA from biopsy specimens allows rapid identification of the causative organism of invasive aspergillosis and mucormycosis. The use of these PCR assays may allow guided antifungal treatment in patients with invasive mold infections."}
{"id": "16412020", "title": "Role of prospective screening of blood for invasive aspergillosis by polymerase chain reaction in febrile neutropenic recipients of haematopoietic stem cell transplants and patients with acute leukaemia.", "content": "Role of prospective screening of blood for invasive aspergillosis by polymerase chain reaction in febrile neutropenic recipients of haematopoietic stem cell transplants and patients with acute leukaemia. Guidelines for the use of polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based assays to aid the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) in high-risk haematology patients have not been formulated. We prospectively evaluated a nested PCR assay to detect Aspergillus in blood during 95 febrile neutropenic episodes, in patients with haematological malignancy and haematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) recipients. PCR results were correlated with the diagnostic classification of the 2002 European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer/Mycosis Study Group. When two-positive results were used to define an episode as 'PCR positive', the sensitivity, specificity, positive-predictive value and negative predictive value for 'proven'/'probable' IA (n = 13) were 100%, 75.4%, 46.4% and 100%, respectively. Consecutive positive results occurred in 61.5% of these 13 episodes. Overall, PCR positivity preceded standard diagnosis by a mean of 14 d and the median time between positive results was shorter than that in other categories of IA. All 13 episodes occurred in the setting of allogeneic HSCT recipients and acute leukaemia. If 'eligibility' for antifungal therapy were based on two-positive-PCR tests, use of empiric treatment could have been reduced by up to 37%. The nested PCR assay is a practical screening test for excluding IA. Patients with consecutive positive results or intermittent-positive results (within 14 d) warrant immediate investigations for IA and the initiation of antifungal therapy."}
{"id": "16406292", "title": "Nitrate reductase gene involvement in hexachlorobiphenyl dechlorination by Phanerochaete chrysosporium.", "content": "Nitrate reductase gene involvement in hexachlorobiphenyl dechlorination by Phanerochaete chrysosporium. Polychlorobiphenyl (PCB) degradation usually occurs through reductive dechlorination under anaerobic conditions and phenolic ring cleavage under aerobic conditions. In this paper, we provide evidence of nitrate reductase (NaR) mediated dechlorination of hexachlorobiphenyl (PCB-153) in Phanerochaete chrysosporium under non-ligninolytic condition and the gene involved. The NaR enzyme and its cofactor, molybdenum (Mo), were found to mediate reductive dechlorination of PCBs even in aerobic condition. Tungsten (W), a competitive inhibitor of this enzyme, was found to suppress this dechlorination. Chlorine release assay provided further evidence of this nitrate reductase mediated dechlorination. Commercially available pure NaR enzyme from Aspergillus was used to confirm these results. Through homology search using TBLASTN program, NaR gene was identified, primers were designed and the RT-PCR product was sequenced. The NaR gene was then annotated in the P. chrysosporium genome (GenBank accession no. AY700576). This is the first report regarding the presence of nitrate reductase gene in this fungus with the explanation why this fungus can dechlorinate PCBs even in aerobic condition. These fungal inoculums are used commercially as pellets in sawdust for enhanced bioremediation of PCBs at the risk of depleting soil nitrates. Hence, the addition of nitrates to the pellets will reduce this risk as well as enhance its activity."}
{"id": "16391082", "title": "Molecular analysis of an inactive aflatoxin biosynthesis gene cluster in Aspergillus oryzae RIB strains.", "content": "Molecular analysis of an inactive aflatoxin biosynthesis gene cluster in Aspergillus oryzae RIB strains. To help assess the potential for aflatoxin production by Aspergillus oryzae, the structure of an aflatoxin biosynthesis gene homolog cluster in A. oryzae RIB 40 was analyzed. Although most genes in the corresponding cluster exhibited from 97 to 99% similarity to those of Aspergillus flavus, three genes shared 93% similarity or less. A 257-bp deletion in the aflT region, a frameshift mutation in norA, and a base pair substitution in verA were found in A. oryzae RIB 40. In the aflR promoter, two substitutions were found in one of the three putative AreA binding sites and in the FacB binding site. PCR primers were designed to amplify homologs of aflT, nor-1, aflR, norA, avnA, verB, and vbs and were used to detect these genes in 210 A. oryzae strains. Based on the PCR results, the A. oryzae RIB strains were classified into three groups, although most of them fell into two of the groups. Group 1, in which amplification of all seven genes was confirmed, contained 122 RIB strains (58.1% of examined strains), including RIB 40. Seventy-seven strains (36.7%) belonged to group 2, characterized by having only vbs, verB, and avnA in half of the cluster. Although slight expression of aflR was detected by reverse transcription-PCR in some group 1 strains, including RIB 40, other genes (avnA, vbs, verB, and omtA) related to aflatoxin production were not detected. aflR was not detected in group 2 strains by Southern analysis."}
{"id": "16387806", "title": "Current approaches to diagnosis and treatment of invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Current approaches to diagnosis and treatment of invasive aspergillosis. Filamentous fungi (moulds) are ubiquitous soil inhabitants whose conidia are inhaled into the respiratory tract, where they may cause life-threatening infections. Among these infections is invasive aspergillosis, which is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in the severely immunocompromised. Risk factors for invasive aspergillosis include prolonged and severe neutropenia, hematopoietic stem cell and solid organ transplantation, advanced AIDS, and chronic granulomatous disease. Invasive aspergillosis most commonly involves the sinopulmonary tract reflecting inhalation as the principal portal of entry. Chest computed tomography scans and new non-culture-based assays such as antigen detection and polymerase chain reaction may facilitate the early diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis, but have limitations. Reflecting an important unmet need, there has been a significant expansion in the antifungal armamentarium. The second-generation triazole, voriconazole, was superior to conventional amphotericin B as primary therapy for invasive aspergillosis, and is the new standard of care for this infection. There is significant interest in combination antifungal therapy pairing an echinocandin with either an azole or amphotericin B formulation as therapy for invasive aspergillosis. In addition, there has been an increased understanding of the immunology of Aspergillus infection, paving the way to novel immune augmentation strategies in animal models that merit evaluation in phase I clinic trials."}
{"id": "16385126", "title": "Comparison of the aflR gene sequences of strains in Aspergillus section Flavi.", "content": "Comparison of the aflR gene sequences of strains in Aspergillus section Flavi. Aflatoxins are polyketide-derived secondary metabolites produced by Aspergillus parasiticus, Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus nomius and a few other species. The toxic effects of aflatoxins have adverse consequences for human health and agricultural economics. The aflR gene, a regulatory gene for aflatoxin biosynthesis, encodes a protein containing a zinc-finger DNA-binding motif. Although Aspergillus oryzae and Aspergillus sojae, which are used in fermented foods and in ingredient manufacture, have no record of producing aflatoxin, they have been shown to possess an aflR gene. This study examined 34 strains of Aspergillus section Flavi. The aflR gene of 23 of these strains was successfully amplified and sequenced. No aflR PCR products were found in five A. sojae strains or six strains of A. oryzae. These PCR results suggested that the aflR gene is absent or significantly different in some A. sojae and A. oryzae strains. The sequenced aflR genes from the 23 positive strains had greater than 96.6 % similarity, which was particularly conserved in the zinc-finger DNA-binding domain. The aflR gene of A. sojae has two obvious characteristics: an extra CTCATG sequence fragment and a C to T transition that causes premature termination of AFLR protein synthesis. Differences between A. parasiticus/A. sojae and A. flavus/A. oryzae aflR genes were also identified. Some strains of A. flavus as well as A. flavus var. viridis, A. oryzae var. viridis and A. oryzae var. effuses have an A. oryzae-type aflR gene. For all strains with the A. oryzae-type aflR gene, there was no evidence of aflatoxin production. It is suggested that for safety reasons, the aflR gene could be examined to assess possible aflatoxin production by Aspergillus section Flavi strains."}
{"id": "16376057", "title": "PCR method for the detection of potential ochratoxin-producing Aspergillus species in coffee beans.", "content": "PCR method for the detection of potential ochratoxin-producing Aspergillus species in coffee beans. Ochratoxin A (OA) is a nephrotoxic and carcinogenic mycotoxin that has been found in cereal and food commodities. Currently, Aspergillus carbonarius, A. niger and A. ochraceus have been recognized as the species responsible for OA in coffee beans. With the aim of developing multiplex-PCR for detection of these species in coffee bean samples, we first developed specific primers for A. niger detection. The primer designed (OPX7(372)) provided an amplicon of 372 pb in all A. niger stricto sensu isolates. The PCR assay developed for A. niger identification in pure culture was also successfully used for detecting this species in coffee beans. No cross-reaction was observed using DNA from coffee beans inoculated with closely related black aspergilli species. A multiplex-PCR method for detection of A. carbonarius, A. niger and A. ochraceus species in coffee beans was developed. From a single assay this method detected the amplicons of 809, 372, and 260 pb that represent the three most ochratoxigenic species found in coffee bean samples, i.e., A. carbonarius, A. niger and A. ochraceus, respectively."}
{"id": "16369840", "title": "Genetic transformation of Ascochyta rabiei using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation.", "content": "Genetic transformation of Ascochyta rabiei using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation. In order to study pathogenic mechanisms of the plant pathogen Ascochyta rabiei, conditions for efficient transformation using Agrobacterium-mediated transformation were investigated. Hygromycin B resistance (hph) was superior to geneticin resistance (nptII) for selecting transformants, and the hph gene was more efficiently expressed by the Aspergillus nidulans trpC promoter than by the Cauliflower mosaic virus 35S promoter CaMV35S. Co-cultivation on solid media for 72 h was optimal for generating transformants, but increasing the ratio of bacterial cells to conidia did not affect transformation efficiency. All hygromycin B-resistant transformants carried transfer-DNA (T-DNA) as determined by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and the T-DNA integrations appeared to be random and in single copy as detected by Southern hybridization. Transformants remained resistant to hygromycin B in the absence of selection. Variations in colony morphology were observed in the presence of hygromycin B under different culture conditions, and a variety of altered phenotypes including reduced virulence were observed among 550 transformants. Inverse PCR was more efficient than TAIL-PCR in identifying flanking genomic sequences from T-DNA borders, and the possible causes are discussed. This transformation technique and recovery of flanking DNA using inverse PCR will provide a useful tool for genetic studies of A. rabiei."}
{"id": "16330537", "title": "Exploration of glycosyl hydrolase family 75, a chitosanase from Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Exploration of glycosyl hydrolase family 75, a chitosanase from Aspergillus fumigatus. A powerful endo-chitosanase (CSN) previously described for a large scale preparation of chito-oligosaccharides (Cheng, C.-Y., and Li, Y.-K. (2000) Biotechnol. Appl. Biochem. 32, 197-203) was cloned from Aspergillus fumigatus and further identified as a member of glycosyl hydrolase family 75. We report here a study of gene expression, functional characterization, and mutation analysis of this enzyme. Gene cloning was accomplished by reverse transcription-PCR and inverse PCR. Within the 1382-bp Aspergillus gene (GenBank accession number AY190324), two introns (67 and 82 bp) and an open reading frame encoding a 238-residue protein containing a 17-residue signal peptide were characterized. The recombinant mature protein was overexpressed as an inclusion body in Escherichia coli, rescued by treatment with 5 m urea, and subsequently purified by cation exchange chromatography. A time course 1H NMR study on the enzymatic formation of chito-oligosaccharides confirmed that this A. fumigatus CSN is an inverting enzyme. Tandem mass spectrum analysis of the enzymatic hydrolysate revealed that the recombinant CSN can cleave linkages of GlcNAc-GlcN and GlcN-GlcN in its substrate, suggesting that it is a subclass I chitosanase. In addition, an extensive site-directed mutagenesis study on 10 conserved carboxylic amino acids of glycosyl hydrolase family 75 was performed. This showed that among these various mutants, D160N and E169Q lost nearly all activity. Further investigation using circular dichroism measurements of D160N, E169Q, wild-type CSN, and other active mutants showed similar spectra, indicating that the loss of enzymatic activity in D160N and E169Q was not because of changes in protein structure but was caused by loss of the catalytic essential residue. We conclude that Asp160 and Glu169 are the essential residues for the action of A. fumigatus endo-chitosanase."}
{"id": "16330211", "title": "Identification of an anonymous RFLP DNA probe through multiple arbitrary amplicon profiling and its use for strain differentiation in a field isolate of cellulose-degrading Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Identification of an anonymous RFLP DNA probe through multiple arbitrary amplicon profiling and its use for strain differentiation in a field isolate of cellulose-degrading Aspergillus niger. The genome of Aspergillus niger (MPS-002) was subjected to RAPD fingerprinting using none different random oligonucleotide primers. A 0.7 Kb PCR amplicon, generated by primer-3 could be used as a RFLP probe to differentiate A. niger (ATCC 16880) from A. niger (MPS-002). The probe revealed DNA polymorphism internal to two different EcoRI recognition sequences spaced apart at a distance of 0.4 Kb within a 4.0 Kb EcoRI fragment of the genome of both the strains. Localized genome mapping analysis further revealed that the 0.7 Kb RFLP probe was positioned at a distance of 2.7 Kb and 0.6 Kb from the two ends of a 4.0 Kb EcoRI fragment, respectively within the genome of the two strains of A. niger."}
{"id": "16321822", "title": "Evaluation of the role of real-time PCR in the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Evaluation of the role of real-time PCR in the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. Recently, two developments relating to the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) have occurred. First, the standardisation of criteria for determining the category of this disease according to the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer/Mycosis (EORTC) Study Group consensus definitions has allowed comparison of results from different studies to be undertaken. The second development is the generation of PCR assays based on real-time technologies that are able to quantify Aspergillus DNA. In this review the benefits and limitations of these new published assays are compared with nested-PCR assays and enzyme immuno assays. Results from studies where these real-time assays have been used and patient's infections were classified according the EORTC definitions are examined. The effect of anti-fungal treatment is noted. The requirement for both international standards and a consensus protocol that is sensitive enough for IA diagnosis, particularly in blood, is discussed."}
{"id": "16289954", "title": "Efficient PCR-based gene targeting with a recyclable marker for Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Efficient PCR-based gene targeting with a recyclable marker for Aspergillus nidulans. The rapid accumulation of genomic sequences from a large number of eukaryotes, including numerous filamentous fungi, has created a tremendous scientific potential, which can only be realized if precise site-directed genome modifications, like gene deletions, promoter replacements, in-frame GFP fusions and specific point mutations can be made rapidly and reliably. The development of gene-targeting techniques in filamentous fungi and other higher eukaryotes has been hampered because foreign DNA is predominantly integrated randomly into the genome. For Aspergillus nidulans, we have developed a flexible method for gene-targeting employing a bipartite gene-targeting substrate. This substrate is made solely by PCR, which obviates the need for bacterial subcloning steps. The method reduces the number of false positives and can be used to produce virtually any genome alteration. A major advance of the method is that it allows multiple subsequent genome manipulations to be performed as the selectable marker is recycled."}
{"id": "16133334", "title": "Functional characterization of Delta9 and omega9 desaturase genes in Mortierella alpina 1S-4 and its derivative mutants.", "content": "Functional characterization of Delta9 and omega9 desaturase genes in Mortierella alpina 1S-4 and its derivative mutants. Cloning and characterization of the Delta9 desaturase (Delta9I) gene of a fungus, Mortierella alpina 1S-4, was previously reported. In this study, two genes encoding Delta9 desaturase homologs were isolated from this fungus. One is a Delta9 desaturase (Delta9II) that exhibits 86% amino acid sequence similarity to Delta9I. Functional analysis involving expression of the encoding gene in Aspergillus oryzae revealed that Delta9II exhibits Delta9 desaturase activity, 18:0 being converted to 18:1Delta9. However, unlike Delta9I, the Delta9II transformant accumulated a low amount of 16:1Delta9. The other homolog is a omega9 desaturase (omega9) that exhibits 56 and 58% amino acid sequence similarity to Delta9I and Delta9II, respectively. On functional analysis with the Aspergillus transformant, it was found that omega9 does not convert 18:0 to 18:1Delta9, but converts 24:0 and 26:0 to 24:1omega9 and 26:1omega9, respectively. On the other hand, Delta9 desaturation-defective mutants characterized by accumulation of 18:0 were derived from M. alpina 1S-4 with a chemical mutagen, and the mutated sites of the Delta9 desaturase genes were identified. The mutation on the Delta9I gene was assumed to cause an amino acid replacement (W136Stop, G265D, and W360Stop) in the mutants (HR222, T4, and ST56), respectively. In these mutants, there was no mutated site on the Delta9II and omega9 genes. Real-time quantitative PCR (RTQ-PCR) analysis revealed that (1) the transcriptional level of the Delta9I gene in HR222 and T4 was much higher than that in the wild strain until the fifth day of the cultivation periods, (2) the Delta9II gene of the mutants was transcribed until the fourth day at the same level as the Delta9I gene of the wild strain, whereas the Delta9II gene of the wild strain was transcribed at a lower level, and (3) the transcriptional level of the omega9 gene in both the mutants and the wild strain was low, i.e., as low as that of the Delta9II gene of the wild strain. In these Delta9 desaturation-defective mutants, Delta9II is likely to play an important role in Delta9 desaturation."}
{"id": "16122766", "title": "Analysis of cellular responses to aflatoxin B(1) in yeast expressing human cytochrome P450 1A2 using cDNA microarrays.", "content": "Analysis of cellular responses to aflatoxin B(1) in yeast expressing human cytochrome P450 1A2 using cDNA microarrays. Aflatoxin B1 (AFB(1)) is a potent human hepatotoxin and hepatocarcinogen produced by the mold Aspergillus flavus. In human, AFB(1) is bioactivated by cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes, primarily CYP1A2, to the genotoxic epoxide that forms N(7)-guanine DNA adducts. To characterize the transcriptional responses to genotoxic insults from AFB(1), a strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae engineered to express human CYP1A2 was exposed to doses of AFB(1) that resulted in minimal lethality, but substantial genotoxicity. Flow cytometric analysis demonstrated a dose and time dependent S phase delay under the same treatment conditions, indicating a checkpoint response to DNA damage. Replicate cDNA microarray analyses of AFB(1) treated cells showed that about 200 genes were significantly affected by the exposure. The genes activated by AFB(1)-treatment included RAD51, DUN1 and other members of the DNA damage response signature reported in a previous study with methylmethane sulfonate and ionizing radiation [A.P. Gasch, M. Huang, S. Metzner, D. Botstein, S.J. Elledge, P.O. Brown, Genomic expression responses to DNA-damaging agents and the regulatory role of the yeast ATR homolog Mec1p, Mol. Biol. Cell 12 (2001) 2987-3003]. However, unlike previous studies using highly cytotoxic doses, environmental stress response genes [A.P. Gasch, P.T. Spellman, C.M. Kao, O. Carmel-Harel, M.B. Eisen, G. Storz, D. Botstein, P.O. Brown, Genomic expression programs in the response of yeast cells to environmental changes, Mol. Biol. Cell 11 (2000) 4241-4257] were largely unaffected by our dosing regimen. About half of the transcripts affected are also known to be cell cycle regulated. The most strongly repressed transcripts were those encoding the histone genes and a group of genes that are cell cycle regulated and peak in M phase and early G1. These include most of the known daughter-specific genes. The rapid and coordinated repression of histones and M/G1-specific transcripts cannot be explained by cell cycle arrest, and suggested that there are additional signaling pathways that directly repress these genes in cells under genotoxic stress."}
{"id": "16102739", "title": "Towards a nucleic acid-based diagnosis in clinical parasitology and mycology.", "content": "Towards a nucleic acid-based diagnosis in clinical parasitology and mycology. Multiple in-house polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays for the diagnosis of parasitic and fungal diseases have been reported. Encouraging results have been published to anticipate or improve the diagnosis. However, the absence of standardized methods has led to discrepant results. As a consequence, these tests are not recognized as consensual diagnostic criteria. The major breakthrough for improving the results of these methods is the emergence of real-time technologies. This markedly improves the reliability of the PCR results by dramatically decreasing the risk of false positive results due to PCR products carryover. Moreover, the quantitative results provided by these techniques allow to compare rapidly the efficiency of primers, probes, and DNA extraction. Therefore, one can expect a more consensual method to implement comparisons between laboratories. Automated DNA extraction should also be useful to achieve this goal. Whatever sophisticated technology is used, the meaning of detecting nucleic acids in a given clinical sample still needs to be defined. This requires well-designed studies with clinical consensual criteria and PCR techniques that are as similar as possible. The development of real-time technology should improve our knowledge in order to give the clinicians informative clues for decision-making."}
{"id": "16722222", "title": "Polyphasic taxonomy of Aspergillus fumigatus and related species.", "content": "Polyphasic taxonomy of Aspergillus fumigatus and related species. The variability within Aspergillus fumigatus Fresenius and related species was examined using macro-, micro-morphology, growth temperature regimes and extrolite patterns. In addition, DNA analyses including partial beta-tubulin, calmodulin and actin gene sequences were used. Detailed examination of strains, considered as A. fumigatus earlier, showed that they could be divided into four groups including A. fumigatus sensu stricto, A. lentulus and two new species. The intraspecific genetic variability within A. fumigatus sensu stricto was low, the sequence differences among 23 strains of the species was at most two bases in each partial beta-tubulin and calmodulin gene. However, intraspecific morphological diversity within the species was high and delineation of the species was equivocal. Therefore, beta-tubulin and calmodulin gene sequences could be critical determinants for the delineation of the A. fumigatus sensu stricto species. A. lentulus including isolates from clinical origin, Korean soil and from a dolphin clustered into an isolated group based on beta-tubulin, calmodulin and actin gene sequences, differing from A. fumigatus by morphological characters, growth temperature and extrolite profile. A. lentulus produces the extrolites auranthine, cyclopiazonic acid, a dimeric indole of unknown structure, neosartorin, some pyripyropens, terrein and some tryptoquivalins and tryptoquivalons. Two pair of isolates (CBS 117194, 117186 and 117520, 117519) clustered into separate groups from A. fumigatus and the other Aspergillus section Fumigati species, including the teleomorph Neosartorya, are proposed as two new species. A. fumigatiaffinis spec. nov. produces the extrolites auranthine, cycloechinulin, helvolic acid, neosartorin, palitantin, pyripyropens, tryptoquivalins and tryptoquivalons, and A. novofumigatus spec. nov. produces the extrolites cycloechinuline, helvolic acid, neosartorin, palitantin and terrein."}
{"id": "16596959", "title": "Development of an isolate-specific marker for tracking Phaeomoniella chlamydospora infection in grapevines.", "content": "Development of an isolate-specific marker for tracking Phaeomoniella chlamydospora infection in grapevines. Petri disease causes decline of grapevines worldwide. The grapevine endophyte Phaeomoniella chlamydospora is the most important fungal pathogen associated with this disease. Epidemiological studies of this pathogen have been hampered by its common occurrence in the internal tissue of apparently healthy vines. Development of a molecular marker for a single strain would overcome this limitation and aid experiments designed to answer key questions about the biology of this pathogen. Genetic variation analysis of New Zealand and Italian strains of P. chlamydospora detected a potential molecular marker in New Zealand isolate A21. Characterization of the 1010 bp marker band showed that it had 50% identity to moxY, a gene involved in the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway of Aspergillus parasiticus. Sequencing of the region flanking the 1010 bp product revealed a single nucleotide polymorphism in the 3' border of the marker band. Primers were designed to amplify a 488 bp fragment encompassing this polymorphic site and cleavage of this product with the restriction enzyme BsrI produced three bands only in isolate A21 and two bands in all other isolates tested. The sensitivity of the PCR-RFLP protocol was increased with a nested PCR approach and the protocol optimized for soil and wood samples. When the nested PCR/RFLP procedure was used to determine the persistence of viable and nonviable spores in soil, the results showed that nonviable spores were undetected after 8 wk whereas viable spores still could be detected at 17 wk."}
{"id": "16496697", "title": "[Cloning and characterization of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene from Chaetomium globosum].", "content": "[Cloning and characterization of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene from Chaetomium globosum]. The amino acid sequence of Glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GAPDH) gene from Neurospora crassa (XP-327967) and Colletotrichum lindemuthianu (P35143) were subjected to local tBlastn searching against the ESTs local datebase of Chaetomium globosum. The full length cDNA sequence of 1240bp encoding GAPDH gene with an open reading frame of 1014bp and encoding 337 amino acids was obtained. The protein molecular weight was 36.1kD. The DNA sequence of GAPDH gene was obtained through PCR amplification with specific primers of cDNA 5' and 3' untranslated region. The analysis of DNA sequence indicated that GAPDH gene have 3 exons and 2 introns. The BlastP analysis revealed that amino acids sequence of GAPDH gene from C. globosum shared 95% high similarity with Podospora anserin and 87% low similarty with Aspergillus oryzae. A transgenic yeast harboring C. globosum GAPDH was generated under the control of a constitutively expressed GAL promoter. The results from biofunctional analyses of GAPDH yeast transformants showed that GAPDH yeast transformants had significantly higher resistance to Na2 CO3 and heat stresses. The cDNA, DNA and deduced amino acid sequence of GAPDH gene were accepted by GenBank (accession numbers: AY522719, AY593253, AAS01412)."}
{"id": "16475501", "title": "Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of Mucor circinelloides.", "content": "Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of Mucor circinelloides. The Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation of the zygomycetous fungus Mucor circinelloides is described. A method was also developed for the hygromycin B-based selection of Mucor transformants. Transformation with the hygromycin B phosphotransferase gene of Escherichia coli controlled by the heterologous Aspergillus nidulans trpC promoter resulted in hygromycin B-resistant clones. The presence of the hygromycin resistance gene in the genome of the transformants was verified by polymerase chain reaction and Southern hybridization: the latter analyses revealed integrations in the host genome at different sites in different transformants. The stability of transformants remained questionable during the latter analyses."}
{"id": "16468358", "title": "[Improving thermostability of Aspergillus niger phytase by elongation mutation].", "content": "[Improving thermostability of Aspergillus niger phytase by elongation mutation]. The phytase gene phyA(m) from Aspergillus niger N25 was recombined into E. coli expression vector pET-30b(+). Recombined at expression vectors pET30b-FphyA(m) was served as a template to amplify phytase gene, and the PCR product named elongation mutation gene phyA(e) was expanded with a 13 amino acid sequence from pET-30b-FphyA(m) vector at C-terminal of phytase gene phyA(m). Furthermore, phyA(e) gene was recombined into expression vector pPIC9k and expressed in Pichia pastoris. The comparison experiment of mutant phytase PP-NP0 with wild-type phytase PP-NP(m)-8 showed that: the optimum temperature of PP-NPe was increased by 3 degrees C, and its thermostability was increased by 21% when it was exposed to 10 min at 75 degrees C. Its effective reaction pH range with catalysis efficiency above 70% was pH 4.6 - pH 6.6, and wider 0.4 pH value than that of wild-type phytase."}
{"id": "16457343", "title": "Glass-fiber disks provide suitable medium to study polyol production and gene expression in Eurotium rubrum.", "content": "Glass-fiber disks provide suitable medium to study polyol production and gene expression in Eurotium rubrum. Eurotium species often dominate the fungal population in stored grain and are responsible for spoilage. In this study we tested the usefulness of glass fiber disks to aid the analysis of growth, polyol content and gene expression in E. rubrum in response to various water activities. Growth measurements based on ergosterol content and conidial production indicated that E. rubrum grew as well at 0.86 aw as 0.98 aw. The rate of growth was considerably reduced at 0.83 aw and 0.78 aw. In contrast, under our conditions, Aspergillus flavus and A. nidulans were able to grow only in the highest water activity (0.98 aw). Mannitol was the predominant polyol in all three fungal species grown at 0.98 aw. When E. rubrum was grown at 0.86 aw or lower, glycerol comprised greater than 90% of the total polyols. After a shift from 0.86 aw to 0.98 aw, mannitol levels in E. rubrum increased to 89% of the total polyols within 24 h. Of six genes whose expression was measured by quantitative real-time PCR, three were affected by water activity. Expression of putative hydrophobin and mannitol dehydrogenase genes was higher at 0.98 aw than at 0.86 aw. A putative triacylglycerol lipase gene was expressed at higher levels in 0.86 aw.. The results of this study indicate that the disk method is suitable to study the effects of water activity on growth, polyol biosynthesis and gene expression in E. rubrum. The results also indicate the potential competitiveness of E. rubrum over A. flavus and A. nidulans in low water environments associated with stored grain."}
{"id": "16444977", "title": "[Two cases of pulmonary aspergillosis successfully treated with combinated micafungin and itraconazole therapy].", "content": "[Two cases of pulmonary aspergillosis successfully treated with combinated micafungin and itraconazole therapy]. We report 2 cases of pulmonary aspergillosis treated successfully by combining micafungin and traconazole. Case 1: A 51-year-old man with hemoptysis and dyspnea on effort treated for pulmonary tuberculosis and aspergillosis was found on chest CT on admission to have a fungus ball in the left upper lobe and increasing consolidation around the cavity of both lung fields. Bronchoscopy proved positive for aspergillus PCR in bronchial lavage. He was diagnosed with chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis, based on clinical and radiological findings and the positive reaction for aspergillus PCR. He was treated with micafungin alone at first, this proved ineffective, so itraconazole was added, resulting in improvement. Case 2: A 24-year-old woman with stabilized Hodgkin's disease (mixed). She had suffered from a cough and back pain, and chest CT showed increasing consolidation inside and around a giant bulla. She was diagnosed with chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis, based on isolation for Aspergillus sp. in sputum culture and a positive reaction for Aspergillus antigen in bronchial lavage and Aspergillus antibody in serum. She was treated with the combined micafungin and itraconazole, which rapidly improved symptoms and radiological findings. Pulmonary aspergillosis therapy is often difficult, because delivery of the drug to the infection site is limited and drug tolerance is poor. We found that combination micafungin and itraconazole therapy is tolerable and effective in these cases."}
{"id": "16377911", "title": "Development of a modified positive selection medium that allows to isolate Aspergillus oryzae strains cured of the integrated niaD-based plasmid.", "content": "Development of a modified positive selection medium that allows to isolate Aspergillus oryzae strains cured of the integrated niaD-based plasmid. The nitrate reductase gene (niaD) is the most frequently utilized as a selectable marker for homologous integration at the niaD locus of Aspergillus oryzae. In this study we developed a method for curing of the niaD-based plasmid integrated on the A. oryzae genome. Positive selection using a modified chlorate medium containing leucine as a nitrogen source enabled efficient isolation of the strains deficient in nitrate assimilation from the niaD(+) transformant. PCR analysis of the strains confirmed that the homologously integrated plasmid carrying the h2b-egfp fusion gene was cured by intrachromosomal recombination which was accompanied by the loss of the EGFP-fluorescence."}
{"id": "16368011", "title": "Comparison of gene expression signatures of diamide, H2O2 and menadione exposed Aspergillus nidulans cultures--linking genome-wide transcriptional changes to cellular physiology.", "content": "Comparison of gene expression signatures of diamide, H2O2 and menadione exposed Aspergillus nidulans cultures--linking genome-wide transcriptional changes to cellular physiology. In addition to their cytotoxic nature, reactive oxygen species (ROS) are also signal molecules in diverse cellular processes in eukaryotic organisms. Linking genome-wide transcriptional changes to cellular physiology in oxidative stress-exposed Aspergillus nidulans cultures provides the opportunity to estimate the sizes of peroxide (O2(2-)), superoxide (O2*-) and glutathione/glutathione disulphide (GSH/GSSG) redox imbalance responses. Genome-wide transcriptional changes triggered by diamide, H2O2 and menadione in A. nidulans vegetative tissues were recorded using DNA microarrays containing 3533 unique PCR-amplified probes. Evaluation of LOESS-normalized data indicated that 2499 gene probes were affected by at least one stress-inducing agent. The stress induced by diamide and H2O2 were pulse-like, with recovery after 1 h exposure time while no recovery was observed with menadione. The distribution of stress-responsive gene probes among major physiological functional categories was approximately the same for each agent. The gene group sizes solely responsive to changes in intracellular O2(2-), O2*- concentrations or to GSH/GSSG redox imbalance were estimated at 7.7, 32.6 and 13.0 %, respectively. Gene groups responsive to diamide, H2O2 and menadione treatments and gene groups influenced by GSH/GSSG, O2(2-) and O2*- were only partly overlapping with distinct enrichment profiles within functional categories. Changes in the GSH/GSSG redox state influenced expression of genes coding for PBS2 like MAPK kinase homologue, PSK2 kinase homologue, AtfA transcription factor, and many elements of ubiquitin tagging, cell division cycle regulators, translation machinery proteins, defense and stress proteins, transport proteins as well as many enzymes of the primary and secondary metabolisms. Meanwhile, a separate set of genes encoding transport proteins, CpcA and JlbA amino acid starvation-responsive transcription factors, and some elements of sexual development and sporulation was ROS responsive. The existence of separate O2(2-), O2*- and GSH/GSSG responsive gene groups in a eukaryotic genome has been demonstrated. Oxidant-triggered, genome-wide transcriptional changes should be analyzed considering changes in oxidative stress-responsive physiological conditions and not correlating them directly to the chemistry and concentrations of the oxidative stress-inducing agent."}
{"id": "16365289", "title": "A MAPK gene from Dead Sea fungus confers stress tolerance to lithium salt and freezing-thawing: Prospects for saline agriculture.", "content": "A MAPK gene from Dead Sea fungus confers stress tolerance to lithium salt and freezing-thawing: Prospects for saline agriculture. The Dead Sea is one of the most saline lakes on earth ( approximately 340 g/liter salinity) and is approximately 10 times saltier than the oceans. Eurotium herbariorum, a common fungal species, was isolated from its water. EhHOG gene, encoding a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) that plays an essential role in the osmoregulatory pathway in yeast and many other eukaryotes, was isolated from E. herbariorum. The deduced amino acid sequences of EhHOG indicated high similarity with homologous genes from Aspergillus nidulans, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and Schizosaccharomyces pombe and contained a TGY motif for phosphorylation by MAPK kinase. When EhHOG was expressed in S. cerevisiae hog1Delta mutant, the growth and aberrant morphology of hog1Delta mutant was restored under high osmotic stress condition. Moreover, intracellular glycerol content in the transformant increased to a much higher level than that in the mutant during salt-stress situations. hog1Delta mutant complemented by EhHOG outperformed the wild type or had higher genetic fitness under high Li(+) and freezing-thawing conditions. The present study revealed the putative presence of a high-osmolarity glycerol response (HOG) pathway in E. herbariorum and the significance of EhHOG in osmotic regulation, heat stress, freeze stress, and oxidative stress. The Dead Sea is becoming increasingly more saline while the fungi living in it evolutionarily adapt to its high-saline environment, particularly with the extraordinarily high Li(+) concentration. The Dead Sea is potentially an excellent model for studies of evolution under extreme environments and is an important gene pool for future agricultural genetic engineering prospects."}
{"id": "16342763", "title": "[Cloning, expression and characterization of antibacterial peptide CM4 in Pichia pastoris].", "content": "[Cloning, expression and characterization of antibacterial peptide CM4 in Pichia pastoris]. To explore a new approach of expression of ABP-CM4 in methylotrophic yeast P. pastoris. The gene of ABP-CM4 was cloned into the vector pPIC9. The Sac I -linearized plasmid pPIC9-CM4 was transformed into P. pastoris GS115 by electroporation. By means of MM and MD plates and PCR, the recombinant P. pastoris strains (his- mut+) were obtained. Antibacterial assay, Tricine-SDS-PAGE and Polyarylamide Gel Electrophoresis demonstrated that ABP-CM4 was extracellularly expressed in P. pastoris with the induction of methanol. The recombinant ABP-CM4 has the antifungal activity on Aspergillus niger and Trichoderma viride."}
{"id": "16332900", "title": "An aflatoxin biosynthesis cluster gene encodes a novel oxidase required for conversion of versicolorin a to sterigmatocystin.", "content": "An aflatoxin biosynthesis cluster gene encodes a novel oxidase required for conversion of versicolorin a to sterigmatocystin. Disruption of the aflatoxin biosynthesis cluster gene aflY (hypA) gave Aspergillus parasiticus transformants that accumulated versicolorin A. This gene is predicted to encode the Baeyer-Villiger oxidase necessary for formation of the xanthone ring of the aflatoxin precursor demethylsterigmatocystin."}
{"id": "16315094", "title": "A microarray-based comparative analysis of gene expression profiles during grain development in transgenic and wild type wheat.", "content": "A microarray-based comparative analysis of gene expression profiles during grain development in transgenic and wild type wheat. Global, comparative gene expression analysis is potentially a very powerful tool in the safety assessment of transgenic plants since it allows for the detection of differences in gene expression patterns between a transgenic line and the mother variety. In the present study, we compared the gene expression profile in developing seeds of wild type wheat and wheat transformed for endosperm-specific expression of an Aspergillus fumigatus phytase. High-level expression of the phytase gene was ensured by codon modification towards the prevalent codon usage of wheat genes and by using the wheat 1DX5HMW glutenin promoter for driving transgene expression. A 9K wheat unigene cDNA microarray was produced from cDNA libraries prepared mainly from developing wheat seed. The arrays were hybridised to flourescently labelled cDNA prepared from developing seeds of the transgenic wheat line and the mother variety, Bobwhite, at three developmental stages. Comparisons and statistical analyses of the gene expression profiles of the transgenic line vs. that of the mother line revealed only slight differences at the three developmental stages. In the few cases where differential expression was indicated by the statistical analysis it was primarily genes that were strongly expressed over a shorter interval of seed development such as genes encoding storage proteins. Accordingly, we interpret these differences in gene expression levels to result from minor asynchrony in seed development between the transgenic line and the mother line. In support of this, real time PCR validation of results from selected genes at the late developmental stage could not confirm differential expression of these genes. We conclude that the expression of the codon-modified A. fumigatus phytase gene in the wheat seed had no significant effects on the overall gene expression patterns in the developing seed."}
{"id": "16312174", "title": "Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis in a patient with cystic fibrosis: diagnostic criteria when the IgE level is less than 500 IU/mL.", "content": "Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis in a patient with cystic fibrosis: diagnostic criteria when the IgE level is less than 500 IU/mL. Recently, the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation developed a consensus report recommending diagnostic criteria for allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) in patients with cystic fibrosis that includes a serum IgE level greater than 500 IU/mL as the \"minimal diagnostic criterion.\" To describe a 7-year-old girl with ABPA whose serum IgE level increased to only 398 IU/mL. Total IgE and anti-Aspergillus serologic measurements were performed using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and standard laboratory techniques; HLA analysis was performed; interleukin 4 receptor alpha single nucleotide polymorphisms were performed using polymerase chain reaction and DNA sequencing; CD23+ B cells were measured using flow cytometry; and cytokine synthesis to Aspergillus purified antigens was assessed using flow cytometry. A 7-year-old girl with cystic fibrosis who had mild pulmonary disease and well-controlled asthma developed pulmonary infiltrates, increased wheezing, and decreased pulmonary function. Additional studies demonstrated peripheral blood eosinophilia (eosinophil count, 1807 cells/mm3 [19%]) and an increase in IgE and IgG anti-Aspergillus serology; bronchoalveolar lavage revealed septate hyphae with 45 degrees branching subsequently identified as A fumigatus and pulmonary eosinophilia. Previous HLA typing revealed that the patient was HLA-DR2+, DRB*1501, HLA-DQ2-, a pattern associated with increased risk of ABPA. In addition, there was increased up-regulation of CD23 molecules by interleukin 4 stimulation on the patient's B cells, as observed in ABPA. The patient was treated with corticosteroids and itraconazole with resolution of symptoms and pulmonary infiltrates. Examination of the pulmonary inflammatory response using bronchoalveolar lavage, genetic risk with HLA-DR2+DQ2- typing, and increased interleukin 4 sensitivity are useful adjunctive studies in the diagnosis of ABPA."}
{"id": "16303751", "title": "C21orf5, a new member of Dopey family involved in morphogenesis, could participate in neurological alterations and mental retardation in Down syndrome.", "content": "C21orf5, a new member of Dopey family involved in morphogenesis, could participate in neurological alterations and mental retardation in Down syndrome. Availability of the human genome sequence promises important progress in the understanding of human pathologies, particularly for multifactorial diseases. Among these, Down syndrome (DS) is the most frequent genetic cause of mental retardation. A critical region of chromosome 21, the Down syndrome Chromosomal Region-1 (DCR-1), is responsible for many features of the DS phenotype including mental retardation. We studied DCR-1 C21orf5 as a new candidate gene for DS considering its restricted expression in key brain regions altered in DS patients and involved in learning and memory processes. To elucidate C21orf5 molecular function, we performed a comparative study of protein sequences in several species and showed that C21orf5 represents a new member of the Dopey leucine zipper-like family. The C21orf5 C-termini contains two highly conserved leucine-like zipper domains in invertebrate and vertebrate species. Evolution analysis indicated a common ancestral origin of these protein sequences also suggesting a conserved function of this gene throughout phylogenesis. Mutations of the known C21orf5 homologous genes Aspergillus nidulans DopA, Saccharomyces cerevisiae Dop1 and Caenorhabditis elegans pad1, determine morphological abnormalities. We studied transgenic mice carrying the human C21orf5 gene and we showed that this gene is overexpressed in brain regions by in situ hybridization and by real-time RT-PCR experiments. Interestingly, we also showed that these transgenic mice have an increased density of cortical cells overexpressing C21orf5. Similarly, DS patients have an altered lamination pattern in their cortex. Considering together our and previous findings, we suggest that the human dopey family member, C21orf5, could play a role in brain morphogenesis and, when overexpressed, it could participate in neurological features and mental retardation observed in DS patients."}
{"id": "16298948", "title": "Use of green fluorescent protein-expressing Aspergillus fumigatus conidia to validate quantitative PCR analysis of air samples collected on filters.", "content": "Use of green fluorescent protein-expressing Aspergillus fumigatus conidia to validate quantitative PCR analysis of air samples collected on filters. This study used green fluorescent protein (GFP)-expressing Aspergillus fumigatus conidia to compare quantitative PCR (qPCR) enumeration with direct epifluorescent microscopic filter counts of conidia collected on filters in a test chamber. In separate experiments this study initially compared white versus fluorescent light microscopy for counting A. fumigatus conidia, then compared fluorescent microscopy counting of corresponding filter halves, and finally compared qPCR enumeration to counting by fluorescent light microscopy. The use of GFP-expressing conidia with epifluorescent microscopy yielded significantly higher conidia counts (p = 0.026, n = 41, mean of 4.1 conidia per counting field) and 40% faster counting times when compared to conventional counting using white light microscopy. GFP-expressing conidia were aerosolized in a test chamber and collected onto filters. Filters were divided in half and GFP-expressing conidia enumerated. There was no significant difference in the average conidia count per field between corresponding filter halves (p = 0.3, n = 9 filters, mean of 7.8 conidia per counting field). Thus, one filter half could be counted optically and would provide a reliable estimate of filter loading of the corresponding half, which could then be analyzed by qPCR. Filters (n = 38) loaded with GFP conidia in the aerosol chamber were divided in half and analyzed by either fluorescent microscopy or qPCR. The estimated filter loadings ranged from 15-30,000 conidia per filter. There was a linear relationship with a nearly 1:1 ratio between qPCR and direct microscopic estimates of filter loading (y = 1.06x + 404; R(2) = 0.91) showing that the outlined qPCR analysis method is in agreement with an external reference method and is reliable for enumerating A. fumigatus conidia collected on filters. The comparative data derived using GFP-expressing conidia confirmed that qPCR provides sensitive and accurate quantification of DNA from airborne conidia collected on filters."}
{"id": "16255874", "title": "[Detection of Aspergillus infection in blood of malignant hematopoietic tumor patients by two-step polymerase chain reaction].", "content": "[Detection of Aspergillus infection in blood of malignant hematopoietic tumor patients by two-step polymerase chain reaction]. To investigate the sensitivity and specificity of two-step PCR in detection of Aspergillus species in blood from malignant hematopoietic tumor patients. Forty-one blood samples from high-risk patients were detected with two-step PCR. The clinical applicability was assessed with analyzing computed tomography, Aspergillus culture, neutropenia and outcome after anti-fungal therapy. Specific band of PCR was obtained from Aspergillus strains and products of PCR had a high homogeneous in sequence with Aspergillus species. Sixteen of 41 patients were PCR positive and controls were all PCR negative. Among PCR positive patients, 4 patients had positive cultures. The lowest WBC count was (0.30 +/- 0.14) x 10(9)/L and (0.50 +/- 0.26) x 10(9)/L respectively and duration with WBC count less than 1.0 x 10(9)/L was (19.00 +/- 8.31) days and (12.69 +/- 6.95) days respectively in the two groups. After antifungal therapy, one of the patients with PCR positive died of chemotherapy-related early death. The two-step PCR assay allows for highly sensitive and specific detection of Aspergillus pathogens in vitro and in vivo. The detection with PCR has some value in the early diagnosis and helps us to make decision for antifungal therapy."}
{"id": "16255247", "title": "Aspergillus infection inhibits the expression of peanut 13S-HPODE-forming seed lipoxygenases.", "content": "Aspergillus infection inhibits the expression of peanut 13S-HPODE-forming seed lipoxygenases. Oxylipins recently have been implicated as signaling molecules for cross-kingdom communication in plant-pathogen interactions. Linoleic acid and its two plant lipoxygenase (LOX) oxylipin products 9- and 13-hydroperoxy fatty acids (9S- and 13S-HPODE) have been shown to have a significant effect on differentiation processes in the mycotoxigenic seed pathogens Aspergillus spp. Whereas both fatty acids promote sporulation, 9S-HPODE stimulates and 13S-HPODE inhibits mycotoxin production. Additionally, Aspergillus flavus infection of seed promotes linoleate 9-LOX expression and 9S-HPODE accumulation. Here, we describe the characterization of two peanut seed lipoxygenase alleles (PnLOX2 and PnLOX3) highly expressed in mature seed. PnLOX2 and PnLOX3 both are 13S-HPODE producers (linoleate 13-LOX) and, in contrast to previously characterized 9-LOX or mixed function LOX genes, are repressed between 5-fold and 250-fold over the course of A. flavus infection. The results of these studies suggest that 9S-HPODE and 13S-HPODE molecules act as putative susceptibility and resistance factors respectively, in Aspergillus seed-aflatoxin interactions."}
{"id": "16254108", "title": "PCR based identification and discrimination of agents of mucormycosis and aspergillosis in paraffin wax embedded tissue.", "content": "PCR based identification and discrimination of agents of mucormycosis and aspergillosis in paraffin wax embedded tissue. Invasive fungal infections are often diagnosed by histopathology without identification of the causative fungi, which show significantly different antifungal susceptibilities. To establish and evaluate a system of two seminested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays to identify and discriminate between agents of aspergillosis and mucormycosis in paraffin wax embedded tissue samples. DNA of 52 blinded samples from five different centres was extracted and used as a template in two PCR assays targeting the mitochondrial aspergillosis DNA and the 18S ribosomal DNA of zygomycetes. Specific fungal DNA was identified in 27 of 44 samples in accordance with a histopathological diagnosis of zygomycosis or aspergillosis, respectively. Aspergillus fumigatus DNA was amplified from one specimen of zygomycosis (diagnosed by histopathology). In four of 16 PCR negative samples no human DNA was amplified, possibly as a result of the destruction of DNA before paraffin wax embedding. In addition, eight samples from clinically suspected fungal infections (without histopathological proof) were examined. The two PCR assays detected a concomitant infection with Absidia corymbifera and A fumigatus in one, and infections with Rhizopus arrhizus and A fumigatus in another two cases. The two seminested PCR assays described here can support a histopathological diagnosis of mucormycosis or aspergillosis, and can identify the infective agent, thereby optimising antifungal treatment."}
{"id": "16245866", "title": "[Cloning and expression of an Aspergillus fumigatus chitosanase gene].", "content": "[Cloning and expression of an Aspergillus fumigatus chitosanase gene]. According to published DNA sequence of Aspergillus fumigatus chitosanase(Csn) gene, 8 long single DNA strands each about 100bp and 4 DNA primers were designed and synthesised. By PCR, 8 DNA strands were connected into a complete chitosanase gene of 624bp. This chitosanase gene was not identical with its wild type, some point mutations were introduced into its DNA sequence by special design of those 8 DNA strands. These mutaions did not change amino acid composition of the chitosanase, however, the codens were changed into E. coli favorites. The Csn gene was cloned into plasmid pGEM-Teasy and verified by DNA sequence analysis. Thereafter, Csn gene was subcloned into a fusion-protein expressing vector pGEX-3X. Recombinant plasmid pGEX-Csn was transformed into E. coli DH5alpha and the transformant was induced expressing with 0.5 mmol/L IPTG. Expressing product was analyzed by SDS-PAGE, fusion protein GST-Csn was purified by affinity chromatography. By factor X a digestion GST-Csn was cleaved and GST was taken out by another chromatography. The biological activity of recombinant chitosanase(rCsn) was also detected, as a result the recombinant Csn had a strong ability of degrading chitosan, which was much higher than lysozyme. Its chitosan-degradation activity could be influenced by pH and temperature."}
{"id": "16208020", "title": "Development of a nested qualitative real-time PCR assay to detect Aspergillus species DNA in clinical specimens.", "content": "Development of a nested qualitative real-time PCR assay to detect Aspergillus species DNA in clinical specimens. We adapted a nested Aspergillus PCR to a nested qualitative real-time format on a Light Cycler system. An evaluation using 134 clinical specimens showed that the real-time PCR assay significantly reduced the time for results to be made available without compromising sensitivity and was less labor-intensive. Its use will aid in the rapid diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis."}
{"id": "16207989", "title": "Contribution of systematic serological testing in diagnosis of infective endocarditis.", "content": "Contribution of systematic serological testing in diagnosis of infective endocarditis. Despite progress with diagnostic criteria, the type and timing of laboratory tests used to diagnose infective endocarditis (IE) have not been standardized. This is especially true with serological testing. Patients with suspected IE were evaluated by a standard diagnostic protocol. This protocol mandated an evaluation of the patients according to the modified Duke criteria and used a battery of laboratory investigations, including three sets of blood cultures and systematic serological testing for Coxiella burnetii, Bartonella spp., Aspergillus spp., Legionella pneumophila, and rheumatoid factor. In addition, cardiac valvular materials obtained at surgery were subjected to a comprehensive diagnostic evaluation, including PCR aimed at documenting the presence of fastidious organisms. The study included 1,998 suspected cases of IE seen over a 9-year period from April 1994 to December 2004 in Marseilles, France. They were evaluated prospectively. A total of 427 (21.4%) patients were diagnosed as having definite endocarditis. Possible endocarditis was diagnosed in 261 (13%) cases. The etiologic diagnosis was established in 397 (93%) cases by blood cultures, serological tests, and examination of the materials obtained from cardiac valves, respectively, in 348 (81.5%), 34 (8%), and 15 (3.5%) definite cases of IE. Concomitant infection with streptococci and C. burnetii was seen in two cases. The results of serological and rheumatoid factor evaluation reclassified 38 (8.9%) possible cases of IE as definite cases. Systematic serological testing improved the performance of the modified Duke criteria and was instrumental in establishing the etiologic diagnosis in 8% (34/427) cases of IE."}
{"id": "16207973", "title": "Comparison of six DNA extraction methods for recovery of fungal DNA as assessed by quantitative PCR.", "content": "Comparison of six DNA extraction methods for recovery of fungal DNA as assessed by quantitative PCR. The detection of fungal pathogens in clinical samples by PCR requires the use of extraction methods that efficiently lyse fungal cells and recover DNA suitable for amplification. We used quantitative PCR assays to measure the recovery of DNA from two important fungal pathogens subjected to six DNA extraction methods. Aspergillus fumigatus conidia or Candida albicans yeast cells were added to bronchoalveolar lavage fluid and subjected to DNA extraction in order to assess the recovery of DNA from a defined number of fungal propagules. In order to simulate hyphal growth in tissue, Aspergillus fumigatus conidia were allowed to form mycelia in tissue culture media and then harvested for DNA extraction. Differences among the DNA yields from the six extraction methods were highly significant (P<0.0001) in each of the three experimental systems. An extraction method based on enzymatic lysis of fungal cell walls (yeast cell lysis plus the use of GNOME kits) produced high levels of fungal DNA with Candida albicans but low levels of fungal DNA with Aspergillus fumigatus conidia or hyphae. Extraction methods employing mechanical agitation with beads produced the highest yields with Aspergillus hyphae. The Master Pure yeast method produced high levels of DNA from C. albicans but only moderate yields from A. fumigatus. A reagent from one extraction method was contaminated with fungal DNA, including DNA from Aspergillus and Candida species. In conclusion, the six extraction methods produce markedly differing yields of fungal DNA and thus can significantly affect the results of fungal PCR assays. No single extraction method was optimal for all organisms."}
{"id": "16207969", "title": "Use of real-time PCR to process the first galactomannan-positive serum sample in diagnosing invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Use of real-time PCR to process the first galactomannan-positive serum sample in diagnosing invasive aspergillosis. Positive galactomannan (GM) anti-genemias are included as a microbiological item in the diagnosis of probable or possible invasive aspergillosis (IA). Because false-positive GM results frequently occur, at least two positive results on two different samples are required. Waiting for clinical specimens can delay the initiation of treatment. As an alternative, we wondered whether detection of circulating Aspergillus DNA on the first positive GM serum sample could aid in diagnosing IA. Therefore, we retrospectively screened the first GM-positive serum samples from 29 patients from our hematology unit for Aspergillus DNA using real-time PCR. We compared the real-time PCR results with the final classification of proven, probable, and possible IA according to consensual criteria. No clear correlation between PCR results and the classification with the medical files could be shown. However, a positive PCR result was associated with a poor prognosis (Fisher's test; P=0.01). Our preliminary data suggest that a positive PCR result could indicate a more advanced stage of the disease. Therefore, concomitant positive PCR and GM results may justify the initiation of antifungal therapy in neutropenic patients. In contrast, a negative PCR on the first positive GM sample may argue for postponing costly antifungal administration until additional arguments for the diagnosis of IA are presented."}
{"id": "16202538", "title": "Characteristics of transxylosylation by beta-xylosidase from Aspergillus awamori K4.", "content": "Characteristics of transxylosylation by beta-xylosidase from Aspergillus awamori K4. The Aspergillus awamori K4 beta-xylosidase gene (Xaw1) sequence was deduced by sequencing RT-PCR and PCR products. The ORF was 2,412 bp and the predicted peptide was 804 amino acids long, corresponding to a molecular weight of 87,156 Da. The mature protein was 778 amino acids long with a molecular weight of 84,632 Da. A homology search of the amino acid sequence revealed that it was very similar to the Aspergillus niger beta-xylosidase gene with only five amino acid differences. K4 beta-xylosidase had the same catalytic mechanism as family 3 beta-glucosidases, involving Asp in region A. At an early stage in the reaction with xylobiose and xylotriose, the hydrolysis rate was much lower than the transxylosylation rate, decreasing gradually as the substrate concentration increased, whereas the transxylosylation rate increased greatly. Aspergillus awamori K4 beta-xylosidase had broad acceptor specificity toward alcohols, hydroxybenzenealcohols, sugar alcohols and disaccharides. A consensus portion involving the hydroxymethyl group of the acceptor was confirmed in the major transfer products 1(4)-O-beta-D-xylosyl erythritol, (2-hydroxyl)-phenyl-methyl-beta-D-xylopyranoside, 6S-O-beta-D-xylosyl maltitol (S: sorbitol residue) and 6G-O-beta-D-xylosyl palatinose (G: glucosyl residue). This might suggest that the methylene in the hydroxymethyl group facilitates base-catalyzed hydroxyl group attack of the anomeric center of the xylosyl-enzyme intermediate."}
{"id": "16190352", "title": "[Early and differential diagnosis for fungal infection by PCR in case of living donor liver transplantation].", "content": "[Early and differential diagnosis for fungal infection by PCR in case of living donor liver transplantation]. Although opportunistic infection including fungal infection is often associated with living donor liver transplantation followed by immunosuppressive therapy, antifungal agents are empirically given to most patients without a definitive diagnosis of fungal infection. Indeed, there is no diagnostic test available, that shows both high sensitivity and specificity for fungal infection. In this study, we developed a polymerase chain reaction(PCR)-based system for rapid diagnosis of fungal infection. This system consisted of two PCR steps: the first PCR for most species of fungi and 4 kinds of nested PCR for Aspergillus or Penicillium (ASP/PEN), Candida glabrata (C. glab), other Candida species including Candida albicans, Candida parapsilosis, Candida tropicalis, and Candida guiliermondii (CAN), and a broad spectrum of fungi (Broad). The newly developed PCR-based system was applied to 28 recipients of with living donor liver transplantation to determine its clinical usefulness in early and differential diagnosis of fungal infection. A total of 514 blood samples from 28 patients ware analyzed. Nested PCR assays were positive in 118 samples from 19 patients: 4 patients (30 samples) with ASP/PEN, 5 patients (29 samples) with C. glab, 12 patients (61 samples) with CAN. All of these samples were positive with nested PCR for Broad as well. Even in samples that were negative on blood culture or ELISA for Aspergillus antigen, nested PCR assays were able to amplify the fungal DNA. Furthermore, all samples positive for Aspergillus antigen tested positive on nested PCR. In conclusion, the PCR-based system we developed was thought to be useful for early diagnosis of fungal infection."}
{"id": "16175901", "title": "Comparison of PCR-ELISA and galactomannan detection for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Comparison of PCR-ELISA and galactomannan detection for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. To compare PCR with galactomannan antigen detection for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA). We prospectively collected serial blood samples from haematological patients at risk of IA, and analysed their samples retrospectively for galactomannan (GM) antigen using the Platelia test and for aspergillus DNA using an in-house PCR-ELISA assay. Matched GM and PCR analyses were performed on 263 samples from 25 patients. Patients were classified for potential IA according to international consensus criteria, with five patients classified as positive (four proven, one probable) and 20 classified as negative (seven possible, 13 no evidence IA). All five patients with IA were positive by PCR with positive results in 24 of 82 samples, whereas three of five patients were positive by GM with four of 82 samples being positive. Three of 20 patients without IA were positive by PCR in 18 of 181 samples, whereas corresponding results for GM detection were one of 20 and one of 181, respectively. Adjustment of ELISA cut-off values and/or the requirement for two consecutive samples to be positive generated different results; however, lowering the positivity index (PI) for GM detection to 0.5 did not improve the sensitivity of the assay. Optimal results for PCR detection and GM were: 100% and 60% sensitivity, 85% and 95% specificity, 0.625 and 0.75 positive predictive value, and 1.0 and 0.8 negative predictive value, with a false-positive sample rate of 8 and 0.4%, positive likelihood ratio of 6.66 and 11.99 and negative likelihood ratio of 0 and 0.42, respectively. This PCR method is very sensitive for the diagnosis of IA but is associated with a moderate rate of false positives; the GM assay exhibited poor sensitivity but high specificity. Further evaluation of PCR assays for the diagnosis of IA and other invasive fungal infections is warranted."}
{"id": "16165323", "title": "Screening and identification of the levoglucosan kinase gene (lgk) from Aspergillus niger by LC-ESI-MS/MS and RT-PCR.", "content": "Screening and identification of the levoglucosan kinase gene (lgk) from Aspergillus niger by LC-ESI-MS/MS and RT-PCR. A protein of 75,000 Daltons with levoglucosan kinase activity was purified from Aspergillus niger. After in-gel digestion by trypsin, a 14-mer peptide was sequenced and analyzed by LC-ESI-MS/MS. Using a primer derived from the 14-mer peptide in combination with Oligo-(dT)18, a cDNA fragment was obtained by RT-PCR. A search of the GenBank database indicated that the protein had not been identified before. A similar protein named hypothetical protein FG07802.1 (EAA77996.1) was found to exist in Gibberella zeae by Blastx search. Using a primer derived from the protein, a cDNA fragment of second RT-PCR was cloned into plasmid pAJ401, which was transformed to Saccharomyces cerevisiae H158 and expressed. Two positive levoglucosan assimilating recombinants were selected. The lgk gene was screened and identified."}
{"id": "16160832", "title": "A two-step protocol for efficient deletion of genes in the filamentous ascomycete Podospora anserina.", "content": "A two-step protocol for efficient deletion of genes in the filamentous ascomycete Podospora anserina. Deletion of genes in Podospora anserina via conventional methods is an inefficient and time-consuming process since homologous recombination occurs normally only at low frequency (about 1%). To improve the efficiency of replacement, we adopted the two-step protocol developed for Aspergillus nidulans (Chaveroche et al. in Nucleic Acids Res 28:E97, 2000). As a prerequisite, a vector was generated containing a blasticidin resistance cassette for selection in the Escherichia coli host strain KS272 (pKOBEG) and a phleomycin resistance cassette for selection in P. anserina. A derivative of this vector, into which short ( approximately 250 bp) PCR-generated sequences flanking the gene to be deleted have been integrated, is introduced into the E. coli host strain which contains a cosmid with the gene of interest and long 5' and 3' flanking sequences. Subsequently, a cosmid is reisolated from E. coli in which the gene of interest is replaced by the resistance cassette. This construct is used to transform P. anserina. The long stretches flanking the resistance cassette facilitate recombination with homologous sequences in the fungal genome and increase the efficiency of gene deletion up to 100%. The procedure is not dependent on the availability of specific auxotrophic mutant strains and may be applicable to other fungi."}
{"id": "16156116", "title": "Cloning a part of the ochratoxin A biosynthetic gene cluster of Penicillium nordicum and characterization of the ochratoxin polyketide synthase gene.", "content": "Cloning a part of the ochratoxin A biosynthetic gene cluster of Penicillium nordicum and characterization of the ochratoxin polyketide synthase gene. Penicillium nordicum is a fungal species able to produce high amounts of ochratoxin A. A 10kb genomic DNA fragment of P. nordicumn has been cloned which carries three long open reading frames. One open reading frame (otapksPN) has homology to fungal polyketide synthases. The second open reading frame (npsPN) has homology to non-ribosomal peptide synthetases and the third open reading frame (aspPN) has homology to fungal alkaline serine proteinases. The non-ribosomal peptide synthetase and the polyketide synthase are convergently transcribed. Interestingly, the polyketide synthase can be identified by PCR only in P. nordicum strains and not in the related species Penicillium verrucosum or in ochratoxigenic Aspergillus species, indicating that the ochratoxin polyketide synthases are different in the important ochratoxigenic species. In contrast, the non-ribosomal peptide synthetase can be identified in P. nordicum and P. verrucosum, but not in other species. An inactivation of the polyketide synthase resulted in strains with abolished capacity to produce ochratoxin A. Expression of the polyketide synthase correlates with ochratoxin A biosynthesis."}
{"id": "16154781", "title": "Sequence breakpoints in the aflatoxin biosynthesis gene cluster and flanking regions in nonaflatoxigenic Aspergillus flavus isolates.", "content": "Sequence breakpoints in the aflatoxin biosynthesis gene cluster and flanking regions in nonaflatoxigenic Aspergillus flavus isolates. Aspergillus flavus populations are genetically diverse. Isolates that produce either, neither, or both aflatoxins and cyclopiazonic acid (CPA) are present in the field. We investigated defects in the aflatoxin gene cluster in 38 nonaflatoxigenic A. flavus isolates collected from southern United States. PCR assays using aflatoxin-gene-specific primers grouped these isolates into eight (A-H) deletion patterns. Patterns C, E, G, and H, which contain 40 kb deletions, were examined for their sequence breakpoints. Pattern C has one breakpoint in the cypA 3' untranslated region (UTR) and another in the verA coding region. Pattern E has a breakpoint in the amdA coding region and another in the ver1 5'UTR. Pattern G contains a deletion identical to the one found in pattern C and has another deletion that extends from the cypA coding region to one end of the chromosome as suggested by the presence of telomeric sequence repeats, CCCTAATGTTGA. Pattern H has a deletion of the entire aflatoxin gene cluster from the hexA coding region in the sugar utilization gene cluster to the telomeric region. Thus, deletions in the aflatoxin gene cluster among A. flavus isolates are not rare, and the patterns appear to be diverse. Genetic drift may be a driving force that is responsible for the loss of the entire aflatoxin gene cluster in nonaflatoxigenic A. flavus isolates when aflatoxins have lost their adaptive value in nature."}
{"id": "16147886", "title": "Cloning and sequence analysis of putative glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene from Monascus purpureus KCCM11832.", "content": "Cloning and sequence analysis of putative glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene from Monascus purpureus KCCM11832. Using a synthetic oligonucleotide probe, glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene (gpd1) was cloned from Monascus purpureus KCCM11832. The 2834 bp EcoRV-HindIII region harbored 1183 bp 5'-UTR containing such regulatory elements as CT box, common in fungal gpd's, and gpd box previously found exclusively in Aspergillus gpd's. Full-length cDNA was cloned by PCR, and its sequence was determined. Transcription starting point was located 88 bp upstream from start codon. Polyadenylation signal sequence occurred 201 bp downstream from stop codon. Region from start codon ATG to stop codon TAA including introns showed 62 approximately 69% nucleotide sequence identity to those of Aspergillus gpd's. Significant bias in third position, with pyrimidines favored over purines, was observed in codon usage. The deduced amino acid sequence had 81 approximately 85% identity to Aspergillus gpd's. Monascus purpureus GPD was located at the same clade with Aspergillus GPD's."}
{"id": "16145076", "title": "Genotyping of Madurella mycetomatis by selective amplification of restriction fragments (amplified fragment length polymorphism) and subtype correlation with geographical origin and lesion size.", "content": "Genotyping of Madurella mycetomatis by selective amplification of restriction fragments (amplified fragment length polymorphism) and subtype correlation with geographical origin and lesion size. One of the causative organisms of mycetoma is the fungus Madurella mycetomatis. Previously, extensive molecular typing studies identified Sudanese isolates of this fungus as clonal, but polymorphic genetic markers have not yet been identified. Here, we report on the selective amplification of restriction fragment (AFLP) analysis of 37 Sudanese clinical isolates of M. mycetomatis. Of 93 AFLP fragments generated, 25 were polymorphic, and 12 of these 25 polymorphic fragments were found in a large fraction of the strains. Comparative analysis resulted into a tree, composed of two main (clusters I and II) and one minor cluster (cluster III). Seventy-five percent of the strains found in cluster I originated from central Sudan, while the origin of the strains in cluster II was more heterogeneous. Furthermore, the strains found in cluster I were generally obtained from lesions larger than those from which the strains found in cluster II were obtained (chi-square test for trend, P = 0.03). Among the 12 more commonly found polymorphisms, 4 showed sequence homology with known genes. Marker A7 was homologous to an endo-1,4-beta-glucanase from Aspergillus oryzae, 97% identical markers A12 and B3 matched a hypothetical protein from Gibberella zeae, and marker B4 was homologous to casein kinase I from Danio rerio. The last marker seemed to be associated with strains originating from central Sudan (P = 0.001). This is the first report on a genotypic study where genetic markers which may be used to study pathogenicity in M. mycetomatis were obtained."}
{"id": "16133167", "title": "Alkaline pH-induced up-regulation of the afp gene encoding the antifungal protein (AFP) of Aspergillus giganteus is not mediated by the transcription factor PacC: possible involvement of calcineurin.", "content": "Alkaline pH-induced up-regulation of the afp gene encoding the antifungal protein (AFP) of Aspergillus giganteus is not mediated by the transcription factor PacC: possible involvement of calcineurin. The afp gene encoding the antifungal protein (AFP) of Aspergillus giganteus has a prototypical alkaline gene expression pattern, which suggests that the gene might be under the control of the ambient pH-dependent zinc-finger transcription factor PacC. This notion is corroborated by the presence in the upstream region of afp of two putative PacC binding sites, afpP1 and afpP2, which are specifically recognised by the PacC protein of A. nidulans in vitro. However, in this report we provide several lines of evidence to show that pH-dependent up-regulation of afp is not mediated by transcriptional activation through PacC. (1) The temporal expression pattern of the A. giganteus pacC gene does not parallel the accumulation of the afp mRNA during cultivation. (2) Inactivation of afpP1 and afpP2 did not reduce promoter activity under alkaline conditions, as determined from the relative wild-type and mutant afp::lacZ reporter activities in A. nidulans. (3) Reporter activities in acidity- and alkalinity-mimicking mutant strains are inconsistent with a positive role for PacC in afp expression. (4) In A. giganteus, the pH-dependent increase in afp mRNA and AFP levels can be completely prevented by the calcineurin inhibitor FK506, suggesting that the calcineurin signalling pathway might control the in vivo activation of the afp promoter by alkaline pH."}
{"id": "16118412", "title": "A simple polymerase chain reaction/restriction fragment length polymorphism assay capable of identifying medically relevant filamentous fungi.", "content": "A simple polymerase chain reaction/restriction fragment length polymorphism assay capable of identifying medically relevant filamentous fungi. Because of the accumulating evidence that suggests that numerous unhealthy conditions in the indoor environment are the result of abnormal growth of the filamentous fungi (mold) in and on building surfaces, it is necessary to accurately reflect the organisms responsible for these maladies and to identify them in precise and timely manner. To this end, we have developed a method that is cost effective, easy to perform, and accurate. We performed a simple polymerase chain reaction/restriction fragment length polymorphism (PCR/RFLP) analysis on multiple members of species known to negatively influence the indoor environment. The genera analyzed were Stachybotrys, Penicillium, Aspergillus, and Cladosporium. Each organism underwent PCR with universal primers that amplified ribosomal sequences generating products from 550 to 600 bp followed by enzymatic digestion with EcoRI, HaeIII, MspI, and HinfI. Our results show that using this combination of restriction enzymes enables the identification of these fungal organisms at the species level."}
{"id": "16116253", "title": "Metalloprotease gene of Arthroderma gypseum.", "content": "Metalloprotease gene of Arthroderma gypseum. The full-length cDNA sequence for metalloprotease (MEP) of Arthroderma gypseum (one of the teleomorphs of the Microsporum gypseum complex) was determined by the 5'-rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) and 3'-RACE methods using cDNA as a template. The full-length cDNA sequence of the MEP (2,670 bp) gene was proved to encode 677 amino acids. The amino acid sequence of the A. gypseum MEP gene shared about 89 and 66% sequence similarity with the conserved region of the Microsporum canis MEP gene and Aspergillus fumigatus, respectively. Southern hybridization analysis of genomic DNA with an MEP probe gave many distinct bands in BamHI, EcoRI and HindIII digests of genomic DNA from A. gypseum. Reverse transcriptase-PCR analysis suggested that keratin might stimulate the expression of MEP mRNA in A. gypseum."}
{"id": "16111246", "title": "[Diagnostic tests: Aspergillosis].", "content": "[Diagnostic tests: Aspergillosis]."}
{"id": "16110806", "title": "Aspergillus polymerase chain reaction (PCR) diagnosis.", "content": "Aspergillus polymerase chain reaction (PCR) diagnosis. In recent years novel molecular methods, notably polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays, have been developed to improve the diagnosis of life-threatening invasive aspergillosis in patients at high risk, especially patients with malignant hematological disease. Early diagnosis and treatment are essential for adequate therapeutic management. Management, however, often remains difficult since most of the diagnostic tools used clinically at present either lack specificity or acceptable sensitivity. The clinical value, advantages and remaining problems of PCR approaches to detect the emerging fungal pathogen are reviewed."}
{"id": "16110805", "title": "Molecular methods for the identification of Aspergillus species.", "content": "Molecular methods for the identification of Aspergillus species. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in immunocompromised hosts. In some institutions, species of Aspergillus less susceptible to amphotericin B than Aspergillus fumigatus are becoming more common, making an accurate identification of species important. However, species identification has traditionally relied on macroscopic colony characteristics and microscopic morphology, which may require several days of culture. Additional sub-culturing on specialized media may be required to induce conidia formation; in some cases conidia may never form, confounding identification. Therefore, rapid, nucleic acid-based methods that identify species of Aspergillus independent of morphology are now being developed to augment or replace phenotypic identification methods. The most successful methods to date have employed polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of target sequences within the ribosomal RNA gene complex, including the 28S ribosomal subunit (D1-D2 region) and the internal transcribed spacers 1 and 2 (ITS1 and ITS2 regions). We therefore developed a PCR-based assay to differentiate medically important species of Aspergillus from one another, and from other opportunistic moulds and yeasts, by employing universal, pan-fungal primers directed to conserved ribosomal genes and species-specific DNA probes directed to the highly variable ITS2 region. Amplicons were then detected in a simple, colorimetric enzyme immunoassay format (PCR-EIA). DNA sequencing of the ITS1 and ITS2 regions and of the D1-D2 region was also conducted for the differentiation of species by comparative GenBank sequence analysis. The PCR-EIA method was found to be rapid, sensitive, and specific for the identification and differentiation of the most medically important species of Aspergillus. In addition, methods to identify species of Aspergillus by comparative GenBank sequence analysis were found to be more reliable using the ITS1 and ITS2 regions than the D1-D2 region."}
{"id": "16110803", "title": "Advances in diagnostic testing.", "content": "Advances in diagnostic testing. Within the past decade surrogate markers have become important and reliable tools for the early diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. Surrogate markers include the antigens galactomannan and (1 --> 3)-beta-D-glucan for which commercial assays are available, as well as fungal DNA for which experimental PCR assays have been developed. Although many clinical validation studies have been performed, the kinetics of these markers are still largely unknown. Recent studies have addressed several issues related to variables that interact with the performance of the assays, including exposure to mould-active antifungal agents and the interpretive cut-off levels. Insights gained as a result of these studies will help us to further optimize management strategies and to determine the optimal test sequence."}
{"id": "16110783", "title": "Use of random amplified microsatellites to type isolates from an outbreak of nosocomial aspergillosis in a general medical ward.", "content": "Use of random amplified microsatellites to type isolates from an outbreak of nosocomial aspergillosis in a general medical ward. Numerous patients were diagnosed with aspergillosis in a nosocomial outbreak caused by Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus flavus. Thirty-three isolates of the former and 28 isolates of the latter were collected from the hospital environment and from the patients and studied for genetic relatedness by random amplified microsatellites (RAMS) analysis, in which two polymorphic regions were tested. Twenty-eight genotypes of A. fumigatus and 23 genotypes of A. flavus were identified. Four patients were infected by two isolates with the same genotype as the environmental isolates. One clinical genotype was shared by three patients and another was shared by two patients. We found that RAMS was useful for fingerprinting Aspergillus spp."}
{"id": "16096835", "title": "Differential expression and extent of fungal/plant and fungal/bacterial chitinases of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Differential expression and extent of fungal/plant and fungal/bacterial chitinases of Aspergillus fumigatus. We provide the first indication of the extent of the complex chitinolytic system of a filamentous fungus. Phylogenetic analysis of the 14 apparent chitinases of the opportunistic fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus identified four and ten enzymes related to plant and bacterial chitinases, respectively. Further, real time-RT-PCR studies revealed distinct patterns of gene expression, consistent with morphogenetic or nutritional roles, for members of the fungal/plant or fungal/bacterial sub-families, respectively. Our results provide a basis for future studies with A. fumigatus chitinases, which may lead to the exploitation of these enzymes, or their regulators, in the development of novel drug strategies."}
{"id": "16096690", "title": "Evolutionary relationships among Aspergillus terreus isolates and their relatives.", "content": "Evolutionary relationships among Aspergillus terreus isolates and their relatives. Aspergillus terreus is a ubiquitous fungus in our environment. It is an opportunistic human pathogen and economically important as the main producer of lovastatin, a cholesterol lowering drug. Our aim was to examine the genetic variability of A. terreus and closely related species using molecular and analytical techniques. Lovastatin production was examined by HPLC. Lovastatin was produced by seven isolates belonging to the species A. terreus. RAPD analyses were carried out using 25 different random primers. Neighbor-joining analysis of RAPD data (120 characters) resulted in clustering of the A. terreus isolates into distinct groups. Some correlation was observed between lovastatin producing abilities of the isolates and their position on the dendrogram based on RAPD profiles. The internal transcribed spacer region and the 5.8S rRNA gene of A. terreus and related isolates was also sequenced. Phylogenetic analysis of sequence data let us classify the isolates into different clades which mostly correspond to the species Aspergillus terreus, Aspergillus flavipes, Aspergillus niveus, Aspergillus carneus and Aspergillus janus/A. janus var. brevis. Aspergillus allahabadii, A. terreus var. aureus and A. niveus var. indicus belonged to the A. niveus clade, while an Aspergillus isolate previously classified as A. niveus was most closely related to A. flavipes isolates. Aspergillus anthodesmis formed a distinct branch on the tree. Although it was previously suggested based on 28S rDNA sequence data that Aspergillus section Terrei should include A. carneus and A. niveus isolates, phylogenetic analysis of ITS sequences indicate that A. flavipes isolates are more closely related to A. terreus than A. carneus isolates. Our data suggest that sections Terrei and Flavipedes should be merged. However, further loci should be analysed to draw more definite conclusions."}
{"id": "16094871", "title": "Taxonomic comparison of three different groups of aflatoxin producers and a new efficient producer of aflatoxin B1, sterigmatocystin and 3-O-methylsterigmatocystin, Aspergillus rambellii sp. nov.", "content": "Taxonomic comparison of three different groups of aflatoxin producers and a new efficient producer of aflatoxin B1, sterigmatocystin and 3-O-methylsterigmatocystin, Aspergillus rambellii sp. nov. Accumulation of the carcinogenic mycotoxin aflatoxin B, has been reported from members of three different groups of Aspergilli (4) Aspergillus flavus, A. flavus var. parvisclerotigenus, A. parasiticus, A. toxicarius, A. nomius, A. pseudotamarii, A. zhaoqingensis, A. bombycis and from the ascomycete genus Petromyces (Aspergillus section Flavi), (2) Emericella astellata and E. venezuelensis from the ascomycete genus Emericella (Aspergillus section Nidulantes) and (3) Aspergillus ochraceoroseus from a new section proposed here: Aspergillus section Ochraceorosei. We here describe a new species, A. rambellii referable to Ochraceorosei, that accumulates very large amounts of sterigmatocystin, 3-O-methylsterigmatocystin and aflatoxin B1, but not any of the other known extrolites produced by members of Aspergillus section Flavi or Nidulantes. G type aflatoxins were only found in some of the species in Aspergillus section Flavi, while the B type aflatoxins are common in all three groups. Based on the cladistic analysis of nucleotide sequences of ITS1 and 2 and 5.8S, it appears that type G aflatoxin producers are paraphyletic and that section Ochraceorosei is a sister group to the sections Flavi, Circumdati and Cervini, with Emericella species being an outgroup to these sister groups. All aflatoxin producing members of section Flavi produce kojic acid and most species, except A. bombycis and A. pseudotamarii, produce aspergillic acid. Species in Flavi, that produce B type aflatoxins, but not G type aflatoxins, often produced cyclopiazonic acid. No strain was found which produce both G type aflatoxins and cyclopiazonic acid. It was confirmed that some strains of A. flavus var. columnaris produce aflatoxin B2, but this extrolite was not detected in the ex type strain of that variety. A. flavus var. parvisclerotigenus is raised to species level based on the specific combination of small sclerotia, profile of extrolites and rDNA sequence differences. A. zhaoqingensis is regarded as a synonym of A. nomius, while A. toxicarius resembles A. parasiticus but differs with at least three base pair differences. At least 10 Aspergillus species can be recognized which are able to biosynthesize aflatoxins, and they are placed in three very different clades."}
{"id": "16091777", "title": "Overproduction and characterization of xylanase B from Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Overproduction and characterization of xylanase B from Aspergillus niger. The xynB gene, which encodes endo-beta-1,4-xylanase XynB, in Aspergillus niger BRFM281 was amplified by RT-PCR using mRNA isolated from a culture containing sugar beet pulp as an inducer. The cDNA was cloned into an expression cassette under the control of the strong and constitutive glyceraldhehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene promoter. The expression system was designed to produce the recombinant enzyme XynB with a six-histidine peptide fused to the carboxy end of the protein. Homologous overproduction of XynB was successfully achieved in shake flask cultures, and the secretion yield was estimated to be 900 mg x L(-1). The recombinant XynB was purified 1.5-fold by immobilized metal affinity chromatography to homogeneity using a one-step purification protocol with 71% recovery. The purified recombinant enzyme was fully characterized and has a molecular mass of 23 kDa and an optimal activity at pH 5.5 and 50 degrees C with stability in the pH range 4.0-7.0 and temperature up to 50 degrees C. Using soluble oat spelts xylan, the determined Km and Vmax values were 7.1 mg x mL(-1) and 3881 U x mg(-1), respectively."}
{"id": "16085865", "title": "Study of Spanish grape mycobiota and ochratoxin A production by Isolates of Aspergillus tubingensis and other members of Aspergillus section Nigri.", "content": "Study of Spanish grape mycobiota and ochratoxin A production by Isolates of Aspergillus tubingensis and other members of Aspergillus section Nigri. The native mycobiota of five grape varieties grown in Spain has been studied. Four (Bobal, Tempranillo, Garnacha, and Monastrell) were red varieties and one (Moscatel) was white. The main fungal genera isolated were Alternaria, Cladosporium, and Aspergillus. The isolation frequency of Aspergillus spp. section Nigri in contaminated samples was 82%. Ochratoxin A (OTA) production was assessed using yeast extract-sucrose broth supplemented with 5% bee pollen. Cultures of 205 isolates from this section showed that 74.2% of Aspergillus carbonarius and 14.3% of Aspergillus tubingensis isolates produced OTA at levels ranging from 1.2 to 3,530 ng/ml and from 46.4 to 111.5 ng/ml, respectively. No Aspergillus niger isolate had the ability to produce this toxin under the conditions assayed. Identification of the A. niger aggregate isolates was based on PCR amplification of 5.8S rRNA genes and its two intergenic spacers, internal transcribed spacer 1 (ITS1) and ITS2, followed by digestion with restriction endonuclease RsaI of the PCR products. The restriction patterns were compared with those from strains of A. niger CECT 2807 and A. tubingensis CECT 20393, held at the Spanish Collection of Type Cultures. DNA sequencing of the ITS1-5.8S rRNA gene-ITS2 region of the OTA-producing isolates of A. tubingensis matched 99 to 100% with the nucleotide sequence of strain A. tubingensis CBS 643.92. OTA determination was accomplished by liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection. OTA confirmation was carried out by liquid chromatography coupled to ion trap mass spectrometry. The results showed that there are significant differences with regard to the isolation frequency of ochratoxinogenic fungi in the different grape varieties. These differences were uncorrelated to berry color. The ability of A. tubingensis to produce OTA and the influence of grape variety on the occurrence of OTA-producing fungi in grapes are described in this report for the first time."}
{"id": "16084833", "title": "Molecular identification of wheat endoxylanase inhibitor TAXI-II and the determinants of its inhibition specificity.", "content": "Molecular identification of wheat endoxylanase inhibitor TAXI-II and the determinants of its inhibition specificity. Wheat grains contain Triticum aestivum xylanase inhibitor (TAXI) proteins which inhibit microbial xylanases, some of which are used in cereal based food industries. These inhibitors may play a role in plant defence. Among the TAXI isoforms described so far, TAXI-II displays a deviating inhibition specificity pattern. Here, we report on the molecular identity of TAXI-II and the basis of its inhibition specificity. Three candidate TAXI-II encoding sequences were isolated and recombinantly expressed in Pichia pastoris. To identify TAXI-II, the resulting proteins were tested against glycoside hydrolase family (GHF) 11 xylanases of Aspergillus niger (ANX) and Bacillus subtilis (BSX). One of these proteins (rTAXI-IB) inhibited both enzymes, like natural TAXI-I. The other candidates (rTAXI-IIA and rTAXI-IIB) showed an inhibition pattern typical for natural TAXI-II, only clearly inhibiting BSX. Comparative analysis of these highly similar sequences with distinct inhibition activity patterns, combined with information on the structural basis for ANX inhibition by TAXI-I [S. Sansen, C.J. De Ranter, K. Gebruers, K. Brijs, C.M. Courtin, J.A. Delcour, A. Rabijns, Structural basis for inhibition of Aspergillus niger xylanase by Triticum aestivum xylanase inhibitor-I, J. Biol. Chem. 279 (2004) 36022-36028], indicated a crucial role for Pro294 of TAXI-IIA and Gln376 of TAXI-IIB in determining the reduced inhibition activity towards ANX. Consequently, single point mutants rTAXI-IIA[P294L] and rTAXI-IIB[Q376H], both displaying the Leu/His combination corresponding to TAXI-I, were able to inhibit ANX. These results show that TAXI-II inhibition specificity bears on the identity of two key residues at positions 294 and 376, which are involved in the interaction at the -2 glycon subsite and the active site of GHF 11, respectively."}
{"id": "16082523", "title": "Expression of asexual developmental regulator gene abaA is affected in the double mutants of classes I and II chitin synthase genes, chsC and chsA, of Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Expression of asexual developmental regulator gene abaA is affected in the double mutants of classes I and II chitin synthase genes, chsC and chsA, of Aspergillus nidulans. The chsA and chsC encode classes II and I chitin synthases, respectively, of the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. The DeltachsA DeltachsC double mutants (DeltaAC mutants) show defects in asexual development: a striking reduction in the number of conidiophores and aberrant conidiophore morphology. Here, we examined the involvement of regulatory genes for asexual development (brlA, abaA, and medA) in the conidiation defects of the DeltaAC mutants. Spatial expression patterns of brlA, abaA, and medA in conidiophores of the wild-type strains and DeltaAC mutants were examined by in-situ staining using a reporter gene; expression of either gene was detected at abnormal sterigmata in the DeltaAC mutants as well as at normal ones in the wild-type strain. However, abaA expression was not prominent at a subset of conidiophores developing long chains of aberrant sterigmata, suggesting that induction of the abaA expression was retarded in the DeltaAC mutants. Based on these results and those previously presented, possible mechanisms involved in the conidiation defects are discussed."}
{"id": "16081958", "title": "Use of a novel panel of nine short tandem repeats for exact and high-resolution fingerprinting of Aspergillus fumigatus isolates.", "content": "Use of a novel panel of nine short tandem repeats for exact and high-resolution fingerprinting of Aspergillus fumigatus isolates. Here we describe a new panel of short tandem repeats (STRs) for a novel exact typing assay that can be used to discriminate between Aspergillus fumigatus isolates. A total of nine STR markers were selected from available genomic A. fumigatus sequences and were divided into three multicolor multiplex PCRs. Each multiplex reaction amplified three di-, tri-, or tetranucleotide repeats, respectively. All nine STR markers were used to analyze 100 presumably unrelated A. fumigatus isolates. For each marker, between 11 and 37 alleles were found in this population. One isolate proved to be a mixture of at least two different isolates. With the remaining 99 isolates, 96 different fingerprinting profiles were obtained. The Simpson's diversity index for the individual markers ranged from 0.77 to 0.97. The diversity index for the multiplex combination of di-, tri-, and tetranucleotide repeats ranged from 0.9784 to 0.9968. The combination of all nine markers yielded a Simpson's diversity index of 0.9994, indicative of the high discriminatory power of these new loci. In theory, this panel of markers is able to discriminate between no less than 27 x 10(9) different genotypes. The multicolor multiplex approach allows large numbers of markers to be tested in a short period of time. The exact nature of the assay combines high reproducibility with the easy exchange of results and makes it a very suitable tool for large-scale epidemiological studies."}
{"id": "16054349", "title": "Towards a molecular diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis and disseminated candidosis.", "content": "Towards a molecular diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis and disseminated candidosis. A lot of in-house polymerase chain reaction assays have been reported for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis and disseminated candidosis. Encouraging results have been published to anticipate the diagnosis over the conventional microbiological methods. However, the absence of standardized methods has led to diverging results. As a consequence, these tests are not recognized as consensual diagnostic criteria, in contrast with some antigenemia detection kits. The major breakthrough for improving the results of these methods is the emergence of real-time technologies. This markedly improves the reliability of the PCR results by dramatically decreasing the risk of false positive results due to PCR products carryover. Moreover, using the quantitative results provided by this technique, this allows to rapidly compare the efficiency of primers, probes, and DNA extraction methods. Therefore, the hope is to identify the more specific and sensitive parameters to implement comparative studies. Automated DNA extraction should also be useful to achieve this goal. Whatever sophisticated technology is used, we still have to define the meaning of detecting nucleic acids in a given clinical sample. This seems simple in normally sterile anatomical sites but less obvious for example in respiratory specimens for invasive aspergillosis or in blood for candidosis in heavily colonized patients. Additional studies of the kinetics of fungal DNA are needed. The development of real-time technology should improve our knowledge in order to give the clinicians informative clues for making a decision."}
{"id": "16034822", "title": "Cloning and functional analysis of the orotidine-5'-phosphate decarboxylase gene (PbrURA3) of the pathogenic fungus Paracoccidioides brasiliensis.", "content": "Cloning and functional analysis of the orotidine-5'-phosphate decarboxylase gene (PbrURA3) of the pathogenic fungus Paracoccidioides brasiliensis. A genomic clone encoding the Paracoccidioides brasiliensis orotidine monophosphate decarboxylase gene (PbrURA3) was isolated by screening a subgenomic plasmid DNA library of this fungus, using a PCR amplification product of the gene as a probe. Sequence analysis revealed that the gene contains an open reading frame of 855 bp with a single intron (162 bp), and encodes a putative 285 amino acids polypeptide of estimated molecular weight 31.1 kDa and isoelectric point 6.5. The deduced amino acid sequence predicted a 73.4% identity with orotidine monophosphate decarboxylase of Aspergillus nidulans. Functionality of the gene was demonstrated by transformation into a Saccharomyces cerevisiae ura3 null mutant."}
{"id": "16021283", "title": "Analysis of the genetic polymorphism of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis and Paracoccidioides cerebriformis \"Moore\" by random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and 28S ribosomal DNA sequencing--Paracoccidioides cerebriformis revisited.", "content": "Analysis of the genetic polymorphism of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis and Paracoccidioides cerebriformis \"Moore\" by random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and 28S ribosomal DNA sequencing--Paracoccidioides cerebriformis revisited. Our purpose was to compare the genetic polymorphism of six samples of P. brasiliensis (113, 339, BAT, T1F1, T3B6, T5LN1), with four samples of P. cerebriformis (735, 741, 750, 361) from the Mycological Laboratory of the Instituto de Medicina Tropical de S\u00e3o Paulo, using Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA Analysis (RAPD). RAPD profiles clearly segregated P. brasiliensis and P. cerebriformis isolates. However, the variation on band patterns among P. cerebriformis isolates was high. Sequencing of the 28S rDNA gene showed nucleotide conservancy among P. cerebriformis isolates, providing basis for taxonomical grouping, and disclosing high divergence to P. brasiliensis supporting that they are in fact two distinct species. Moreover, DNA sequence suggests that P. cerebriformis belongs in fact to the Aspergillus genus."}
{"id": "16019802", "title": "Advances in the molecular diagnosis of ochratoxin A-producing fungi.", "content": "Advances in the molecular diagnosis of ochratoxin A-producing fungi. Ochratoxin A (OTA) is detected worldwide in various food and feed sources. The compound is produced by Penicillium nordicum and P. verrucosum, as well as by various species within the sections Nigri and Circumdati of the genus Aspergillus, with A. ochraceus and A. carbonarius known to be the predominant producers. Recently, various pairs of PCR primers based on AFLP, RFLP, RAPD and the calmodulin gene were developed to set up novel diagnostic approaches for OTA producers in the Aspergillus and Penicillium genera. Real-time PCR assays based on well-characterized genomic sequences in A. ochraceus and P. nordicum have also been set up. Since the application of such assays to the analysis of contaminated sample material was demonstrated in only a few cases, future studies should be focused on applying such methods in rapid, robust and user-friendly applications, and implementing them in HACCP concepts. The recent detection and characterization of OTA biosynthetic pathway genes in the Penicillium genus is an important step towards understanding what mechanisms influence production of the toxin in order to redesign production processes in the food and feed industry and to keep de-novo synthesis to a minimum."}
{"id": "16005299", "title": "Evidence for sexuality in the opportunistic fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Evidence for sexuality in the opportunistic fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus. Aspergillus fumigatus is a medically important opportunistic pathogen and a major cause of respiratory allergy. The species has long been considered an asexual organism. However, genome analysis has revealed the presence of genes associated with sexual reproduction, including a MAT-2 high-mobility group mating-type gene and genes for pheromone production and detection (Galagan et al., personal communication; Nierman et al., personal communication). We now demonstrate that A. fumigatus has other key characteristics of a sexual species. We reveal the existence of isolates containing a complementary MAT-1 alpha box mating-type gene and show that the MAT locus has an idiomorph structure characteristic of heterothallic (obligate sexual outbreeding) fungi. Analysis of 290 worldwide clinical and environmental isolates with a multiplex-PCR assay revealed the presence of MAT1-1 and MAT1-2 genotypes in similar proportions (43% and 57%, respectively). Further population genetic analyses provided evidence of recombination across a global sampling and within North American and European subpopulations. We also show that mating-type, pheromone-precursor, and pheromone-receptor genes are expressed during mycelial growth. These results indicate that A. fumigatus has a recent evolutionary history of sexual recombination and might have the potential for sexual reproduction. The possible presence of a sexual cycle is highly significant for the population biology and disease management of the species."}
{"id": "15983745", "title": "Divergent regulation of aflatoxin production at acidic pH by two Aspergillus strains.", "content": "Divergent regulation of aflatoxin production at acidic pH by two Aspergillus strains. Production of aflatoxins (AF) by Aspergillus flavus and A. parasiticus is known to occur only at acidic pH. Although typical A. flavus isolates produced more AF as the external pH became increasingly acidic, an atypical strain from West Africa produced less. The lower AF production was not well correlated with decreases in expression of the aflatoxin pathway regulatory gene, aflR, or of two other biosynthesis genes."}
{"id": "15975678", "title": "Two primer pairs to detect OTA producers by PCR method.", "content": "Two primer pairs to detect OTA producers by PCR method. Fungi contaminating foods and feeds may produce many mycotoxins including ochratoxin A (OTA). Early and rapid detection of potential OTA producing fungi is important to reduce the negative impacts of OTA. In this study, two PCR specific primer pairs, AoLC35-12L/AoLC35-12R and AoOTAL/AoOTAR, were designed from a DNA sequence of a polyketide synthase gene in Aspergillus ochraceus NRRL 3174. On 14 different fungi tested by PCR, AoLC35-12L/AoLC35-12R amplified a unique band from either OTA or citrinin producers while AoOTAL/AoOTAR amplified one PCR product only from A. ochraceus. So these primers could be used to detect both OTA and citrinin producing fungi (AoLC35-12L/AoLC35-12R) or only A. ochraceus (AoOTAL/AoOTAR) from foodstuffs using PCR method."}
{"id": "15967531", "title": "PCR detection assays for the ochratoxin-producing Aspergillus carbonarius and Aspergillus ochraceus species.", "content": "PCR detection assays for the ochratoxin-producing Aspergillus carbonarius and Aspergillus ochraceus species. Two PCR assays have been developed to detect Aspergillus carbonarius and Aspergillus ochraceus, considered the main sources of ochratoxin A (OTA) contaminating commodities, particularly grapes, coffee and derivatives, in warm climates. The species specific primers have been designed on the basis of ITS (internal transcribed spacers of rDNA units) sequence comparisons obtained from Aspergillus strains and have been tested in a number of strains from different origins and hosts. These PCR assays, based on multi-copy sequences, are highly sensitive and specific and represent a good tool for an early detection of OTA-producing Aspergillus species and to prevent OTA entering the food chain."}
{"id": "15953695", "title": "The expression of selected non-ribosomal peptide synthetases in Aspergillus fumigatus is controlled by the availability of free iron.", "content": "The expression of selected non-ribosomal peptide synthetases in Aspergillus fumigatus is controlled by the availability of free iron. Three non-ribosomal peptide synthetase genes, termed sidD, sidC and sidE, have been identified in Aspergillus fumigatus. Gene expression analysis by RT-PCR confirms that expression of both sidD and C was reduced by up to 90% under iron-replete conditions indicative of a likely role in siderophore biosynthesis. SidE expression was less sensitive to iron levels. In addition, two proteins purified from mycelia grown under iron-limiting conditions corresponded to SidD ( approximately 200 kDa) and SidC (496 kDa) as determined by MALDI ToF peptide mass fingerprinting and MALDI LIFT-ToF/ToF. Siderophore synthetases are unique in bacteria and fungi and represent an attractive target for antimicrobial chemotherapy."}
{"id": "15936168", "title": "Infectious pulmonary complications after stem cell transplantation or chemotherapy: diagnostic yield of bronchoalveolar lavage.", "content": "Infectious pulmonary complications after stem cell transplantation or chemotherapy: diagnostic yield of bronchoalveolar lavage. Hematologic patients are at high risk for infectious pulmonary complications after stem cell transplantation (SCT) or chemotherapy. The aim of this study was to detect the range of pulmonary pathogens in these patients, analyzing 95 bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples with classic and molecular (polymerase chain reaction [PCR]) detection methods. Human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) was detected in 33, herpes simplex virus in 21, human herpesvirus 6 in 24, and other viruses in 16 samples. Aspergillus species were detected in 19, Candida species in 25, and Gram-positive bacteria in 29 samples. The additional use of PCR detection methods increased the diagnostic yield from 56% to 73%, especially concerning viral and fungal infections in BAL samples. No infectious agent was detected in 26 samples. Interestingly, a high incidence of polymicrobial infections (50/95) was detected, dominated by HCMV co-infections, especially after allogeneic SCT. Within 3 years of follow-up, a poor outcome of co-infections of Aspergillus species with HCMV in 9 of 10 cases could be documented, whereas only 7 of 20 patients died with noninfectious BAL results. Herpesviruses, fungi, and Gram-positive bacteria were detected most frequently, and in 53%, polymicrobial infections were diagnosed."}
{"id": "15933021", "title": "Function of the cypX and moxY genes in aflatoxin biosynthesis in Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Function of the cypX and moxY genes in aflatoxin biosynthesis in Aspergillus parasiticus. The pathway oxoaverantin (OAVN) --> averufin (AVR) --> hydroxyversicolorone (HVN) --> versiconal hemiacetal acetate (VHA) is involved in aflatoxin biosynthesis, and the cypX and moxY genes, which are present in the aflatoxin gene cluster, have been previously suggested to be involved in this pathway. To clarify the function of these two genes in more detail, we disrupted the genes in aflatoxigenic Aspergillus parasiticus NRRL 2999. The cypX-deleted mutant lost aflatoxin productivity and accumulated AVR in the mycelia. Although this mutant converted HVN, versicolorone (VONE), VHA, and versiconol acetate (VOAc) to aflatoxins in feeding experiments, it could not produce aflatoxins from either OAVN or AVR. The moxY-deleted mutant also lost aflatoxin productivity, whereas it newly accumulated HVN and VONE. In feeding experiments, this mutant converted either VHA or VOAc to aflatoxins but did not convert OAVN, AVR, HVN, or VONE to aflatoxins. These results demonstrated that cypX encodes AVR monooxygenase, catalyzing the reaction from AVR to HVN, and moxY encodes HVN monooxygenase, catalyzing a Baeyer-Villiger reaction from HVN to VHA as well as from VONE to VOAc. In this work, we devised a simple and rapid method to extract DNA from many fungi for PCR analyses in which cell disruption with a shaker and phenol extraction were combined."}
{"id": "15925308", "title": "Identification and characterization of rns4/vps32 mutation in the RNase T1 expression-sensitive strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae: Evidence for altered ambient response resulting in transportation of the secretory protein to vacuoles.", "content": "Identification and characterization of rns4/vps32 mutation in the RNase T1 expression-sensitive strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae: Evidence for altered ambient response resulting in transportation of the secretory protein to vacuoles. We previously reported a genetic analysis of the growth-inhibitory effect caused by the overexpression of the Aspergillus oryzae rntA gene, encoding RNase T1 (Ribonuclease T1), in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Subsequently, rns (ribonuclease T1 sensitive) mutants with mutations in the rns1 (DSL1), rns2 (UMP1), and rns3 (SEC17) genes, were identified. In the present study, rns4 (VPS32/SNF7) gene mutation was identified by complementation of tunicamycin sensitivity. While the rns4 mutant exhibited sensitivity to ambient stress conditions (200 mM CaCl(2), 1M NaCl and pH 8.0), genome-wide expression analysis revealed a similar pattern of genes up-regulated as was observed under nitrogen depletion condition by Gasch et al. [Mol. Biol. Cell 11 (2000) 4241]. Notably, the genes participating in autophagy (ATG4 and ATG8), the genes encoding a vacuolar protease (PRB1), vacuolar protease inhibitors (PAI3, PBI2 and TFS1) and YHR138c (a PBI2 homolog) were up-regulated in the rns4 mutant. Interestingly, the RNase T1*-GFP fusion protein (*inactive form) expressed in the rns4 mutant strain localized at the ER and vacuole under both stress or no-stress conditions. In contrast, the RNase T1*-GFP fusion protein expressed in the wild-type strain could not be detected under no-stress conditions, however, a stress-dependent localization of the fusion protein was observed at the vacuole. Since, the rns4 mutant exhibited a partial starvation-like response in spite of a rich ambient environment, leading to transportation of the secretory protein to the vacuole and accumulation in the endoplasmic reticulum, the present findings implicate a novel role for Rns4/Vps32 in proper response and adaptation to ambient conditions."}
{"id": "15909368", "title": "Discrimination of Aspergillus niger and other Aspergillus species belonging to section Nigri by PCR assays.", "content": "Discrimination of Aspergillus niger and other Aspergillus species belonging to section Nigri by PCR assays. Aspergillus species included in section Nigri are common in plant products and processed food, such as grapes, cereals, coffee and derivatives, particularly in warm and tropical climates. Two of these species, A. carbonarius and A. niger, are known to produce ochratoxin A (OTA), a potent nephrotoxin and carcinogenic to human (group 2B). Recognition of the several species of this section is difficult and requires considerable expertise using conventional methods based on morphological features. In this work we describe rapid, sensitive and robust assays based on the PCR technique to discriminate the main species included in section Nigri: A. japonicus, A. heteromorphus, A. ellipticus and the two morphologically indistinguishable species of the A. niger aggregate: A. niger and A. tubingensis. The species-specific primers have been designed on the basis of ITS (internal transcribed spacers of rDNA units) sequence comparisons obtained from several Aspergillus strains and have been tested in a number of strains from different origins and hosts. These PCR assays, based on multi-copy sequences, are highly sensitive and specific and represent a good tool for an early detection of OTA-producing Aspergillus species in order to prevent OTA from entering the food chain."}
{"id": "15904674", "title": "A fungal tRNA of Aspergillus niger induces IFN-beta synthesis in HEp-2 cells.", "content": "A fungal tRNA of Aspergillus niger induces IFN-beta synthesis in HEp-2 cells. In this work, we evaluated the capacity of a fungal transfer RNA (F-tRNA) from Aspergillus niger to protect HEp-2 cells against a viral infection, and as an inducer of IFN-beta synthesis. HEp-2 cells previously incubated with F-tRNA, polyI:polyC, or IFN-alpha, at different concentrations for 24 h were infected with 200 pfu of adenovirus type 6 (AdV-6); after 5 days, we determined cellular viability, cytopathic effect of the virus, optimal concentration necessary to inhibit the cytopathic effect, and IFN-beta expression by RT-PCR. Results showed that HEp-2 cells treated with F-tRNA were less susceptible to the cytopathic effect of AdV-6 infection than those incubated with polyI:polyC (p < 0.05). On the other hand, F-tRNA- treated HEp-2 cells expressed IFN-beta mRNA, whereas monolayers incubated with polyI:polyC or IFN-alpha did not. Our results suggest that F-tRNA protected HEp-2 cells against AdV-6 infection, due to its capacity to induce IFN-beta synthesis."}
{"id": "15895933", "title": "[Diagnosis of invasive fungal infections].", "content": "[Diagnosis of invasive fungal infections]. The diagnosis of invasive fungal infections--in particular those caused by Candida and Aspergillus--is difficult and often delayed. The conventional laboratory diagnosis relies on direct microscopic examination and culture of relevant clinical material, as well as on histology. To improve and speed up the microbiological diagnosis, two new approaches have been thought, the detection of circulating cell wall fungal antigens (galactomannane from Aspergillus, mannane from Candida, glucane), and the detection of fungal specific nucleic acids by PCR directly in clinical materials. Among these still experimental methods, the serial detection of galactomannane in the serum of at risk patients is now considered as a useful adjunct for the early diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis."}
{"id": "15893243", "title": "[BK virus infection in a child after an hematopoietic stem cell transplantation].", "content": "[BK virus infection in a child after an hematopoietic stem cell transplantation]. Polyomavirus hominis 1, better known as BK virus (BKV), infects up to 90% of the general population. Significant clinical manifestations can be seen in immunocompromised patients. We report a case of haemorragic cystitis likely due to BKV in a child after allotransplantation of hematopoietic stem cells. A 10-year old boy with poor-prognosis acute T lymphoblastic leukaemia underwent cord blood allogeneic stem cell transplantation while in his first relapse. Macroscopic haematuria and low back pain occurred by day 95, in the context of acute graft versus host disease and pulmonary aspergillosis. Histopathologic examination showed a cytopathogenetic effect consistent with the diagnosis of BKV infection. Urinary PCR was positive for BKV. Treatment with cidofovir was followed by a marked improvement of urinary symptoms. The current understanding, diagnosis, and treatment of BKV-associated infection is discussed."}
{"id": "15892737", "title": "Antisense inhibition of xylitol dehydrogenase gene, xdh1 from Trichoderma reesei.", "content": "Antisense inhibition of xylitol dehydrogenase gene, xdh1 from Trichoderma reesei. To inhibit xylitol dehydrogenase (XDH) in Trichoderma reesei by antisense inhibition strategy and construct novel strains capable of accumulating xylitol. The xdh1 antisense expression plasmid pGTA-xdh was constructed by inserting xdh1 DNA fragment inversely between the gpdA promoter and the trpC terminator from Aspergillus nidulans into a pUC19 plasmid backbone. Trichoderma reesei protoplasts were co-transformated with pGTA-xdh and hygromycin B resistance plasmid pAN7-1. Of 20 transformants screened from the selective medium, one transformant with the highest xylitol accumulation, designated ZY15, showed a distinct reduction (c. 52%) in XDH activity compared with the original strain Rut-C30. The results of Southern hybridization and PCR assay showed that the antisense expression cassette of xdh1 was integrated into the genome of T. reesei. The RT-PCR analysis proved that antisense RNA effectively inhibited XDH expression (c. 65%). Xylitol accumulation (2.37 mg ml(-1)) of ZY15 was five times higher than that (0.46 mg ml(-1)) of the original strain Rut-C30. Strain ZY15 successfully downregulated XDH production and exhibited xylitol accumulation in xylose liquid medium. This study contributed to the budding field of fungal genetics in two points. First, it confirmed that antisense RNA strategy could be used as a means of reducing gene expression in the filamentous fungus T. reesei. Secondly, it verified that the strategy appears most promising for creating novel filamentous fungi strains capable of accumulating intermediary metabolites."}
{"id": "15880126", "title": "The mechanism for low yield of blood culture in invasive aspergillosis; the clinical importance of antigen detection tests revisited.", "content": "The mechanism for low yield of blood culture in invasive aspergillosis; the clinical importance of antigen detection tests revisited."}
{"id": "15879906", "title": "Blood culture-negative endocarditis in a reference center: etiologic diagnosis of 348 cases.", "content": "Blood culture-negative endocarditis in a reference center: etiologic diagnosis of 348 cases. To identify the current etiologies of blood culture-negative infective endocarditis and to describe the epidemiologic, clinical, laboratory, and echocardiographic characteristics associated with each etiology, as well as with unexplained cases, we tested samples from 348 patients suspected of having blood culture-negative infective endocarditis in our diagnostic center, the French National Reference Center for Rickettsial Diseases, between 1983 and 2001. Serology tests for Coxiella burnettii, Bartonella species, Chlamydia species, Legionella species, and Aspergillus species; blood culture on shell vial; and, when available, analysis of valve specimens through culture, microscopic examination, and direct PCR amplification were performed. Physicians were asked to complete a questionnaire, which was computerized. Only cases of definite infective endocarditis, as defined by the modified Duke criteria, were included. A total of 348 cases were recorded-to our knowledge, the largest series reported to date. Of those, 167 cases (48%) were associated with C. burnetii, 99 (28%) with Bartonella species, and 5 (1%) with rare, fastidious bacterial agents of endocarditis (Tropheryma whipplei, Abiotrophia elegans, Mycoplasma hominis, Legionella pneumophila). Among 73 cases without etiology, 58 received antibiotic drugs before the blood cultures. Six cases were right-sided endocarditis and 4 occurred in patients who had a permanent pacemaker. Finally, no explanatory factor was found for 5 remaining cases (1%), despite all investigations.Q fever endocarditis affected males in 75% of cases, between 40 and 70 years of age. Ninety-one percent of patients had a previous valvulopathy, 32% were immunocompromised, and 70% had been exposed to animals. Our study confirms the improved clinical presentation and prognosis of the disease observed during the last decades. Such an evolution could be related to earlier diagnosis due to better physician awareness and more sensitive diagnostic techniques. As for Bartonella species, B. quintana was recorded more frequently than B. henselae (53 vs 17 cases). For 18 patients with Bartonella endocarditis, the responsible species was not identified. Species determination was achieved through culture and/or PCR in 49 cases and through Western immunoblotting in 22. Comparison of B. quintana and B. henselae endocarditis revealed distinct epidemiologic patterns. The 2 cases due to T. whipplei reflect the emerging role of this agent as a cause of infective endocarditis. Because identification of the bacterium was possible only through analysis of excised valves by histologic examination, PCR, and culture on shell vial, the prevalence of the disease might be underestimated. Among patients who received antibiotic drugs before blood cultures, 4 cases (7%) were found to be associated with Streptococcus species (2 S. bovis and 2 S. mutans) through 16S rDNA gene amplification directly from the valve, which shows the usefulness of this technique in overcoming the limitations of previous antibiotic treatment. Right-sided endocarditis occurred classically in young patients (mean age, 36 yr), intravenous drug users in 50% of cases, and suffering more often from embolic complications. Finally, 5 cases without etiology or explaining factors were all immunocompetent male patients with previous aortic valvular lesions, and 3 of the 5 presented with an aortic abscess. Further investigations should be focused on this group to identify new agents of infective endocarditis."}
{"id": "15872239", "title": "Comparison of non-culture-based methods for detection of systemic fungal infections, with an emphasis on invasive Candida infections.", "content": "Comparison of non-culture-based methods for detection of systemic fungal infections, with an emphasis on invasive Candida infections. The accepted limitations associated with classic culture techniques for the diagnosis of invasive fungal infections have lead to the emergence of many non-culture-based methods. With superior sensitivities and quicker turnaround times, non-culture-based methods may aid the diagnosis of invasive fungal infections. In this review of the diagnostic service, we assessed the performances of two antigen detection techniques (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay [ELISA] and latex agglutination) with a molecular method for the detection of invasive Candida infection and invasive aspergillosis. The specificities for all three assays were high (> or = 97%), although the Candida PCR method had enhanced sensitivity over both ELISA and latex agglutination with values of 95%, 75%, and 25%, respectively. However, calculating significant sensitivity values for the Aspergillus detection methods was not feasible due to a low number of proven/probable cases. Despite enhanced sensitivity, the PCR method failed to detect nucleic acid in a probable case of invasive Candida infection that was detected by ELISA. In conclusion, both PCR and ELISA techniques should be used in unison to aid the detection of invasive fungal infections."}
{"id": "15872227", "title": "Assessment of ribosomal large-subunit D1-D2, internal transcribed spacer 1, and internal transcribed spacer 2 regions as targets for molecular identification of medically important Aspergillus species.", "content": "Assessment of ribosomal large-subunit D1-D2, internal transcribed spacer 1, and internal transcribed spacer 2 regions as targets for molecular identification of medically important Aspergillus species. Molecular approaches are now being developed to provide a more rapid and objective identification of fungi compared to traditional phenotypic methods. Ribosomal targets, especially the large-subunit RNA gene (D1-D2 region) and internal transcribed spacers 1 and 2 (ITS1 and ITS2 regions), have shown particular promise for the molecular identification of some fungi. We therefore conducted an assessment of these regions for the identification of 13 medically important Aspergillus species: Aspergillus candidus, Aspergillus (Eurotium) chevalieri, Aspergillus (Fennellia) flavipes, Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus granulosus, Aspergillus (Emericella) nidulans, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus restrictus, Aspergillus sydowii, Aspergillus terreus, Aspergillus ustus, and Aspergillus versicolor. The length of ribosomal regions could not be reliably used to differentiate among all Aspergillus species examined. DNA alignment and pairwise nucleotide comparisons demonstrated 91.9 to 99.6% interspecies sequence identities in the D1-D2 region, 57.4 to 98.1% in the ITS1 region, and 75.6 to 98.3% in the ITS2 region. Comparative analysis using GenBank reference data showed that 10 of the 13 species examined exhibited a < or = 1-nucleotide divergence in the D1-D2 region from closely related but different species. In contrast, only 5 of the species examined exhibited a < or = 1-nucleotide divergence from sibling species in their ITS1 or ITS2 sequences. Although the GenBank database currently lacks ITS sequence entries for some species, and major improvement in the quality and accuracy of GenBank entries is needed, current identification of medically important Aspergillus species using GenBank reference data seems more reliable using ITS query sequences than D1-D2 sequences, especially for the identification of closely related species."}
{"id": "15847181", "title": "[Integrative expression of XynB of Aspergillus niger UV-11 in industrial yeast].", "content": "[Integrative expression of XynB of Aspergillus niger UV-11 in industrial yeast]. The cDNA sequence of beta-xylanase gene (xynB) was cloned from Aspergillus niger UV-11. It was inserted into the yeast expression vector and the recombinant plasmid pAX2 was obtained. The plasmid pAX2 was introduced into an industrial S. cerevisiae 2.346 and integrated into yeast genome by co-transformation of a YEPtype plasmid pBEJ16 carrying G418 resistance. The stable engineered yeast strain XY2 was obtained. It could express and secret extracellular xylanase, and enhance the alcohol production in wheat flour fermentation compared with the host strain S. cerevisiae 2.346."}
{"id": "15845386", "title": "Discovery of a novel superfamily of type III polyketide synthases in Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Discovery of a novel superfamily of type III polyketide synthases in Aspergillus oryzae. Identification of genes encoding type III polyketide synthase (PKS) superfamily members in the industrially useful filamentous fungus, Aspergillus oryzae, revealed that their distribution is not specific to plants or bacteria. Among other Aspergilli (Aspergillus nidulans and Aspergillus fumigatus), A. oryzae was unique in possessing four chalcone synthase (CHS)-like genes (csyA, csyB, csyC, and csyD). Expression of csyA, csyB, and csyD genes was confirmed by RT-PCR. Comparative genome analyses revealed single putative type III PKS in Neurospora crassa and Fusarium graminearum, two each in Magnaporthe grisea and Podospora anserina, and three in Phenarocheate chrysosporium, with a phylogenic distinction from bacteria and plants. Conservation of catalytic residues in the CHSs across species implicated enzymatically active nature of these newly discovered homologs."}
{"id": "15838675", "title": "Antioxidant enzymes stimulation in Aspergillus parasiticus by Lentinula edodes inhibits aflatoxin production.", "content": "Antioxidant enzymes stimulation in Aspergillus parasiticus by Lentinula edodes inhibits aflatoxin production. Biosynthesis of aflatoxins, toxic metabolites produced by Aspergillus parasiticus, is correlated to the fungal oxidative stress and cell ageing. In this paper, the mechanism underlying the aflatoxin-inhibiting effect of the Lentinula edodes culture filtrates was studied by analysing their anti-oxidant activity and beta-glucan content. Mushroom beta-glucans are pharmacologically active compounds stimulating anti-oxidant responses in animal cells. L. edodes lyophilised filtrates stimulate A. parasiticus anti-oxidant enzymes (superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase) and aflatoxin inhibition was better correlated with beta-glucan content than with anti-oxidant activity of the filtrates. RT-PCR analyses on treated mycelia showed a delay in the activation of aflR, and norA, genes of aflatoxin cluster and a synchronous activation of hsf2-like, a homologue of a yeast transcription factor involved in oxidative stress responses. The first evidence of hsf2-like in A. parasiticus and its activation during aflatoxin biosynthesis is reported. L. edodes filtrates could play a role as external stimulus affecting the anti-oxidant status in the fungal cell that, in turn, leads to aflatoxin inhibition. In the fungal cell, beta-glucans present in the filtrates could stimulate the activation of transcription factors related to anti-oxidant response and anti-oxidant enzyme activity with a contemporaneous delay of aflatoxin genes transcription, which led to a marked reduction of aflatoxin production. This research suggests new perspectives to set suitable strategies against aflatoxins and L. edodes could be considered a promising tool."}
{"id": "15826281", "title": "Clinical evaluation of Aspergillus-PCR for detection of invasive aspergillosis in immunosuppressed patients.", "content": "Clinical evaluation of Aspergillus-PCR for detection of invasive aspergillosis in immunosuppressed patients. We evaluated the utility of Aspergillus PCR as a tool in diagnosing invasive aspergillosis in patients at risk. Aspergillosis was assessed according to the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC), Mycosis Study Group definitions. Nine and seven patients with proven and probable aspergillosis respectively were evaluated. Whole blood samples prior (n = 41) and during antifungal treatment (n = 67), and tissue specimens (n = 9) and/or bronchoalveolar lavage fluids (n = 7) were investigated. In patients with proven infections, the sensitivities of PCR of lung samples were 100%, of blood samples prior treatment were 66%, and during treatment 55%. Clearance of fungal DNA from blood was associated with resolution of clinical symptoms in two of four patients with proven infection. Consecutive positive PCR results for Aspergillus are fatal as two of five patients died. In patients with probable infections, the sensitivities of PCR of lung fluids were 85%, of blood samples prior treatment were 57%, and during treatment 42%. The benefits of PCR diagnosing and screening of whole blood are limited if sampling takes place once treatment has started. The performance of Aspergillus PCR from tissue samples should be recommended in addition to microscopic examination and culture technique for sensitive detection of fungal infection."}
{"id": "15823659", "title": "Epidemiological study of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in a haematology unit by molecular typing of environmental and patient isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Epidemiological study of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in a haematology unit by molecular typing of environmental and patient isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus. In order to determine the possible relationship between environmental contamination by Aspergillus fumigatus and occurrence of invasive aspergillosis, a one-year prospective study was carried out in the haematology ward of Hautepierre Hospital, Strasbourg, France. During the study period, 21 environmental isolates and 26 clinical isolates of A. fumigatus were collected. Each was genotyped using a random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) technique. Thirty-four distinct profiles were identified by RAPD analysis, indicating the great genetic diversity of A. fumigatus isolated from infected patients and from the environment. For two patients, RAPD analysis demonstrated concurrent infection by at least two different strains. In two cases, a genetic similarity was noted between isolates obtained from a patient and from the environment."}
{"id": "15808942", "title": "DNA-based characterization of ochratoxin-A-producing and non-producing Aspergillus carbonarius strains from grapes.", "content": "DNA-based characterization of ochratoxin-A-producing and non-producing Aspergillus carbonarius strains from grapes. Using molecular methods, a total of 189 strains of black aspergilli, including Aspergillus carbonarius and uniseriate species (Aspergillus aculeatus, Aspergillus japonicus), were studied in order to characterize species responsible for ochratoxin A (OTA) contamination of grapes from Europe and Israel. Sixty-six strains were morphologically identified as belonging to the uniseriate species and 123 as A. carbonarius. None of the uniseriate species were able to produce OTA. From the A. carbonarius strains, 96.7% were OTA producers (0.1-654.3 microg/g). We characterized 53 strains of A. carbonarius from different countries by RAPD and ITS-5.8S rDNA sequencing analysis. Forty-nine strains had a similar RAPD pattern and identical ITS-5.8S rDNA sequences. They produced OTA at different levels. No correlation was observed between the obtained clusters and the OTA production level or origin. Only four strains, morphologically identified as A. carbonarius, were unable to produce OTA. These strains showed a different RAPD pattern, and the section of DNA sequenced differed from the sequence of the other 49 strains. These OTA-non-producing strains may represent a new species in the Aspergillus section Nigri."}
{"id": "15798797", "title": "Evaluation of interference to conventional and real-time PCR for detection and quantification of fungi in dust.", "content": "Evaluation of interference to conventional and real-time PCR for detection and quantification of fungi in dust. Advances in polymerase chain reaction (PCR) have permitted accurate, rapid and quantitative identification of microorganisms in pure cultures regardless of viability or culturability. In this study, a simple sample processing method was investigated for rapid identification and quantification of fungal spores from dust samples using both conventional and real-time PCR. The proposed method was evaluated for susceptibility to interference from environmental dust samples. Stachybotrys chartarum and Aspergillus fumigatus were used as test organisms. The sensitivity of detection in pure culture was 0.1 spore DNA equivalents per PCR reaction corresponding to 20 spores ml(-1) in the sample. However, 1 spore DNA equivalent per PCR reaction corresponding to 200 spores ml(-1) in the sample was the lowest amount of spores tested without interference in dust samples spiked with spores of either fungal species. The extent of inhibition was calculated using conventional and real-time PCR reactions containing fungal spores, specific primers, specific probes (for real-time PCR) and various amounts of dust. The results indicate that the extent of inhibition by dust on PCR varies with the type and amount of dust, and number of spores. No interference in the analysis of spiked samples was detected from 0.2 mg ml(-1) of four real-life dust samples at p-value >0.05 using 2 x 10(4) spores for conventional PCR and 2 x 10(5) spores for real-time PCR. However, samples containing >0.2 mg ml(-1) real-life dust compromised the PCR assay. These results suggest the potential usefulness of a simple sample processing method in conjunction with PCR for monitoring the fungal content of aerosols collected from indoor environments."}
{"id": "15794921", "title": "Genes of the thymidine salvage pathway: thymine-7-hydroxylase from a Rhodotorula glutinis cDNA library and iso-orotate decarboxylase from Neurospora crassa.", "content": "Genes of the thymidine salvage pathway: thymine-7-hydroxylase from a Rhodotorula glutinis cDNA library and iso-orotate decarboxylase from Neurospora crassa. Genes for two enzymes in the thymidine salvage pathway, thymine-7-hydroxylase (THase; official name thymine dioxygenase) and iso-orotate decarboxylase (IDCase) have been isolated from fungal sources. THase was isolated from a Rhodotorula glutinis cDNA library using a degenerate oligonucleotide based on the published amino acid sequence. The coding sequence was transferred to an Escherichia coli expression system, from which recombinant THase activity was measured using 14C-labeled thymine. The THase sequence shows an almost complete avoidance of codons ending in A or T: 95.8% GC content is present in the third position of codons. A connection between this codon bias and the role of the thymidine salvage pathway in pyrimidine metabolism is proposed. The THase sequence is similar to Group I Fe+2-dependent, alphaKG-dependent dioxygenases. The R. glutinis THase gene was used to locate the probable THase genes in the sequenced genomes of Neurospora crassa and Aspergillus nidulans. The genes neighboring THase in these two genomes are similar to each other, and are similar to the mammalian 2-amino-3-carboxymuconate-6-semialdhyde decarboxylase (ACMSD), leading to their identification as IDCase genes. The N. crassa version was isolated by PCR of genomic DNA, and IDCase activity was measured in recombinant E. coli carrying this gene. A new family of decarboxylases, using similar substrates, is identified by virtue of the protein sequence similarity."}
{"id": "15793114", "title": "Efficacy of caspofungin against central nervous system Aspergillus fumigatus infection in mice determined by TaqMan PCR and CFU methods.", "content": "Efficacy of caspofungin against central nervous system Aspergillus fumigatus infection in mice determined by TaqMan PCR and CFU methods. We have reported previously that prolonged caspofungin (CAS) dosing enhances survival in a murine model of central nervous system aspergillosis. In this study we determined by quantitative PCR (qPCR) and CFU enumeration whether CAS could reduce fungal burdens, prior to the deaths of untreated animals, and also assessed progressive infection in untreated mice. Mice were infected intracranially and treated for 4 days with CAS (1, 5, or 10 mg/kg of body weight/day) or amphotericin B (AMB) (3 mg/kg/day) starting 1 day postinfection. Fungal burdens in brains and kidneys of untreated controls were determined on days 1, 3, and 5 to assess progressive infection; burdens in treated animals were determined on day 5. qPCR showed higher burdens than CFU enumeration in all comparisons. In untreated animals, qPCR showed transiently increased burdens in brains, while CFU enumeration showed a decrease. qPCR showed increased burdens in kidneys, but CFU enumeration did not. Neither method indicated drug efficacy in the brain. Both methods showed AMB efficacy in the kidneys, and qPCR demonstrated CAS efficacy at all doses. Spearman correlations of qPCR and CFU determination results showed a significant correlation for most untreated groups; results correlated well for kidneys (P < or = 0.03) but not for brains in treated mice. Regression analyses of qPCR and CFU groups indicated different slopes for progressive infection in untreated animals but the same slopes for CAS dose-response efficacy. qPCR appeared to better reflect the progression of untreated infection. The lack of demonstration of efficacy in the brain suggests that longer dosing is necessary to cause burden reduction. These results also suggest that, when there is drug efficacy in a therapeutic study, either method appears to be useful for determining Aspergillus fumigatus burdens."}
{"id": "15773033", "title": "The value of CMV and fungal PCR for monitoring for acute leukaemia and autologous stem cell transplant patients.", "content": "The value of CMV and fungal PCR for monitoring for acute leukaemia and autologous stem cell transplant patients. Both CMV and fungal infections have been suggested to be causes of fever of unknown origin (FUO) in neutropenic patients. The aim of this prospective, blinded study was to use nucleic acid techniques for monitoring of 20 acute leukemia and 15 autologous stem cell transplant (SCT) patients. Blood samples were taken weekly and examined for fungal and CMV DNA by PCR and CMV mRNA by NASBA. 387 samples were analysed. Fungal DNA was detected in 9 samples. Four samples were positive for Aspergillus and 6 for Candida DNA (1 sample positive for both). Candida PCR was positive in 2 patients with FUO, 1 patient with a bacterial infection, 1 patient with fungaemia, and in 1 afebrile patient. Three patients had verified Candida infections. One was PCR positive and 2 were negative. Three patients with positive Aspergillus PCR had pneumonias and 1 patient had a FUO. CMV DNA was found in 19 samples from 15 CMV seropositive patients. CMV mRNA was detected in 1 sample. Two patients had infections possibly caused by CMV. No antiviral therapy was give and both recovered. PCR for Aspergillus might be helpful for the diagnosis of pneumonia while neither CMV nor Candida PCR conferred diagnostic benefits in this study."}
{"id": "15755924", "title": "Aspergillus lentulus sp. nov., a new sibling species of A. fumigatus.", "content": "Aspergillus lentulus sp. nov., a new sibling species of A. fumigatus. In a prior study, we identified seven clinical isolates of an Aspergillus sp. that were slow to sporulate in multiple media and demonstrated decreased in vitro susceptibilities to multiple antifungals, including amphotericin B, itraconazole, voriconazole, and caspofungin. These isolates were initially considered to be variants of Aspergillus fumigatus because of differences in mitochondrial cytochrome b sequences and unique randomly amplified polymorphic DNA PCR patterns (S. A. Balajee, M. Weaver, A. Imhof, J. Gribskov, and K. A. Marr, Antimicrob. Agents Chemother. 48: 1197-1203, 2004). The present study was performed to clarify the taxonomic status of these organisms by phylogenetic analyses based on multilocus sequence typing of five genes (the beta-tubulin gene, the rodlet A gene, the salt-responsive gene, the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene, and the internal transcribed spacer regions). Results revealed that four of the seven variant isolates clustered together in a clade very distant from A. fumigatus and distinct from other members of the A. fumigatus group. This new clade, consisting of four members, was monophyletic with strong bootstrap support when the protein-encoding regions were analyzed, indicating a new species status under the phylogenetic species concept. Phenotype studies revealed that the variant isolate has smaller conidial heads with diminutive vesicles compared to A. fumigatus and is not able to survive at 48 degrees C. Our findings suggest the presence of a previously unrecognized, potentially drug-resistant Aspergillus species that we designate A. lentulus."}
{"id": "15752350", "title": "Increased NADPH concentration obtained by metabolic engineering of the pentose phosphate pathway in Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Increased NADPH concentration obtained by metabolic engineering of the pentose phosphate pathway in Aspergillus niger. Many biosynthetic reactions and bioconversions are limited by low availability of NADPH. With the purpose of increasing the NADPH concentration and/or the flux through the pentose phosphate pathway in Aspergillus niger, the genes encoding glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase (gsdA), 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase (gndA) and transketolase (tktA) were cloned and overexpressed in separate strains. Intracellular NADPH concentration was increased two- to ninefold as a result of 13-fold overproduction of 6-phosphogluconate dehydrogenase. Although overproduction of glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase and transketolase changed the concentration of several metabolites it did not result in increased NADPH concentration. To establish the effects of overexpression of the three genes, wild-type and overexpressing strains were characterized in detail in exponential and stationary phase of bioreactor cultures containing minimal media, with glucose as the carbon source and ammonium or nitrate as the nitrogen source and final cell density limiting substrate. Enzymes, intermediary metabolites, polyol pools (intra- and extracellular), organic acids, growth rates and rate constant of induction of acid production in postexponential phase were measured. None of the modified strains had a changed growth rate. Partial least square regressions showed the correlations between NADPH and up to 40 other variables (concentration of enzymes and metabolites) and it was possible to predict the intracellular NADPH concentration from relatively easily obtainable data (the concentration of enzymes, polyols and oxalate). This prediction might be used in screening for high NADPH levels in engineered strains or mutants of other organisms."}
{"id": "15749051", "title": "Identification, cloning, and functional expression of three glutathione transferase genes from Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Identification, cloning, and functional expression of three glutathione transferase genes from Aspergillus fumigatus. Analysis of the genome of the human pathogen, Aspergillus fumigatus, revealed the presence of several putative glutathione transferase (GST) open reading frames. Three A. fumigatus GST genes, termed gstA, B, and C, were cloned and recombinant proteins expressed in Escherichia coli. Functional analysis of recombinant gstA-C confirms that the enzymes exhibit GST activity and glutathione peroxidase activity. RT-PCR confirmed low basal expression of gstA and gstC which was markedly up-regulated (at least 4x-10x) in the presence of either H2O2 or 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene (CDNB). GstB expression was only observed in the presence of CDNB. These results demonstrate for the first time the existence of three functional GSTs in A. fumigatus and strongly suggest a role for these enzymes in the response of the organism to both oxidative stress and xenobiotic presence."}
{"id": "15722148", "title": "Cloning and use of sC as homologous marker for Aspergillus niger transformation.", "content": "Cloning and use of sC as homologous marker for Aspergillus niger transformation. The sC sequence from Aspergillus niger was cloned and developed into a homologous marker system for genetic transformation. The coding region of the sC gene amplified by PCR from the A. niger genome was provided with Aspergillus nidulans expression signals (gpdA promoter and trpC terminator). This chimeric construct was used to successfully transform a spontaneous sC- isolate of A. niger to prototrophy. The transformants analyzed by Southern analysis showed integration of multiple copies of the transforming DNA. They also exhibited much higher ATP sulfurylase activity than the wild-type A. niger strain reinforcing the molecular data. This demonstrates the usefulness of the sCniger construct, driven by PgpdA, as a marker for A. niger transformation."}
{"id": "15719355", "title": "A 4'-phosphopantetheinyl transferase mediates non-ribosomal peptide synthetase activation in Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "A 4'-phosphopantetheinyl transferase mediates non-ribosomal peptide synthetase activation in Aspergillus fumigatus. Aspergillus fumigatus is a significant human pathogen. Non-ribosomal peptide (NRP) synthesis is thought to be responsible for a significant proportion of toxin and siderophore production in the organism. Furthermore, it has been shown that 4'-phosphopantetheinylation is required for the activation of key enzymes involved in non-ribosomal peptide synthesis in other species. Here we report the cloning, recombinant expression and functional characterisation of a 4'-phosphopantetheinyl transferase from A. fumigatus and the identification of an atypical NRP synthetase (Afpes1), spanning 14.3 kb. Phylogenetic analysis has shown that the NRP synthetase exhibits greatest identity to NRP synthetases from Metarhizium anisolpiae (PesA) and Alternaria brassicae (AbrePsy1). Northern hybridisation and RT-PCR analysis have confirmed that both genes are expressed in A. fumigatus. A 120 kDa fragment of the A. fumigatus NRP synthetase, containing a putative thiolation domain, was cloned and expressed in the baculovirus expression system. Detection of a 4'-phosphopantetheinylated peptide (SFSAMK) from this protein, by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometric analysis after coincubation of the 4'-phosphopantetheinyl transferase with the recombinant NRP synthetase fragment and acetyl CoA, confirms that it is competent to play a role in NRP synthetase activation in A. fumigatus. The 4'-phosphopantetheinyl transferase also activates, by 4'-phosphopantetheinylation, recombinant alpha-aminoadipate reductase (Lys2p) from Candida albicans, a key enzyme involved in lysine biosynthesis."}
{"id": "15716038", "title": "Mutational analysis of a feruloyl esterase from Aspergillus awamori involved in substrate discrimination and pH dependence.", "content": "Mutational analysis of a feruloyl esterase from Aspergillus awamori involved in substrate discrimination and pH dependence. We cloned the feruloyl esterase A gene from Aspergillus awamori (AwfaeA) and engineered it to study substrate specificity and pH dependence of catalysis. Based on the crystal structures of two type-A feruloyl esterases (FAE-III and AnFAEA) from Aspergillus niger, residues located in the flap region of AwFAEA (Asp71, Thr72, Asp77, and Tyr80) were replaced with corresponding amino acid residues (Ile, Arg, Asn, and Phe), respectively, found in the lid of lipases from Rhizomucor miehei (RmLIP) and Humicola lanuginose (HlLIP). Furthermore, Asp77 of AwFAEA, which is conserved in Aspergillus FAEs and lipases, was replaced with a hydrophobic residue (Ile). Kinetic analysis of the mutant enzymes showed that the higher catalytic efficiency of the D77I and Y80F mutants toward alpha-naphthylbutyrate (C4) and alpha-naphthylcaprylate (C8), respectively, was due to a lower K(m) value. The higher catalytic efficiency of D77N toward C4 substrate was due to a combination of decreased K(m) and considerably increased k(cat). The D71I and Y80F mutants showed some activity toward long-acyl chain esters. On the other hand, the D77I mutant had no detectable activity toward phenolic acid methyl esters and feruloylated arabinoxylan. Moreover, the pH optima of the D77I, D77N, and Y80F mutants increased from 5.0 to 7.0-8.0, 7.0, and 6.0, respectively."}
{"id": "15715941", "title": "Endo-1,4-beta-xylanase B from Aspergillus cf. niger BCC14405 isolated in Thailand: purification, characterization and gene isolation.", "content": "Endo-1,4-beta-xylanase B from Aspergillus cf. niger BCC14405 isolated in Thailand: purification, characterization and gene isolation. During the screening of xylanolytic enzymes from locally isolated fungi, one strain BCC14405, exhibited high enzyme activity with thermostability. This fugal strain was identified as Aspergillus cf. niger based on its morphological characteristics and internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequences. An enzyme with xylanolytic activity from BCC14405 was later purified and characterized. It was found to have a molecular mass of ca. 21 kDa, an optimal pH of 5.0, and an optimal temperature of 55 degrees C. When tested using xylan from birchwood, it showed K(m) and V(max) values of 8.9 mg/ml and 11,100 U/mg, respectively. The enzyme was inhibited by CuSO(4) EDTA, and by FeSO(4) The homology of the 20-residue N-terminal protein sequence showed that the enzyme was an endo-1,4-beta-xylanase. The full-length gene encoding endo-1,4-beta-xylanase from BCC14405 was obtained by PCR amplification of its cDNA. The gene contained an open reading frame of 678 bp, encoding a 225 amino acid protein, which was identical to the endo-1,4-a-xylanase B previously identified in A. niger."}
{"id": "15713607", "title": "Monochrome LightCycler PCR assay for detection and quantification of five common species of Candida and Aspergillus.", "content": "Monochrome LightCycler PCR assay for detection and quantification of five common species of Candida and Aspergillus. Invasive fungal pathogens, especially in immunocompromised hosts, can result in life-threatening infections. Current laboratory/radiological methods for fungal identification are time-consuming and lack sensitivity and specificity. A monochrome, multiplex, real-time PCR assay for the identification and quantification of Candida albicans, Candida krusei, Candida tropicalis, Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus fumigatus is described here. Detection of each of these fungi was specific and demonstrated 100 % concordance with biochemical/culture identification in all 60 isolates tested. Samples from 16 febrile neutropenic patients with haematological malignancies were also analysed and the utility of the assay in clinical samples was reconfirmed without false-negative results. The sensitivity of this assay was 0.1 pg fungal genomic DNA, corresponding to three cells, for C. albicans, C. krusei, C. tropicalis and A. flavus, and 0.01 pg fungal genomic DNA, i.e. less than one cell, for A. fumigatus. The analysis allows a low-cost, simple, rapid and sensitive alternative for clinical identification and quantification of these five common fungal species."}
{"id": "15707846", "title": "The ABC transporter gene in the sirodesmin biosynthetic gene cluster of Leptosphaeria maculans is not essential for sirodesmin production but facilitates self-protection.", "content": "The ABC transporter gene in the sirodesmin biosynthetic gene cluster of Leptosphaeria maculans is not essential for sirodesmin production but facilitates self-protection. Epipolythiodioxopiperazine toxins are secreted by a range of fungi, including Leptosphaeria maculans, which produces sirodesmin, and Aspergillus fumigatus, which produces gliotoxin. The L. maculans biosynthetic gene cluster for sirodesmin includes an ABC transporter gene, sirA. Disruption of this gene led to increased secretion of sirodesmin into the medium and an altered ratio of sirodesmin to its immediate precursor. The transcription pattern of a peptide synthetase that catalyses an early step in sirodesmin biosynthesis was elevated in the sirA mutant by 47% over a 7-day period. This was consistent with the finding that the transporter mutant had elevated sirodesmin levels. Despite increased production of sirodesmin, the sirA mutant was more sensitive to both sirodesmin and gliotoxin. The putative gliotoxin transporter gene, gliA, (a major facilitator superfamily transporter) from A. fumigatus complemented the tolerance of the L. maculans sirA mutant to gliotoxin, but not to sirodesmin. The results indicate that SirA contributes to self-protection against sirodesmin in L. maculans and suggest a transporter other than SirA is primarily responsible for efflux of endogenously produced sirodesmin."}
{"id": "15695702", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus fumigatus and a mutation that confers reduced susceptibility to itraconazole and posaconazole by real-time PCR and pyrosequencing.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus fumigatus and a mutation that confers reduced susceptibility to itraconazole and posaconazole by real-time PCR and pyrosequencing. A real-time PCR and pyrosequencing method was developed to detect Aspergillus fumigatus in whole blood by amplifying the cyp51A gene and sequencing the codon for glycine 54. Mutations in this codon can result in amino acid substitutions that confer reduced susceptibility to itraconazole and posaconazole."}
{"id": "15695661", "title": "Use of PCR targeting of internal transcribed spacer regions and single-stranded conformation polymorphism analysis of sequence variation in different regions of rrna genes in fungi for rapid diagnosis of mycotic keratitis.", "content": "Use of PCR targeting of internal transcribed spacer regions and single-stranded conformation polymorphism analysis of sequence variation in different regions of rrna genes in fungi for rapid diagnosis of mycotic keratitis. The increased incidence of fungal infections in the recent past has been attributed to the increase in the number of human immunodeficiency virus-positive and AIDS patients. Early diagnosis of mycoses in patients is crucial for prompt antifungal therapy. Immunological methods of diagnosis have not been found to be satisfactory, and recent research has been diverted to the use of PCR for the sensitive and early diagnosis at the molecular level. In the present study we targeted different regions of the rRNA gene to diagnose cases of mycotic keratitis and identify the causal agents. Six fungus-specific primers (primers ITS1, ITS2, ITS3, ITS4, invSR1R, and LR12R) were used, and the amplified products were analyzed by single-stranded conformation polymorphism (SSCP) analysis. Dendrograms of these SSCP patterns, prepared on the basis of Jaccard's coefficient, indicated that the PCR products obtained with primer pair ITS1 and ITS2 were the best for the identification of fungi. The results were confirmed by sequencing of the PCR products, and the approach was successfully tested experimentally for the detection of mycotic keratitis caused by Aspergillus fumigatus and was used for the diagnosis of fungal corneal ulcers in patients."}
{"id": "15693789", "title": "Bronchoalveolar lavage in immunocompromised patients with haematological malignancy--value of new microbiological methods.", "content": "Bronchoalveolar lavage in immunocompromised patients with haematological malignancy--value of new microbiological methods. To assess the usefulness of new culture-independent microbiological methods to analyse bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid from haematological patients with clinical pneumonia. Results of 135 BALs from 122 disease episodes in 99 patients treated between 1996 and 2002 were retrospectively analysed. Forty-three patients had undergone haematopoietic stem cell transplantation and 56 patients had been treated with conventional chemotherapy for haematological malignancy. In addition to conventional microbiological methods, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests for Pneumocystis carinii, cytomegalovirus (CMV), Legionella sp., mycobacterium, Mycoplasma pneumoniae, and Chlamydia pneumoniae and the Aspergillus antigen test were performed. Three (2.2%) quantitative and four (3.0%) special bacterial cultures gave an aetiological diagnosis. A respiratory virus was isolated in 10 episodes (8.2%). The diagnostic yield increased to 35.6% (48 of 135) by other methods. The P. carinii PCR test was positive in 21 of 24 patients with P. carinii pneumonia, being the only microbiological indication of P. carinii in four cases. The CMV PCR test was positive in 18 patients, but in 14 patients the clinical significance of the finding remained unproven. The Aspergillus antigen test was positive in seven of nine patients with aspergillosis, being the only microbiological indication of Aspergillus in three cases. The result of BAL indicated commencement of specific antimicrobial treatment in 27 episodes (22.1%). The contribution of new culture-independent methods to the total diagnostic yield was of note. Among these methods, the P. carinii PCR and Aspergillus antigen tests proved the most valuable, while the CMV PCR test was not clinically useful."}
{"id": "15681047", "title": "Detection of transcripts of the aflatoxin genes aflD, aflO, and aflP by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction allows differentiation of aflatoxin-producing and non-producing isolates of Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Detection of transcripts of the aflatoxin genes aflD, aflO, and aflP by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction allows differentiation of aflatoxin-producing and non-producing isolates of Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus. The aim of this study was to test the suitability of the RT-PCR (reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction) technique to differentiate aflatoxin-producing from aflatoxin-non-producing strains of Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus. Total RNAs of 13 strains grown under inducing yeast extract-sucrose (YES) and non-inducing yeast extract-peptone (YEP) media, respectively, were analyzed by using specific primers based on the conserved regions of nine structural genes (aflD, aflG, aflH, aflI, aflK, aflM, aflO, aflP, and aflQ) and two regulatory genes aflS and aflR of the aflatoxin B1 biosynthetic pathway. Transcription was confirmed by the expression of the beta-tubulin gene. The expression of the majority aflatoxin biosynthetic genes including aflR and aflS of all strains varied with regard to the aflatoxin-producing ability and the growth conditions. Nonetheless, we found that the expression profile of the three genes aflD, aflO, and aflP was consistently correlated with a strain's ability to produce aflatoxins or not in YES as well as the inability to produce aflatoxins in YEP. The devised RT-PCR profiling method reflects aflatoxin concentrations ranging from 0.1 to 60 microg/ml of the culture filtrates as determined by fluorescence HPLC. The results are discussed in relation to the suitability of RT-PCR as well as cDNA-based array techniques in diagnostic laboratory settings where individual isolates are being tested for potential toxin production to identify toxigenic isolates of Aspergillus species."}
{"id": "15676191", "title": "A simple multiplex polymerase chain reaction assay for the identification of four environmentally relevant fungal contaminants.", "content": "A simple multiplex polymerase chain reaction assay for the identification of four environmentally relevant fungal contaminants. Historically, identification of filamentous fungal (mold) species has been based on morphological characteristics, both macroscopic and microscopic. These methods may often be time-consuming and inaccurate, necessitating the development of identification protocols that are rapid, sensitive, and precise. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) has shown great promise in its ability to identify and quantify individual organisms from a mixed culture environment; however, the cost effectiveness of single organism PCR reactions is quickly becoming an issue. Our laboratory has developed a simple method to identify multiple fungal species, Stachybotrys chartarum, Aspergillus versicolor, Penicillium purpurogenum, and Cladosporium spp. by performing multiplex PCR and distinguishing the different reaction products by their mobility during agarose gel electrophoresis. The amplified genes include the beta-Tubulin gene from A. versicolor, the Tri5 gene from S. chartarum, and ribosomal sequences from both P. purpurogenum and Cladosporium spp. This method was found to be both rapid and easy to perform, while maintaining high sensitivity and specificity for characterizing isolates, even from a mixed culture."}
{"id": "15670714", "title": "Expression of agsA, one of five 1,3-alpha-D-glucan synthase-encoding genes in Aspergillus niger, is induced in response to cell wall stress.", "content": "Expression of agsA, one of five 1,3-alpha-D-glucan synthase-encoding genes in Aspergillus niger, is induced in response to cell wall stress. 1,3-alpha-D-Glucan is an important component of the cell wall of filamentous fungi. We have identified a family of five 1,3-alpha-D-glucan synthase-encoding genes in Aspergillus niger. The agsA gene was sequenced and the predicted protein sequence indicated that the overall domain structure of 1,3-alpha-D-glucan synthases is conserved in fungi. Using RT-PCR and Northern blot analysis, we found that expression of the agsA gene and to a lesser extent also of agsE were induced in the presence of the cell wall stress-inducing compounds such as Calcofluor White (CFW), SDS, and caspofungin. Loss of agsA function did not result in an apparent phenotype under normal growth conditions but rendered the cells more sensitive to CFW. The induction of 1,3-alpha-D-glucan synthase-encoding genes in response to cell wall stress was not limited to A. niger, but was also observed in Penicillium chrysogenum. We propose that this response to cell wall stress commonly occurs in filamentous fungi."}
{"id": "15668862", "title": "Application of nucleic acid sequence-based amplification for diagnosis of and monitoring the clinical course of invasive aspergillosis in patients with hematologic diseases.", "content": "Application of nucleic acid sequence-based amplification for diagnosis of and monitoring the clinical course of invasive aspergillosis in patients with hematologic diseases. We evaluated nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (NASBA) and a galactomannan enzyme immunosorbent assay (GM-EIA) for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) in neutropenic febrile patients and for monitoring of its clinical course and outcome. Blood samples were collected twice per week from 128 patients with hematologic diseases during periods of neutropenic fever after undergoing chemotherapy or hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. A total of 448 blood samples were tested. There were 14 patients with IA (2 patients with proven IA and 12 with probable IA). The median index of the initial NASBA in the IA group was more than 10-fold higher than that in the non-IA group. Galactomannan antigenemia (index, >0.5) was detected with a sensitivity of 86%. In receiver-operator characteristic analysis, the cutoff index of NASBA for the presumptive diagnosis of IA was determined to be 5.0. Combination of these 2 parameters (either a GM-EIA index of >or=0.5 or a NASBA index of >or=5.0) improved the sensitivity of diagnosis to 100%. There was a close relationship between patient outcome and the kinetics of NASBA values: failure of negative conversion during treatment resulted in death in almost all cases. If either GM-EIA or NASBA results suggest IA, the diagnostic yield for IA could be improved, and NASBA could be a useful marker for predicting the clinical course and outcome of treatment."}
{"id": "15659196", "title": "High level expression of a recombinant acid phytase gene in Pichia pastoris.", "content": "High level expression of a recombinant acid phytase gene in Pichia pastoris. To achieve high phytase yield with improved enzymatic activity in Pichia pastoris. The 1347-bp phytase gene of Aspergillus niger SK-57 was synthesized using a successive polymerase chain reaction and was altered by deleting intronic sequences, optimizing codon usage and replacing its original signal sequence with a synthetic signal peptide (designated MF4I) that is a codon-modified Saccharomyces cerevisiae mating factor alpha-prepro-leader sequence. The gene constructs containing wild type or modified phytase gene coding sequences under the control of the highly-inducible alcohol oxidase gene promoter with the MF4I- or wild type alpha-signal sequence were used to transform Pichia pastoris. The P. pastoris strain that expressed the modified phytase gene (phyA-sh) with MF4I sequence produced 6.1 g purified phytase per litre of culture fluid, with the phytase activity of 865 U ml(-1). The expressed phytase varied in size (64, 67, 87, 110 and 120 kDa), but could be deglycosylated to produce a homogeneous 64 kDa protein. The recombinant phytase had two pH optima (pH 2.5 and pH 5.5) and an optimum temperature of 60 degrees C. The P. pastoris strain with the genetically engineered phytase gene produced 6.1 g l(-1) of phytase or 865 U ml(-1) phytase activity, a 14.5-fold increase compared with the P. pastoris strain with the wild type phytase gene. The P. pastoris strain expressing the modified phytase gene with the MF4I signal peptide showed great potential as a commercial phytase production system."}
{"id": "15634974", "title": "Rapid, high-throughput, multiplex, real-time PCR for identification of mutations in the cyp51A gene of Aspergillus fumigatus that confer resistance to itraconazole.", "content": "Rapid, high-throughput, multiplex, real-time PCR for identification of mutations in the cyp51A gene of Aspergillus fumigatus that confer resistance to itraconazole. Aspergillus fumigatus is an important cause of life-threatening invasive fungal disease in patients with compromised immune systems. Resistance to itraconazole in A. fumigatus is closely linked to amino acid substitutions in Cyp51A that replace Gly54. In an effort to develop a new class of molecular diagnostic assay that can rapidly assess drug resistance, a multiplexed assay was established. This assay uses molecular beacons corresponding to the wild-type cyp51A gene and seven mutant alleles encoding either Arg54, Lys54, Val54, Trp54, or Glu54. Molecular beacon structure design and real-time PCR conditions were optimized to increase the assay specificity. The multiplex assay was applied to the analysis of chromosomal DNA samples from a collection of 48 A. fumigatus clinical and laboratory-derived isolates, most with reduced susceptibility to itraconazole. The cyp51A allelic identities for codon 54 were established for all of the strains tested, and mutations altering Gly54 in 23 strains were revealed. These mutations included G(54)W (n = 1), G(54)E (n = 12), G(54)K (n = 3), G(54)R (n = 3), and G(54)V (n = 4). Molecular beacon assay results were confirmed by DNA sequencing. Multiplex real-time PCR with molecular beacons is a powerful technique for allele differentiation and analysis of resistance mutations that is dynamic and suitable for rapid high-throughput assessment of drug resistance."}
{"id": "15615755", "title": "Necrotising retinopathies simulating acute retinal necrosis syndrome.", "content": "Necrotising retinopathies simulating acute retinal necrosis syndrome. To determine an aetiological diagnosis in patients presenting with necrotising retinopathies that simulate acute retinal necrosis (ARN). Retrospective non-comparative case series. The charts of 16 patients presenting with a clinical impression of ARN at Pitie-Salpetriere Hospital, Paris, France, between 1994 and 1999, who required initial antiviral therapy were reviewed. All of the patients had extensive laboratory tests. Anterior chamber paracentesis was performed on 14 patients and evaluated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and/or the Witmer-Goldmann coefficient to determine the cause of retinitis. Three of the 14 cases also had diagnostic vitrectomy. Responses to specific treatment, initiated based on laboratory results, and the final outcome were evaluated. Seven of the 16 patients were female and nine were male. The retinitis was bilateral in five patients and unilateral in 11 patients. The average age of the patients at presentation was 53.6 years. 13 patients were immune deficient for various reasons. Upon initial presentation, the patients' visual acuities were less than 20/200 in 68% of the affected eyes. The final diagnoses, based on laboratory data and therapeutic response were toxoplasmic retinochoroiditis (62.5%), syphilitic retinitis (12.5%), aspergillus endophthalmitis (12.5%), Behcet's disease (6.2%), and intraocular lymphoma (6.2%). Visual acuity was stabilised or improved in 12 patients (75%). Two patients with aspergillosis died despite antifungal therapy. Toxoplasmic retinochoroiditis is the major cause of retinal necrosis that simulates ARN, and PCR analysis of the aqueous humour is helpful in establishing the diagnosis. Such atypical toxoplasma retinochoroiditis may be associated with poor visual outcome."}
{"id": "15591252", "title": "Fungus culture and PCR in nasal lavage samples of patients with chronic rhinosinusitis.", "content": "Fungus culture and PCR in nasal lavage samples of patients with chronic rhinosinusitis. Chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) affects approximately 15 % of the adult population in industrialized countries. Fungi have been recognized as important pathogens in CRS in the immunocompromised host. Recently, fungi have been detected in more than 90 % of nasal lavages (NLs) in immunocompetent patients with CRS. Employing NLs of immunocompetent patients with CRS in the present study, the detection rates for fungi by culture techniques were compared with the results of different fungus-specific PCR assays. Standard fungal cultures were performed on NLs from 77 patients with CRS. NLs were also tested for the presence of fungal DNA by a panfungal assay with and without specific probes for Candida spp. and Aspergillus spp./Penicillium spp., and an Aspergillus-specific nested PCR assay. Nineteen of the 77 samples (25 %) grew fungi. Fungus-specific DNA was detected in 34 of 77 NLs (44 %). Twelve samples were positive for both culture and panfungal PCR, whereas seven specimens grew fungi in culture, but were negative in panfungal PCR, and an additional seven samples were positive in panfungal PCR, but negative in culture. The combination of culture and all employed PCR assays detected fungi in 39 patients (50 %). This study demonstrated that PCR and conventional culture techniques could be complementary diagnostic techniques to detect fungi in nasal specimens from CRS patients."}
{"id": "15588991", "title": "A rapid method for promoter exchange in Aspergillus nidulans using recombinant PCR.", "content": "A rapid method for promoter exchange in Aspergillus nidulans using recombinant PCR. Recombinant PCR has been used to generate linear fragments for promoter replacement by transformation in Aspergillus nidulans. A cassette vector carrying the pyr-4 non-homologous selectable marker and conditional promoter Pr-alcA was constructed for use as a template for PCR, and is suitable for testing the function of essential genes. Two genes involved in polar growth, cotA and bemA, were used to assess the system. Efficient targeting was possible with both genes using approximately 500bp of flanking homologous sequence. Depending on yield, the linear PCR product could be used directly for transformation, or after first cloning into a suitable vector. bemA, a putative homologue of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae BEM1 gene was identified through sequence comparison. In A. nidulans, this protein appears to have a similar role to the yeast Bem1p, which acts as a scaffold protein involved in the establishment of cell polarity."}
{"id": "15549616", "title": "Fungal endocarditis in neonates and children.", "content": "Fungal endocarditis in neonates and children. Fungal endocarditis in the neonate and pediatric population is associated with a high degree of morbidity and mortality, with diagnosis in the majority of cases made postmortem. The aim of this article is to review published literature on fungal endocarditis in children and to discuss the incidence due to a wide range of fungi, primarily Aspergillus and Candida species, as well as its diagnosis, including the importance of molecular-based approaches and various treatment regimes."}
{"id": "15272286", "title": "Pulmonary pathology of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Toronto.", "content": "Pulmonary pathology of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Toronto. The severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) pandemic in Toronto resulted in a large number of autopsies on its victims. We describe the pulmonary pathology of patients who died in the 2003 Toronto outbreak. Autopsy material from the lungs of 20 patients who died between March and July 2003 were characterized by histology, molecular biology, and immunohistochemistry for cytokeratins, thyroid transcription factor-1, CD68, Epstein-Barr virus, cytomegalovirus, and human herpes simplex viruses. Matched controls were obtained from patients who died of other causes over the same interval. The mean duration of illness was 27 days (range 5-108 days). Post-mortem lung tissues from 19 of 20 patients with probable SARS were positive for SARS-associated coronavirus by RT-PCR. Histologically, all patients showed varying degrees of exudative and proliferative phase acute lung injury, evidenced in conventional and immunohistochemical stains by edema, inflammatory infiltrate, pneumocyte hyperplasia, fibrinous exudates, and organization. Eight of 20 patients showed predominantly a diffuse alveolar damage pattern of acute lung injury, six showed predominantly an acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia pattern, and the remainder showed an admixture of the two patterns. Squamous metaplasia and scattered multinucleate giant cells were present in most cases. Vascular fibrin thrombi were a common finding and were often associated with pulmonary infarcts. Special stains demonstrated vascular endothelial damage of both small- and mid-sized pulmonary vessels. Two cases were complicated by invasive fungal disease consistent with Aspergillosis, and another by coinfection with cytomegalovirus. Our findings indicate that the lungs of patients who die of SARS are almost always positive for the SARS-associated coronavirus by RT-PCR, and may show features of both diffuse alveolar damage and acute fibrinous and organizing pneumonia patterns of acute injury. Cases of SARS may be complicated by coexistent infections and therapy-related lung injury."}
{"id": "16892537", "title": "[Transplantation-associated infections].", "content": "[Transplantation-associated infections]. Transplantation-associated infections are caused by an infected transplanted organ or the endogenic or exogenic environment of the recipient in a state of induced immunodeficiency. The best therapy would be to reconstitute the immunodeficiency, but this is usually impossible as it endangers the transplanted organ. Thus, a specific, standardised anti-infectious therapy is needed even in the absence of clearly identified micro-organisms [bacteria (in two thirds gram-positive rods), parasites (in central Europe predominantly Toxoplasma), fungi (especially Candida spp. or Aspergillus spp.) or viruses (such as Parvovirus B19 and Cytomegalovirus)]. Origins of infection (e.g., hygiene), types of infection (e.g., reactivation), typical localisations, diagnostic tools (e.g., blood cultures, antigenic tests, PCR, CT, advantages and disadvantages of antibody assays) and possible therapies are briefly discussed. The take home messages are to avoid economy measures in microbial diagnostics and to use CMV-seronegative donors whenever possible."}
{"id": "16110957", "title": "[Construction and functional analysis of the pepB gene disruptant in Aspergillus niger].", "content": "[Construction and functional analysis of the pepB gene disruptant in Aspergillus niger]. An integration plasmid pMW1-pepB for the pepB gene disruption in Aspergillus was constructed. The plasmid contained the pepB gene upstream (P) 1.4kb and downstream (T) 1.3kb homologous fragments with insertion of the expression unit of the hygromycin resistance gene (hph) between them. P and T DNA fragments were synthesized by PCR from Aspergillus niger chromosomal DNA. The integration plasmid was digested with the Hpa I restriction enzyme, the resultant 4.2kb linear fragment was introduced into the Aspergillus niger strain GICC2773 which expressing the glucoamylase/laccase fusion protein by PEG-mediated transformation. 62 Hygromycin resistance transformants were screened, and from them one strain named pepB29 was identified to be the pepB disruptant by PCR analysis. Data of functional assay of the pepB29 strain indicated that the disruption of the pepB gene secreted reduced acid proteolytic activity, and improved the heterologous protein laccase production."}
{"id": "15791867", "title": "Clinical identification of common species of dermatophytes by PCR and PCR-RFLP.", "content": "Clinical identification of common species of dermatophytes by PCR and PCR-RFLP. To find a fast and efficient way of identifying seven common dermatophytes in clinical practice, we used the techniques of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and PCR-restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) targeting Topoisomerase II gene. The DNA of 7 dermatophytes, along with Candida albicans, Aspergillus terreus and Aspergillus flavus were amplified by consensus primer dPsD1. They were then subjected to a second PCR with primers dPsD2 and species-specific primers PsT and PsME separately. 6 of the products generated by dPsD2 were digested with restriction enzyme Hinc II. DNA fragments of 3390 bp and 2380 bp was amplified by using consensus primer dPsD1 and dPsD2 from the genomic DNA of each dermatophyte species separately. By combining the results of the two species-specific primer sets (PsT and PsME), all species of dermatophyte yielded unique sizes-set of PCR products expect for T. mentagrophytes and T. tonsurans. From the restriction profiles of Hinc II, 6 of the 7 dermatophytoses were diagnosed to species level including T. mentagrophytes and T. tonsurans. By combining the results of the PCR and PCR-RFLP, the 7 common dermatophytes can be identified to species level. It is conclude that the multiplex PCR and PCR-RFLP identification targeting the DNA topoisomerase II gene is rapid and efficient."}
{"id": "15757179", "title": "The isoepoxydon dehydrogenase gene of patulin biosynthesis in cultures and secondary metabolites as candidate PCR inhibitors.", "content": "The isoepoxydon dehydrogenase gene of patulin biosynthesis in cultures and secondary metabolites as candidate PCR inhibitors. The European Union (EU) has introduced statutory limits for patulin in fruit products. Species definitions need to be unambiguous for this capability, especially to determine 'weak spots' in food, drink and feed production. Fungi were analysed for the isoepoxydon dehydrogenase (IDH) gene of the patulin metabolic pathway to indicate potential patulin production. In several cases inhibition of PCR product formation was indicated. Dilution as a means of overcoming PCR inhibition and to determine optimal concentrations was assessed and the ramifications for nucleic acid analysis in general are highlighted. The inhibitors may be secondary metabolites. However, inhibition was not involved obviously for Penicillium brevicompactum. The gene was detected frequently from Aspergillus section Clavati and Penicillium subgenus Penicillium species. Some strains within certain species were negative for the gene. Detection of the gene product in Byssochlamys is reported."}
{"id": "15733434", "title": "[Rapid pathogens diagnosis of infected keratitis and endophthalmitis using two steps polymerase chain reaction].", "content": "[Rapid pathogens diagnosis of infected keratitis and endophthalmitis using two steps polymerase chain reaction]. To establish a rapid diagnosis technique of the pathogens of infected keratitis and endophthalmitis. Fifty-one corneal scraping, tear and 16 vitreous specimens were obtained from 67 cases of infected keratitis and endophthalmitis. Multiplex polymerase chain reaction (MPCR) was performed to differentiate the genes of bacteria, fungi and HSV using their own universal primers. Special-primers PCR were carried out for MPCR positive specimens to detect the genes of common bacteria and fungi respectively. The results were compared with microbe culture and clinical diagnosis. In 67 clinical samples, 52 (77.6%) were positive at least one kind of pathogen by MPCR (two positive pathogens were 8 cases). SPCR revealed that 7 bacteria (25.0%) out of 28 bacteria positive specimens were Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Eight fungi (53.3%)of 15 fungi positive specimens was Candida, Aspergillus, Fusarium. The culture positive rates were 31.3% (21 cases), among them 1 case was found positive for two pathogens. MPCR positive rate was statistically higher than the rate that in culture (chi(2) = 13.50, P < 0.005). The kinds of bacteria and fungi of SPCR positive were as the same as bacteria and fungi of culture positive. Consistency of clinical diagnosis and experimental evidences of infected keratitis was 54.8%. The time for microbe culture needs 72 to 96 hours, but MPCR and SPCR needs 8 hours. Two steps PCR is rapid, sensitive method to detect the pathogens of infected keratitis and endophthalmitis."}
{"id": "15709804", "title": "Evaluation of two PCR methodologies for the detection of Aspergillus DNA.", "content": "Evaluation of two PCR methodologies for the detection of Aspergillus DNA. We investigated the application of two different nested PCR methodologies for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis, by studying the possible cross-reactions among different fungal species and genera. The sensitivity obtained using both techniques can be considered adequate, although we obtained amplified products from fungal genera other than Aspergillus, showing the presence of cross-reactions with fungal DNA."}
{"id": "15645173", "title": "Development of a method to detect and quantify Aspergillus fumigatus conidia by quantitative PCR for environmental air samples.", "content": "Development of a method to detect and quantify Aspergillus fumigatus conidia by quantitative PCR for environmental air samples. Exposure to Aspergillus fumigatus is linked with respiratory diseases such as asthma, invasive aspergillosis, hypersensitivity pneumonitis, and allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis. Molecular methods using quantitative PCR (qPCR) offer advantages over culture and optical methods for estimating human exposures to microbiological agents such as fungi. We describe an assay that uses lyticase to digest A. fumigatus conidia followed by TaqMan qPCR to quantify released DNA. This method will allow analysis of airborne A. fumigatus samples collected over extended time periods and provide a more representative assessment of chronic exposure. The method was optimized for environmental samples and incorporates: single tube sample preparation to reduce sample loss, maintain simplicity, and avoid contamination; hot start amplification to reduce non-specific primer/probe annealing; and uracil-N-glycosylase to prevent carryover contamination. An A. fumigatus internal standard was developed and used to detect PCR inhibitors potentially found in air samples. The assay detected fewer than 10 A. fumigatus conidia per qPCR reaction and quantified conidia over a 4-log10 range with high linearity (R2 >0.99) and low variability among replicate standards (CV=2.0%) in less than 4 h. The sensitivity and linearity of qPCR for conidia deposited on filters was equivalent to conidia calibration standards. A. fumigatus DNA from 8 isolates was consistently quantified using this method, while non-specific DNA from 14 common environmental fungi, including 6 other Aspergillus species, was not detected. This method provides a means of analyzing long term air samples collected on filters which may enable investigators to correlate airborne environmental A. fumigatus conidia concentrations with adverse health effects."}
{"id": "15644917", "title": "Genetic relationships among Brazilian strains of Aspergillus ochraceus based on RAPD and ITS sequences.", "content": "Genetic relationships among Brazilian strains of Aspergillus ochraceus based on RAPD and ITS sequences. Ochratoxin A (OA) is a mycotoxin that has been found in coffee beans and coffee beverages. Its toxicological profile includes carcinogenicity, nephrotoxicity, and immunotoxicity. Aspergillus ochraceus is the major species responsible for OA production in Brazilian coffee beans. The genetic relationships among 25 A. ochraceus strains collected from Brazilian coffee-bean samples were determined based on RAPD and internal transcribed spacer (ITS) sequence data. The isolates were resolved into 2 distinct groups, one with 4 strains (group A) and the other with 21 strains (group B). Specific nucleotide variations characterizing group A and B were found for both ITS1 and ITS2 regions. Group B is a new group proposed here to accommodate the majority of the Brazilian isolates. Each group was found to contain both toxigenic and nontoxigenic strains, indicating that there is no association between molecular genotypes and the ability to produce OA."}
{"id": "15583275", "title": "Aspergillus galactomannan enzyme immunoassay and quantitative PCR for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis with bronchoalveolar lavage fluid.", "content": "Aspergillus galactomannan enzyme immunoassay and quantitative PCR for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis with bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) is frequent and often fatal in hematopoietic stem cell transplant patients. Diagnosis requires microbiological or histopathologic demonstration of the organism in tissues; however, cultivation of Aspergillus species from respiratory secretions has low diagnostic sensitivity. Assays to detect Aspergillus antigen or DNA in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid could facilitate earlier diagnosis, thereby guiding optimal therapy and obviating the need for additional costly and potentially morbid diagnostic evaluation. We evaluated the performance of a galactomannan enzyme immunoassay (GM EIA; Bio-Rad) by using a range of index cutoffs to define positivity and a quantitative PCR (qPCR) assay for the detection of Aspergillus species from BAL samples of patients with proven and probable IPA (case patients; n = 49) and without IPA (control patients; n = 50). The sensitivity of the GM EIA was 61% with an index cutoff of 1.0 and 76% with an index cutoff of 0.5; the corresponding specificities were 98 and 94%, respectively. The sensitivity and specificity of qPCR assay were 67 and 100%, respectively. The sensitivity with 22 culture-negative BAL specimens from patients with IPA was 41% for GM EIA with an index cutoff of 1.0, 59% for GM EIA with an index cutoff of 0.5, and 36% for qPCR assay. GM EIA indices and DNA quantities corresponded to BAL fungal burdens, with culture-positive samples having larger amounts of antigen and DNA compared to culture-negative samples. GM EIA and qPCR assay add to the sensitivity of BAL for diagnosing IPA in high-risk patients, with excellent specificity. Adjunctive use of these tests may reduce dependence on invasive diagnostic procedures."}
{"id": "15574949", "title": "Cyclo(L-leucyl-L-prolyl) produced by Achromobacter xylosoxidans inhibits aflatoxin production by Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Cyclo(L-leucyl-L-prolyl) produced by Achromobacter xylosoxidans inhibits aflatoxin production by Aspergillus parasiticus. Aflatoxins are potent carcinogenic and toxic substances that are produced primarily by Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus. We found that a bacterium remarkably inhibited production of norsolorinic acid, a precursor of aflatoxin, by A. parasiticus. This bacterium was identified as Achromobacter xylosoxidans based on its 16S ribosomal DNA sequence and was designated A. xylosoxidans NFRI-A1. A. xylosoxidans strains commonly showed similar inhibition. The inhibitory substance(s) was excreted into the medium and was stable after heat, acid, or alkaline treatment. Although the bacterium appeared to produce several inhibitory substances, we finally succeeded in purifying a major inhibitory substance from the culture medium using Diaion HP20 column chromatography, thin-layer chromatography, and high-performance liquid chromatography. The purified inhibitory substance was identified as cyclo(L-leucyl-L-prolyl) based on physicochemical methods. The 50% inhibitory concentration for aflatoxin production by A. parasiticus SYS-4 (= NRRL2999) was 0.20 mg ml(-1), as determined by the tip culture method. High concentrations (more than 6.0 mg ml(-1)) of cyclo(L-leucyl-L-prolyl) further inhibited fungal growth. Similar inhibitory activities were observed with cyclo(D-leucyl-D-prolyl) and cyclo(L-valyl-L-prolyl), whereas cyclo(D-prolyl-L-leucyl) and cyclo(L-prolyl-D-leucyl) showed weaker activities. Reverse transcription-PCR analyses showed that cyclo(L-leucyl-L-prolyl) repressed transcription of the aflatoxin-related genes aflR, hexB, pksL1, and dmtA. This is the first report of a cyclodipeptide that affects aflatoxin production."}
{"id": "15555940", "title": "Expression in Trichoderma reesei and characterisation of a thermostable family 3 beta-glucosidase from the moderately thermophilic fungus Talaromyces emersonii.", "content": "Expression in Trichoderma reesei and characterisation of a thermostable family 3 beta-glucosidase from the moderately thermophilic fungus Talaromyces emersonii. The gene encoding a thermostable beta-glucosidase (cel3a) was isolated from the thermophilic fungus Talalaromyces emersonii by degenerate PCR and expressed in the filamentous fungus Trichoderma reesei. The cel3a gene encodes an 857 amino acid long protein with a calculated molecular weight of 90.59 kDa. Tal. emersonii beta-glucosidase falls into glycosyl hydrolase family 3, showing approximately 56 and 67% identity with Cel3b (GenBank ) from T. reesei, and a beta-glucosidase from Aspergillus Niger (GenBank ), respectively. The heterologously expressed enzyme, Cel3a, was a dimer equal to 130 kDa subunits with 17 potential N-glycosylation sites and a previously unreported beta-glucosidase activity produced extracellularly by Tal. emersonii. Cel3a was thermostable with an optimum temperature of 71.5 degrees C and half life of 62 min at 65 degrees C and was a specific beta-glucosidase with no beta-galactosidase side activity. Cel3a had a high specific activity against p-nitrophenyl-beta-D-glucopyranoside (Vmax, 512 IU/mg) and was competitively inhibited by glucose (k(i), 0.254 mM). Cel3a was also active against natural cellooligosacharides with glucose being the product of hydrolysis. It displayed transferase activity producing mainly cellobiose from glucose and cellotetrose from cellobiose."}
{"id": "15553652", "title": "Detection of aflatoxin-producing molds in Korean fermented foods and grains by multiplex PCR.", "content": "Detection of aflatoxin-producing molds in Korean fermented foods and grains by multiplex PCR. An assay based on multiplex PCR was applied for the detection of potential aflatoxin-producing molds in Korean fermented foods and grains. Three genes, avfA, omtA, and ver-1, coding for key enzymes in aflatoxin biosynthesis, were used as aflatoxin-detecting target genes in multiplex PCR. DNA extracted from Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus parasiticus, Aspergillus oryzae, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus terreus, Penicillium expansum, and Fusarium verticillioides was used as PCR template to test specificity of the multiplex PCR assay. Positive results were achieved only with DNA that was extracted from the aflatoxigenic molds A. flavus and A. parasiticus in all three primer pairs. This result was supported by aflatoxin detection with direct competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (DC-ELISA). The PCR assay required just a few hours, enabling rapid and simultaneous detection of many samples at a low cost. A total of 22 Meju samples, 24 Doenjang samples, and 10 barley samples commercially obtained in Korea were analyzed. The DC-ELISA assay for aflatoxin detection gave negative results for all samples, whereas the PCR-based method gave positive results for 1 of 22 Meju samples and 2 of 10 barley samples. After incubation of the positive samples with malt extract agar, DC-ELISA also gave positive results for aflatoxin detection. All Doenjang samples were negative by multiplex PCR and DC-ELISA assay, suggesting that aflatoxin contamination and the presence of aflatoxin-producing molds in Doenjang are probably low."}
{"id": "15552645", "title": "PCR identification system for the genus Aspergillus and three major pathogenic species: Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus niger.", "content": "PCR identification system for the genus Aspergillus and three major pathogenic species: Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus niger. A PCR system was developed that allowed recognition of three major pathogenic Aspergillus species, namely A. fumigatus, A. niger and A. flavus, in isolates obtained from clinical specimens. The primer pair for PCR was designed from conserved sequences of internal transcribed spacer 1 (ITS1) ribosomal DNA and its flanking regions. Products 521 bp in size were successfully amplified by PCR from the seven Aspergillus species most frequently encountered as opportunistic pathogens, and the three most commonly significant species were identified by separate PCR reactions or nested PCR based on use of species-specific primers. To our knowledge, this is first report of identification of the second and third most frequent pathogenic Aspergillus species using specific PCR amplification. The PCR based identification system reported here will be a powerful tool to control difficult pulmonary fungal infections and to speed the application of effective treatment."}
{"id": "15552643", "title": "Value of an inhalational model of invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Value of an inhalational model of invasive aspergillosis. Animal models of invasive aspergillosis have been used for virulence studies and antifungal efficacy evaluations but results have been inconsistent. In an attempt to reproduce human infection, many Aspergillus animal models have utilized a 'pulmonary route' for delivery of conidia, largely through intranasal instillation. However, several radiolabeled particle studies have shown that aerosol delivery is preferable to intranasal instillation to create a more homogenous delivery to the lungs. We hypothesized that an inhalational model would be more robust for studies of invasive aspergillosis pathogenesis and antifungal therapy. We developed an inhalational model of Aspergillus fumigatus infection using a Hinners inhalation chamber and demonstrated by quantitative polymerase chain reaction that this new inhalational model creates a more homogenous murine pneumonia, facilitating analysis of mutant strains and treatment regimens."}
{"id": "15504870", "title": "In vitro evolution of itraconazole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus involves multiple mechanisms of resistance.", "content": "In vitro evolution of itraconazole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus involves multiple mechanisms of resistance. We investigated the evolution of resistance to the antifungal drug itraconazole in replicate populations of Aspergillus fumigatus that were founded from a strain with a genotype of sensitivity to a single drug and then propagated under uniform conditions. For each population, conidia were serially transferred 10 times to agar medium either with or without itraconazole. After 10 transfers in medium supplemented with itraconazole, 10 itraconazole-resistant mutant strains were isolated from two populations. These mutant strains had different growth rates and different levels of itraconazole resistance. Analysis of the ergosterol contents of these mutants showed that they accumulate ergosterol when they are grown in the presence of itraconazole. The replacement of the CYP51A gene of the wild-type strain changed the susceptibility pattern of this strain to one of itraconazole resistance only when CYP51A genes with N22D and M220I mutations were used as selectable marker genes. Real-time quantitative reverse transcription-PCR was used to assess the levels of expression of the Afumdr1, Afumdr2, Afumdr3, Afumdr4, AtrF transporter, CYP51A, and CYP51B genes in these mutant strains. Most mutants showed either constitutive high-level expression or induction upon exposure of Afumdr3, Afumdr4, and AtrF to itraconazole. Our results suggest that overexpression of drug efflux pumps and/or selection of drug target site mutations are at least partially responsible for itraconazole resistance and could be considered mechanisms for the emergence of clinical resistance to this drug."}
{"id": "15489939", "title": "[Application of molecular biology techniques in the identification of pathogenic fungi and the diagnosis of fungal infection].", "content": "[Application of molecular biology techniques in the identification of pathogenic fungi and the diagnosis of fungal infection]. With the increasing incidence and mortality of fungal infection, the requirements for strict diagnostic approaches became a very urgent issue. Because of the traditional detective techniques, such as culture, gave poor diagnostic outcomes, the molecular biological techniques are expected to develop the potential diagnostic approaches. During the past decades, we have carried out serial studies on the molecular properties of pathogenic fungi, and we would like to review as following. Firstly, we applied several molecular tools in classification and identification of pathogenic fungi. We performed random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD), restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) and other techniques in studying the typing, to classify and identify the properties of Dermatophytes, Candida spp., Cryptococcus neoformans, Dematiaceous fungi, and Aspergillus spp. Interestingly, we found the same T. rubrum strain might infect different sites of the host, while a site-specificity displayed in T. mentagrophytes. This finding indicated the genetic discrepancies among the fungi. Beside, we also found that the E. dermatitis strains with different virulences possessed some discrepancies at gene level. We then developed a PCR-based molecular procedure to identify the novel species in Exophiala spp. As the applicable strategy, we also investigated the rDNA sequence properties in several fungi. And as a result, we submitted for the first time to GenBank the complete sequence of Aspergillus fumigatus rDNA/ITSI/ITSII, which provided the basis for designing the species-specific probes and for its further clinical applications. Secondly, we have tried to develop the molecular diagnostic approaches based on our DNA sequence data which were used for identification studies previously. By analyzing the DNA sequence of Aspergillus fumigatus rDNA/ITSI/ITSII, we developed a nested PCR method to detect Aspergillus fumigatus genes. Our preliminary results indicated that this PCR-based molecular approach has great importance in the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. We also designed the species-specific probes and then established several in situ hybridization procedures. We found these hybridization methods could get the positive rate up to 81% (13/16), which suggests that these methods have potential diagnostic value for invasive candidiasis and aspergillosis. Based on our experiences, we would conclude that the molecular biological techniques possess great value to investigate the biological properties of pathogenic fungi, and we are looking forward to see more and more molecular tools will be used in the pathogenic mechanisms of fungal infections and antifungal activity studies."}
{"id": "15479404", "title": "Utilization of AFLP markers for PCR-based identification of Aspergillus carbonarius and indication of its presence in green coffee samples.", "content": "Utilization of AFLP markers for PCR-based identification of Aspergillus carbonarius and indication of its presence in green coffee samples. The objective of this work was to test whether ochratoxin A (OTA) production of Aspergillus niger and A. carbonarius is linked to a certain genotype and to identify marker sequences with diagnostic value aiding identification of A. carbonarius, a fungus of major concern regarding OTA production in food and food raw materials. Aspergillus niger and A. carbonarius were isolated mainly from Brazilian coffee sources. The ability of isolates to produce OTA was tested by thin layer chromatography (TLC). Strains were genetically characterized by AFLP fingerprinting and compared with each other and with reference strains. Cluster analysis of fingerprints showed clear separation of A. niger from A. carbonarius strains. To obtain marker sequences, AFLP fragments were isolated from silver stained polyacrylamide gels, cloned and sequenced. Sequences obtained were used to develop species- specific PCR primers for the identification of A. carbonarius in pure culture and in artificially and naturally infected samples of green coffee. No clear correlation between genetic similarity of the strains studied and their potential to produce OTA was found. The PCR assays designed are a useful and specific tool for identification and highly sensitive detection of A. carbonarius. The developed PCR assays allow specific and sensitive detection and identification of A. carbonarius, a fungus considered to be one of the major causative agents for OTA in coffee and grape-derived products. Assays may provide powerful tools to improve quality control and consumer safety in the food processing industry."}
{"id": "15470263", "title": "Rapid production of gene replacement constructs and generation of a green fluorescent protein-tagged centromeric marker in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Rapid production of gene replacement constructs and generation of a green fluorescent protein-tagged centromeric marker in Aspergillus nidulans. A method to rapidly generate gene replacement constructs by fusion PCR is described for Aspergillus nidulans. The utility of the approach is demonstrated by green fluorescent protein (GFP) tagging of A. nidulans ndc80 to visualize centromeres through the cell cycle. The methodology makes possible large-scale GFP tagging, promoter swapping, and deletion analysis of A. nidulans."}
{"id": "15466528", "title": "Functional analysis of fructosyl-amino acid oxidases of Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Functional analysis of fructosyl-amino acid oxidases of Aspergillus oryzae. Three active fractions of fructosyl-amino acid oxidase (FAOD-Ao1, -Ao2a, and -Ao2b) were isolated from Aspergillus oryzae strain RIB40. N-terminal and internal amino acid sequences of FAOD-Ao2a corresponded to those of FAOD-Ao2b, suggesting that these two isozymes were derived from the same protein. FAOD-Ao1 and -Ao2 were different in substrate specificity and subunit assembly; FAOD-Ao2 was active toward N(epsilon)-fructosyl N(alpha)-Z-lysine and fructosyl valine (Fru-Val), whereas FAOD-Ao1 was not active toward Fru-Val. The genes encoding the FAOD isozymes (i.e., FAOAo1 and FAOAo2) were cloned by PCR with an FAOD-specific primer set. The deduced amino acid sequences revealed that FAOD-Ao1 was 50% identical to FAOD-Ao2, and each isozyme had a peroxisome-targeting signal-1, indicating their localization in peroxisomes. The genes was expressed in Escherichia coli and rFaoAo2 showed the same characteristics as FAOD-Ao2, whereas rFaoAo1 was not active. FAOAo2 disruptant was obtained by using ptrA as a selective marker. Wild-type strain grew on the medium containing Fru-Val as the sole carbon and nitrogen sources, but strain Delta faoAo2 did not grow. Addition of glucose or (NH(4))(2)SO(4) to the Fru-Val medium did not affect the assimilation of Fru-Val by wild-type, indicating glucose and ammonium repressions did not occur in the expression of the FAOAo2 gene. Furthermore, conidia of the wild-type strain did not germinate on the medium containing Fru-Val and NaNO(2) as the sole carbon and nitrogen sources, respectively, suggesting that Fru-Val may also repress gene expression of nitrite reductase. These results indicated that FAOD is needed for utilization of fructosyl-amino acids as nitrogen sources in A. oryzae."}
{"id": "15465386", "title": "Double-joint PCR: a PCR-based molecular tool for gene manipulations in filamentous fungi.", "content": "Double-joint PCR: a PCR-based molecular tool for gene manipulations in filamentous fungi. Gene replacement via homologous double crossover in filamentous fungi requires relatively long (preferentially >0.5 kb) flanking regions of the target gene. For this reason, gene replacement cassettes are usually constructed through multiple cloning steps. To facilitate gene function studies in filamentous fungi avoiding tedious cloning steps, we have developed a PCR-assisted DNA assembly procedure and applied it to delete genes in filamentous fungi. While the principle of this procedure is essentially the same as other recently reported PCR-based tools, our technique has been effectively used to delete 31 genes in three fungal species. Moreover, this PCR-based method was used to fuse more than 10 genes to a controllable promoter. In this report, a detailed protocol for this easy to follow procedure and examples of genes deleted or over-expressed are presented. In conjunction with the availability of genome sequences, the application of this technique should facilitate functional characterization of genes in filamentous fungi. To stream line the analysis of the transformants a relatively simple procedure for genomic DNA or total RNA isolation achieving approximately 100 samples/person/day is also presented."}
{"id": "15461638", "title": "Validating PCR for detecting invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Validating PCR for detecting invasive aspergillosis."}
{"id": "15451105", "title": "Characterisation and expression of phospholipases B from the opportunistic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Characterisation and expression of phospholipases B from the opportunistic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus. The phospholipase B family (PLB) are enzymes sharing phospholipase (PL), lysophospholipase (LPL) and lysophospholipase-transacylase (LPTA) activities. They have been shown to be important virulence factors in several human fungal pathogens including Candida albicans and Cryptococcus neoformans. Aspergillus fumigatus, a human opportunistic fungal pathogen leading to a high rate of mortality in immunosuppressed patients is known to possess an extracellular phospholipase B activity. In this paper, we report the molecular characterisation of three PLB genes from A. fumigatus (afplb) using degenerate primers in PCR amplification and data from the A. fumigatus genome project. They are expressed at 37 degrees C, and two of them (afplb1 and afplb3) are induced by lecithin. They encode proteins of 633, 588 and 630 amino acids, respectively, presenting together a T-Coffee score of 81. They also possess the amino acid triad responsible for enzymatic activity in the mammalian cytosolic PLA2 and other fungal PLBs. AfPLB1 and afPLB3 are secreted with a cleaved signal peptide. The complete cDNA sequences were obtained by RACE-PCR for the two secreted afPLBs and probably account for the extracellular phospholipase activity previously reported in the culture media of A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "15451104", "title": "Development of a novel quadruple auxotrophic host transformation system by argB gene disruption using adeA gene and exploiting adenine auxotrophy in Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Development of a novel quadruple auxotrophic host transformation system by argB gene disruption using adeA gene and exploiting adenine auxotrophy in Aspergillus oryzae. We previously designed a triple auxotrophic host-vector system in Aspergillus oryzae by isolating red-colored adenine auxotrophic mutants upon UV mutagenesis of a double auxotrophic host (niaD-sC-). In the present study an effort to exploit this system and construct a novel quadruple auxotrophic host was made by disrupting the argB gene involved in arginine biosynthesis. The argB gene-disruption cassette was generated by fusion PCR, which required only two steps of PCR to insert the selectable marker, adeA, into the target argB gene. The chimeric DNA fragment was transformed into the triple auxotrophic strain (niaD-sC-adeA-) and the argB disruptants were obtained with a high rate of efficiency (approximately 40%). The argB disruptants were characterized by normal colony color and reversal of arginine auxotrophy by introduction of the wild-type argB gene. Quadruple auxotrophic strains (niaD-sC-DeltaargB adeA- or niaD-sC-DeltaargB adeB-) were subsequently isolated upon UV mutagenesis of the triple auxotrophic strain (niaD-sC-DeltaargB) followed by screening of red-colored colonies for adenine auxotrophy. The results obtained showed that the adeA gene served as an efficient selection marker in developing a novel host-vector system with quadruple auxotrophy in A. oryzae, thus providing a powerful tool to breed multiple auxotrophic mutants from a deuteromycete wherein sexual crossing is impossible."}
{"id": "15365025", "title": "Simple chemical extraction method for DNA isolation from Aspergillus fumigatus and other Aspergillus species.", "content": "Simple chemical extraction method for DNA isolation from Aspergillus fumigatus and other Aspergillus species. DNA was successfully isolated from numerous Aspergillus spp. by use of a commercial kit. DNA that was easily digested and yielded PCR products up to 8.5 kb in size was recovered from broth or agar cultures. The ease and speed of this protocol provide an alternative to physical methods of DNA isolation."}
{"id": "15365004", "title": "Diagnosing invasive aspergillosis during antifungal therapy by PCR analysis of blood samples.", "content": "Diagnosing invasive aspergillosis during antifungal therapy by PCR analysis of blood samples. We evaluated the value of Aspergillus PCR as a tool for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis from whole-blood samples during antifungal therapy. In a 3-year study, 36 patients receiving antifungal therapy due to chest radiographic findings highly suggestive of fungal pneumonia were evaluated. The PCR results from whole-blood samples were compared to those obtained from bronchoalveolar lavage fluids and/or tissue specimens. A total of 205 whole-blood samples, 15 fine-needle aspirations or tissue biopsy specimens, and 21 bronchoalveolar lavage fluids and tracheal secretions were analyzed using PCR. Of the 36 patients, 15 had proven, 9 had probable, and 12 had possible invasive Aspergillus infection according to European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer/Mycosis Study Group definitions. For patients with proven infection the sensitivity values of PCR in lung and blood samples were 100 and 40%, respectively. The negative predictive value of blood monitoring under conditions of antifungal treatment was 44%. Clearance of fungal DNA from blood was associated with resolution of clinical symptoms in six of nine patients with proven infection. Repeated positive PCR results for Aspergillus were associated with fatal outcome, as three of six patients died. For patients with probable infection the sensitivity values of PCR in lung fluid and blood were 66 and 44%, respectively. The benefit of PCR diagnosis using whole-blood samples is limited when sampling takes place after treatment has been started. Performance of Aspergillus PCR using tissue samples is recommended in addition to microscopic examination and culture technique for sensitive detection of fungal infection."}
{"id": "15364984", "title": "Identification to the species level and differentiation between strains of Aspergillus clinical isolates by automated repetitive-sequence-based PCR.", "content": "Identification to the species level and differentiation between strains of Aspergillus clinical isolates by automated repetitive-sequence-based PCR. A commercially available repetitive-sequence-based PCR (rep-PCR) DNA fingerprinting assay adapted to an automated format, the DiversiLab system, enables rapid microbial identification and strain typing. We explored the performance of the DiversiLab system as a molecular typing tool for 69 Aspergillus isolates (38 A. fumigatus, 15 A. flavus, and 16 A. terreus isolates) had been previously characterized by morphological analysis. Initially, 27 Aspergillus isolates (10 A. fumigatus, 9 A. flavus, and 8 A. terreus isolates) were used as controls to create a rep-PCR-based DNA fingerprint library with the DiversiLab software. Then, 42 blinded Aspergillus isolates were typed using the system. The rep-PCR-based profile revealed 98% concordance with morphology-based identification. rep-PCR-based DNA fingerprints were reproducible and were consistent for DNA from both hyphae and conidia. DiversiLab dendrogram reports correctly identified all A. fumigatus (n = 28), A. terreus (n = 8), and A. flavus (n = 6) isolates in the 42 blinded Aspergillus isolates. rep-PCR-based identification of all isolates was 100% in agreement with the contiguous internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region (ITS1-5.8S-ITS2) sequence-based identification of the respective isolates. Additionally, the DiversiLab system could demonstrate strain-level differentiation of A. flavus and A. terreus. Automated rep-PCR may be a time-efficient, effective, easy-to-use, novel genotyping tool for identifying and determining the strain relatedness of fungi. This system may be useful for epidemiological studies, molecular typing, and surveillance of Aspergillus species."}
{"id": "15345393", "title": "Modulation of Aspergillus awamori thaumatin secretion by modification of bipA gene expression.", "content": "Modulation of Aspergillus awamori thaumatin secretion by modification of bipA gene expression. Two different strains, Aspergillus awamori TGDTh-4 and A. awamori TGP-3 overexpressing a synthetic gene encoding the plant sweet protein thaumatin, showed an unfolded protein response. To facilitate protein secretion, the chaperone BiPA gene was expressed in A. awamori under control of the strong constitutive promoter of the gpdA gene. A good correlation was observed between the level of the bipA transcript in different strains and the amount of thaumatin secreted. Thaumatin secretion was increased 2- to 2.5-fold in transformants overexpressing the bipA gene compared with the parental strain. Secretion of the homologous proteins alpha-amylase and glucoamylase was not affected by the bipA gene overexpression. The requirement for BiPA for secretion of thaumatin was confirmed by attenuation of the endogenous bipA gene expression with an antisense RNA cassette. The decrease in bipA expression reduced the amount of secreted thaumatin up to 80% without affecting the secretion of the homologous alpha-amylase and glucoamylase proteins. The BiPA protein is, therefore, very important for secretion of some heterologous proteins, such as thaumatin in A. awamori."}
{"id": "15341913", "title": "aflT, a MFS transporter-encoding gene located in the aflatoxin gene cluster, does not have a significant role in aflatoxin secretion.", "content": "aflT, a MFS transporter-encoding gene located in the aflatoxin gene cluster, does not have a significant role in aflatoxin secretion. The aflT gene resides between the polyketide synthase gene pksA and the P450-encoding cypA gene in the aflatoxin gene cluster of Aspergillus parasiticus. It is a single copy gene in the genome of A. parasiticus SRRC 2043 and SU-1 and was also found at the same relative position in the genome of Aspergillus flavus isolates. The predicted AFLT protein contained 14 transmembrane domains and had various degrees of the amino acid identity (34-56%) to fungal transporters belonging to the major facilitator superfamily. Targeted deletion of aflT in A. parasiticus SU-1 yielded transformants that were morphologically similar to SU-1. These aflT-deleted mutants produced and secreted aflatoxins comparable to the parental strain although they lost the production of the aflT transcript. Real-time RT-PCR analysis showed that the expression of aflT was controlled neither by the aflatoxin pathway-specific activator AFLR nor by the co-activator AFLJ, which differed from the regulation of the aflatoxin biosynthetic genes pksA, nor1, ver1, and omtA. The FadA-dependent G-protein signaling pathway previously shown to govern aflatoxin biosynthesis and sporulation plays a role in the regulation of aflT expression."}
{"id": "15328121", "title": "Terbinafine resistance mediated by salicylate 1-monooxygenase in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Terbinafine resistance mediated by salicylate 1-monooxygenase in Aspergillus nidulans. Resistance to antifungal agents is a recurring and growing problem among patients with systemic fungal infections. UV-induced Aspergillus nidulans mutants resistant to terbinafine have been identified, and we report here the characterization of one such gene. A sib-selected, 6.6-kb genomic DNA fragment encodes a salicylate 1-monooxygenase (salA), and a fatty acid synthase subunit (fasC) confers terbinafine resistance upon transformation of a sensitive strain. Subfragments carrying salA but not fasC confer terbinafine resistance. salA is present as a single-copy gene on chromosome VI and encodes a protein of 473 amino acids that is homologous to salicylate 1-monooxygenase, a well-characterized naphthalene-degrading enzyme in bacteria. salA transcript accumulation analysis showed terbinafine-dependent induction in the wild type and the UV-induced mutant Terb7, as well as overexpression in a strain containing the salA subgenomic DNA fragment, probably due to the multicopy effect caused by the transformation event. Additional naphthalene degradation enzyme-coding genes are present in fungal genomes, suggesting that resistance could follow degradation of the naphthalene ring contained in terbinafine."}
{"id": "15327973", "title": "Identification and characterization of a novel delta12-fatty acid desaturase gene from Rhizopus arrhizus.", "content": "Identification and characterization of a novel delta12-fatty acid desaturase gene from Rhizopus arrhizus. Based on the sequence information of Delta12-fatty acid desaturase genes (from Mucor circinelloides, Mortierella alpina, Mucor rouxii and Aspergillus nidulans), which were involved in the conversion from C18:1 to C18:2, a cDNA sequence putatively encoding a Delta12-fatty acid desaturase was isolated from Rhizopus arrhizus using the combination of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) methods. Sequence analysis indicated that it had an open reading frame (ORF) of 1170 bp, coding for 389 amino acid residues of 45 kDa, pI of the deduced protein was 7.01. The deduced amino acid sequence of this cloned cDNA showed high identity to those filamentous fungal Delta12-desaturases mentioned above, including three conserved histidine-rich motifs and two hydrophobic domains. Functional identification was done heterologously in Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain INVScl. The result demonstrated that the deduced amino acid sequence exhibited Delta12-fatty acid desaturase activity, suggesting that this gene encoded for a membrane-bound desaturase, Delta12-fatty acid desaturase."}
{"id": "15310341", "title": "Polymerase chain reaction in the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Polymerase chain reaction in the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. In the present study, we present a patient with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis caused by Aspergillus fumigatus diagnosed by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique on blood and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples of the patient. The value of PCR in the diagnosis of aspergillosis is discussed."}
{"id": "15305713", "title": "[Update on the diagnosis of dermatomycosis].", "content": "[Update on the diagnosis of dermatomycosis]. Dermatomycosis are mycotic diseases of skin caused by a few mycetes: dermatophytes, and some opportunistic fungi as Malassezia, Candida (not C. albicans), Trichosporon, Rhodutorula, Cryptococcus or Aspergillus, Geotrichum, Alternaria, etc. Dermatophytes are a group of closely related filamentous fungi that invade keratinized tissue (skin, hair, nails) of humans and other animals and produce infection called dermatophytosis or ringworm or \"tinea\". The etiological agents of dermatophytosis are classified in three genera: Microsporum, Trichophyton and Epidermophyton (Deuteromycetes). On the basis of their primary habitat dermatophytes are divided in Anthropophilic dermatophytes (parasitic organisms that infect humans), Zoophilic dermatophytes (parasitic organisms that infect animals, but also humans: agents of zoonosis) and Geophilic dermatophytes (saprobic fungi associated with keratinous materials in soil). In the soil there are also structure associated with contagion, (\"spore\", \"arthroconidium\", or \"clamydospore\") of anthropophilic and zoophilic dermatophytes that may persist for years, in the environment, in hair or skin scales. Since on the skin of animals there are many saprobic organisms (Malassezia) and many fungi may infect the fur, it is important to make an accurate diagnosis. Dermatophytosis are communicable diseases acquired from infected animals or from fomites. Infections caused by dermatophytes is a ringworm. These infections may range from mild and superficial, almost subclinical, to a few areas of scaling to a highly inflammatory reaction with extensive areas of scarring and alopecia. Granuloma formations (mycetoma-like) may occur especially in cats. Dermatophytes, as filamentous fungi, undergo radial fungi: collection of skin material is best made by collecting the scales near the edges of the rings. Hairs are best sampled by plucking; a scalpel may be used to scrape scales; brushes have also been used. Sample materials are best transported in dry packet. The Wood's light may be used to identify infected fluorescent hairs. Direct microscopy, although false negative up to 50% of cases, is a highly efficient screening technique. Scraping and hairs should mixed to 10-15% KOH. Culture is a valuable adjunct to direct microscopy and is essential to identify more dermatophytes. A medium selective against most nondermatophytic moulds and bacteria is used as a primary isolation medium. Many typical isolates of common dermatophytes can be identified directly from primary isolation media. Identification characters include: colony pigmentation, texture, morphological structure (macroconidia, microconidia, spirals, pectinate branches, etc). Nutritional requiment, growth in special media, \"in vitro\" perforation, mating studies are procedures used to identify atypical isolates. Serological approaches have revealed difficulties. Many kinds of molecular biologic techniques have been made available for clinical diagnosis recently; almost all of these techniques involve the polymerase chain reaction (PCR)."}
{"id": "15297933", "title": "The Metarhizium anisopliae trp1 gene: cloning and regulatory analysis.", "content": "The Metarhizium anisopliae trp1 gene: cloning and regulatory analysis. The trp1 gene from the entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae, cloned by heterologous hybridization with the plasmid carrying the trpC gene from Aspergillus nidulans, was sequence characterized. The predicted translation product has the conserved catalytic domains of glutamine amidotransferase (G domain), indoleglycerolphosphate synthase (C domain), and phosphoribosyl anthranilate isomerase (F domain) organized as NH2-G-C-F-COOH. The ORF is interrupted by a single intron of 60 nt that is position conserved in relation to trp genes from Ascomycetes and length conserved in relation to Basidiomycetes species. RT-PCR analysis suggests constitutive expression of trp1 gene in M. anisopliae."}
{"id": "15297917", "title": "A molecular method for detection of Aspergillus carbonarius in coffee beans.", "content": "A molecular method for detection of Aspergillus carbonarius in coffee beans. Ochratoxin A (OTA) is a carcinogenic and nephrotoxic mycotoxin that has been detected in a variety of food products, including green coffee beans. About 80% of Aspergillus carbonarius strains collected from coffee beans are able to produce OTA on this substrate. The rapid identification of this fungal species would be desirable. RAPD assays were applied to identify amplification products specific for A. carbonarius. One selected fragment, denoted OPX7809, was cloned and sequenced. Based on the nucleotide sequence obtained, specific oligonucleotides (OPX7F809 and OPX7R809) were designed and used as primers for DNA amplification. One amplified band of 809 bp was obtained from A. carbonarius genomic DNA, whereas no amplified fragment from DNA of other Aspergillus species was detected. This PCR analysis was also successfully employed to detect A. carbonarius in coffee beans. This PCR assay could contribute to the early and rapid detection of the potential presence of OTA in coffee samples."}
{"id": "15297489", "title": "Rapid differentiation of Aspergillus species from other medically important opportunistic molds and yeasts by PCR-enzyme immunoassay.", "content": "Rapid differentiation of Aspergillus species from other medically important opportunistic molds and yeasts by PCR-enzyme immunoassay. We developed a PCR-based assay to differentiate medically important species of Aspergillus from one another and from other opportunistic molds and yeasts by employing universal, fungus-specific primers and DNA probes in an enzyme immunoassay format (PCR-EIA). Oligonucleotide probes, directed to the internal transcribed spacer 2 region of ribosomal DNA from Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus terreus, Aspergillus ustus, and Aspergillus versicolor, differentiated 41 isolates (3 to 9 each of the respective species; P < 0.001) in a PCR-EIA detection matrix and gave no false-positive reactions with 33 species of Acremonium, Exophiala, Candida, Fusarium, Mucor, Paecilomyces, Penicillium, Rhizopus, Scedosporium, Sporothrix, or other aspergilli tested. A single DNA probe to detect all seven of the most medically important Aspergillus species (A. flavus, A. fumigatus, A. nidulans, A. niger, A. terreus, A. ustus, and A. versicolor) was also designed. Identification of Aspergillus species was accomplished within a single day by the PCR-EIA, and as little as 0.5 pg of fungal DNA could be detected by this system. In addition, fungal DNA extracted from tissues of experimentally infected rabbits was successfully amplified and identified using the PCR-EIA system. This method is simple, rapid, and sensitive for the identification of medically important Aspergillus species and for their differentiation from other opportunistic fungi."}
{"id": "15257938", "title": "Cryptococcosis in patients with hematologic malignancies. A report from GIMEMA-infection.", "content": "Cryptococcosis in patients with hematologic malignancies. A report from GIMEMA-infection. Cryptococcosis is an important cause of morbidity and death in immunocompromised patients. The aim of this study was to evaluate clinical and laboratory characteristics, and outcome of patients with cryptococcosis complicating hematologic diseases. This was a retrospective study, conducted over a ten-year period (1993-2002) in 21 hematology divisions, in tertiary care or university hospitals. This study evaluated 17 patients with hematologic diseases who developed cryptococcosis. Possible risk factors recognized before the onset of the infection were: administration of steroids for the underlying malignancy (6 patients), diabetes mellitus (4 patients), cutaneous lesions (2 patients) and autoimmune disease, hepatic cirrhosis, chronic renal failure and exposure to pigeons (1 patient each). Five patients received prophylaxis, consisting of fluconazole in 2 cases. Fever, neurological and respiratory signs developed according to the primary sites of infection (5 blood, 5 central nervous system, 4 lung, and 1 each in gut, skin and mouth). Diagnosis was made by positive microbiological culture, antigen detection in serum or cerebrospinal fluid, or polymerase chain reaction. All patients started specific treatment (fluconazole, 7 patients; amphotericin-B deoxycolate or liposomal amphotericin-B, 10 patients). Two patients died from cryptococcosis within 30 days after diagnosis. Cryptococcosis in patients with hematologic malignancies is a rare complication. In neutropenic patients, it is less fatal than other fungal infections (i.e. aspergillosis or candidemia). Specific treatment, started promptly, positively influences the outcome."}
{"id": "15255903", "title": "A role for creD, a carbon catabolite repression gene from Aspergillus nidulans, in ubiquitination.", "content": "A role for creD, a carbon catabolite repression gene from Aspergillus nidulans, in ubiquitination. In Aspergillus nidulans, it is known that creB encodes a deubiquitinating enzyme that forms a complex with the WD40 motif containing protein encoded by creC, that mutations in these genes lead to altered carbon source utilization and that the creD34 mutation suppresses the phenotypic effects of mutations in creC and creB. Therefore, creD was characterized in order to dissect the regulatory network that involves the CreB-CreC deubiquitination complex. CreD contains arrestin domains and PY motifs and is highly similar to the Rod1p and Rog3p proteins from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. An additional gene was identified in the A. nidulans genome that also encodes an arrestin and PY motif-containing protein, which we have designated apyA, and thus two similar proteins also exist in A. nidulans. In S. cerevisiae, Rod1p and Rog3p interact with the ubiquitin ligase Rsp5p, and so the A. nidulans homologue of Rsp5p was identified, and the gene encoding this HECT ubiquitin ligase was designated hulA. CreD and ApyA were tested for protein-protein interactions with HulA via the bacterial two-hybrid system, and ApyA showed strong interaction, and CreD showed weak interaction, with HulA in this system."}
{"id": "15249448", "title": "Mannose-binding lectin gene polymorphism is a modulating factor in repeated respiratory infections.", "content": "Mannose-binding lectin gene polymorphism is a modulating factor in repeated respiratory infections. To clarify how mannose-binding lectin (MBL) participates in the pulmonary defense system. Multicenter retrospective study. Sixty-two patients with unexplained recurrent respiratory infections, 50 patients with nontuberculous mycobacterial infection, 23 patients with aspergillosis, and 49 patients with diffuse panbronchiolitis (DPB). For controls, 52 blood samples were provided by the Blood Donation Center of the Japanese Red Cross Society. For BAL fluid (BALF) evaluation, there were five patients with acute phase pneumonia and five healthy volunteers. We demonstrated that MBL protein could be directly measured in the BALF from the lungs of patients with pneumonia by means of enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Furthermore, we demonstrated that the prevalence of the codon 54 mutation of the MBL gene in 62 patients having repeated respiratory infections was significantly higher compared with healthy control subjects (54.8% vs 32.7%). The prevalence of the MBL mutant genotype among patients with DPB was higher (51.1%) than in the rest of the patients. In contrast, the prevalence of the MBL mutant genotype among patients with nontuberculous mycobacteria or Aspergillus chronic infection was not significantly different from that in control subjects (44.0% and 34.8%). Our results suggest that MBL may play an important role in modulating the inflammatory response against repeated microbial infections."}
{"id": "15247928", "title": "Choices aplenty: antifungal prophylaxis in hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients.", "content": "Choices aplenty: antifungal prophylaxis in hematopoietic stem cell transplant recipients. The incidence of invasive fungal infection (IFIs) in hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) recipients ranges from 10 to 25% with an overall case fatality rate of up to 70-90%. Candida and Aspergillus genera remain the two most common pathogens. Although fluconazole prophylaxis in this population has been moderately effective in reducing mortality due to invasive candidiasis, this agent does not have activity against invasive aspergillosis (IA) and other mould. Several new agents such as voriconazole and caspofungin have enhanced potency and broad-spectrum antifungal activity and show promising results against yeasts and filamentous fungi when given as therapy and as chemoprophylaxis. Further, new diagnostic tools to detect circulating fungal antigens in biological fluids and PCR-based methods to detect species or genus-specific DNA or RNA have been developed. Incorporating these techniques along with clinical criteria appear to improve the accuracy of preclinical diagnosis of IFIs. Such approaches may alter the current treatment strategy from prophylaxis to pre-emptive therapy, thereby potentially decreasing cost and toxicity in high-risk patients."}
{"id": "15244045", "title": "[Current development in the diagnostics and therapy of systemic fungal infections in cancer patients].", "content": "[Current development in the diagnostics and therapy of systemic fungal infections in cancer patients]. Invasive fungal infections are associated with a high morbidity and mortality. They are of growing concern and a severe infectious complication in cancer patients treated with intensive chemotherapy. Within the last five years substantial progress has been demonstrated for non-culture based diagnostics and treatment of invasive fungal infections. Recent developments in the epidemiology, diagnostics and treatment of fungal infections are reviewed and discussed in the context of the current state of art for the management of invasive fungal infections in cancer patients."}
{"id": "15239400", "title": "NK/T-cell lymphoma associated with Epstein-Barr virus in a patient infected with human immunodeficiency virus: an autopsy case.", "content": "NK/T-cell lymphoma associated with Epstein-Barr virus in a patient infected with human immunodeficiency virus: an autopsy case. Natural killer (NK)/T-cell lymphoma associated with Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) in a patient infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is very rare. The authors encountered a case of NK/T-cell lymphoma in a 36-year-old man who presented with an ulcerative mass on both tonsils. During assessment, HIV positivity was noted. The EBV was detected by EBV-encoded RNA 1 messenger RNA in situ hybridization and polymerase chain reaction for EBV-encoded nuclear antigen 1. On immunohistochemical staining, the infiltrated lymphoid cells of the tonsils demonstrated positvity for CD3, CD56, UCHL1, and granzyme, a finding compatible with NK/T-cell lymphoma. The patient received radiation therapy and chemotherapy, but died as a result of opportunistic infection of invasive aspergillosis after tumor recurrence. An autopsy was done with the consent of the patient's family. To our knowledge, this is the first case in an HIV patient of NK/T-cell lymphoma of the tonsils associated with EBV, confirmed by autopsy. NK/T-cell lymphoma should be considered in the HIV-positive patients with an ulcerating tonsillar mass."}
{"id": "15237292", "title": "Quantitative PCR analysis of house dust can reveal abnormal mold conditions.", "content": "Quantitative PCR analysis of house dust can reveal abnormal mold conditions. Indoor mold concentrations were measured in the dust of moldy homes (MH) and reference homes (RH) by quantitative PCR (QPCR) assays for 82 species or related groups of species (assay groups). About 70% of the species and groups were never or only rarely detected. The ratios (MH geometric mean : RH geometric mean) for 6 commonly detected species (Aspergillus ochraceus, A. penicillioides, A. unguis, A. versicolor, Eurotium group, and Cladosporium sphaerospermum) were >1 (Group I). Logistic regression analysis of the sum of the logs of the concentrations of Group I species resulted in a 95% probability for separating MH from RH. These results suggest that it may be possible to evaluate whether a home has an abnormal mold condition by quantifying a limited number of mold species in a dust sample. Also, four common species of Aspergillus were quantified by standard culturing procedures and their concentrations compared to QPCR results. Culturing underestimated the concentrations of these four species by 2 to 3 orders of magnitude compared to QPCR."}
{"id": "15236920", "title": "Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis with spontaneous resolution and the diagnostic utility of PCR from tissue specimens.", "content": "Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis with spontaneous resolution and the diagnostic utility of PCR from tissue specimens. This case describes a 61-year-old apparently immunocompetent female with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) and eosinophilia who demonstrated spontaneous clinical and radiological recovery. The patient had a history of asthma and had been corticosteroid dependent until 2 months prior to her presentation. This report explores the role of PCR in confirming the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in circumstances where only histological data are available and highlights the fact that invasive infections with Aspergillus spp. can occur without profound immunological deficiency. The case also documents the resolution of IPA without specific therapy."}
{"id": "15218972", "title": "Successful micafungin (FK463) treatment of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in a patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia in a phase II study.", "content": "Successful micafungin (FK463) treatment of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in a patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia in a phase II study. We treated a 52-year-old woman with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) who developed invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) as a result of neutropenia following remission-induction chemotherapy. Although serological test results, such as those for platelia and pastrex, were all negative and the serum level of beta-D-glucan was low, Aspergillus DNA was detected in blood by the polymerase chain reaction method. A clinically documented diagnosis of IPA was made on the basis of chest x-rays, computed tomography scan findings, and the detection of Aspergillus DNA. Micafungin (FK463), a candin class antifungal agent, was administered at a dose of 75 to 150 mg/day, because other antifungal agents were not effective. The increase in serum concentration of micafungin was dose-dependent and was accompanied by improvement of symptoms and objective findings. Micafungin was effective for the treatment of IPA in this patient with ALL."}
{"id": "15218381", "title": "Intracellular expression of Vitreoscilla hemoglobin in Aspergillus terreus to alleviate the effect of a short break in aeration during culture.", "content": "Intracellular expression of Vitreoscilla hemoglobin in Aspergillus terreus to alleviate the effect of a short break in aeration during culture. A continuous supply of O(2) is important for itaconic acid production in Aspergillus terreus. Any interruption of aeration significantly reduces itaconic acid production. To overcome this effect, A. terreus M8 was transformed with the Vitreoscilla hemoglobin gene (vgb) which, as shown by Southern hybridization, was integrated into the recipient chromosome. The activity of the expressed hemoglobin was confirmed by a CO-difference spectrum. During itaconic acid production, the effect of a break in aeration during cultivation in the transformant with the vgb gene is alleviated. Additionally, the transformant shows improved itaconic acid production."}
{"id": "15215142", "title": "Substitutions at methionine 220 in the 14alpha-sterol demethylase (Cyp51A) of Aspergillus fumigatus are responsible for resistance in vitro to azole antifungal drugs.", "content": "Substitutions at methionine 220 in the 14alpha-sterol demethylase (Cyp51A) of Aspergillus fumigatus are responsible for resistance in vitro to azole antifungal drugs. Five clinical isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus that exhibited similar patterns of reduced susceptibility to itraconazole and other triazole drugs were analyzed. Sequence analysis of genes (cyp51A and cyp51B) encoding the 14alpha-sterol demethylases revealed that all five strains harbored mutations in cyp51A resulting in the replacement of methionine at residue 220 by valine, lysine, or threonine. When the mutated cyp51A genes were introduced into an A. fumigatus wild-type strain, the transformants exhibited reduced susceptibility to all triazole agents, confirming that the mutations were responsible for the resistance phenotype."}
{"id": "15184460", "title": "Prospective comparison of the diagnostic potential of real-time PCR, double-sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for galactomannan, and a (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan test in weekly screening for invasive aspergillosis in patients with hematological disorders.", "content": "Prospective comparison of the diagnostic potential of real-time PCR, double-sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for galactomannan, and a (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan test in weekly screening for invasive aspergillosis in patients with hematological disorders. The establishment of an optimal noninvasive method for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis (IA) is needed to improve the management of this life-threatening infection in patients with hematological disorders, and a number of noninvasive tests for IA that target different fungal components, including galactomannan, (1-->3)-beta-d-glucan (BDG), and Aspergillus DNA, have been developed. In this study, we prospectively evaluated the diagnostic potential of three noninvasive tests for IA that were used in a weekly screening strategy: the double-sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) for galactomannan (Platelia Aspergillus), a real-time PCR assay for Aspergillus DNA (GeniQ-Asper), and an assay for BDG (beta-glucan Wako). We analyzed 149 consecutive treatment episodes in 96 patients with hematological disorders who were at high risk for IA and diagnosed 9 proven IA cases, 2 probable IA cases, and 13 possible invasive fugal infections. In a receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) analysis, the area under the ROC curve was greatest for ELISA, using two consecutive positive results (0.97; P = 0.036 for ELISA versus PCR, P = 0.055 for ELISA versus BDG). Based on the ROC curve, the cutoff for the ELISA could be reduced to an optical density index (O.D.I.) of 0.6. With the use of this cutoff for ELISA and cutoffs for PCR and BDG that give a comparable level of specificity, the sensitivity/specificity/positive predictive value/negative predictive value of the ELISA and the PCR and BDG tests were 1.00/0.93/0.55/1.00, 0.55/0.93/0.40/0.96, and 0.55/0.93/0.40/0.96, respectively. In conclusion, among these weekly screening tests for IA, the double-sandwich ELISA test was the most sensitive at predicting the diagnosis of IA in high-risk patients with hematological disorders, using a reduced cutoff of 0.6 O.D.I."}
{"id": "15166279", "title": "Diagnosis of aspergillus peritonitis in a renal dialysis patient by PCR and galactomannan detection.", "content": "Diagnosis of aspergillus peritonitis in a renal dialysis patient by PCR and galactomannan detection. This report describes the use of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and galactomannan detection to detect aspergillus in the continuous ambulatory peritoneal dialysis (CAPD) fluid and blood of a patient with multiple myeloma on CAPD and immunosuppressive treatment. Diagnosis of aspergillosis was initially made by conventional culture of CAPD fluid, but the PCR and galactomannan assays also detected aspergillus DNA and antigen in the blood, respectively. This suggests that the PCR and galactomannan assays, previously suggested as useful in the management of invasive fungal infections in neutropenic haematological patients, may be suitable for application to a broad range of clinical situations and sample types."}
{"id": "15160907", "title": "Current molecular diagnostic approaches to systemic infections with aspergillus species in patients with hematological malignancies.", "content": "Current molecular diagnostic approaches to systemic infections with aspergillus species in patients with hematological malignancies. Within the recent years, novel molecular methods, especially PCR assays, have been developed to improve the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in patients with malignant hematological diseases being at high risk for this life-threatening infection. Early diagnosis and treatment are essential for adequate therapeutical management, which however, often remains difficult since most of the diagnostic tools used clinically at present either lack specificity or acceptable sensitivity. The clinical value, advantages and remaining problems of recently developed molecular approaches to detect the emerging fungal pathogen are reviewed."}
{"id": "15142721", "title": "Monitoring Aspergillus species by quantitative PCR during construction of a multi-storey hospital building.", "content": "Monitoring Aspergillus species by quantitative PCR during construction of a multi-storey hospital building. During the enlargement of an existing hospital, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used to monitor Aspergillus spp. populations within the construction site. The rapid availability of results meant that the construction schedule was largely uninterrupted, while assuring that the new construction was free from contamination by the targeted Aspergillus spp."}
{"id": "15135586", "title": "PCR-restriction fragment length analysis of aflR gene for differentiation and detection of Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus in maize.", "content": "PCR-restriction fragment length analysis of aflR gene for differentiation and detection of Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus in maize. Contamination of food and feedstuffs by Aspergillus species and their toxic metabolites is a serious problem as they have adverse effects on human and animal health. Hence, food contamination monitoring is an important activity, which gives information on the level and type of contamination. A PCR-based method of detection of Aspergillus species was developed in spiked samples of sterile maize flour. Gene-specific primers were designed to target aflR gene, and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) of the PCR product was done to differentiate Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus. Sterile maize flour was inoculated separately with A. flavus and A. parasiticus, each at several spore concentrations. Positive results were obtained only after 12-h incubation in enriched media, with extracts of maize inoculated with A. flavus (101 spores/g) and A. parasiticus (104 spores/g). PCR products were subjected to restriction endonuclease (HincII and PvuII) analysis to look for RFLPs. PCR-RFLP patterns obtained with these two enzymes showed enough differences to distinguish A. flavus and A. parasiticus. This approach of differentiating these two species would be simpler, less costly and quicker than conventional sequencing of PCR products."}
{"id": "15130140", "title": "Detection and quantification of Aspergillus ochraceus in green coffee by PCR.", "content": "Detection and quantification of Aspergillus ochraceus in green coffee by PCR. The aim of this study was to detect and quantify DNA of the ochratoxinogenic fungus Aspergillus ochraceus in green coffee and to compare the results with the ochratoxin A content of naturally contaminated samples. A DNA extraction protocol based on a combination of ultrasonification and a commercial kit was tested for the recovery of fungal DNA. PCR and real-time PCR protocols were established for the detection of A. ochraceus. Sensitivity of the PCR was checked by the addition of inoculated green coffee and pure fungal DNA to uncontaminated green coffee samples. The A. ochraceus DNA content of 30 naturally contaminated green coffee samples was determined and compared with the ochratoxin A concentrations. Aspergillus ochraceus can be rapidly and specifically detected in green coffee by PCR. A positive correlation between the ochratoxin A content and the DNA quantity was established. This work offers a quick alternative to the conventional mycological detection and quantification of A. ochraceus in green coffee."}
{"id": "15129726", "title": "Rational elimination of Aspergillus terreus sulochrin production.", "content": "Rational elimination of Aspergillus terreus sulochrin production. Elimination of undesirable co-metabolites from industrial fermentations is often required due to the toxicities associated with the contaminants and/or due to difficulties in removing the contaminants during downstream processing. Sulochrin is a co-metabolite produced during the Aspergillus terreus lovastatin fermentation. Examination of the sulochrin biosynthetic pathway identifies the emodin anthrone polyketide synthase (PKS) at the origin. Thus, genetically disrupting the emodin anthrone PKS gene was expected to result in the elimination of sulochrin biosynthesis. To perform the disruption by homologous recombination, a fragment of the emodin anthrone PKS gene first needed to be isolated. Analysis of several reported fungal PKS amino acid sequences has identified three subfamilies of related sequences (called the Patulin subfamily, the Pigment subfamily, and the Reduction subfamily). PCR primers specific for the Pigment subfamily (of which the emodin anthrone PKS is expected to belong) were used to isolate a fragment of a novel PKS gene from A. terreus. Targeted gene disruption identifies the novel gene fragment as that from the emodin anthrone PKS. Consequently, the gene disruption event eliminated the production of metabolites from the sulochrin biosynthetic pathway."}
{"id": "15108736", "title": "Rapid monitoring by quantitative polymerase chain reaction for pathogenic Aspergillus during carpet removal from a hospital.", "content": "Rapid monitoring by quantitative polymerase chain reaction for pathogenic Aspergillus during carpet removal from a hospital. Monitoring for pathogenic Aspergillus species using a rapid, highly sensitive, quantitative polymerase chain reaction technique during carpet removal in a burn unit provided data that allowed patients to be safely returned to the refloored area sooner than if only conventional culture monitoring had been used."}
{"id": "15079891", "title": "Biofouling on the walls of a spent nuclear fuel pool with radioactive ultrapure water.", "content": "Biofouling on the walls of a spent nuclear fuel pool with radioactive ultrapure water. Microbial activity in spent nuclear fuel pools which contain ultrapure and radioactive water has been previously observed. The aim of the present research was to isolate and identify the microorganisms attached to the nuclear pool wall of a Spanish nuclear power plant. Amplification of 16S rDNA fragments from the culturable microorganisms by PCR using universal primers for the domain 'Bacteria', followed by Denaturing Gradient Gel Electrophoresis analysis revealed the presence of six different bacteria. The complete gene for 16S rDNA of each one was sequenced and identified as belonging to three different phylogenetic groups, viz. beta-Proteobacteria, Actinomycetales and the Bacillus/Staphylococcus group. A fungus was also found and identified as Aspergillus fumigatus by sequencing the D2 region of the large subunit rDNA gene. The isolation of these microorganisms in oligotrophic and radioactive conditions is of great interest due to the possibility of their use in bioremediation processes of radionuclide-contaminated environments."}
{"id": "15071756", "title": "Establishment of mRFP1 as a fluorescent marker in Aspergillus nidulans and construction of expression vectors for high-throughput protein tagging using recombination in vitro (GATEWAY).", "content": "Establishment of mRFP1 as a fluorescent marker in Aspergillus nidulans and construction of expression vectors for high-throughput protein tagging using recombination in vitro (GATEWAY). The advent of fluorescent proteins as vital dyes had a major impact in many research fields. Different green fluorescent protein (GFP) variants were established in prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms within the past 10 years, and other fluorescent proteins were discovered and applied. We expressed the Discosoma red fluorescent protein, DsRed (T4), the improved monomeric red fluorescent protein (mRFP1) and the blue fluorescent protein (BFP) in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. Whereas DsRed requires tetramer formation for fluorescence, mRFP1 functions as monomer. We used sGFP, DsRed (T4), mRFP1 and BFP for nuclear and/or mitochondrial labelling. To facilitate gene tagging, we established a number of cloning vectors for the efficient, simultaneous fusion of any protein with mRFP1, BFP and sGFP or the haemagglutinin epitope, 3xHA. A PCR-amplified gene of interest can be inserted into the expression vectors without cloning but using homologous recombination in vitro (GATEWAY). The vectors contain the argB gene as a selection marker for A. nidulans and the inducible alcA promoter for control of expression. The system allows labelling of a protein with several tags in one recombination reaction. Both the nutritional marker gene and the promoter are frequently used in other fungi, suggesting that this set of expression vectors will be very useful tools for gene analysis on a genome-wide scale."}
{"id": "15068336", "title": "Identification and characterization of a nitrate transporter gene in Neurospora crassa.", "content": "Identification and characterization of a nitrate transporter gene in Neurospora crassa. The Neurospora crassa genome database was searched for sequence similarity to crnA, a nitrate transporter in Aspergillus nidulans. A 3.9-kb fragment (contig 3.416, subsequence 183190-187090) was cloned by PCR. The gene coding for this nitrate transporter was termed nit-10. The nit-10 gene specifies a predicted polypeptide containing 541 amino acids with a molecular mass of 57 kDa. In contrast to crnA, which is clustered together with niaD, encoding nitrate reductase, and niiA, encoding nitrite reductase, nit-10 is not linked to nit-3 (nitrate reductase), nit-6 (nitrite reductase), or to nit-2, nit-4 (both are positive regulators of nit-3), or nmr (negative regulator of nit-3) in Neurospora crassa. A nit-10 rip mutant failed to grow in the medium when nitrate (< 10 mM) was used as the sole nitrogen source, but grew similarly to wild type when nitrate concentration was 10 mM or higher. In addition, it showed strong sensitivity to cesium in the presence of nitrate and resistance to chlorate in the presence of alanine, proline, or hypoxanthine. The expression of nit-10 required nitrate induction and was subject to repression by nitrogen metabolites such as glutamine. Expression of nit-10 also required functional products of nit-2 and nit-4. The half-life of nit-10 mRNA was determined to be approximately 2.5 min."}
{"id": "15066846", "title": "Identification of genes associated with morphology in Aspergillus niger by using suppression subtractive hybridization.", "content": "Identification of genes associated with morphology in Aspergillus niger by using suppression subtractive hybridization. The morphology of citric acid production strains of Aspergillus niger is sensitive to a variety of factors, including the concentration of manganese (Mn(2+)). Upon increasing the Mn(2+) concentration in A. niger (ATCC 11414) cultures to 14 ppb or higher, the morphology switches from pelleted to filamentous, accompanied by a rapid decline in citric acid production. The molecular mechanisms through which Mn(2+) exerts effects on morphology and citric acid production in A. niger cultures have not been well defined, but our use of suppression subtractive hybridization has identified 22 genes responsive to Mn(2+). Fifteen genes were differentially expressed when A. niger was grown in media containing 1,000 ppb of Mn(2+) (filamentous form), and seven genes were expressed in 10 ppb of Mn(2+) (pelleted form). Of the 15 filament-associated genes, seven are novel and eight share 47 to 100% identity with genes from other organisms. Five of the pellet-associated genes are novel, and the other two genes encode a pepsin-type protease and polyubiquitin. All 10 genes with deduced functions are either involved in amino acid metabolism-protein catabolism or cell regulatory processes. Northern blot analysis showed that the transcripts of all 22 genes were rapidly enhanced or suppressed by Mn(2+). Steady-state mRNA levels of six selected filament-associated genes remained high during 5 days of culture in a filamentous state and remained low under pelleted growth conditions. The opposite behavior was observed for four selected pellet-associated genes. The full-length cDNA of the filament-associated clone, Brsa-25, was isolated. Antisense expression of Brsa-25 permitted pelleted growth and increased citrate production at concentrations of Mn(2+) that were higher than the parent strain could tolerate. These results suggest the involvement of the newly isolated genes in the regulation of A. niger morphology."}
{"id": "15064240", "title": "Transgenic smooth muscle expression of the human CysLT1 receptor induces enhanced responsiveness of murine airways to leukotriene D4.", "content": "Transgenic smooth muscle expression of the human CysLT1 receptor induces enhanced responsiveness of murine airways to leukotriene D4. Cysteinyl leukotrienes (CysLTs) exert potent proinflammatory actions and contribute to many of the symptoms of asthma. Using a model of allergic sensitization and airway challenge with Aspergillus fumigatus (Af), we have found that Th2-type inflammation and airway hyperresponsiveness (AHR) to methacholine (MCh) were associated with increased LTD(4) responsiveness in mice. To explore the importance of increased CysLT signaling in airway smooth muscle function, we generated transgenic mice that overexpress the human CysLT1 receptor (hCysLT(1)R) via the alpha-actin promoter. These receptors were expressed abundantly and induced intracellular calcium mobilization in airway smooth muscle cells from transgenic mice. Force generation in tracheal ring preparations ex vivo and airway reactivity in vivo in response to LTD(4) were greatly amplified in hCysLT(1)R-overexpressing mice, indicating that the enhanced signaling induces coordinated functional changes of the intact airway smooth muscle. The increase of AHR imposed by overexpression of the hCysLT(1)R was greater in transgenic BALB/c mice than in transgenic B6 x SJL mice. In addition, sensitization- and challenge-induced increases in airway responsiveness were significantly greater in transgenic mice than that of nontransgenic mice compared with their respective nonsensitized controls. The amplified AHR in sensitized transgenic mice was not due to an enhanced airway inflammation and was not associated with similar enhancement in MCh responsiveness. These results indicate that a selective hCysLT(1)R-induced contractile mechanism synergizes with allergic AHR. We speculate that hCysLT(1)R signaling contributes to a hypercontractile state of the airway smooth muscle."}
{"id": "15059142", "title": "Prospective clinical evaluation of a LightCycler-mediated polymerase chain reaction assay, a nested-PCR assay and a galactomannan enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for detection of invasive aspergillosis in neutropenic cancer patients and haematological stem cell transplant recipients.", "content": "Prospective clinical evaluation of a LightCycler-mediated polymerase chain reaction assay, a nested-PCR assay and a galactomannan enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for detection of invasive aspergillosis in neutropenic cancer patients and haematological stem cell transplant recipients. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is a considerable clinical problem in neutropenic patients with haematological malignancies but its diagnosis remains difficult. We prospectively evaluated a LightCycler polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay, a nested-PCR assay and a galactomannan (GM) enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) to validate their significance in diagnosing IA. During 205 treatment episodes in 165 patients from six centres, a nested-PCR assay and GM testing was performed at regular intervals. Positive nested-PCR results were quantified by a LightCycler PCR assay. Patient episodes were stratified according to the 2002 European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer/Mycosis Study Group consensus criteria and the PCR and serology results were correlated with the clinical diagnostic classification. Sensitivity and specificity rates for the nested-PCR assay were up to 63.6% [95% confidence interval (CI): 30.8-89%) and 63.5% (95% CI: 53.4-72.7%) respectively, and 33.3% and 98.9% (95% CI: 7.5-70.1% and 94.2-99.9%) for GM respectively. The LightCycler PCR assay yielded positive results in 21.4%, lacking discrimination by quantification across the different clinical categories. In this prospective comparison, PCR was superior to GM with respect to sensitivity rates. In patients at high risk for IA, positive results for Aspergillus by PCR of blood samples are highly suggestive for IA and contribute to the diagnosis."}
{"id": "15050035", "title": "Negative subtraction hybridization: an efficient method to isolate large numbers of condition-specific cDNAs.", "content": "Negative subtraction hybridization: an efficient method to isolate large numbers of condition-specific cDNAs. The construction of cDNA libraries is a useful tool to understand gene expression in organisms under different conditions, but random sequencing of unbiased cDNA collections is laborious and can give rise to redundant EST collections. We aimed to isolate cDNAs of messages induced by switching Aspergillus nidulans from growth on glucose to growth on selected polysaccharides. Approximately 4,700 contigs from 12,320 ESTs were already available from a cDNA library representing transcripts isolated from glucose-grown A. nidulans during asexual development. Our goals were to expand the cDNA collection without repeated sequencing of previously identified ESTs and to find as many transcripts as possible that are specifically induced in complex polysaccharide metabolism. We have devised a Negative Subtraction Hybridization (NSH) method and tested it in A. nidulans. NSH entails screening a plasmid library made from cDNAs prepared from cells grown under a selected physiological condition with labeled cDNA probes prepared from another physiological condition. Plasmids with inserts that failed to hybridize to cDNA probes through two rounds of screening (i.e. negatives) indicate that they are transcripts present at low concentration in the labeled probe pool. Thus, these transcripts will be predominantly condition-specific, along with some rare transcripts. In a screen for transcripts induced by switching the carbon source from glucose to 12 selected polysaccharides, 3,532 negatives were isolated from approximately 100,000 surveyed colonies using this method. Negative clones were end-sequenced and assembled into 2,039 contigs, of which 1,722 were not present in the previously characterized glucose-grown cDNA library. Single-channel microarray hybridization experiments confirmed that the majority of the negatives represented genes that were differentially induced by a switch from growth in glucose to one or more of the polysaccharides. The Negative Subtraction Hybridization method described here has several practical benefits. This method can be used to screen any existing cDNA library, including full-length and pooled libraries, and does not rely on PCR or sequence information. In addition, NSH is a cost-effective method for the isolation of novel, full-length cDNAs for differentially expressed transcripts or enrichment of rare transcripts."}
{"id": "15047520", "title": "Aspergillus fumigatus variant with decreased susceptibility to multiple antifungals.", "content": "Aspergillus fumigatus variant with decreased susceptibility to multiple antifungals. Isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus that demonstrate resistance to itraconazole (ITZ) have been described previously; however, the prevalence and clinical significance of ITZ resistance are not completely understood. In this study we assessed the ITZ susceptibilities of 128 A. fumigatus isolates that caused invasive infection in 82 stem cell transplant patients before and after the use of ITZ in our institution (study period, 1991 to 2000). The MICs for 10 isolates obtained from seven patients were high, > or 1 microg/ml. The average ITZ MIC increased after institutional use of the drug began in 1995. The majority of the isolates for which MICs were high (6 of 10) and one isolate for which the MIC was low (0.06 microg/ml) demonstrated an unusual phenotype, appearing as predominantly white colonies. For all seven atypical isolates, voriconazole MICs were high (> or = 2 microg/ml), and minimal effective concentrations of caspofungin were high (> or 4 microg/ml). For two of the seven atypical isolates, amphotericin B MICs were high (> or 2 microg/ml). The isolates appeared white due to slow sporulation; however, after prolonged incubations, the isolates sporulated with no difference in conidial color or conidiophore morphology compared with typical isolates. Randomly amplified polymorphic DNA-PCR patterns of these isolates were distinct compared with those of other A. fumigatus isolates. Sequencing of 18S rRNA genes confirmed that all were A. fumigatus; however, the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene sequences of all the atypical isolates were unique. These data suggest the potential presence of a genetically unique, poorly sporulating variant of A. fumigatus that demonstrates decreased susceptibilities to several antifungals."}
{"id": "15046309", "title": "Quantitative PCR analysis of selected Aspergillus, Penicillium and Paecilomyces species.", "content": "Quantitative PCR analysis of selected Aspergillus, Penicillium and Paecilomyces species. A total of 65 quantitative PCR (QPCR) assays, incorporating fluorigenic 5' nuclease (TaqMan) chemistry and directed at the nuclear ribosomal RNA operon, internal transcribed spacer regions (ITS1 or ITS2) was developed and tested for the detection of selected Aspergillus, Penicillium and Paecilomyces species. The assays varied in specificity from species or subspecies to closely related species groups, subject to the amount of nucleotide sequence variation in the different organisms. A generic assay for all target species of Aspergillus, Penicillium and Paecilomyces was also developed and tested. Using a previously reported DNA extraction method, estimated conidia detection limits for target species ranged from less than one to several hundred per sample for the different assays. Conidia detection limits for non-target species were at least 1,000 fold higher in nearly all instances. The assays were used to analyze ten HVAC dust samples from different sources around the US. Total quantities of Aspergillus, Penicillium and Paecilomyces conidia in the samples, determined by the generic assay and the summed totals from the specific assays, were in general agreement, suggesting that all of the numerically dominant species in the samples were accounted for by the specific assays. QPCR analyses of these samples after spiking them with selected target organisms indicated that the enumeration results were within approximately a one-half log range of the expected values 95% of the time. Evidence is provided that the commonly used practices of enumerating Aspergillus and Penicillium as a single group or only by genus can be misleading in understanding the indoor populations of these organisms and their potential health risks."}
{"id": "15037621", "title": "The NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase gene from Gibberella fujikuroi is essential for gibberellin biosynthesis.", "content": "The NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductase gene from Gibberella fujikuroi is essential for gibberellin biosynthesis. The fungus Gibberella fujikuroi is used for the commercial production of gibberellins (GAs), which it produces in very large quantities. Four of the seven GA biosynthetic genes in this species encode cytochrome P450 monooxygenases, which function in association with NADPH-cytochrome P450 reductases (CPRs) that mediate the transfer of electrons from NADPH to the P450 monooxygenases. Only one cpr gene (cpr-Gf) was found in G. fujikuroi and cloned by a PCR approach. The encoded protein contains the conserved CPR functional domains, including the FAD, FMN, and NADPH binding motifs. cpr-Gf disruption mutants were viable but showed a reduced growth rate. Furthermore, disruption resulted in total loss of GA(3), GA(4), and GA(7) production, but low levels of non-hydroxylated C(20)-GAs (GA(15) and GA(24)) were still detected. In addition, the knock-out mutants were much more sensitive to benzoate than the wild type due to loss of activity of another P450 monooxygenase, the detoxifying enzyme, benzoate p-hydroxylase. The UV-induced mutant of G. fujikuroi, SG138, which was shown to be blocked at most of the GA biosynthetic steps catalyzed by P450 monooxygenases, displayed the same phenotype. Sequence analysis of the mutant cpr allele in SG138 revealed a nonsense mutation at amino acid position 627. The mutant was complemented with the cpr-Gf and the Aspergillus niger cprA genes, both genes fully restoring the ability to produce GAs. Northern blot analysis revealed co-regulated expression of the cpr-Gf gene and the GA biosynthetic genes P450-1, P450-2, P450-4 under GA production conditions (nitrogen starvation). In addition, expression of cpr-Gf is induced by benzoate. These results indicate that CPR-Gf is the main but not the only electron donor for several P450 monooxygenases from primary and secondary metabolism."}
{"id": "15019993", "title": "Nek8, a NIMA family kinase member, is overexpressed in primary human breast tumors.", "content": "Nek8, a NIMA family kinase member, is overexpressed in primary human breast tumors. The family of human Nek (NIMA Related Kinase) kinases currently contains 11 members. We have identified Nek8 as a new member of the Nek kinase family. For many of the Nek family members, primary tumor expression data and function have been limited. However, all of the Nek family proteins share considerable homology with the Never In Mitosis, gene A (NIMA) kinase from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. NIMA, as well as its most closely related human ortholog, Nek2, are required for G(2)/M progression and promote centrosome maturation during mitosis. We isolated Nek8 from a primary human colon cDNA library, and found it to be highly homologous to murine Nek8. Recently, a previously named Nek8 sequence was renamed Nek9/Nercc1 in Genbank due to its lack of homology to murine Nek8 and its high homology to murine Nek9. Interestingly, in our study, phylogenetic analysis suggests that human Nek8 and Nek9 form a subfamily within the Nek family. Nek8 has high homology to the Nek family kinase domain as well as to a regulator of chromosome condensation domain (RCC1), which is also present in Nek9. The open reading frame of human Nek8 encodes a 692 amino-acid protein with a calculated molecular weight of 75 kDa. Nek8 is differently expressed between normal human breast tissue and breast tumors. Overexpression of a mutated kinase domain Nek8 in U2-0S cells led to a decrease in actin protein, and a small increase in the level of cdk1/cyclinB1. Our data demonstrate for the first time that Nek8 is a novel tumor associated gene, and shares considerable sequence homology with the Nek family of protein kinases and may be involved in G(2)/M progression."}
{"id": "14998396", "title": "Identification of medically important fungi by the Pyrosequencing technology.", "content": "Identification of medically important fungi by the Pyrosequencing technology. The Pyrosequencing technology was used for identification of different clinically relevant fungi. The tests were performed on amplicons derived from the 18S rRNA gene using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) universal primers for amplification. Sequencing was performed up to 40 bases in a variable region with a designed general sequencing primer and the Pyrosequence data were analyzed by BLAST sequence search in the GenBank database. DNA from a total of 21 fungal specimens consisting of nine strains of clinically relevant fungi and 12 clinical specimens from patients suffering from proven invasive fungal infections were PCR-amplified and analyzed by gel electrophoresis, PCR-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and the Pyrosequencing technology. All data obtained by the Pyrosequencing technology were in agreement with the results obtained by PCR-ELISA using species/genus-specific oligonucleotides and were as well in accordance with the culture results. The results demonstrate that the Pyrosequencing method is a reproducible and reliable technique for identification of fungal pathogens."}
{"id": "14766869", "title": "Development of a serum-based Taqman real-time PCR assay for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Development of a serum-based Taqman real-time PCR assay for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. We compared an Aspergillus fumigatus-specific Taqman real-time PCR assay for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) with the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay Platelia Aspergillus method. Patients with proven or probable IA had positive results with at least one of the two methods. The PCR method seems to be more specific, and a combination of the two should improve the diagnosis of IA."}
{"id": "14750236", "title": "Immunohistochemical detection of Aspergillus species in pediatric tissue samples.", "content": "Immunohistochemical detection of Aspergillus species in pediatric tissue samples. Definitive diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis often requires tissue samples for histologic evidence of fungal infection and culture confirmation of Aspergillus species. However, the culture frequently fails to isolate Aspergillus species. Alternative approaches to confirm Aspergillus infection use polymerase chain reaction, in situ hybridization, and immunohistochemical analysis on paraffin-embedded sections. These approaches are well characterized in animals and adult patients but not pediatric patients. We studied the immunoreactivity of a commercially available monoclonal antibody, Mab-WF-AF-1 (DAKO, Carpinteria, CA), on paraffin-embedded sections from 16 pediatric cases with invasive aspergillosis, of which 12 were proven by culture. Optimal immunoreactivity required microwave antigen retrieval using high pH; 5 other antigen retrieval approaches were unsuccessful. With optimization, the monoclonal antibody was strongly immunoreactive in all cases with staining of the Aspergillus cell wall, septa, and cytoplasm. Background was minimal with no cross-reactivity to Candida albicans. These findings demonstrate the usefulness of the Mab-WF-AF-1 antibody in pediatric tissues suspected of invasive aspergillosis."}
{"id": "14736460", "title": "Lack of interaction between AFLR and AFLJ contributes to nonaflatoxigenicity of Aspergillus sojae.", "content": "Lack of interaction between AFLR and AFLJ contributes to nonaflatoxigenicity of Aspergillus sojae. Aspergillus sojae, which is believed to be a domesticated strain of Aspergillus parasiticus, contains all of the aflatoxin biosynthetic genes but is unable to produce aflatoxins and is generally recognized as safe (GRAS) for producing fermented foods. In A. parasiticus both aflR, the aflatoxin pathway-specific regulatory gene, and aflJ, a co-activator gene, are necessary for transcription of genes encoding the aflatoxin biosynthetic enzymes. A. sojae aflR differs from A. parasiticus aflR in that it encodes extra His and Ala, and has a pretermination defect that causes truncation of the carboxyl terminus of the predicted protein. A. sojae aflJ differs from A. parasiticus aflJ in that it encodes a predicted protein with Ser39 replaced by Ala and Ser283 replaced by Pro. Steady-state levels of aflatoxin biosynthetic gene transcripts of aflR, aflJ, pksA, nor1, ver1 and omtA in A. sojae as determined by real-time reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) were much lower than those of A. parasiticus. Yeast two-hybrid assays showed that the truncated A. sojae AFLR did not interact with AFLJ of A. sojae and A. parasiticus but that an A. sojae AFLR reverted to the putative ancestral form interacted normally with AFLJ of A. sojae and A. parasiticus. Deletion analysis showed that both amino- and carboxy-terminal regions of the A. sojae AFLJ were important for the R-J interaction. The truncated A. sojae AFLR thus not only was impaired in its ability to activate transcription of aflatoxin biosynthetic genes, but also was unable to interact with AFLJ, in A. parasiticus both of which are required for normal expression of the aflatoxin biosynthetic genes. Consequently, the lack of aflatoxin-producing ability of A. sojae resulted primarily from two defects in the regulatory mechanism responsible for gene transcription."}
{"id": "14732266", "title": "Use of expressed sequence tag analysis and cDNA microarrays of the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Use of expressed sequence tag analysis and cDNA microarrays of the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. The use of microarrays in the analysis of gene expression is becoming widespread for many organisms, including yeast. However, although the genomes of a number of filamentous fungi have been fully or partially sequenced, microarray analysis is still in its infancy in these organisms. Here, we describe the construction and validation of microarrays for the fungus Aspergillus nidulans using PCR products from a 4092 EST conidial germination library. An experiment was designed to validate these arrays by monitoring the expression profiles of known genes following the addition of 1% (w/v) glucose to wild-type A. nidulans cultures grown to mid-exponential phase in Vogel's minimal medium with ethanol as the sole carbon source. The profiles of genes showing statistically significant differential expression following the glucose up-shift are presented and an assessment of the quality and reproducibility of the A. nidulans arrays discussed."}
{"id": "14727059", "title": "Disruption of the Aspergillus fumigatus argB gene using a novel in vitro transposon-based mutagenesis approach.", "content": "Disruption of the Aspergillus fumigatus argB gene using a novel in vitro transposon-based mutagenesis approach. We disrupted the Aspergillus fumigatus argB gene, encoding ornithine transcarbamylase, using a novel in vitro transposon-based mutagenesis approach. This approach utilizes a modified transposon containing the Neurospora crassa pyr4 gene, which is randomly inserted in vitro into a target sequence of interest. Clones in which the gene of interest has been disrupted are identified by PCR and used to transform a pyrG-deficient strain of A. fumigatus. Using this approach, we obtained arginine auxotrophs of A. fumigatus. Full characterization of the argB insertion was performed by Southern blot analysis. These strains can be supplemented by addition of arginine into the culture medium and can be fully rescued to arginine prototrophy by transformation with the intact A. fumigatus argB gene."}
{"id": "14723522", "title": "Enhancing the enantioselectivity of an epoxide hydrolase by directed evolution.", "content": "Enhancing the enantioselectivity of an epoxide hydrolase by directed evolution. [reaction: see text] The epoxide hydrolase (EH) from Aspergillus niger, which shows a selectivity factor of only E = 4.6 in the hydrolytic kinetic resolution of glycidyl phenyl ether, has been subjected to directed evolution for the purpose of enhancing enantioselectivity. After only one round of error-prone polymerase chain reaction (epPCR), enantioselectivity was more than doubled (E = 10.8). The improved mutant enzyme contains three amino acid exchanges, two of which are spatially far from the catalytically active center."}
{"id": "14707712", "title": "Molecular diagnosis of cerebral aspergillosis by sequence analysis with panfungal polymerase chain reaction.", "content": "Molecular diagnosis of cerebral aspergillosis by sequence analysis with panfungal polymerase chain reaction. The authors describe a patient with osteosarcoma in whom a brain abscess developed after autologous peripheral stem cell transplantation. Serologic markers of fungal infection were negative, but fungal DNA was detected in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) by panfungal polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay using primers derived from fungal 18S ribosomal RNA (rRNA) genes. The sequence of PCR products on the panfungal assay was identical to the 18S rRNA genes of Aspergillus species. The combination of sequence analysis and panfungal PCR assay could be useful in the diagnosis of cerebral aspergillosis."}
{"id": "15969057", "title": "[Optimization of T-dNA insertional mutagenesis and analysis of mutants of Magnaporthe grisea].", "content": "[Optimization of T-dNA insertional mutagenesis and analysis of mutants of Magnaporthe grisea]. The rice blast fungus Magnaporthe grisea causes one of the most destructive diseases of rice around the world. Significant progresses have been made recently in genomics studies of the fungus, opening new era of the functional genomics which requires to generate a large scale of gene knockout mutants. It has been demonstrated that T-DNA insertional mutagenesis is a powerful tool of functional genomics not only for plants but also for fungi. In this paper, we optimized the conditions for T-DNA insertional mutagenesis of M. grisea using Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation (ATMT) approach. We employed the binary vector pBHtl constructed by Dr. S. Kang's laboratory at the Pennsylvania State University, which carries the bacterial hygromycin B phosphotransferase gene (hph) under the control of the Aspergillus nidulans trpC promoter as a selectable marker to transform the conidia of M. grisea. We optimized the conditions for T-DNA insertional mutagenesis including the medium, dosage of hygromycin B, cefotaxime and carbenicillin to select the transformants and inhibit the growth of A. tumefaciens after co-culturing. The dosage to inhibit non-transformants could vary from 200-600microg/mL among different M. grisea isolates so that the optimal dosage of the antibiotics should be decided according to isolates. Rice polished agar medium was found the best selection medium which would facilitate the mutant sporulation and minimize the contamination chance. In average, about 500 transformants could be obtained when transforming 1 x 10(6) spores at the optimum condition, among which 85% had T-DNA insertion detected by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and thermal asymmetric interlaced polymerase chain reaction (TAIL-PCR). Fifteen out of 1520 transformants showed mutation in colony morphology. Within 58 randomly selected mutants, it was found that there were 4 sporulation-decreased mutants, 8 less germination mutants and 9 appressorium defective mutants. Several virulent mutants to C101LAC(Pi-1)and 75-1-127(Pi-9)were also obtained which would facilitate cloning the corresponding avirulence genes."}
{"id": "15456364", "title": "[Laboratory diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis].", "content": "[Laboratory diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis]. Invasive aspergillosis is major cause of morbility and mortality in immunosuppressed patients, in part due to the inability to identify infected patients at an early stage of the disease. Diagnosis is based on a combination of imaging (high-resolution computed tomography) and a number of laboratory techniques including direct examination, culture and circulating markers (galactomannan and Aspergillus DNA) which can be detected at early stages of the infection."}
{"id": "15058197", "title": "Detection of aflatoxigenic fungi in feeds using the PCR method.", "content": "Detection of aflatoxigenic fungi in feeds using the PCR method. The possibility of using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to speed up and specify the detection of aflatoxigenic fungi isolated from feed was investigated. The method, applied to 2 genes encoding the biosynthesis of aflatoxins (apa-2 and ver-1), was optimized on two collection cultures (Aspergillus flavus CCM F-108 and A. parasiticus CCM F-550). The specificity of the optimized PCR method was proved on collection cultures of different kinds of fungi. Fifty feed samples out of which 18 showed positive findings of aflatoxigenic fungi on an Aspergillus Flavus and Parasiticus Agar (AFPA) medium were tested. Isolated strains of Aspergillus strains were verified using the PCR method; its reaction products were detected in 1% agarose gel by electrophoresis. The results almost exclusively matched those gained from the AFPA medium."}
{"id": "15022785", "title": "[Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in immunocompromized children: diagnosis and classification].", "content": "[Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in immunocompromized children: diagnosis and classification]. Invasive aspergillosis is an opportunistic infection, with frequent lung involvement. High-risk children are allogenic bone marrow recipients, and those with hematological malignancies, aplastic anemia or chronic granulomatous disease. Profound and prolonged neutropenia, and corticosteroid therapy are the most important predisposing factors. Building and demolition works represent the major environmental risk factor. The diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis remains difficult to establish. Clinical manifestations are non-specific. Early thoracic computed tomographic scan shows halo sign in most cases. Subsequently appears the air crescent sign. Galactomannan research by sandwich ELISA can be useful in serum and in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. Aspergillus DNA detection by PCR is still not standardized. Culture of the organism allows species identification. Aspergillus hyphae can be found at cytological examination, but a biopsy specimen is usually required to affirm tissue damage. A new classification of invasive fungal infections in immunocompromised patients was recently proposed by experts from the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer and from the Mycoses Study Group of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases. On the basis of host linked criteria, microbiological, clinical and radiological features, invasive aspergillosis is classified as proven, probable or possible. These definitions should not be used to guide clinical practice in therapy, but they will improve the quality of epidemiological data, and help the comparison of clinical trial results."}
{"id": "15000243", "title": "Genetic differentiation of the Aspergillus section Flavi complex using AFLP fingerprints.", "content": "Genetic differentiation of the Aspergillus section Flavi complex using AFLP fingerprints. Twenty-four isolates of Aspergillus sojae, A. parasiticus, A. oryzae and A. flavus, including a number that have the capacity to produce aflatoxin, have been compared using amplified fragment length polymorphisms (AFLPs). Based on analysis of 12 different primer combinations, 500 potentially polymorphic fragments have been identified. Analysis of the AFLP data consistently and clearly separates the A. sojae/A. parasiticus isolates from the A. oryzae/A. flavus isolates. Furthermore. there are markers that can be used to distinguish the A. sojae isolates from those of A. parasiticus, which form the basis for species-specific markers. However, whilst there were many polymorphisms between isolates within the A. oryzae/A. flavus subgroup, no markers could be identified that distinguish between the two species. Sequencing of the ribosomal DNA ITS (internal transcribed spacers) from selected isolates also separated the A. sojae/A. parasiticus subgroup from the A. oryzae/A. flavus subgroup, but was unable to distinguish between the A. sojae and A. parasiticus isolates. Some ITS variation was found between isolates within the A. oryzae/A. flavus subgroup, but did not correlate with the species classification, indicating that it is difficult to use molecular data to separate the two species. In addition, sequencing of ribosomal ITS regions and AFLP analysis suggested that some species annotations in public culture collections may be inaccurate."}
{"id": "14987199", "title": "Rapid diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis by antigen detection.", "content": "Rapid diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis by antigen detection. Aspergillosis is a serious and often fatal infection in the bone marrow or organ transplant patient, for which improved methods of diagnosis are desperately needed. Currently, the diagnosis is most often made based on clinical findings and radiographic findings, which are nonspecific, and toxic therapies are initiated empirically, often without ever establishing the diagnosis. Without a definitive diagnosis, physicians often withhold or reduce the doses of the antifungal agent when toxicity develops or the patient improves, permitting progression of disease in those with invasive aspergillosis. The Platelia Aspergillus galactomannan antigenemia assay may assist physicians in making these decisions. With a sensitivity of 81% and a specificity of 89% in the studies leading to its FDA clearance, physicians still must be aware of the potential for false-positive and false-negative results; the test does not replace careful microbiological and clinical evaluation. This report will review the relevant literature and provide guidelines for use of the test in patient management."}
{"id": "14672045", "title": "[Agranulocytosis due to anti-tuberculosis drugs including isoniazid (INH) and rifampicin (RFP)--a report of four cases and review of the literature].", "content": "[Agranulocytosis due to anti-tuberculosis drugs including isoniazid (INH) and rifampicin (RFP)--a report of four cases and review of the literature]. We experienced 4 cases of agranulocytosis due to anti-tuberculosis drugs (rifampicin [RFP], isoniazid [INH], ethambutol [EB], streptomycin [SM] or pyrazinamide [PZA]) among some 6,400 tuberculosis patients who underwent chemotherapy over the past 20 years from 1981 to 2002 in our hospital, and the incidence rate of agranulocytosis was estimated at 0.06%. The 4 cases of agranulocytosis were as follows. CASE 1: A 51-year-old woman with right chest pain and fever was admitted to our hospital on Jan 4, 2001. The white blood cell (WBC) count was 5,200/microliter. The tubercle bacilli were cultured in her sputum. The treatment with INH 0.3, RFP 0.45, EB 0.75, PZA 1.2 g/day, allopurinol and teprenone was started on Jan 13. Pyrazinamide and allopurinol were stopped because of hyper-uric acidemia on Feb 7. Agranulocytosis and eosinophilia (WBC 1,300 [Neut 1%, Ly 57%, Eos 35%]) developed on Feb 13. All drugs were withdrawn and G-CSF drug nartograstim 100 micrograms was injected subcutaneously for 3 days. The WBC recovered to normal level and she was thereafter treated with INH, EB and Levofloxacin (LVFX) without any further trouble. Agranulocytosis in this case was supposed to be due to RFP. CASE 2: A 66-year-old man who had had nephrotic syndrome and hypothyroidism and has been treated with prednisolone 10 mg/day was admitted to our hospital on Aug 9, 2000 because of miliary tuberculosis. The tubercle bacilli were cultured in his sputum and the treatment with INH 0.3, RFP 0.45, and EB 0.75 g/day were started on Aug 10, but it was withdrawn on Aug 17 because of general skin eruption. After re-starting treatment with EB and INH on Aug 24, RFP was added in small dosage (0.05 g) on Oct 12, but agranulomatosis (WBC 2,300/microliter [Neut 2%]) developed on Nov 21, and all drugs were withdrawn again. The G-CSF drug filgrastim was used once subcutaneously, and WBC recovered immediately. He was thereafter treated with INH, EB, LVFX successfully. Agranulocytosis was supposed to be due to RFP. CASE 3: A 60-year-old woman without symptoms had abnormal chest roentgenograph, and consulted with our hospital on Aug 26, 2002. The broncho-alveolar lavage fluid was smear and culture-negative, but PCR-TB positive, and the case was diagnosed as pulmonary tuberculosis. Treatment with INH 0.3, RFP 0.45, EB 0.75, PZA 1.2 g/day, alloprinol 300 mg and rebamipide 300 mg/day was started on Sept. 5, 2002. Late in September, she complained of appetite loss. The laboratory data on Oct 3 revealed WBC 900/microliter (Neut 1%, Ly 94%), aspartate aminotransferase (AST) 199 IU/l, and alanine aminotransferase (ALT) 253 IU/l, showing agranulocytosis and drug-induced hepatitis. The chemotherapy was immediately withdrawn and she was admitted to our hospital on the next day. Glycyrrhizin derivative (SNMC) 40 ml was injected for 5 days, and WBC recovered, and AST and ALT also became normal. CASE 4: A 60-year-old man was admitted to our hospital on March 11, 1981 because pulmonary tuberculosis had recurred. He had been treated with SM, PAS and INH in 1973 for pulmonary tuberculosis. On admission examination of blood count and blood chemistry were normal. Treatment with RFP, INH and SM was started on March 11. He stopped out from the hospital on April 17, but in a few days he returned back with sore throat, lower lip swelling and gingival bleeding. Blood cell count on April 24 showed pancytopenia with RBC 226, Hb 7.5, WBC 800 (Ly 96%, Eos 4%) and Plt 10,000/microliter. The bone-marrow showed NCC (nuceated cell count) of 5,500, and megakaryocyte 0. Thereafter ground glass appearance shadows were seen on the whole lung field, and he died May 26. Autopsy showed generalized aspergillosis. It was strongly suspected that either of RFP, INH or SM was responsible for his pancytopenia. We collected another 10 cases of agranulocytosis due to anti-tuberculosis drugs in the world wide literature, and found men/women ratio 5/8 (in one case gender was not known), the duration of chemotherapy before appearance of agranulocytosis 1-3 months, no change in the lymphocyte count of the peripheral blood, and the accompanying of another allergic signs such as skin eruption, blood eosinophilia or drug-induced hepatitis in some cases, and these findings suggest that the mechanism of agranulocytosis due to anti-tuberculosis drugs was allergic in nature."}
{"id": "14670903", "title": "Real time assay of Aspergillus should be used in SARS patients receiving corticosteroids.", "content": "Real time assay of Aspergillus should be used in SARS patients receiving corticosteroids."}
{"id": "14665453", "title": "The expression of sterigmatocystin and penicillin genes in Aspergillus nidulans is controlled by veA, a gene required for sexual development.", "content": "The expression of sterigmatocystin and penicillin genes in Aspergillus nidulans is controlled by veA, a gene required for sexual development. Secondary metabolism is commonly associated with morphological development in microorganisms, including fungi. We found that veA, a gene previously shown to control the Aspergillus nidulans sexual/asexual developmental ratio in response to light, also controls secondary metabolism. Specifically, veA regulates the expression of genes implicated in the synthesis of the mycotoxin sterigmatocystin and the antibiotic penicillin. veA is necessary for the expression of the transcription factor aflR, which activates the gene cluster that leads to the production of sterigmatocystin. veA is also necessary for penicillin production. Our results indicated that although veA represses the transcription of the isopenicillin synthetase gene ipnA, it is necessary for the expression of acvA, the key gene in the first step of penicillin biosynthesis, encoding the delta-(L-alpha-aminoadipyl)-L-cysteinyl-D-valine synthetase. With respect to the mechanism of veA in directing morphological development, veA has little effect on the expression of the known sexual transcription factors nsdD and steA. However, we found that veA regulates the expression of the asexual transcription factor brlA by modulating the alpha/beta transcript ratio that controls conidiation."}
{"id": "14663081", "title": "A polyketide synthase gene required for ochratoxin A biosynthesis in Aspergillus ochraceus.", "content": "A polyketide synthase gene required for ochratoxin A biosynthesis in Aspergillus ochraceus. Ochratoxin A is an important nephrotoxic and nephrocarcinogenic mycotoxin, produced by Aspergillus ochraceus as a polyketide-derived secondary metabolite. A portion of a putative polyketide synthase gene (pks) involved in the biosynthesis of this mycotoxin was cloned by using a suppression subtractive hybridization PCR-based approach. The predicted amino acid sequence of the 1.4 kb clone shared 28-35 % identity to acyl transferase regions from fungal polyketide synthases found in the databases. Based on reverse transcription PCR studies, the pks gene is expressed only under ochratoxin A permissive conditions and only during the early stages of the mycotoxin synthesis. A mutant in which the pks gene has been interrupted cannot synthesize ochratoxin A. This report is the first of the cloning and characterization of a gene involved in ochratoxin A biosynthesis."}
{"id": "14662960", "title": "Development and validation of a quantitative real-time PCR assay using fluorescence resonance energy transfer technology for detection of Aspergillus fumigatus in experimental invasive pulmonary aspergillosis.", "content": "Development and validation of a quantitative real-time PCR assay using fluorescence resonance energy transfer technology for detection of Aspergillus fumigatus in experimental invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) is a frequently fatal infection in immunocompromised patients that is difficult to diagnose. Present methods for detection of Aspergillus spp. in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid and in tissue vary in sensitivity and specificity. We therefore developed an A. fumigatus-specific quantitative real-time PCR-based assay utilizing fluorescent resonance energy transfer (FRET) technology. We compared the assay to quantitative culture of BAL fluid and lung tissue in a rabbit model of experimental IPA. Using an enzymatic and high-speed mechanical cell wall disruption protocol, DNA was extracted from samples of BAL fluid and lung tissues from noninfected and A. fumigatus-infected rabbits. A unique primer set amplified internal transcribed spacer regions (ITS) 1 and 2 of the rRNA operon. Amplicon was detected using FRET probes targeting a unique region of ITS1. Quantitation of A. fumigatus DNA was achieved by use of external standards. The presence of PCR inhibitors was determined by use of a unique control plasmid. The analytical sensitivity of the assay was </=10 copies of target DNA. No cross-reactivity occurred with other medically important filamentous fungi. The assay results correlated with pulmonary fungal burden as determined by quantitative culture (r = 0.72, Spearman rank correlation; P </= 0.0001). The mean number of genome equivalents detected in untreated animals was 3.86 log(10) (range, 0.86 to 6.39 log(10)) in tissue. There was a 3.53-log(10) mean reduction of A. fumigatus genome equivalents in animals treated with amphotericin B (AMB) (95% confidence interval, 3.38 to 3.69 log(10); P </= 0.0001), which correlated with the reduction of residual fungal burden in lung tissue measured in terms of log(10) CFU/gram. The enhanced quantitative sensitivity of the real-time PCR assay was evidenced by detection of A. fumigatus genome in infarcted culture-negative lobes, by a greater number of mean genome equivalents compared to the number of CFU per gram in tissue and BAL fluid, and by superior detection of therapeutic response to AMB in BAL fluid compared to culture. This real-time PCR assay using FRET technology is highly sensitive and specific in detecting A. fumigatus DNA from BAL fluid and lung tissue in experimental IPA."}
{"id": "14662934", "title": "Epidemiology of Aspergillus terreus at a university hospital.", "content": "Epidemiology of Aspergillus terreus at a university hospital. Invasive fungal infections due to Aspergillus species have become a major cause of morbidity and mortality among immunocompromised patients. Aspergillus terreus, a less common pathogen, appears to be an emerging cause of infection at our institution, the University of Alabama hospital in Birmingham. We therefore investigated the epidemiology of A. terreus over the past 6 years by using culture data; antifungal susceptibility testing with amphotericin B, voriconazole, and itraconazole; and molecular typing with random amplification of polymorphic DNA-PCR (RAPD-PCR). During the study period, the percentage of A. terreus isolates relative to those of other Aspergillus species significantly increased, and A. terreus isolates frequently were resistant to amphotericin B. Molecular typing with the RAPD technique was useful in discriminating between patient isolates, which showed much strain diversity. Further surveillance of A. terreus may better define epidemiology and determine whether this organism is becoming more frequent in relation to other Aspergillus species."}
{"id": "14645701", "title": "Development of molecular methods for the identification of aspergillus and emerging moulds in paraffin wax embedded tissue sections.", "content": "Development of molecular methods for the identification of aspergillus and emerging moulds in paraffin wax embedded tissue sections. Invasive infection with emerging moulds is increasing in incidence and reliable methods for speciating these organisms in tissue sections need to be developed. Two methods for extracting fungal DNA from paraffin wax embedded tissue sections, based on the TaKaRa DEXPAT kit and QIAamp DNA mini kit, were optimised and compared. DNA was amplified by PCR using pan-fungal probes, and detected by Southern blot hybridisation using a high stringency method with a probe specific for Aspergillus fumigatus and A flavus. The method based on the TaKaRa DEXPAT kit, with additional steps using lyticase and ethanol precipitation, was superior. Less than 10 conidia were detectable using spiked samples and a positive result was obtained with 100% of clinical samples known to be culture positive for A fumigatus. Other moulds could be identified by using species specific probes or by sequencing PCR products. The method based on the TaKaRa DEXPAT kit could detect less than 10 conidia/sample. The method allowed accurate identification of A fumigatus and A flavus and other species could be identified using species specific probes or by DNA sequencing. These methods will provide a valuable diagnostic tool for both patient management and future antifungal and epidemiological studies."}
{"id": "14639952", "title": "[Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis complicated by complete atrioventricular block and aspergillus pericarditis after induction chemotherapy in a patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia].", "content": "[Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis complicated by complete atrioventricular block and aspergillus pericarditis after induction chemotherapy in a patient with acute lymphoblastic leukemia]. A 50-year-old man developed invasive pulmonary aspergillosis after induction chemotherapy for acute lymphoblastic leukemia. He was treated with 5-fluorocytosine and intravenous amphotericin B (AMPH-B). During antifungal therapy, he developed aspergillus pericarditis and complete atrioventricular (A-V) block. The pericardial effusion was decreased and the A-V block was improved after treatment with intravenous and intrapericardial instillation of AMPH-B. Because the patient's renal function deteriorated, AMPH-B was replaced with itraconazol after the latex agglutination (LA) test for an aspergillus-specific antigen showed a negative result. The patient, however, died from disseminated aspergillosis. Aspergillus DNA was detected in retrospective analysis of the serum which had been negative with the LA test. This case indicates that LA is not sufficient for diagnosis and post therapy evaluation of invasive aspergillosis. PCR or other methods should be used concomitantly with LA. Intrapericardial instillation of AMPH-B might be effective for patients with aspergillus pericarditis in whom surgical treatment is not indicated."}
{"id": "14633008", "title": "Substrate-induced lipase gene expression and aflatoxin production in Aspergillus parasiticus and Aspergillus flavus.", "content": "Substrate-induced lipase gene expression and aflatoxin production in Aspergillus parasiticus and Aspergillus flavus. To establish a relationship between lipase gene expression and aflatoxin production by cloning the lipA gene and studying its expression pattern in several aflatoxigenic and nontoxigenic isolates of Aspergillus flavus and A. parasiticus. We have cloned a gene, lipA, that encodes a lipase involved in the breakdown of lipids from aflatoxin-producing A. flavus, A. parasiticus and two nonaflatoxigenic A. flavus isolates, wool-1 and wool-2. The lipA gene was transcribed under diverse media conditions, however, no mature mRNA was detected unless the growth medium was supplemented with 0.5% soya bean or peanut oil or the fungus was grown in lipid-rich medium such as coconut medium. The expression of the lipase gene (mature mRNA) under substrate-induced conditions correlated well with aflatoxin production in aflatoxigenic species A. flavus (SRRC 1007) and A. parasiticus (SRRC 143). Substrate-induced lipase gene expression might be indirectly related to aflatoxin formation by providing the basic building block 'acetate' for aflatoxin synthesis. No direct relationship between lipid metabolism and aflatoxin production can be ascertained, however, lipase gene expression correlates well with aflatoxin formation. Lipid substrate induces and promotes aflatoxin formation. It gives insight into genetic and biochemical aspects of aflatoxin formation."}
{"id": "14626574", "title": "Peracetic acid-ethanol treatment of allogeneic avital bone tissue transplants--a reliable sterilization method.", "content": "Peracetic acid-ethanol treatment of allogeneic avital bone tissue transplants--a reliable sterilization method. Based on the European Standard EN 1040, the validation guidelines of the German Federal Institute for Drugs and Medical Devices and CPMP guidelines we tested the antimicrobial effectiveness of a peracetic acid-ethanol sterilization procedure (PES) in allogenic avital bone transplants. Delipidated human bone spongiosa cubes (15 x 15 x 15 mm) served as tissue. Three enveloped viruses (human immunodeficiency virus type 2, pseudorabies virus, bovine virus diarrhoea virus) and three non-enveloped viruses (hepatitis A virus, poliovirus, porcine parvovirus) were used. The reduction of virus infectivity was measured as TCID50/ml in neutralized supernatants and bone homogenates. Staphylococcus aureus. Enterococcus faecium, Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Bacillus subtilis. Clostridium sporogenes, Mycobacterium terrae. Candida albicans, Aspergillus niger as well as spores of Bacillus subtilis were tested additionally. PES led to a reduction of virus titres by more than 4 log10. Only HAV showed a reduction below 4 log10 (2.87) with residual infectivity. After including a delipidating step for HAV-infected cells, a reduction of over 7 log10 HAV titre was found. For viable bacteria, fungi and spores a titre reduction below the detection level (5 log10) was achieved after an incubation time of 2 hours. The peracetic acid-ethanol procedure proved to be a reliable method for the sterilization of human bone transplants (layer thickness < or = 15 mm). However, additional safety measures (anamnestic informations, infectious serology, HIV-/HBV-/HCV-PCR in case of multiorgan donors) should be taken."}
{"id": "14600221", "title": "Intron requirement for AFP gene expression in Trichoderma viride.", "content": "Intron requirement for AFP gene expression in Trichoderma viride. The 430 bp ORF of the Aspergillus giganteus antifungal protein (AFP) gene, containing two small introns, was fused between the promoter and the terminator of the Aspergillus nidulans trpC gene. The AFP gene in this vector produced detectable levels of spliced mRNA in Trichoderma viride. In contrast, in the same vector configuration, its 285 bp intronless derivative showed no accumulation of mRNA when transformed into T. viride. Such expression results were confirmed at the protein level. This fact demonstrated that the introns were required for AFP gene expression in T. viride. This is thought to be a novel phenomenon found in filamentous fungi. Although the mechanism of splicing in filamentous fungi might be similar to that in other eukaryotes, little is known of how it affects expression. This study suggests that the small introns in filamentous fungal genes may not only act as intervening elements, but may also play crucial roles in gene expression by affecting mRNA accumulation. Furthermore, it may provide new evidence for intron-dependent evolution."}
{"id": "14596967", "title": "Real-time automated polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to detect Candida albicans and Aspergillus fumigatus DNA in whole blood from high-risk patients.", "content": "Real-time automated polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to detect Candida albicans and Aspergillus fumigatus DNA in whole blood from high-risk patients. We report the development and evaluation of a real-time PCR assay using the LightCycler instrument for the detection of C. albicans and A. fumigatus DNA in whole blood. Recently published consensus criteria for the diagnosis of invasive fungal infection (IFI) were used for all patient samples. Unique and published primer pairs were developed and assessed for sensitivity, specificity, and reproducibility to detect C. albicans and A. fumigatus DNA in samples spiked with purified DNA, and whole blood samples from 8 high-risk patients and 45 negative controls. The real-time assay demonstrated an analytical sensitivity of 10 fg of purified C. albicans and A. fumigatus DNA and was found to be specific for each species. The standardized approach was highly reproducible and detected C. albicans and A. fumigatus DNA in two patients with proven IFI and in one patient with a possible IFI. In addition, we report for the first time the use of recently published international consensus criteria for the diagnosis of IFI in the evaluation of a mildly invasive fungal diagnostic assay. Standardized clinical criteria and a more standardized approach to detect fungal DNA in less invasive patient samples, may permit a more reliable comparison of future studies. A rapid real-time detection of fungal DNA in whole blood, combined with standard clinical markers of response, may be more useful for monitoring patients at risk of developing IFI than other diagnostic methods currently available."}
{"id": "14584610", "title": "Improvements of PCR-based identification targeting the DNA topoisomerase II gene to determine major species of the opportunistic fungi Candida and Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Improvements of PCR-based identification targeting the DNA topoisomerase II gene to determine major species of the opportunistic fungi Candida and Aspergillus fumigatus. For the simple and rapid detection/identification of major pathogenic fungal species such as Candida albicans, C. tropicalis, C. parapsilosis, C. glabrata and Aspergillus fumigatus, common primers for these species and specific primers for each species, designed on the basis on the genomic nucleotide sequences of the DNA topoisomerase II genes, were prepared and tested for their specificities in PCR amplifications. Twelve specific primers were pooled and designated PsVI. Genomic DNAs were amplified by the common primer pair, and followed by PCR amplification using PsVI. Using PsVI, six unique DNA fragments, all of which corresponded to a Candida or A. fumigatus species, were specifically and acceptably amplified from each template DNA even in the presence of other DNAs. Similarly, the results of identification of clinical samples based on the PCR amplification coincided with those of conventional identification techniques. The sensitivities of the direct PCR and the nested PCR using PsVI were found to be 1,000 and 50 yeast cells, respectively."}
{"id": "14572378", "title": "Combined used of RAPD and touchdown PCR for epidemiological studies of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Combined used of RAPD and touchdown PCR for epidemiological studies of Aspergillus fumigatus. Aspergillus fumigatus is a filamentous fungus that acts as an opportunistic pathogen and has emerged as a major problem in immunosuppressed patients. Nosocomial outbreaks of aspergillosis are becoming more frequent, but their identification and epidemiological characterization is slow and difficult. Description of a fast, sensitive, specific method to identify and fingerprint A. fumigatus using methodology available in clinical laboratories. We studied several strains of A. fumigatus isolated from patients with invasive aspergillosis (n = 4), the hospital environment (n = 5) and reference cultures (n = 1), as well as other close phylogenetic fungal species from patients (n = 1), hospital environment (n = 6) and reference cultures (n = 1). A. fumigatus was identified by both touchdown PCR and conventional phenotyping methods. Genotyping was performed with random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis, comparing the results from two primers (OPZ-19 and R-108) and different amplification protocols with regard to band resolution and reproducibility. Touchdown PCR and phenotype results were identical. Best RAPD results were obtained with the R-108 primer and considerably longer ramp times between annealing and extension. RAPD analysis is a fast, reliable tool for DNA fingerprinting. Patterns may be easier to repeat and interpret when longer ramp times are used. Touchdown PCR combined with RAPD analysis is a sensitive, accurate method for managing clinical outbreaks of Aspergillus fumigatus."}
{"id": "14572377", "title": "[Are molecular techniques useful in aspergillosis surveillance and control?].", "content": "[Are molecular techniques useful in aspergillosis surveillance and control?]."}
{"id": "14566574", "title": "Pulmonary aspergillosis in a patient with chronic granulomatous disease: confirmation by polymerase chain reaction and serological tests, and successful treatment with voriconazole.", "content": "Pulmonary aspergillosis in a patient with chronic granulomatous disease: confirmation by polymerase chain reaction and serological tests, and successful treatment with voriconazole. A 25-year-old male with chronic granulomatous disease developed severe bilateral pulmonary aspergillosis confirmed by a positive result of polymerase chain reaction for Aspergillus species from sputum and positive serological tests for Aspergillus. He was successfully treated with voriconazole. The diagnostic difficulties and the new therapeutic options in the era of new antifungal agents are discussed."}
{"id": "14556761", "title": "Polymerase chain reaction aids in the diagnosis of an unusual case of Aspergillus niger endocarditis in a patient with acute myeloid leukaemia.", "content": "Polymerase chain reaction aids in the diagnosis of an unusual case of Aspergillus niger endocarditis in a patient with acute myeloid leukaemia. Endocarditis secondary to Aspergillus niger has not been described in a leukaemic patient. We describe a case of A. niger endocarditis in a patient with acute myeloid leukaemia and refractory fever. The microbiological cause of his endocarditis was initially misdiagnosed because he fulfilled the Duke criteria for enterococcal endocarditis. A polymerase chain reaction test utilizing pan-fungal primers detected a product from an Aspergillus sp. The DNA was subsequently sequenced and was found to have 100% homology with A. niger. A postmortem revealed fungal endocarditis secondary to disseminated aspergillosis, without evidence of bacterial endocarditis. The patient was found to have a lung aspergilloma that was possibly occupationally acquired, and may have been long standing."}
{"id": "14527661", "title": "Diversity of polyketide synthase gene sequences in Aspergillus species.", "content": "Diversity of polyketide synthase gene sequences in Aspergillus species. Fungal polyketide synthases are responsible for the biosynthesis of several mycotoxins and other secondary metabolites. The aim of our work was to investigate the diversity of polyketide synthases in Aspergillus species using two approaches: PCR amplification using oligonucleotide primers, and bioinformatics. Ketosynthase domain probes amplified DNA fragments of about 700 bp in each examined isolate. Sequences of these domains were aligned and analyzed by phylogenetic methods. The ketosynthase domain sequences were highly diverse indicating that they most probably represent polyketide synthases responsible for different functions. A. albertensis and A. niger ketosynthase domain sequences clustered together with sequences of genes required for pigment biosynthesis (wA) in A. nidulans and P. patulum, while the ketosynthase domain sequence of A. muricatus was most closely related to an A. parasiticus wA type domain sequence, and those of the A. ochraceus isolates formed a distinct clade on the tree. These sequences were highly homologous to an A. terreus naphthopyrone synthase gene. An Aspergillus fumigatus genomic database was also searched for ketosynthase domain sequences, which have been included in the phylogenetic analysis. Altogether 14 putative ketosynthase domain sequences were identified. Clustering of the ketosynthase domain sequences correlated well with the type of metabolites produced by the corresponding polyketide synthases. At least 8 clusters with putative ketosynthase domain sequences of unknown function have been identified. Further studies are in progress to clarify the role of some of the identified polyketide synthase genes."}
{"id": "14520109", "title": "Local production of Aspergillus fumigatus specific immunoglobulin E in nasal polyps.", "content": "Local production of Aspergillus fumigatus specific immunoglobulin E in nasal polyps. Aspergillus spp. play a significant role in the etiology of immunoglobulin (Ig)E mediated allergic fungal sinusitis (AFS). It is unclear whether Aspergillus spp. are also involved in nasal polyps without the characteristic clinical features of AFS. The frequency of Aspergillus spp. and Aspergillus-specific IgE in nasal lavages and serum of patients with severe nasal polyps (n = 33) without clinical features of AFS should be investigated. Prospective study. An aliquot of nasal lavage fluid was treated with dithiothreitol and examined for Aspergillus fumigatus by culture and an Aspergillus-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay. An additional aliquot of nasal fluid and serum of the same patient were tested for specific IgE (Unicap, Pharmacia, Freiburg, Germany) to recombinant Aspergillus fumigatus allergen (rAspf) 1 to 6. All patients had negative skin prick tests for Aspergillus fumigatus. Four of 33 (12%) lavage samples were positive for Aspergillus spp. by PCR. In one of these samples, rAspf-specific IgE was detected but none in the serum. Nasal lavage and serum samples of the remaining 29 patients were negative for rAspf-specific IgE. Aspergillus spp. detection is rare in patients with severe nasal polyps without characteristic clinical features of AFS. Specific IgE in nasal secretions may be elevated in patients with negative skin prick tests and serum IgE. In these cases, immunologic mechanisms similar to AFS may be involved. Fungal etiology has been proposed to underlie severe nasal polyps in general. However, Aspergillus spp. seem not to play a significant role."}
{"id": "14513384", "title": "Cloning and expression of fungal phytases in genetically modified strains of Aspergillus awamori.", "content": "Cloning and expression of fungal phytases in genetically modified strains of Aspergillus awamori. In an effort to produce phytases cost-effectively, and to determine the efficiency of a novel expression system, the genes for Aspergillus awamori ( phyA) phytase and Aspergillus fumigatus ( phyA) phytase (a putative thermostable enzyme) were cloned and overexpressed in A. awamori. Regulation of phytase expression was achieved by separately placing the genes under the transcriptional control of the glucoamylase A ( glaA) promoter of A. awamori. A gene fusion strategy was employed that involved the insertion of a hexapeptide Kex-2 protease cleavage site between the native glucoamylase and heterologous proteins and allowed for the efficient secretion and processing of the resultant chimeric proteins produced in this system by an endogenous Kex-2 protease. The genes for both of the above-mentioned phytases have already been cloned; however, this is the first report of either of the two phytases being fused with the glucoamylase gene, placed under the transcriptional control of the glaA promoter and overexpressed in A. awamori. Following transformation of A. awamori with separate expression vectors (one for each phytase), induction of phytase expression in submerged culture was effected by utilisation of a starch-containing medium. Optimisation of heterologous protein production in small shake-flask cultures involved changes in medium constituents. Maximum phytase expression levels of 200 phytase units (PU) ml(-1) and 62 PU ml(-1) for recombinantly expressed phytases from A. awamori and A. fumigatus, respectively, were obtained in crude fermentation extracts. Subsequent process scale-up to 4 l batch fermentation yielded phytase production levels comparable to those obtained on small scale. The enzyme yields herein reported demonstrate that the expression system developed and the host strain utilised were capable of expressing phytase at levels comparable to, or exceeding, previously reported data."}
{"id": "13680172", "title": "Diagnosis and antimicrobial therapy of pulmonary infiltrates in febrile neutropenic patients--guidelines of the Infectious Diseases Working Party (AGIHO) of the German Society of Hematology and Oncology (DGHO).", "content": "Diagnosis and antimicrobial therapy of pulmonary infiltrates in febrile neutropenic patients--guidelines of the Infectious Diseases Working Party (AGIHO) of the German Society of Hematology and Oncology (DGHO). Patients with severe neutropenia lasting for more than 10 days, who develop fever and pulmonary infiltrates, are at high risk of treatment failure and infection-related death, under conventional broad-spectrum antibiotics. Early supplementation by a systemic antifungal therapy active against Aspergillus spp. has been shown to markedly improve their clinical outcome. Prognosis is significantly influenced by early identification of lung infiltrates by means of high-resolution thoracic computed tomography. Non-culture based diagnostic procedures using a highly sensitive Sandwich ELISA assay to detect circulating galactomannan, or PCR techniques to amplify circulating fungal DNA, may facilitate the diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. CT-directed bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage using standardized procedures are useful in order to identify causative microorganisms such as filamentous fungi or Pneumocystis carinii. The standard antifungal agent in the treatment of these patients, amphotericin B deoxycholate, has been challenged recently by newly developed antifungals such as voriconazole. It seems important to continue antifungal treatment for at least 14 days before first response assessment. Microbial isolates from blood cultures, bronchoalveolar lavage or respiratory secretions must be critically interpreted with respect to their etiological relevance for pulmonary infiltrates, to avoid inadequate antimicrobial treatment modification."}
{"id": "12969302", "title": "Homologous expression of a mutated beta-tubulin gene does not confer benomyl resistance on Trichoderma virens.", "content": "Homologous expression of a mutated beta-tubulin gene does not confer benomyl resistance on Trichoderma virens. To clone the beta-tubulins and to induce resistance to benzimidazoles in the biocontrol fungus Trichoderma virens through site-directed mutagenesis. Two beta-tubulin genes have been cloned using PCR amplification followed by the screening of a T. virens cDNA library. The full-length cDNA clones, coding for 445 and 446 amino acids, have been designated as T. virens tub1 and T. virens tub2. A sequence alignment of these two tubulins with tubulins from other filamentous fungi has shown the presence of some unique amino acid sequences not found in those positions in other beta-tubulins. Constitutive expression of the tub2 gene with a histidine to tyrosine substitution at position 6 (known to impart benomyl/methyl benzimadazol-2-yl carbamate resistance in other fungi), under the Pgpd promoter of Aspergillus nidulans, did not impart resistance to benomyl. The homologous expression of tub2 gene with a histidine to tyrosine mutation at position +6, which is known to impart benomyl tolerance in other fungi, does not impart resistance in T. virens. Unlike other Trichoderma spp., T. virens, has been difficult to mutate for benomyl tolerance. The present study, through site-directed mutagenesis, shows that a mutation known to impart benomyl tolerance in T. viride and other fungi does not impart resistance in this fungus. Understanding the mechanisms of this phenomenon will have a profound impact in plant-disease management, as many plant pathogenic fungi develop resistance to this group of fungicides forcing its withdrawal after a short period of use."}
{"id": "12967210", "title": "Genetic analysis of morphological variants of Aspergillus parasiticus deficient in secondary metabolite production.", "content": "Genetic analysis of morphological variants of Aspergillus parasiticus deficient in secondary metabolite production. Aflatoxins (AFs) are secondary metabolites produced mainly by Aspergillus parasiticus and A. flavus. To study AF regulation, previously isolated non-toxigenic A. parasiticus sec- (for secondary metabolism minus) variants were genetically analysed. In parasexual crossing, the sec- strains failed to form heterokaryons and diploids with other sec- strains. Heterokaryon test results suggested that involvement of cytoplasmic elements in the formation of sec- phenotype was unlikely. At the molecular level, the coding sequence of the sec- aflR (the only known positive regulator of AF pathway) was identical to that of their toxigenic sec+ (for secondary metabolism plus) parents. However, the sec- aflR expression was 5- to 10-fold lower compared to that in the sec+ forms. RT-PCR analysis demonstrated that the AF pathway genes were expressed in the sec- forms but in trace amounts and in their unprocessed forms. Combined, these results suggest that aflR is necessary but not sufficient for AF production and that elements involved in fungal development directly or indirectly influence its proper function."}
{"id": "12964848", "title": "Fungal biodiversity--as found in nasal mucus.", "content": "Fungal biodiversity--as found in nasal mucus. The biodiversity of fungi isolated from the nasal mucus of patients suffering from chronic rhinosinusitis and from healthy persons was monitored over 28 months. Mucus samples were obtained by flushing the noses of patients with saline or by endoscopic sinus surgery. Fungi from mucus were cultivated on agar plates. Identification was performed microscopically and by polymerase chain reaction with subsequent sequencing of the ribosomal internal transcribed spacer region. Altogether, 619 strains of fungi were cultivated from 233 subjects. Eighty-one species were identified, with a maximum of nine different species per person. The most prevalent isolates belonged to the genera Penicillium, Aspergillus, Cladosporium, Alternaria and Aureobasidium. Whereas Aspergillus and Penicillium spp. occurred in more or less the same numbers throughout the year, Cladosporium spp., Alternaria spp. and Aureobasidium pullulans showed a significantly higher occurrence during late summer and early autumn."}
{"id": "12963348", "title": "Production of the active antifungal Pisum sativum defensin 1 (Psd1) in Pichia pastoris: overcoming the inefficiency of the STE13 protease.", "content": "Production of the active antifungal Pisum sativum defensin 1 (Psd1) in Pichia pastoris: overcoming the inefficiency of the STE13 protease. Plant defensins are small cysteine-rich proteins that present high activity against fungi and bacteria and inhibition of insect proteases and alpha-amylases. Here, we present the expression in Pichia pastoris, purification and characterization of the recombinant Pisum sativum defensin 1(rPsd1); a pea defensin which presents four disulfide bridges and high antifungal activity. For this, we had to overcome the inefficiency of the STE13 protease. Our strategy was to clone the corresponding cDNA directly in-frame with a variant of the widely used secretion signal from the Saccharomyces cerevisiae alpha-mating factor, devoid of the STE13 proteolytic signal cleavage sequence. Using an optimized expression protocol, which included a buffered basal salt media formulation, it was possible to obtain about 63.0mg/L of 15N-labeled and unlabeled rPsd1. The recombinants were purified to homogeneity by gel filtration chromatography, followed by reversed-phase HPLC. Mass spectrometry of native and recombinant Psd1 revealed that the protein expressed heterologously was post-translationally processed to the same mature protein as the native one. Circular dichroism and nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy analysis indicated that the recombinant protein had the same folding when compared to native Psd1. In addition, the rPsd1 was fully active against Aspergillus niger, if compared with native Psd1. To our knowledge, this is the first heterologous expression of a fully active plant defensin in a high-yield flask."}
{"id": "12958261", "title": "Semiquantitative detection by real-time PCR of Aspergillus fumigatus in bronchoalveolar lavage fluids and tissue biopsy specimens from patients with invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Semiquantitative detection by real-time PCR of Aspergillus fumigatus in bronchoalveolar lavage fluids and tissue biopsy specimens from patients with invasive aspergillosis. A real-time PCR method was developed and used to detect Aspergillus fumigatus mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluids and tissue biopsy specimens. The analytical sensitivity of the assay was one A. fumigatus conidium per reaction, and the assay was linear at least over 4 orders of magnitude above the detection limit. BAL fluids from 66 immunocompromised patients at risk of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) and 33 immunocompetent controls and tissue biopsy specimens from 10 immunocompromised patients were analyzed. The results were related to the clinical diagnosis established according to recently published consensus criteria. A. fumigatus mtDNA positivity was encountered in 16 of 81 (20%) BAL fluid specimens from patients at risk and 1 of 33 (3%) specimens from immunocompetent controls. PCRs were positive in six of seven, two of four, and four of five of the patients with proven, probable, and possible IPA, respectively, as well as in four patients at risk but without any other evidence of IPA. With qualitative detection, the diagnostic sensitivity of PCR was 73%, specificity was 93%, and predictive values of positive (PPV) and negative (NPV) results were 73 and 95%, respectively. Using a threshold cycle of <35 as a limit for positive PCR, the specificity and PPV of PCR in the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis were 100%, but its sensitivity was only 45% and NPV was 92%. PCR was positive in tissue biopsy specimens from all patients with invasive aspergillosis caused by A. fumigatus. Semiquantitative detection of A. fumigatus mtDNA in BAL fluid may be helpful in the diagnosis of IPA. PCR is well suited for the verification of the presence of A. fumigatus in tissue biopsy specimens."}
{"id": "12938011", "title": "Rapid detection of pathogenic fungi from clinical specimens using LightCycler real-time fluorescence PCR.", "content": "Rapid detection of pathogenic fungi from clinical specimens using LightCycler real-time fluorescence PCR. In the study presented here a LightCycler real-time PCR system was used for the diagnosis of fungal infections from clinical tissue samples. Nine specimens were investigated from six patients with suspected or proven invasive fungal infections. Seven of nine samples were positive in a broad-range fungal PCR assay. In four samples, Aspergillus fumigatus was detected both by a species-specific hybridization assay as well as by sequencing of amplification products. In addition, the broad-range fungal PCR assay and PCR sequencing detected and identified, respectively, the following organisms in the specimens noted: Candida albicans in a culture-negative liver biopsy, Histoplasma capsulatum in a bone marrow sample, and Conidiobolus coronatus in a facial soft tissue specimen. Real-time PCR is a promising tool for the diagnosis of invasive fungal infections in human tissue samples and offers some advantages over culture methods, such as rapid analysis and increased sensitivity."}
{"id": "12925377", "title": "What can be worse than cerebral tuberculosis? A concomitant [correction of concommitant] Aspergillus infection.", "content": "What can be worse than cerebral tuberculosis? A concomitant [correction of concommitant] Aspergillus infection."}
{"id": "12914286", "title": "[Study on the polymerase chain reaction methods for the detection of fumonisin-producing strains of Fusarium moniliforme].", "content": "[Study on the polymerase chain reaction methods for the detection of fumonisin-producing strains of Fusarium moniliforme]. Three pairs of PCR primers P1/P2, P3/P4 and Fum5F21/Fum5R1 specific for Fumonisin-producing were designed, based on the polyketide synthase gene fum5 of Fusarium moniliforme involved in fumonisin biosynthesis. PCR methods for detecting Fumonisin-producing F. moniliforme strains were developed. The specificity of PCR with 3 pairs of primers was detected with 5 standard F. moniliforme strains from ATCC. 880 bp, 702 bp and 1040 bp DNA fragments were amplified with P1/P2, P3/P4 and Fum5F21/Fum5R1, respectively, by using ATCC 52539 (Fumonisin-producing strain) as DNA template. Negative results were obtained by using ATCC 38946, ATCC 26263, ATCC 12763, ATCC 38016 (Fumonisin-non-producing strains), and other negative control strains such as F. gramnearum, F. poae, F. equiseti, F. tricinctum, A. flavus and E. coli O157. The sensitivity of PCR with 3 pairs of primers was detected by applying different dilutions of ATCC 52539 DNA template. The detection limits for PCR with P1/P2 was 100 pg per PCR assay, and with P3/P4 and Fum5F21/Fum5R1 were all 10 pg, equivalently 10(4) and 10(3) spores per PCR assay, respectively. Total 32 strains of F. moniliforme and F. moniliforme var isolated from different regions in China were identified by using PCR with P1/P2, P3/P4 and Fum5F21/Fum5R1. 26 out of them were identified as Fumonisin-producing strains, and other 6 isolates as Fumonisin-non-producing strains. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis for PCR (P3/P4) products of some Fumonisin-producing strains were performed by using restriction endonuclease EcoR V and Bam HI. Two DNA fragments 181 bp, 521 bp and three fragments 116 bp, 258 bp, 328 bp were produced, respectively, which accorded with reported reference value. Reliability of the results was confirmed. The results indicated that only one strain, ZJ-fm052, had Fumonisin biosynthesis gene, but negative in detecting fumonisin B1 in culture. Further studies are required. It proved that PCR methods are rapid and reliable to detect Fumonisin-producing strains."}
{"id": "12904419", "title": "Comparison of real-time PCR, conventional PCR, and galactomannan antigen detection by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples from hematology patients for diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis.", "content": "Comparison of real-time PCR, conventional PCR, and galactomannan antigen detection by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay using bronchoalveolar lavage fluid samples from hematology patients for diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. An iCycler iQ real-time PCR assay targeting 18S rRNA Aspergillus-specific sequences was developed for the diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA). Positive findings were obtained for 18 of 20 (90%) bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid specimens from patients with probable or confirmed IPA and were obtained for none of the 24 BAL samples from patients with no clinical evidence of aspergillosis. These results were concordant with those of a nested PCR assay, which detected 90% of the patients with IPA, while galactomannan ELISA revealed positivity for 100% of these patients, suggesting that combined use of methods might improve the diagnosis of IPA."}
{"id": "12898356", "title": "Elucidation of cytomegalovirus disease recurrence in an HIV-1-positive patient.", "content": "Elucidation of cytomegalovirus disease recurrence in an HIV-1-positive patient. Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is responsible for the most common opportunistic viral infection in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). The colon is a common site for CMV infection in patients positive for the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). The clinical diagnosis of CMV infection is based on the characteristic endoscopic appearance of extensive ulceration of the gastric mucosa. A 54-year-old HIV-positive man visited our hospital because of high fever. The patient presented with diarrhea, and colonoscopy was performed. Ganciclovir was administered, with a good clinical response. However, the patient complained of the same symptoms again 6 months later. Nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was performed on all the patient's samples to detect CMV, followed by sequencing of the UL97 gene for CMV resistance detection. The PCR tests for Legionella, Chlamydia pneumoniae, Pneumocystis carinii, and Aspergillus were negative. DNA preparations from biopsy specimens of areas of colon ulceration were positive for CMV. Six months after treating the colon ulcerations, the PCR for CMV was positive, and the possible emergence of CMV mutants conferring ganciclovir resistance was examined. Direct sequencing of the PCR products revealed the known V594 mutation in the UL97 gene predisposing for ganciclovir resistance as well as the polymorphisms (579, GGC-->GGT) and (598, GGT-->GGC) in all samples tested. In summary, molecular biology methods can be used for early detection of CMV in characteristic colonic lesions in HIV-1-positive patients. Furthermore, detection of mutant strains resistant to antiviral drugs as well as polymorphisms elucidate the natural history of the infection."}
{"id": "12892923", "title": "Ura- host strains for genetic manipulation and heterologous expression of Torulaspora delbrueckii.", "content": "Ura- host strains for genetic manipulation and heterologous expression of Torulaspora delbrueckii. Recently, the industrial and academic interest in the yeast Torulaspora delbrueckii has increased notably due to its high resistance to several stresses. This characteristic has made of this organism a very attractive model to study the molecular basis of the stress response in yeast. However, very little is known about the physiology and genetics of this yeast, and the tools for its manipulation have not been developed. Here, we have generated Ura(-) strains of the baker's yeast T. delbrueckii IGC5323 by either 5-FOA-aided selection or transformation with a PCR-based disruption cassette, natMX4, which confers nourseothricin resistance. Furthermore, the mutant and disruptant strains were used as recipient of a plasmid containing the xlnB cDNA from Aspergillus nidulans. Our results indicate that Torulaspora transformants produce active recombinant protein at a similar level to that found for Saccharomyces."}
{"id": "12871905", "title": "Identification of a topoisomerase I mutant, scsA1, as an extragenic suppressor of a mutation in scaA(NBS1), the apparent homolog of human nibrin in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Identification of a topoisomerase I mutant, scsA1, as an extragenic suppressor of a mutation in scaA(NBS1), the apparent homolog of human nibrin in Aspergillus nidulans. The Mre11-Rad50-Nbs1 protein complex has emerged as a central player in the human cellular DNA damage response, and recent observations suggest that these proteins are at least partially responsible for the linking of DNA damage detection to DNA repair and cell cycle checkpoint functions. Mutations in scaA(NBS1), which encodes the apparent homolog of human nibrin in Aspergillus nidulans, inhibit growth in the presence of the antitopoisomerase I drug camptothecin. This article describes the selection and characterization of extragenic suppressors of the scaA1 mutation, with the aim of identifying other proteins that interfere with the pathway or complex in which the ScaA would normally be involved. Fifteen extragenic suppressors of the scaA1 mutation were isolated. The topoisomerase I gene can complement one of these suppressors. Synergistic interaction between the scaA(NBS1) and scsA(TOP1) genes in the presence of DNA-damaging agents was observed. Overexpression of topoisomerase I in the scaA1 mutant causes increased sensitivity to DNA-damaging agents. The scsA(TOP1) and the scaA(NBS1) gene products could functionally interact in pathways that either monitor or repair DNA double-strand breaks."}
{"id": "12867558", "title": "Faster genetic identification of medically important aspergilli by using gellan gum as gelling agent in mycological media.", "content": "Faster genetic identification of medically important aspergilli by using gellan gum as gelling agent in mycological media. Using gellan gum as a substitute for agar-agar in a mycological medium and sequencing of the ITS 1 and 2 regions resulted in an accurate identification of Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus terreus and Aspergillus ustus within 24 h of subculture."}
{"id": "12853153", "title": "A Blumeria graminis gene family encoding proteins with a C-terminal variable region with homologues in pathogenic fungi.", "content": "A Blumeria graminis gene family encoding proteins with a C-terminal variable region with homologues in pathogenic fungi. In a study aimed at characterising, at the molecular level, the obligate biotrophic fungus Blumeria graminis f. sp. hordei (Bgh), we have identified a novel group of genes, the Egh16H genes, and shown that two of these are up-regulated during primary infection of barley leaves. The genes have partial homology to a previously characterised Bgh gene family, Egh16. Egh16 and Egh16H are subfamilies of a larger multigene family with presently about 15 members identified in Bgh. Egh16H has about ten members, and we show that five of these are expressed as highly conserved mRNAs that are predicted to encode proteins with a C-terminal variable region. Egh16H has high homology to sequences in Magnaporthe grisea and other plant pathogenic fungi, as well as sequences of both the insect pathogen Metarhizium anisopliae and the human pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus. No close homologues of Egh16H were found in the non-pathogenic fungi Neurospora crassa and Aspergillus nidulans. We predict that Egh16H plays a general role in the interaction between pathogenic fungi and their hosts. At present, the large number of gene family members with C-terminal variation appears to be unique for Bgh, and the Egh16/Egh16H gene family is to our knowledge the largest gene family so far characterised in this fungus."}
{"id": "12848725", "title": "Molecular diagnostics in clinical parasitology and mycology: limits of the current polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays and interest of the real-time PCR assays.", "content": "Molecular diagnostics in clinical parasitology and mycology: limits of the current polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays and interest of the real-time PCR assays. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) represents a major breakthrough for the diagnosis of infectious diseases. However, the absence of standardized kits for commercially unattractive targets, such as most of the parasites and the fungi, has led to the development of numerous in-house PCR assays. The performances reported, both for the sensitivity and the specificity of these assays are very divergent. For instance, for the antenatal diagnosis of toxoplasmosis, the sensitivity is either 97.4%, or 64%. For the diagnosis of toxoplasmosis in HIV-positive patients, the PCR on blood is either of limited value with a sensitivity of 13% or of excellent yield with a sensitivity of 87.5%. Similar results are reported for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in bone-marrow-transplant recipients. The patients and the clinical specimens tested are often different. This can explain some of the discrepancies. However, when performed, the quality controls on identical specimens show different results depending on the laboratories. An analysis of the PCR techniques used shows that the control of false positive results as a result of carry-over and false negative results owing to PCR inhibitors is far from being systematic. These shortcomings of 'classical' PCR should be solved when real-time PCR assays are developed, leading to some standardization. Automated DNA extraction should also be useful to achieve this goal. Comparison between laboratories should then be possible and regular quality controls will be necessary to ensure the reliability of real-time PCR assays."}
{"id": "12843660", "title": "Cloning, sequencing, and heterologous expression of a cellobiohydrolase cDNA from the basidiomycete Corticium rolfsii.", "content": "Cloning, sequencing, and heterologous expression of a cellobiohydrolase cDNA from the basidiomycete Corticium rolfsii. From a Corticium rolfsii cDNA library, a clone homologous to other fungal cellobiohydrolase (CBH1) genes was isolated using the polymerase chain reaction. In the nucleotide sequence, one 1.6 kb long open reading frame coding for a polypeptide of 530 amino acid residues was detected which showed 64% identity with CBH1 of Phanerochaete chrysosporium. With expression of the 1.8 kb cDNA using the Aspergillus oryzae expression system, we detected microcrystalline cellulose (Avicel) hydrolyzing activity in the culture supernatant. The secreted protein, accompanied by the activity, was 89 kDa by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis."}
{"id": "12840024", "title": "A mitotic cascade of NIMA family kinases. Nercc1/Nek9 activates the Nek6 and Nek7 kinases.", "content": "A mitotic cascade of NIMA family kinases. Nercc1/Nek9 activates the Nek6 and Nek7 kinases. The Nek family of protein kinases in humans is composed of 11 members that share an amino-terminal catalytic domain related to NIMA, an Aspergillus kinase involved in the control of several aspects of mitosis, and divergent carboxyl-terminal tails of varying length. Nek6 (314AA) and Nek7 (303AA), 76% identical, have little noncatalytic sequence but bind to the carboxyl-terminal noncatalytic tail of Nercc1/Nek9, a NIMA family protein kinase that is activated in mitosis. Microinjection of anti-Nercc1 antibodies leads to spindle abnormalities and prometaphase arrest or chromosome missegregation. Herein we show that Nek6 is increased in abundance and activity during mitosis; activation requires the phosphorylation of Ser206 on the Nek6 activation loop. This phosphorylation and the activity of recombinant Nek6 is stimulated by coexpression with an activated mutant of Nercc1. Moreover, Nercc1 catalyzes the direct phosphorylation of prokaryotic recombinant Nek6 at Ser206 in vitro concomitant with 20-25-fold activation of Nek6 activity; Nercc1 activates Nek7 in vitro in a similar manner. Nercc1/Nek9 is likely to be responsible for the activation of Nek6 during mitosis and probably participates in the regulation of Nek7 as well. These findings support the conclusion that Nercc1/Nek9 and Nek6 represent a novel cascade of mitotic NIMA family protein kinases whose combined function is important for mitotic progression."}
{"id": "12825511", "title": "Efficient isolation of genes differentially expressed on cellulose by suppression subtractive hybridization in Agaricus bisporus.", "content": "Efficient isolation of genes differentially expressed on cellulose by suppression subtractive hybridization in Agaricus bisporus. The production of cellulases on minimal medium in the edible mushroom Agaricus bisporus is regulated by the carbon source: induced by cellulose and repressed by glucose. In order to isolate cellulose-growth specific sequences, a cDNA library from A. bisporus using suppression subtractive hybridization (SSH) was constructed. Northern blot analysis indicated that a high level of enrichment was achieved; 183 clones were isolated. A preliminary screen with cellulose-specific genes of A. bisporus (cel1, cel2, cel3 and cel4) using Southern hybridization resulted in 28 clones to be cel3, and 5 clones were cel2. The remaining 144 clones were sequenced. Partial sequences of the following genes were found: a beta-glucosidase homologue of the blvk gene of Kluyveromyces marxianus; a cellulase homologue of an endoglucanase (avicellase III) of Aspergillus aculeatus, four different xylanases homologue of the xyn genes of different fungi, and one hexose transporter homologue to the hxtA gene of Aspergillus parasiticus. The apparent full-length of two hydrophobins homologue to the abh3 gene of A. bisporus and one histone homologue to the h2a gene of Aspergillus niger were also found. The remaining sequences did not have homology to any known genes."}
{"id": "12785313", "title": "Mycotoxin production and evolutionary relationships among species of Aspergillus section Clavati.", "content": "Mycotoxin production and evolutionary relationships among species of Aspergillus section Clavati. Aspergillus clavatus is a commonly encountered fungus in the environment, producing a number of mycotoxins including patulin, kojic acid, cytochalasins and tremorgenic mycotoxins. A. clavatus belongs to Aspergillus section Clavati together with six other species, all of which possess clavate-shaped vesicles. Patulin production was analysed by thin layer chromatography and high performance liquid chromatography, while a primer pair developed for the detection of an iso-epoxydon dehydrogenase gene involved in the biosynthesis of patulin in penicillia was used to detect the ability of patulin production in the isolates examined. A good correlation was observed between patulin producing properties, and the presence of an iso-epoxydon dehydrogenase gene fragment among the isolates tested. A. longivesica was found for the first time to produce patulin. Ribotoxin production was also examined using a PCR-based approach. Ribotoxins were detected for the first time in an A. pallidus and a Hemicarpenteles acanthosporus isolate. A phylogenetic analysis of intergenic transcribed spacer sequence data indicated that most isolates belong to two main clades that have also been identified earlier based on 26 S rDNA sequence data. A. pallidus isolates clustered together with A. clavatus strains. Although A. clavatus isolates produced highly homogeneous random amplified polymorphic DNA profiles, phylogenetic analysis of these data let us cluster A. clavatus isolates into distinct clades. Correlations were not observed between either patulin or ribotoxin production, and the taxonomic position of the isolates tested, indicating that patulin and ribotoxin producing abilities were lost several times during evolution of Aspergillus section Clavati. Although patulin was earlier found to inhibit mycovirus replication, one of the mycovirus carrying isolates also produced patulin, and both carried the iso-epoxydon dehydrogenase gene."}
{"id": "12784608", "title": "Gene cloning and functional analysis of a second delta 6-fatty acid desaturase from an arachidonic acid-producing Mortierella fungus.", "content": "Gene cloning and functional analysis of a second delta 6-fatty acid desaturase from an arachidonic acid-producing Mortierella fungus. We demonstrated that Mortierella alpina 1S-4 has two delta 6-desaturases, which are involved in the desaturation of linoleic acid to gamma-linolenic acid. For one of the two delta 6-desaturases, designated as delta 6I, gene cloning and its heterologous expression in a fungus, Aspergillus oryzae, has previously been reported. In addition, we indicated in this paper that there is an isozyme of the two delta 6-desaturases, designated as delta 6II, in M. alpina 1S-4. The predicted amino acid sequences of the Mortierella delta 6-desaturases were similar to those of ones from other organisms, i.e. borage and Caenorhabditis elegans, and had a cytochrome b5-like domain at the N-terminus, being different from the yeast delta 9-desaturase, which has the corresponding domain at the C-terminus. The full-length delta 6II cDNA was expressed in A. oryzae, resulting in the accumulation of gamma-linolenic acid (which was not detected in the control Aspergillus) up to 37% of the total fatty acids. The analysis of real-time quantitative PCR (RTQ-PCR) showed that the quantity of delta 6I RNA was 2.4-, 9-, and 17-fold higher than that of delta 6II RNA on 2, 3, and 4 days in M. alpina 1S-4, respectively. M. alpina 1S-4 is the first fungus to be confirmed to have two functional delta 6-desaturase genes."}
{"id": "12777690", "title": "A simple PCR/RFLP analysis can differentiate between Candida albicans, Aspergillus niger, and Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "A simple PCR/RFLP analysis can differentiate between Candida albicans, Aspergillus niger, and Aspergillus fumigatus. The clinical management of immunocompromised patients depends on the rapid identification of infectious agents such as fungal pathogens. The procedure described here for accomplishing this uses a sensitive polymerase chain reaction method, previously reported, combined with restriction-enzyme digestion to distinguish between Candida and Aspergillus species and to classify Aspergillus strains."}
{"id": "12777515", "title": "Hop, an active Mutator-like element in the genome of the fungus Fusarium oxysporum.", "content": "Hop, an active Mutator-like element in the genome of the fungus Fusarium oxysporum. A new type of active DNA transposon has been identified in the genome of Fusarium oxysporum by its transposition into the niaD target gene. Two insertions within the final exon, in opposite orientations at the same nucleotide site, have been characterized. These elements, called Hop, are 3,299 bp long, with perfect terminal inverted repeats (TIRs) of 99 bp. The sequencing of genomic copies reveals a 9-bp target site duplication and no apparent sequence specificity at the insertion sites. The sequencing of a cDNA indicates that Hop does not contain an intron and encodes a putative transposase of 836 amino acids. The structural features (length, TIRs size, and 9-bp duplication), together with the presence of conserved domains in the transposase, strongly suggest that Hop is a Mutator-like element (MULE). Hop is thus the first active member of this family found beyond plants. The high rate of excision observed indicates that Hop is very active and thus represents a promising efficient tagging system for the isolation of fungal genes. The distribution of Hop elements within the Fusarium genus revealed that they are present in different species, suggesting that related elements could be present in other fungal genomes. In fact, Hop-related sequences have been identified in the survey of the entire genome sequence of three other ascomycetes, Magnaporthe grisea, Neurospora crassa, and Aspergillus fumigatus."}
{"id": "12762339", "title": "Induced sputum IL-8 gene expression, neutrophil influx and MMP-9 in allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis.", "content": "Induced sputum IL-8 gene expression, neutrophil influx and MMP-9 in allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis. Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) is a hypersensitivity reaction to the fungus Aspergillus fumigatus, causing severe asthma that may progress to bronchiectasis. Sputum neutrophilia can occur in association with sputum eosinophilia and correlates with the degree of bronchiectasis. The mechanisms of sputum neutrophilia in ABPA are not known. The aim of this study was to investigate the role of the chemokine interleukin (IL)-8 in sputum neutrophilia in ABPA. Induced sputum was obtained from subjects with ABPA (n=29), and compared to nonsensitised asthma (n=9) and healthy controls (n=21). Semiquantitative polymerase chain reaction was used to assess IL-8 gene expression in induced sputum and IL-8 protein was measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Sputum IL-8 protein was significantly higher in ABPA compared to asthma and controls. IL-8 messenger ribonucleic acid/glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase ratio was elevated in ABPA compared to asthma and controls. Sputum IL-8 correlated with sputum neutrophils, matrix metalloproteinase-9 levels and forced expiratory volume in one second. Interleukin-8 gene expression and protein release were increased in allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis and correlated with airway neutrophilia and airway obstruction. The interleukin-8-mediated neutrophil influx in allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis may induce lung damage via release of matrix metalloproteinase-9, potentially leading to bronchiectasis."}
{"id": "12752802", "title": "Metal ion enhancement of fungal growth, gene expression and aflatoxin synthesis in Aspergillus flavus: RT-PCR characterization.", "content": "Metal ion enhancement of fungal growth, gene expression and aflatoxin synthesis in Aspergillus flavus: RT-PCR characterization. To determine the effect of mineral ions (e.g., Zn2+, Cu2+, and Fe2+) on the enhancement of fungal growth, total RNA, aflatoxin pathway gene expression, and production of aflatoxin and its precursor O-methylsterigmatocystin (OMST). The influence of the metal ions, as a single or mixed treatments, was observed in submerged cultures of toxigenic Aspergillus flavus through changes in the fungal RNA or aflatoxin pathway gene (omtA) by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) levels, and also in fungal dry-weight accumulation, aflatoxin and OMST production. The ion treatments induced changes of fungal total RNA, mRNA levels, associate fungal growth, biosynthesis of aflatoxin and OMST, and enhanced expression of RT-PCR. Demonstrates at the cellular and molecular level, the significant effects of metal ions on both fungal growth and production of aflatoxin."}
{"id": "12747422", "title": "Molecular typing of Aspergillus ochraceus and construction of species specific SCAR-primers based on AFLP.", "content": "Molecular typing of Aspergillus ochraceus and construction of species specific SCAR-primers based on AFLP. 70 strains of Aspergillus ochraceus mainly isolated from Brazilian coffee related sources were investigated for genetic relatedness using automated laser fluorescence analysis of AFLP fragments. Cluster analysis of fingerprints revealed a very close relationship among most of the strains. Based on these results, a sub-set of characteristic A. ochraceus strains was chosen for the detection of marker sequences. These sequences were obtained from silver stained AFLPs separated on polyacrylamide gels. A number of bands characteristic for A. ochraceus were detected and cut out from the gels. DNA was reamplified, cloned and fragments were sequenced. Based on these sequences a set of SCAR PCR-primers was constructed. PCRs were optimised for specificity and subsequently tested against a panel of Aspergillus species. Using this approach a PCR specific for Aspergillus ochraceus was developed."}
{"id": "12743564", "title": "Association of polymorphisms in the collagen region of SP-A2 with increased levels of total IgE antibodies and eosinophilia in patients with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis.", "content": "Association of polymorphisms in the collagen region of SP-A2 with increased levels of total IgE antibodies and eosinophilia in patients with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis. Studies from our group have shown a protective role of pulmonary surfactant protein A (SP-A) against lung allergy and infections caused by Aspergillus fumigatus. Present study investigated the association of polymorphisms in the collagen region of SP-A1 and SP-A2 (genes encoding SP-A) with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) and its clinical markers. Genomic DNA was extracted from blood samples of patients with ABPA and age-matched, unrelated control subjects. The polymorphisms were detected by means of PCR amplification and sequencing of the collagen region of SP-A1 and SP-A2. Two exonic (SP-A2 G1649C and SP-A2 A1660G, 10 patients and 11 control subjects) and 2 intronic (SP-A2 T1492C, 8 patients and 8 control subjects; SP-A1 C1416T, 5 patients and 7 control subjects) polymorphisms in the collagen region of SP-A2 and SP-A1 showed significant association with patients with ABPA. A significantly higher frequency of the AGA allele (A1660G) of SP-A2 was observed in patients with ABPA in comparison with control subjects (P =.0156, odds ratio [OR] = 4.78, 95% CI = 1.23 < OR < 18.52). This polymorphism, when existing along with a nonredundant polymorphism, SP-A2 G1649C (Ala91Pro) resulted in a stronger association with ABPA (A1660G and G1649C: P =.0079, OR = 10.4, 95% CI = 1.62 < OR < 66.90). Patients with ABPA with GCT and AGG alleles showed significantly high levels of total IgE and percentage eosinophilia versus patients with ABPA with CCT and AGA alleles. The results indicated that SP-A2 G1649C and SP-A2 A1660G, polymorphisms in the collagen region of SP-A2, might be one of the contributing factors to genetic predisposition and severity of clinical markers of ABPA."}
{"id": "12734210", "title": "Development of a LightCycler PCR assay for detection and quantification of Aspergillus fumigatus DNA in clinical samples from neutropenic patients.", "content": "Development of a LightCycler PCR assay for detection and quantification of Aspergillus fumigatus DNA in clinical samples from neutropenic patients. The increasing incidence of invasive aspergillosis, a life-threatening infection in immunocompromised patients, emphasizes the need to improve the diagnostic tools for this disease. We established a LightCycler-based real-time PCR assay to detect and quantify rapidly, specifically, and sensitively Aspergillus fumigatus DNA in both bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) and blood samples from high-risk patients. The primers and hybridization probes were derived from an A. fumigatus-specific sequence of the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene. The assay is linear in the range between 13.2 fg and 1.3 ng of A. fumigatus DNA, corresponding to 3 to 300,000 CFU per ml of BAL fluid or blood. No cross-amplification was observed with human DNA or with the DNA of fungal or bacterial pathogens. For clinical evaluation we investigated 10 BAL samples from nine neutropenic patients with malignant hematological diseases and 12 blood samples from seven neutropenic patients with malignant hematological diseases. Additionally, we tested one blood sample and one BAL sample from each of two neutropenic patients. In order to characterize the validity of the novel PCR assay, only samples that had shown positive results by a previously described sensitive and specific nested PCR assay were tested. Twelve of 12 BAL samples and 6 of 14 blood samples gave positive results by the LightCycler PCR assay. Eight of 14 blood samples gave negative results by the novel method. The LightCycler PCR-mediated quantification of the fungal burden showed 15 to 269,018 CFU per ml of BAL sample and 298 to 104,114 CFU per ml of blood sample. Twenty of 20 BAL samples and 50 of 50 blood samples from subjects without evidence of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) were PCR negative. Compared to a previously described nested PCR assay, these preliminary data for the novel real-time PCR assay indicate a less sensitive rate of detection of IPA in high-risk patients, but the assay may be valuable for quantification of the fungal burden in individual clinical samples."}
{"id": "12709346", "title": "Multiple resistance mechanisms among Aspergillus fumigatus mutants with high-level resistance to itraconazole.", "content": "Multiple resistance mechanisms among Aspergillus fumigatus mutants with high-level resistance to itraconazole. A collection of Aspergillus fumigatus mutants highly resistant to itraconazole (RIT) at 100 micro g ml(-1) were selected in vitro (following UV irradiation as a preliminary step) to investigate mechanisms of drug resistance in this clinically important pathogen. Eight of the RIT mutants were found to have a mutation at Gly54 (G54E, -K, or -R) in the azole target gene CYP51A. Primers designed for highly conserved regions of multidrug resistance (MDR) pumps were used in reverse transcriptase PCR amplification reactions to identify novel genes encoding potential MDR efflux pumps in A. fumigatus. Two genes, AfuMDR3 and AfuMDR4, showed prominent changes in expression levels in many RIT mutants and were characterized in more detail. Analysis of the deduced amino acid sequence encoded by AfuMDR3 revealed high similarity to major facilitator superfamily transporters, while AfuMDR4 was a typical member of the ATP-binding cassette superfamily. Real-time quantitative PCR with molecular beacon probes was used to assess expression levels of AfuMDR3 and AfuMDR4. Most RIT mutants showed either constitutive high-level expression of both genes or induction of expression upon exposure to itraconazole. Our results suggest that overexpression of one or both of these newly identified drug efflux pump genes of A. fumigatus and/or selection of drug target site mutations are linked to high-level itraconazole resistance and are mechanistic considerations for the emergence of clinical resistance to itraconazole."}
{"id": "12690650", "title": "Nervous system infections in patients with cancer.", "content": "Nervous system infections in patients with cancer. The diagnostic approach to the patient with cancer with suspected CNS infection depends on an analysis of the patient's immune defect, the time course of development of manifestations of infection, and the type of clinical syndrome with supportive evidence for a specific diagnosis coming from laboratory and neuroradiographic data. Most patients with CNS infections can be grouped into those with signs of meningitis or meningoencephalitis and those with focal mass lesions. A smaller group presents with stroke-like onset. Except for the group with strokes, those with focal deficits usually present in a more indolent fashion, whereas those with meningitis and encephalitis present more acutely [63]. Patients with B-lymphocyte dysfunction are susceptible to encapsulated bacterial pathogens. Patients with T-lymphocyte impairment develop CNS infections that are caused by intracellular pathogens, particularly viruses (HSV, JC, CMV, HHV-6), Nocardia, Aspergillus, and Toxoplasma. Many noninfectious entities, such as drug treatment complications, radiation effects, recurrent tumor, and paraneoplastic syndromes, can mimic CNS infections. Although cryptococcosis, bacterial meningitis, and some viral infections are easily diagnosed from Gram's stain, culture, or PCR, patients with mass lesions may require tissue biopsy to confirm diagnosis. Patients with cancer differ from normal hosts in the distribution of pathogens, and there is a wider range of differential diagnostic issues, both infectious and noninfectious, for the relatively few clinical syndromes that present as potential CNS infections."}
{"id": "12678710", "title": "Rapid identification of allergen-encoding cDNA clones by phage display and high-density arrays.", "content": "Rapid identification of allergen-encoding cDNA clones by phage display and high-density arrays. We describe a high-throughput, quantitative technology for fast identification of all different clones present in selectively enriched phage surface-displayed cDNA libraries. The strategy is based on a combination of phage display and high-density arrays. To demonstrate the utility of the method cDNAs of Aspergillus fumigatus cloned into phagemid pJuFo were expressed on the tip of filamentous M13 phage and affinity-selected on solid phase-immobilized serum IgE from allergic patients. Enriched phagemid libraries were amplified in bacteria, plated and arrayed into 384-well microtitre plates by robotic colony picking. cDNA inserts were amplified by high-throughput PCR and gridded onto high-density filter membranes. Filters were iteratively probed with randomly-sequenced inserts until all clones were identified. Eighty-one different sequences encoding IgE-binding proteins likely to cover a large part of the allergen repertoire of the mould were found. This approach represents a widely applicable method for rapid high-throughput identification of all individual cDNAs present in selectively enriched libraries."}
{"id": "12667256", "title": "Rhodococcus equi pneumonia in a heart transplant recipient in Korea, with emphasis on microbial diagnosis.", "content": "Rhodococcus equi pneumonia in a heart transplant recipient in Korea, with emphasis on microbial diagnosis. Rhodococcus equi is an opportunistic pathogen that usually causes infection in immunocompromised hosts. A heart transplant recipient who had been treated with amphotericin B for pulmonary aspergillosis showed newly developed multiple nodules with a central necrotic area in the right lower lobes. Cultures of several blood samples and an aspirate of the lung nodule yielded a Gram-positive coccobacillary bacterium, which was initially reported as a Corynebacterium species, but was later identified as R. equi by API CORYNE (bioMerieux SA, Marcy l'Etoile, France) and by demonstrating the production of 'equi factor'. The identification was subsequently confirmed by an R. equi-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The patient was successfully treated with ciprofloxacin and azithromycin for 14 weeks. This is the first documented case of R. equi infection in Korea. There is a possibility of underestimation of R. equi infections due to the misidentification of the organism as a contaminating diphtheroid. Because R. equi will not respond to the conventional empirical therapy, the microbiology laboratory should identify R. equi in a timely manner. R. equi-specific PCR will be a useful confirmatory test in human infection."}
{"id": "12655397", "title": "The Aspergillus parasiticus protein AFLJ interacts with the aflatoxin pathway-specific regulator AFLR.", "content": "The Aspergillus parasiticus protein AFLJ interacts with the aflatoxin pathway-specific regulator AFLR. The Aspergillus parasiticus aflJgene, which is located in the aflatoxin biosynthetic gene cluster and is transcribed divergently from the aflatoxin pathway regulatory gene aflR, encodes a 438-amino acid protein. Transformation with aflJplus aflR, but not aflJalone, increased the accumulation of aflatoxin precursors substantially in an O-methylsterigmatocystin-accumulating A. parasiticus strain. Disruption of aflJ resulted in non-pigmented mutants that lost the ability to synthesize aflatoxin intermediates. Transcript profiling by real time RT-PCR indicated that the lack of aflJtranscripts in the aflJ knockout mutants is associated with a significant decrease in the transcript levels of the genes for early (pksAand nor1), middle (ver1) and later (omtA) steps in the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway, with the degree of reduction ranging from 5- to 20-fold. Deletion of aflJ, however, did not have any effect on the aflRtranscript level, and vice versa. Two-hybrid assays showed that AFLJ did not interact with aflatoxin biosynthetic enzymes, including NOR1, VER1, OMTA and ORDA. But AFLJ interacted with full-length AFLR, and the DNA-binding domain of AFLR was found not to be essential for this interaction. Simultaneous substitution of Arg427, Arg429, and Arg431 in the C-terminal region of AFLR with Leu residues abolished its ability to interact with AFLJ. Replacement of Asp436, which was previously shown to be crucial for AFLR's activation activity, with His, in contrast, had little effect on the interaction. On the other hand, deletions in most regions of AFLJ appeared to destroy its function, despite the fact that random amino acid substitution(s) in its C-terminal region did not drastically affect its capacity to interact with AFLR. The results show that aflJis involved in the expression of aflatoxin structural genes and support the hypothesis that aflJis a coactivator gene."}
{"id": "12653860", "title": "Molecular epidemiology of invasive stomatitis due to Aspergillus flavus in patients with acute leukemia.", "content": "Molecular epidemiology of invasive stomatitis due to Aspergillus flavus in patients with acute leukemia. Invasive oral aspergillosis is a rare complication and only little information on the epidemiology of Aspergillus flavus infection is available. We present here the molecular analysis of the epidemiology of invasive stomatitis due to Aspergillus flavus in patients with acute leukemia. During a 5-year period (1992-1996), six isolates of A. flavus were obtained from leukemic patients with invasive Aspergillus stomatitis. Random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) with three different PCR primers was carried out to investigate the DNA typing of the isolates. The molecular analysis using RAPD revealed that three isolates of A. flavus obtained in 1992 from three patients were of the same type, whereas each of the isolates from the other three patients had a distinct unique band, resulting in four groups of A. flavus. As the three patients with invasive oral aspergillosis detected in 1992 were infected by a single strain of A. flavus, the strain was suspected to have caused a nosocomial outbreak of invasive oral aspergillosis in the hematology unit."}
{"id": "12627806", "title": "Evaluation of a polymerase chain reaction reverse hybridization line probe assay for the detection and identification of medically important fungi in bronchoalveolar lavage fluids.", "content": "Evaluation of a polymerase chain reaction reverse hybridization line probe assay for the detection and identification of medically important fungi in bronchoalveolar lavage fluids. An assay system in which polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification of the ITS-1 region of ribosomal DNA (rDNA) is combined with a reverse-hybridization line probe assay (LiPA) was used for the identification of six Candida species and four Aspergillus species in pure cultures of clinical isolates, as well as in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid samples from 42 patients with various underlying diseases. The results were compared with the results obtained with conventional routine identification methods as well as with a commercial enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) galactomannan detection assay and an Aspergillus-specific PCR. No discrepancies between the PCR-LiPA system and routine methods were found for pure cultures of Candida and Aspergillus species except in the case of Aspergillus versicolor. In BAL fluid samples in which Candida species were cultured, the PCR-LiPA system identified more species than did the routine methods. When routine analyses of patient samples were supplemented by adding data obtained by repurifying and re-identifying cultures and by taking isolates obtained from other body sites into account, the results agreed with PCR-LiPA system results in 81% of the cases (34/42). Most of the remaining discrepancies (6/8) involved cases in which such supplementary data were not available. In BAL fluid samples from which A. fumigatus was cultured, the agreement between the PCR-LiPA system and the routine methods was low. Only 2 of 11 BAL samples shown to contain A. fumigatus in ELISA and genus-specific PCR assays were positive in PCR-LiPA system. The PCR-LiPA system enables the simultaneous detection and identification of different fungal species present in pure or mixed populations within 6 h in a single assay. Optimization is required, however, before it is useful as a diagnostic tool in the clinical microbiology laboratory."}
{"id": "12620258", "title": "Mutation in a calpain-like protease affects the posttranslational mannosylation of phosphatases in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Mutation in a calpain-like protease affects the posttranslational mannosylation of phosphatases in Aspergillus nidulans. In this communication, we show that the palB7 mutation drastically reduced the mannose and N-acetylgalactosamine content of the pacA-encoded acid phosphatase secreted by the fungus Aspergillus nidulans at pH 5.0, compared to a control strain. By using mRNA differential display reverse transcription and polymerase chain reaction, we isolated two cDNAs from the control pabaA1 strain that were not detected in the palB7 mutant strain that encode a mannosyl transferase and a NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase. Thus, a defect in the posttranslational mannosylation of proteins could be the consequence of mutations in the palB gene, which encodes for a nuclear calpain-like protease that may have specific functions in the processing of transcription factor(s) similar to its homolog, RIM13, in Saccharomyces cereviseae."}
{"id": "12619691", "title": "Primary structure of cytochrome c gene from the white root rot fungus Rosellinia necatrix.", "content": "Primary structure of cytochrome c gene from the white root rot fungus Rosellinia necatrix. The nucleotide sequence of the cytochrome c (CytC) gene of the white root rot fungus Rosellinia necatrix was analyzed. The structure of this gene, which had three introns in the coding region, was similar to that of Aspergillus nidulans. The second intron of the R. necatrix CytC gene was not present in Neurospora crassa or Fusarium oxysporum. However, the amino acid sequence of R. necatrix was most similar to that of Neurospora crassa. Thus, it seemed that the second intron of the R. necatrix CytC gene was inserted into its present position after R. necatrix and its closest relatives diverged evolutionarily."}
{"id": "12604551", "title": "A point mutation in the 14alpha-sterol demethylase gene cyp51A contributes to itraconazole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "A point mutation in the 14alpha-sterol demethylase gene cyp51A contributes to itraconazole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus. The genes encoding 14alpha-sterol demethylases (cyp51A and cyp51B) were analyzed in 12 itraconazole (ITC)-resistant and three ITC-susceptible clinical isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus. Six ITC-resistant strains exhibited a substitution of another amino acid for glycine at position 54, which is located at a very conserved region of the Cyp51A protein. The cyp51A gene from the A. fumigatus wild-type strain (CM-237) was replaced with the mutated cyp51A gene copy of an ITC-resistant strain (AF-72). Two transformants exhibited resistance to ITC, both of which had incorporated the mutated copy of the cyp51A gene."}
{"id": "12591825", "title": "Molecular diagnosis of culture negative infective endocarditis: clinical validation in a group of surgically treated patients.", "content": "Molecular diagnosis of culture negative infective endocarditis: clinical validation in a group of surgically treated patients. To assess the clinical validity of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) based molecular methods in the microbiological diagnosis of culture negative infective endocarditis in a group of surgically treated patients. Retrospective case-control study. Reference cardiovascular surgical centre. PATIENTS AND SAMPLES: 15 culture negative patients with infective endocarditis classified according to Duke criteria, with 17 heart valve samples; 13 age and sex matched control patients without infective endocarditis, with 13 valve samples. Medical records were reviewed and clinical, demographic, and microbiological data collected, including results of molecular detection of bacteria and fungi from valve samples. The clinical validity of molecular diagnosis was assessed, along with the sensitivity and speed of the systems. In the study group, 14 patients were PCR positive (93%). Organisms detected were streptococci (3), staphylococci (2), enterobacter (1), Tropheryma whippelii (1), Borrelia burgdorferi (1), Candida albicans (1), and Aspergillus species (2). Three cases were positive on universal bacterial detection but the pathogen could not be identified because of contaminating background. One case was negative. All but two positive cases showed clinical correlations. These two cases had no symptoms of infective endocarditis but there was agreement with the surgical findings. All control cases were PCR negative. Results were available within eight hours, and if sequencing was necessary, within 48 hours. PCR based molecular detection of pathogens in valve samples from surgically treated culture negative infective endocarditis patients is fast, sensitive, and reliable. The technology, combined with thorough validation and clinical interpretation, may be a promising tool for routine testing of infective endocarditis."}
{"id": "12589475", "title": "Development of a transformation system for Crinipellis perniciosa, the causal agent of witches' broom in cocoa plants.", "content": "Development of a transformation system for Crinipellis perniciosa, the causal agent of witches' broom in cocoa plants. Protoplasts of the pathogenic plant fungus, Crinipellis perniciosa, were transformed to hygromycin B resistance using the pAN7-1 plasmid, which contains the Escherichia coli hph gene under the control of Aspergillus nidulans regulatory sequences. The pAN7-1 plasmid was introduced by PEG/CaCl(2) treatment. Transformation frequencies of 1.6-2.5 transformants/microg of DNA were achieved. About 54% of the transformants were abortive and 40 analyzed transformants were mitotically stable and showed different hygromycin B resistance levels. The presence of the hph gene was checked by PCR in five transformants and the integration of multiple plasmid copies into different genome sites was observed by Southern analysis. This is the first report of a C. perniciosa transformation system and represents an important step for further research into genetic manipulation of this fungal plant pathogen."}
{"id": "12574250", "title": "Detection and identification of fungi from fungus balls of the maxillary sinus by molecular techniques.", "content": "Detection and identification of fungi from fungus balls of the maxillary sinus by molecular techniques. The aim of this study was to find a reliable method for the detection and identification of fungi in fungus balls of the maxillary sinus and to evaluate the spectrum of fungi in these samples. One hundred twelve samples were obtained from patients with histologically proven fungal infections; 81 samples were paraffin-embedded tissue sections of the maxillary sinus. In 31 cases, sinus contents without paraffin embedding were sent for investigation. PCR amplification with universal fungal primers for 28S ribosomal DNA and amplicon identification by hybridization with species-specific probes for Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus terreus, Aspergillus glaucus, Pseudallescheria boydii, Candida albicans, and Candida glabrata were performed for all samples. Furthermore, PCR products were sequenced. Fresh samples were also cultivated. Fungal DNA was detected in all of the fresh samples but only in 71 paraffin-embedded tissue samples (87.7%). Sequence analysis was the most sensitive technique, as results could be obtained for 28 (90.3%) fresh samples by this method in comparison to 24 (77.4%) samples by hybridization and 16 (51.6%) samples by culture. However, sequence analysis delivered a result for only 36 (50.7%) of the paraffin-embedded specimens. Hybridization showed reliable results for A. fumigatus, which proved to be the most common agent in fungus balls of the maxillary sinus. Other Aspergillus species and other genera were rarely found."}
{"id": "12574242", "title": "PCR assay for identification of histoplasma capsulatum based on the nucleotide sequence of the M antigen.", "content": "PCR assay for identification of histoplasma capsulatum based on the nucleotide sequence of the M antigen. The major diagnostic antigens of Histoplasma capsulatum var. capsulatum are the H and M antigens, pluripotent glycoproteins that elicit both humoral and T-cell-mediated immune responses. The gene encoding the M antigen has previously been sequenced, and its sequence has significant overall homology to those of the genes for fungal catalases. Regions of the M-antigen gene with little or no homology were used to design four oligonucleotide sequences for application in the PCR detection and identification of H. capsulatum var. capsulatum. The PCR correctly identified the 31 H. capsulatum var. capsulatum strains isolated from human, animal, and soil specimens and 1 H. capsulatum var. duboisii isolate. PCR products of 111 and 279 bp were amplified with primers Msp1F-Msp1R and Msp2F-Msp2R, respectively. No amplification product was obtained from DNA extracted from an H. capsulatum var. farciminosum isolate. The specificity of the PCR with the M-antigen-derived primers was confirmed by the total absence of amplification products when genomic DNA from Paracoccidioides brasiliensis, Candida spp., Sporothrix schenckii, Cryptococcus neoformans, Blastomyces dermatitidis, Coccidioides immitis, Aspergillus niger, and Aspergillus fumigatus were applied in the reaction. This rapid, sensitive, and specific assay provides a way to identify typical and atypical isolates of H. capsulatum var. capsulatum."}
{"id": "12571064", "title": "Cloning and expression analysis of the pcbAB-pcbC beta-lactam genes in the marine fungus Kallichroma tethys.", "content": "Cloning and expression analysis of the pcbAB-pcbC beta-lactam genes in the marine fungus Kallichroma tethys. Here we report the identification of the beta-lactam biosynthesis genes pcbAB and pcbC from a cosmid genomic DNA library of the marine fungus Kallichroma tethys. A BLAST homology search showed that they share high sequence identity with the delta-(L-alpha-aminoadipyl)-L-cysteinyl-D-valine (ACV) synthetases and isopenicillin N synthases, respectively, of various fungal and bacterial beta-lactam producers, while phylogenetic analysis indicated a close relationship with homologous genes of the cephalosporin-producing pyrenomycete Acremonium chrysogenum. Expression analysis by reverse transcription-PCR suggested that both genes are highly regulated and are expressed in the late growth phase of K. tethys cultures. Complementation of an Aspergillus nidulans strain deficient in ACV synthetase suggested that at least pcbAB is functional, although attempts to isolate active antibiotic from K. tethys were unsuccessful."}
{"id": "12571042", "title": "Monitoring the production of aflatoxin B1 in wheat by measuring the concentration of nor-1 mRNA.", "content": "Monitoring the production of aflatoxin B1 in wheat by measuring the concentration of nor-1 mRNA. A real-time reverse transcription-PCR system has been used to monitor the expression of an aflatoxin biosynthetic gene of Aspergillus flavus in wheat. Therefore, total RNA was isolated from infected wheat samples, reverse transcribed and subjected to real-time PCR. In parallel all samples were analyzed by high-pressure liquid chromatography for aflatoxin B(1) production. The primer-probe system of the real-time PCR was targeted against nor-1, a gene of the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway. By application of this method the nor-1 transcription was quantified during the course of incubation. After 4 days of incubation nor-1 mRNA could be detected for the first time. The amount of nor-1 mRNA increased rapidly, and the maximum was achieved after 6 days. Then, starting very slowly, the mRNA was degraded until day 8, and this was followed by a very fast degradation, reaching nondetectable levels at days 9 and 10. First traces of aflatoxin B(1)could be detected between the 5th and 6th day of incubation. The aflatoxin concentration reached its maximum after 9 days of incubation and remained constant for the whole period of observation. To ensure that differences in the nor-1 mRNA concentration were due to different expression levels, the expression of the constitutively expressed beta-tubulin gene (benA56) has also been monitored. The expression of benA56 remained constant during the whole incubation time. As a parameter for fungal growth, the number of nor-1 gene copies was determined during the course of incubation. The numbers of nor-1 gene copies increased at the beginning of the incubation and reached a plateau at day 5. They correlate well with the viable counts albeit at a higher level."}
{"id": "12568754", "title": "Quantification of the copy number of nor-1, a gene of the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway by real-time PCR, and its correlation to the cfu of Aspergillus flavus in foods.", "content": "Quantification of the copy number of nor-1, a gene of the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway by real-time PCR, and its correlation to the cfu of Aspergillus flavus in foods. A real-time PCR system directed against the nor-1 gene of the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway as a target sequence has been applied to detect an aflatoxinogenic A. flavus strain in plant-type foods like maize, pepper and paprika. The system is based on the TaqMan fluorescent probe technology. The copy numbers of the nor-1 gene were compared to conventional cfu data obtained from the same set of samples. In general, a good correlation between nor-1 gene copy number and the cfu data was observed; however, the nor-1 copy numbers were always higher. It was shown that the system is specific for nor-1 containing species."}
{"id": "12562243", "title": "Herpes simplex pancreatitis.", "content": "Herpes simplex pancreatitis. Lesions of the pancreas induced by viral infection have drawn relatively little attention because of their low incidence, and the histopathologic features of viral pancreatitis have not been fully elucidated. We report the autopsy findings of 2 patients, a 59-year-old woman with allergic granulomatous angiitis and a 73-year-old man with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis who had a disseminated visceral herpes simplex virus (HSV) infection. In both cases, the liver was the organ most severely affected by the viral infection. The pancreas showed multiple small foci of hemorrhagic necrosis, which were not accompanied by fat necrosis of the surrounding adipose tissue. Histopathologically, Cowdry type A intranuclear inclusions and a ground-glass appearance of the nuclei were found in many degenerated acinar cells around the necrotic foci. The gross appearance and histopathologic features of HSV pancreatitis were characteristic and, in particular, distinct from those of the more common acute hemorrhagic pancreatitis. Immunohistochemistry using an anti-HSV antibody revealed immunoreactivity in the intranuclear inclusions and ground-glass nuclei, and polymerase chain reaction analysis disclosed that the causative virus in these 2 cases was HSV-1. Herpes simplex virus pancreatitis constitutes a rare, but distinct pathologic entity among a group of acute pancreatitis diseases with diverse etiopathogenesis."}
{"id": "12520695", "title": "Diagnosis of invasive mold infection by real-time quantitative PCR.", "content": "Diagnosis of invasive mold infection by real-time quantitative PCR. We report the design and evaluation of a quantitative real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay to diagnose invasive mold infection (IMI) by detecting mold DNA in the serum. This assay detected 200 fg to 20 ng (5-log range) mold DNA and permitted a cutoff of 110 fg (3 genomes). Human or candidal DNA was not amplified. Specificity also was demonstrated by negative results in all 35 patients (76 serum samples) with unlikely IMI at the cutoff. For patients with possible, probable, and documented IMI diagnosed by a combination of clinical, microbiologic, and histologic criteria, this real-time PCR showed positivity in 40% (12/30), 68% (19/28), and 85% (11/13) cases, respectively, in testing of multiple serum samples. The overall serum positivity rate for these patients was 15.1% (73/483). Quantitative analysis of the positive serum samples estimated the bodily circulating mold burden to be 1.6 x 10(5) genomes (5.3 ng) by geometric mean with 4.2 x 10(7) genomes (1,400 ng) the highest. These results suggest that for the diagnosis of IMI, this real-time PCR may be a promising alternative to other invasive methods. Further evaluation is underway."}
{"id": "12508264", "title": "Rapid diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis by quantitative polymerase chain reaction using bronchial lavage fluid.", "content": "Rapid diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis by quantitative polymerase chain reaction using bronchial lavage fluid. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is a sensitive method for detection of Aspergillus DNA in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid, but it has not yet been able to distinguish infection from contamination. We have established a technique to quantify Aspergillus DNA using a real-time PCR method to resolve this problem, and we report herein a successful application of real-time PCR to diagnose invasive pulmonary aspergillosis by comparing the amount of Aspergillus DNA in bronchial lavage fluid from an affected area to that from an unaffected area. This novel tool will provide rapid, sensitive, and specific diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis."}
{"id": "12495819", "title": "Characterisation of the gptA gene, encoding UDP N-acetylglucosamine: dolichol phosphate N-acetylglucosaminylphosphoryl transferase, from the filamentous fungus, Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Characterisation of the gptA gene, encoding UDP N-acetylglucosamine: dolichol phosphate N-acetylglucosaminylphosphoryl transferase, from the filamentous fungus, Aspergillus niger. The production of asparagine (N)-linked oligosaccharides is of vital importance in the formation of glycosylated proteins in eukaryotes and is mediated by the dolichol pathway. As part of studies to allow manipulation of this pathway, the gene coding for the production of the enzyme UDP N-acetylglucosamine: dolichol phosphate N-acetylglucosaminylphosphoryl transferase (GPT), catalysing the first step in the assembly of dolichol-linked oligosaccharides, was cloned from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger. Degenerate-PCR was used to amplify a 470-bp fragment of the gene, which was labelled as a probe to obtain a full-length clone from a genomic library of A. niger. This contained a 1557-bp open reading frame encoding a highly hydrophobic protein of 468 amino acids with a predicted molecular weight of 51.4 kDa. The gene contained two intron sequences and putative dolichol recognition sites (PDRSs) were present in the deduced amino acid sequence. Comparison with other eukaryotic GPTs revealed the A. niger GPT to share 45-47% identity with yeasts (Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe) and 41-42% identity with mammals (mouse, hamster, human). Nested-PCR of a cDNA library was used to confirm the position of an intron. A complete cDNA clone of A. niger gpt was obtained by employing a recombinant PCR approach. This was used to rescue a conditional lethal mutant of S. cerevisiae carrying a dysfunctional gpt gene by heterologous expression, confirming that the gpt genes from A. niger and S. cerevisiae are functionally equivalent."}
{"id": "12487628", "title": "Characterization of the Aspergillus nidulans transporters for the siderophores enterobactin and triacetylfusarinine C.", "content": "Characterization of the Aspergillus nidulans transporters for the siderophores enterobactin and triacetylfusarinine C. The filamentous ascomycete Aspergillus nidulans produces three major siderophores: fusigen, triacetylfusarinine C, and ferricrocin. Biosynthesis and uptake of iron from these siderophores, as well as from various heterologous siderophores, is repressed by iron and this regulation is mediated in part by the transcriptional repressor SREA. Recently we have characterized a putative siderophore-transporter-encoding gene ( mirA ). Here we present the characterization of two further SREA- and iron-regulated paralogues (mirB and mirC ), including the chromosomal localization and the complete exon/intron structure. Expression of mirA and mirB in a Saccharomyces cerevisiae strain, which lacks high affinity iron transport systems, showed that MIRA transports specifically the heterologous siderophore enterobactin and that MIRB transports exclusively the native siderophore triacetylfusarinine C. Construction and analysis of an A. nidulans mirA deletion mutant confirmed the substrate specificity of MIRA. Phylogenetic analysis of the available sequences suggests that the split of the species A. nidulans and S. cerevisiae predates the divergence of the paralogous Aspergillus siderophore transporters."}
{"id": "14963824", "title": "Molecular characterization of ABC transporter-encoding genes in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Molecular characterization of ABC transporter-encoding genes in Aspergillus nidulans. As a preliminary step towards characterizing genes encoding ATP-binding cassette (ABC) transporters that confer pleiotropic drug resistance in Aspergillus, we used a PCR-based approach to isolate four DNA fragments corresponding to different ABC type transporter genes. DNA sequencing and Southern blot analysis confirmed that they were distinct genes, which were designated abcA-D. One of these genes, abcD, was cloned and characterized. It was found to have a predicted 1,452-amino acid translation product with a calculated molecular mass of 147,467 kDa. The abcD gene specifies a single transcript of approximately 5.0 kb; there was a two- to six-fold enhancement of mRNA levels following exposure to miconazole, camptothecin, methotrexate, and ethidium bromide."}
{"id": "12749588", "title": "Cloning and functional expression of an esterase gene in Aspergillus parasitcus.", "content": "Cloning and functional expression of an esterase gene in Aspergillus parasitcus. Within the 80 kb aflatoxin pathway gene cluster characterized earlier, and between adhA and norA genes, we have identified an estA gene encoding an esterase from wild type strain Aspergillus parasiticus SRRC 143. The 1,500 bp genomic DNA and 945 bp cDNA sequences were determined for estA. Outside of the aflatoxin pathway gene cluster, an additional copy of the estA gene (named estA2) was also cloned from the same A. parasiticus strain. Comparison of the estA and estA2 sequences showed 9 substitutions within the 314 amino acid residues of their gene products, and no apparent defect was identified in the estA2. The estA gene is a homolog of the stcI gene identified in A. nidulans involved in the biosynthesis of sterigmatocystin and dihydro-sterigmatocystin for the conversion of versiconal hemiacetal acetate to versiconal. Reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) experiments demonstrated that the estA is constitutively expressed. And only this estA gene, which is located within the aflatoxin pathway gene cluster, is expressed; no expression of the estA2 gene was detected under both aflatoxin conducive and non-conducive conditions. Possible reasons for the preferential expression of the estA over the estA2 gene have been discussed."}
{"id": "12692945", "title": "[A case of sarcoidosis and idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura accompanied with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis].", "content": "[A case of sarcoidosis and idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura accompanied with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis]. A 54-year-old woman with a 21-year history of sarcoidosis was admitted to our hospital with dyspnea on exertion, weight loss, and the appearance of consolidation in chest radiographs. The serum level of soluble IL-2 receptor was high, and CT findings demonstrated mediastinal, hilar and abdominal lymphadenopathy. The histological findings of subpleural consolidation in a transbronchial lung biopsy of the left lung showed giant cells; and those of a CT-assisted biopsy of a retroperitoneal lymph node revealed non-caseous epithelioid cell granulomas. After the biopsy, severe thrombocytopenia (6,000/microliter) developed. With prednisolone treatment, the platelet count rose to normal and the subpleural consolidation on chest radiography was improved. Five weeks later, the had a productive cough with fever, rapidly progressive cavitary lesions and consolidation on chest radiography. Aspergillus fumigatus was detected in the sputum by PCR, and Aspergillus antigen was detected in the serum. She died of progressive respiratory failure, in spite of therapy with amphotericin B and itraconazole. We report a rare case of sarcoidosis and idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura accompanied with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis."}
{"id": "12690965", "title": "[Invasive aspergillosis: results of an 8-year study].", "content": "[Invasive aspergillosis: results of an 8-year study]. We analysed retrospectively 90 cases of invasive aspergillosis (IA) which occurred at the University Hospital and the Thoraxklinik gGmbH Heidelberg between 1991 and 1998. 71 cases were histologically proven, 19 were probable diseases. There were 49 male and 41 female patients, with a mean age of 51.5 years (range 16 days to 80 years). Underlying diseases were: hematological malignancies in 52% (n = 47; 24 with acute leukemia), solid organ transplantation (n = 11; 9 liver, 1 kidney, 1 heart), solid cancer (n = 10), others (n = 21), and in one case no underlying disease was diagnosed. Only 54 cases (60%) were correctly diagnosed as IA during lifetime of the patients. In 59 cases (65%) only the lung was affected, 25 patients suffered from disseminated IA, in 6 patients only extrapulmonary lesions were present. 11 patients underwent lung surgery, 63 patients received antimycotic drugs (44 amphotericin B, 15 fluconazole, 4 itraconazole), 21 were not treated antimycotically. 68 patients (71%) died, from these 30 (36%) due to IA during remission of the underlying disease. The laboratory methods showed the following sensitivities, respectively: microscopy by calcofluor white staining 17%, culture 69%, Aspergillus-PCR from respiratory tract samples and biopsies 95%, galactomannan antigen detection by latex agglutination 28%, by enzyme immunoassay 59%, Aspergillus antibody detection 23%."}
{"id": "12652911", "title": "Primary structure of the histone 2B gene in the white root rot fungus, Rosellinia necatrix.", "content": "Primary structure of the histone 2B gene in the white root rot fungus, Rosellinia necatrix. The nucleotide sequence of the histone 2B (H2B) gene in the white root rot fungus, Rosellinia necatrix, was determined. The gene has two introns in the coding region at positions conserved in the Neurospora crassa and Aspergillus nidulans H2B genes, but the third intron present in the H2B gene from N. crassa and A. nidulans is absent in the R. necatrix H2B gene. The amino acid sequence of the coding region of the R. necatrix gene resembled that of N. crassa and A. nidulans. Therefore, the third intron in the H2B gene of N. crassa and A. nidulans may have been inserted into the present position after species diversification."}
{"id": "12652873", "title": "[The existence of contamination in enzymes used for the isolation of Aspergillus and Candida species DNA].", "content": "[The existence of contamination in enzymes used for the isolation of Aspergillus and Candida species DNA]. Molecular biological methods which are widely used in different fields, have been replaced with conventional diagnostic tests for the early diagnosis of invasive fungal infections, recently. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) is one of these methods, with high specificity and sensitivity, which is accepted throughout the world. However, the enzymes that are used for the isolation of target DNA, may be contaminated with the gene sequences of some other fungal species in the preparation steps and may affect the PCR results. The studies showed that, the contamination of these enzymes with any type of fungi during their production steps, leads false positive results in PCR tests. So, the additional studies are recommended for minimizing the contamination. The aim of this study was to search whether the enzymes necessary for the isolation of fungal target DNA, used in PCR, are contaminated or not. For this purpose, five different enzymes namely, Zymolase 20T (from Arthrobacter luteus, two examples from different companies), lyticase (from Arthrobacter luteus), lysing enzyme (from Trichoderma harzianum) and proteinase K (from Tritrachium album) have been investigated for the presence of contamination. As a result, both of zymolase 20T enzymes were found to be contaminated from some fungal species with the demonstration of 18S rRNA gene sequences, while the other enzymes were found non-contaminated. By the help of this method, the most suitable enzyme for PCR was chosen and fungal contamination was prevented."}
{"id": "12642937", "title": "[Broad-range fungal PCR in diagnosis of complicated infective endocarditis].", "content": "[Broad-range fungal PCR in diagnosis of complicated infective endocarditis]. Infective endocarditis (IE) frequently causes problems in diagnosis, especially where blood cultures are negative and when IE has fungal etiology. The aim of this study was to evaluate the usefulness of broad-range fungal PCR in diagnosis of fungal super-infection of bacterial IE. Twenty five blood samples were taken for analysis from patients with infective endocarditis. IE was diagnosed according to Duke criteria including positive blood cultures. Suspicion of fungal superinfection was established in 5 patients on serological investigation and confirmed by blood culture in 2 patients. Control group consisted of 15 patients without infection. DNA was isolated using the commercially available S.N.A.P. kit. Amplification products were analyzed by gel electrophoresis. Fungal DNA was found in 2 patients with fungal super-infection of bacterial IE confirmed by culture. In the remaining patients with IE and controls no fungal DNA was found. Broad-range fungal PCR is a fast and inexpensive tool for the detection of fungal DNA. The method may be valuable in the diagnosis of fungal super-infection of bacterial IE."}
{"id": "12597358", "title": "Identification of the pathogenic Aspergillus species by nested PCR using a mixture of specific primers to DNA topoisomerase II gene.", "content": "Identification of the pathogenic Aspergillus species by nested PCR using a mixture of specific primers to DNA topoisomerase II gene. For PCR-based identification of Aspergillus species, a common primer of the DNA topoisomerase II genes of Candida, Aspergillus and Penicillium, and species-specific primers of the genomic sequences of DNA topoisomerase II of A. fumigatus, A. niger, A. flavus (A. oryzae), A. nidulans and A. terreus were tested for their specificities in PCR amplifications. The method consisted of amplification of the genomic DNA topoisomerase II gene by a common primer set, followed by a second PCR with a primer mix consisting of 5 species-specific primer pairs for each Aspergillus species. By using the common primer pair, a DNA fragment of approximately 1,200 bp was amplified from the Aspergillus and Penicillium genomic DNAs. Using each species-specific primer pair, unique sizes of PCR products were amplified, all of which corresponded to a species of Aspergillus even in the presence of DNAs of several fungal species. The sensitivity of A. fumigatus to the nested PCR was found to be 100 fg of DNA in the reaction mixture. In the nested PCR obtained by using the primer mix (PsIV), the specific DNA fragment of A. fumigatus was amplified from clinical specimens. These results suggest that this nested PCR method is rapid, simple and available as a tool for identification of pathogenic Aspergillus to a species level."}
{"id": "12596854", "title": "Cloning and nucleotide sequence of the glutamate decarboxylase-encoding gene gadA from Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Cloning and nucleotide sequence of the glutamate decarboxylase-encoding gene gadA from Aspergillus oryzae. We cloned a genomic DNA encoding the glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) from Aspergillus oryzae using a 200-bp DNA fragment as the probe. This DNA fragment was amplified by the reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction with mRNA of A. oryzae as the template and degenerate primers designed from the conserved amino acid sequence of Escherichia coli GAD and Arabidopsis thaliana GAD. Nucleotide sequencing analysis showed that the cloned gene (designated gadA) encoded 514 amino acid residues and contained three introns. Southern hybridization showed that the gadA gene was on a 6.0-kb SacI fragment and that there was a single copy in the A. oryzae chromosome. The cloned gene was functional, because one transformant of A. oryzae containing multiple copies of the gadA gene had 10-fold the GAD activity and a 12-fold increase in gamma-aminobutyric acid production compared with the control strain."}
{"id": "12557373", "title": "[Screening strains producing inulinase and cloning of inulinase gene].", "content": "[Screening strains producing inulinase and cloning of inulinase gene]. A wild-type strain AF10 producing inulinase was screened from soil samples, the strain is identified to be a A. niger. A endoinulinase gene inuA1 from A. niger AF10 was wequenced and analyzed, after PCR amplification. The results shows inuA1 is 1551 bp in length without any intron and contains 4 potential N-glycosylation sites. The conservative sequence is WMNEPN from the N-terminus. The inuA1 was cloned to pUC118 and the recombinant vector pinuA1 was obtained and transformed into E. coli JM109. The recombinant JM109/inuA1 included inuA1 was obtained."}
{"id": "12495016", "title": "Multiplex polymerase chain reaction assay for the differential detection of trichothecene- and fumonisin-producing species of Fusarium in cornmeal.", "content": "Multiplex polymerase chain reaction assay for the differential detection of trichothecene- and fumonisin-producing species of Fusarium in cornmeal. The genus Fusarium comprises a diverse group of fungi including several species that produce mycotoxins in food commodities. In this study, a multiplex polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay was developed for the group-specific detection of fumonisin-producing and trichothecene-producing species of Fusarium. Primers for genus-level recognition of Fusarium spp. were designed from the internal transcribed spacer regions (ITS1 and ITS2) of rDNA. Primers for group-specific detection were designed from the TRI6 gene involved in trichothecene biosynthesis and the FUM5 gene involved in fumonisin biosynthesis. Primer specificity was determined by testing for cross-reactivity against purified genomic DNA from 43 fungal species representing 14 genera, including 9 Aspergillus spp., 9 Fusarium spp., and 10 Penicillium spp. With purified genomic DNA as a template, genus-specific recognition was observed at 10 pg per reaction; group-specific recognition occurred at 100 pg of template per reaction for the trichothecene producer Fusarium graminearum and at 1 ng of template per reaction for the fumonisin producer Fusarium verticillioides. For the application of the PCR assay, a protocol was developed to isolate fungal DNA from cornmeal. The detection of F. graminearum and its differentiation from F. verticillioides were accomplished prior to visible fungal growth at <10(5) CFU/g of cornmeal. This level of detection is comparable to those of other methods such as enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and the assay described here can be used in the food industry's effort to monitor quality and safety."}
{"id": "12486790", "title": "Diagnosis of fungal infection: new technologies for the mycology laboratory.", "content": "Diagnosis of fungal infection: new technologies for the mycology laboratory. The dramatic increase in nosocomial invasive mycoses over the past two decades has led to increased interest in the area of antifungal development. Unfortunately, the infusion of new diagnostic technology into the clinical mycology laboratory has lagged behind. Although newer, automated, continuous-monitoring blood culture systems are as sensitive as the older, manual \"gold standard\" system, the recovery of fungi from blood, as well as other clinical specimens, remains an insensitive marker for invasive fungal infection. Antigen assays for the rapid diagnosis of invasive fungal infections are in development, and galactomannan and glucan are two such promising antigens. Glucan may be present in the blood of patients with infection secondary to a wide variety of fungal pathogens, including Candida, Aspergillus, Fusarium, Saccharomyces, Trichosporon and Acremonium species. Early data suggest galactomannan may be present in the blood in detectable levels very early in the course of invasive aspergillosis. The galactomannan assay currently undergoing evaluations may actually be positive prior to the clinical suspicion for infection and may be useful in monitoring therapeutic response as well; however, the etiology of false-positive results following cytotoxic chemotherapy still has to be elucidated. PCR assays are also being developed in the research laboratory, however, the PCR assays will require a significant amount of adaptation and validation before they are ready for clinical care. Well-planned studies to evaluate the performance characteristics as well as appropriate clinical and cost-effective application of these new tests are needed."}
{"id": "12478389", "title": "A Blumeria graminisf.sp. hordei BAC library--contig building and microsynteny studies.", "content": "A Blumeria graminisf.sp. hordei BAC library--contig building and microsynteny studies. A bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) library of Blumeria graminis f.sp. hordei, containing 12,000 clones with an average insert size of 41 kb, was constructed. The library represents about three genome equivalents and BAC-end sequencing showed a high content of repetitive sequences, making contig-building difficult. To identify overlapping clones, several strategies were used: colony hybridisation, PCR screening, fingerprinting techniques and the use of single-copy expressed sequence tags. The latter proved to be the most efficient method for identification of overlapping clones. Two contigs, at or close to avirulence loci, were constructed. Single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) markers were developed from BAC-end sequences to link the contigs to the genetic maps. Two other BAC contigs were used to study microsynteny between B. graminis and two other ascomycetes, Neurospora crassa and Aspergillus fumigatus. The library provides an invaluable tool for the isolation of avirulence genes from B. graminis and for the study of gene synteny between this fungus and other fungi."}
{"id": "12469311", "title": "Evolutionary relationships within Aspergillus section Flavi based on sequences of the intergenic transcribed spacer regions and the 5.8S rRNA gene.", "content": "Evolutionary relationships within Aspergillus section Flavi based on sequences of the intergenic transcribed spacer regions and the 5.8S rRNA gene. Sequences of the intergenic transcribed spacer regions and the 5.8S rRNA gene (455 nucleotides) of type strains or representative isolates of 23 species and subspecies either currently assigned to Aspergillus subgenus Circumdati section Flavi or other closely related sections, were analyzed. Parsimony analysis of sequence data indicated that species of Aspergillus section Flavi form distinct clades. The three main clades identified based on sequence data could also be distinguished based on colony color, and their ubiquinone systems. The 'A. flavus' clade includes species characterized with Q-10(H(2)) as their main ubiquinone, conidial colors in shades of green, and dark sclerotia. The 'A. tamarii' clade involves species with ubiquinone system Q-10(H(2)), and conidia in shades of olive to brown, while the 'A. alliaceus' clade consists of species with Q-10 ubiquinone system, and conidia in shades of ocher. The synnematous species A. coremiiformis was found to be closely related to species in the 'A. tamarii' clade. A. thomii and A. terricola var. americana were found to be related to the 'A. flavus' clade in spite of producing brownish colonies. Three species, A. nomius, A. avenaceus, and A. leporis were found to form separate lineages not closely related to any of the main clades identified. It is suggested that A. clavatoflavus and A. zonatus be excluded from Aspergillus section Flavi. Phylogenetic analysis of partial 26S rRNA gene sequences (564 nucleotides) supported our findings."}
{"id": "12450130", "title": "Cloning and expression of cytochrome P450 genes, belonging to a new P450 family, of the basidiomycete Lentinula edodes.", "content": "Cloning and expression of cytochrome P450 genes, belonging to a new P450 family, of the basidiomycete Lentinula edodes. Three cytochrome P450 genes, named Le. cyp1, Le. cyp2, and Le. cyp3, were isolated from the basidiomycete Lentinula edodes. Le. cyp1 and Le. cyp2 contained coding regions of 1500 bp and 1497 bp, respectively, but Le. cyp3 was found to be a defective gene. The deduced amino acid sequences of Le. CYP1 (CYP510A1, 500 amino acids) and Le. CYP2 (CYP510A3, 499 amino acids) were highly similar to each other (87% identical) and they had 32-33% identities to that of Coprinus cinereus P450 (CYP502) and 27-28% identities to those of two Aspergillus P450s (CYP64 family). Quantitative RT-PCR analysis of the transcripts of Le. cyp1 and Le. cyp2 genes in the course of fruiting-body development of L. edodes showed that the primordium seems to contain larger amounts of these transcripts. The transcript levels of both of these genes in the stipe of the premature fruiting body were higher than those in the whole pileus and gill tissue."}
{"id": "12450128", "title": "Cloning and characterization of the nagA gene that encodes beta-n-acetylglucosaminidase from Aspergillus nidulans and its expression in Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of the nagA gene that encodes beta-n-acetylglucosaminidase from Aspergillus nidulans and its expression in Aspergillus oryzae. We isolated a beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase encoding gene and its cDNA from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans, and designated it nagA. The nagA gene contained no intron and encoded a polypeptide of 603 amino acids with a putative 19-amino acid signal sequence. The deduced amino acid sequence was very similar to the sequence of Candida albicans Hex1 and Trichoderma harzianum Nag1. Yeast cells containing the nagA cDNA under the control of the GAL1 promoter expressed beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase activity. The chromosomal nagA gene of A. nidulans was disrupted by replacement with the argB marker gene. The disruptant strains expressed low levels of beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase activity and showed poor growth on a medium containing chitobiose as a carbon source. Aspergillus oryzae strain carrying the nagA gene under the control of the improved glaA promoter produced large amounts of beta-N-acetylglucosaminidase in a wheat bran solid culture."}
{"id": "12437651", "title": "The prospective evaluation of a nested polymerase chain reaction assay for the early detection of Aspergillus infection in patients with leukaemia or undergoing allograft treatment.", "content": "The prospective evaluation of a nested polymerase chain reaction assay for the early detection of Aspergillus infection in patients with leukaemia or undergoing allograft treatment. Patients with acute leukaemia or undergoing allogenic bone marrow transplantation at University College London Hospital Trust were screened for the presence of aspergillosis by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Aspergillus DNA, from whole blood samples, was amplified by nested PCR to detect a 135 bp fragment in the mitochondrial region of Aspergillus fumigatus or A. flavus (121 bp). One colony-forming unit (CFU) per 2 ml of blood or 1-10 fg DNA could be detected. Patients at risk of aspergillosis were classified as probable or possible based on the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer definitions. Antifungal drugs given were recorded. In four of 17 patients studied, infection was not suspected and the PCR was negative. Four patients were considered to have possible aspergillosis infection and were PCR positive on at least one occasion. Of the three patients in the probable group, four of the nine samples tested PCR positive from one patient and in another patient only one of nine samples tested positive. The remaining six patients were not suspected of having fungal infection but each had one or two PCR-positive results. In summary, six of seven patients thought to have clinical evidence of infection were PCR positive on at least one occasion and treatment with antifungals may have reduced infection below detectable levels."}
{"id": "12436257", "title": "Functional analysis of mlcR, a regulatory gene for ML-236B (compactin) biosynthesis in Penicillium citrinum.", "content": "Functional analysis of mlcR, a regulatory gene for ML-236B (compactin) biosynthesis in Penicillium citrinum. The mlcR gene encodes a putative 50.2-kDa protein with a Zn(II)(2)Cys(6) DNA-binding domain, which may be involved in the regulation of ML-236B biosynthesis in Penicillium citrinum. The induction of ML-236B production appears to correlate with the expression of mlcR, and the ML-236B biosynthetic genes mlcA- mlcH, and occurs mostly during the stationary phase. The present study was designed to examine the effects of alterations in mlcR expression on ML-236B biosynthesis. We first set out to increase the mlcR copy number in the chromosome of P. citrinum. Transformants with additional copies of native mlcR showed increased transcription of mlcR and produced larger amounts of ML-236B than the parent strain. Altered mlcR expression was also achieved by introducing a construct, designated pgkA(P)::mlcR, that contained the mlcR coding region fused to the (constitutively active) promoter and terminator sequences of the Aspergillus nidulans 3-phospho-glycerate kinase (pgkA) gene. Transformants carrying the pgkA(P)::mlcR construct expressed mlcR constitutively, and produced ML-236B during the exponential growth phase, suggesting that the pgkA(P)::mlcR construct does affect the regulation of ML-236B biosynthesis. Comparative expression analysis by RT-PCR showed that altering the expression profile of mlcR influenced the expression of some of the ML-236B biosynthetic genes. The evidence suggests that mlcR may indeed be involved in the transcriptional activation of some of the pathway-specific genes required for ML-236B biosynthesis."}
{"id": "12436251", "title": "Identification of a single nuclear localization signal in the C-terminal domain of an Aspergillus DNA topoisomerase II.", "content": "Identification of a single nuclear localization signal in the C-terminal domain of an Aspergillus DNA topoisomerase II. DNA topoisomerase II (topo II) is a major nuclear protein that plays an important role in DNA metabolism. We have isolated the gene for topo II ( TOP2) from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus terreus. The deduced amino acid sequence revealed that topo II consists of 1,587 amino acids and has a calculated molecular weight of 180 kDa; the protein expressed in Escherichia coli has an estimated molecular weight of 185 kDa. Expression of topo II polypeptides tagged with yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) in budding yeast suggests that the C-terminal region of the topo II is essential for transport of the fusion protein into the nucleus. The nuclear localization signal (NLS) sequence of topo II is a non-classical bipartite type containing two interdependent, positively charged clusters separated by 15 amino acids. Alanine scanning mutagenesis and deletion analyses showed further that a stretch of 23 amino acid residues (positions 1,234-1,256) is necessary for nuclear import. In addition, we confirmed, using co-immunoprecipitation and two-hybrid analysis, that this non-classical NLS interacts with importin alpha in budding yeast. These results suggest that the fungal topo II NLS is functional in yeast cells."}
{"id": "12432231", "title": "Characterization of enolase allergen from Rhodotorula mucilaginosa.", "content": "Characterization of enolase allergen from Rhodotorula mucilaginosa. Rhodotorula mucilaginosa (also known as R. rubra) is among the most commonly found yeast strains in our environment. However, allergens from R. mucilaginosa have not yet been characterized at the molecular level. The purpose of this study was to characterize the enolase allergen from R. mucilaginosa and examine the allergenic/antigenic cross-reactivity among fungal enolases. The full-length cDNA encoding the R. mucilaginosa enolase was isolated through the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction in conjunction with the 5'-end and 3'-end rapid amplification cDNA end reactions. The corresponding natural enolase from R. mucilaginosa was identified using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis and N-terminal amino acid sequence analysis. The results showed that the enolase from R. mucilaginosa is a protein of 439 residues and is encoded by a cDNA of 1497 bp. It shares high sequence identity with enolase allergens from Candida albicans (85%), Saccharomyces cerevisiae (76%), Penicillium citrinum (76%), Aspergillus fumigatus (76%), Cladosporium herbarum (76.5%), and Alternaria alternata (74%). A 47-kD component in the R. mucilaginosa extracts was found to react with IgE or rabbit anti-enolase antiserum and has an N-terminal amino acid sequence identical to that deduced from the isolated enolase cDNA. Sera from three (21%) of 14 allergic patients sensitized to R. mucilaginosa showed IgE binding to this 47-kD R. mucilaginosa component and the His-tagged recombinant enolase. A rabbit antiserum against the P. citrinum enolase and a monoclonal antibody (MoAb; Afueno 8) against the A. fumigatus enolase reacted with all 5 fungal enolases tested. However, an MoAb (E2a) generated by using the Saccharomyces enolase as antigen could only recognize the immunizing enolase. In addition, heterogeneity in immunoblot profiles of IgE antibodies in serum samples from 9 allergic patients against 5 different fungal enolases tested was also observed. The presence of IgE cross-reactivity among enolase allergens from R. mucilaginosa, C. albicans and P. citrinum was detected by immunoblot inhibition. In conclusion, a new and cross-reactive enolase allergen from R. mucilaginosa (Rho m 1) was identified. Although enolases are highly conserved allergens among different fungal species, most of the allergic patients examined in this study differed in their IgE reactivity to the 5 different fungal enolases tested. The results obtained will be of value in understanding the role of enolase allergen in clinical mould allergy."}
{"id": "12424579", "title": "Clinical manifestations and diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in immunocompromised children.", "content": "Clinical manifestations and diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in immunocompromised children. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) is a serious life-threatening complication in immunocompromised children. The commonest risk groups are children with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome, leukaemia, corticosteroid and other immunosuppressive therapy, chronic granulomatous disease and severe combined immunodeficiency as well as neonates. The clinical manifestations are heterogeneous and many organ systems can be involved. Diagnosis based on the clinical presentation alone is cumbersome. Innovative and sensitive laboratory test systems which detect fungal antigens or DNA in clinical specimens have been recently developed. Specific Aspergillus antibody detection using recombinant antigen technique has also been introduced. Although each individual technique has drawbacks, the combined use of culture with antigen and antibody ELISA as well as PCR should result in an earlier and more definitive diagnosis of IA in children presenting with clinical and/or radiological signs of aspergillosis. In high risk children these methods are valuable for serial screening and early detection of Aspergillus infection. The implementation of accurate diagnostic criteria and standardised diagnostic flow charts in children at risk will lead to a better outcome of IA in the future. definite, well-timed early diagnosis and sufficient therapy is elementary for a successful outcome of invasive aspergillosis in immunocompromised children. To date, the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis remains a combination of clinical presentation, radiology and microbiological tests."}
{"id": "12424542", "title": "Primary cutaneous aspergillosis caused by Aspergillus ustus following reduced-intensity stem cell transplantation.", "content": "Primary cutaneous aspergillosis caused by Aspergillus ustus following reduced-intensity stem cell transplantation. A 19-year-old woman with myelodysplastic syndrome underwent reduced-intensity stem cell transplantation [RIST: (cladribine 0.11 mg/kg for 6 days, busulfan 4 mg/kg for 2 days, and rabbit antithymocyte globulin)] from her one HLA-mismatched mother. Prophylaxis against graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) was performed with cyclosporine A (CSA) alone. Severe acute GVHD in the skin, gut, and liver developed concurrently with stable engraftment, and methylprednisolone was administered (1-2 mg/kg per day, then pulse therapy with 1 g/day for 3 days) until day 40 of transplant, when a necrotic lesion of 10 mm in diameter appeared on the right cheek. The initial skin biopsy of the affected area showed a nonspecific inflammatory change. Routine X-ray and computed tomography examinations of the sinuses, chest, and abdomen disclosed no particular abnormalities. Despite intensive antibiotic therapy, the lesion rapidly extended to form an ulcer. A second biopsy specimen obtained from the lesion showed massive septa hyphae, suggesting mold infection. Although we immediately started amphotericin B, she died of multiorgan failure on day 68. Postmortem DNA sequence analysis of the specimen using the polymerase chain reaction identified Aspergillus ustus. Although this is an extremely rare complication after transplantation, this case highlights that we should pay more attention to primary cutaneous aspergillosis in severely immunosuppressed patients."}
{"id": "12417914", "title": "[High expression of a heat-stable phytase in Pichia pastoris].", "content": "[High expression of a heat-stable phytase in Pichia pastoris]. It is difficult to obtain naturally occurring phytase having the required thermostability for application in animal feeding. The 1.3 kb thermal stable phytase gene (fphy) of Aspergillus fumigatus was synthesized by using a successive PCR method for the optimal expression in Pichia pastoris. Though the nucleotides of synthetic fphy share only 74% homology with the natural gene, the amino acid sequences coded by both genes were identical. After being cloned into the yeast expression vector (pPIC9) and inserted into the chromosome of Pichia pastoris by homologous recombination, phytase was expressed in the yeast and secreted from the cell. The strains for phytase over-expression were selected out by SDS-PAGE and enzyme analysis. After fermentation in 5 L fermention tank and induced by 0.5% methanol for 60 h, about 5.6 g purified phytase was obtained per liter culture fluid. The activity of phytase was 130 000 u per microlitre fluid. The thermostable phytase remained 40% active after exposure at 90 degrees for 80 min."}
{"id": "12375102", "title": "The veA gene is necessary for the inducible expression by fructosyl amines of the Aspergillus nidulans faoA gene encoding fructosyl amino acid oxidase (amadoriase, EC 1.5.3).", "content": "The veA gene is necessary for the inducible expression by fructosyl amines of the Aspergillus nidulans faoA gene encoding fructosyl amino acid oxidase (amadoriase, EC 1.5.3). The faoA gene encoding fructosyl amino acid oxidase (FAOD, EC 1.5.3) was isolated from Aspergillus nidulans and characterized. The complete nucleotide sequence of the faoA (fructosyl amino acid oxidase) gene and its cDNA revealed that the faoA gene encodes a 441-amino-acid polypeptide interrupted by five introns. Expression of the A. nidulans faoA gene was inducible by fructosyl propylamine and fructosyl lysine, as is the case for the gene encoding FAOD in other organisms. The faoA gene was not induced by these fructosyl amines in a null mutant of the veA gene, which has been identified as an activator of sexual development and as an inhibitor of asexual development; the faoA gene was induced greatly in a veA(+) wild-type. However, veA gene expression was not affected by fructosyl amines. Even in the absence of fructosyl propylamine, synthesis of the faoA transcript was higher in the veA(+) background than in a veA-null mutation background. These results indicated that faoA gene expression is inducible by fructosyl amines and by the veA gene, and that the veA gene is necessary for full induction of faoA gene expression by fructosyl amines. Thus, the faoA gene is the first gene whose expression is dependent on the veA gene. Furthermore, the faoA gene, present in a single copy, seems to be dispensable for development and growth, since the faoA-null mutant grew normally and developed as many conidia and sexual structures as the wild-type."}
{"id": "12355006", "title": "Utility of polymerase chain reaction for detecting Mycobacterium tuberculosis in specimens from percutaneous transthoracic needle aspiration.", "content": "Utility of polymerase chain reaction for detecting Mycobacterium tuberculosis in specimens from percutaneous transthoracic needle aspiration. To determine the clinical utility of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for detecting Mycobacterium tuberculosis in specimens from percutaneous transthoracic needle aspiration (PTNA). PCR for M tuberculosis detection in specimens from PTNA was performed prospectively in addition to cytologic and histologic analyses in 45 patients. On computed tomographic (CT) scans, tuberculosis (TB) versus malignant neoplasm or other infection was diagnosed in 28 patients; possible malignancy was diagnosed in 11, but TB was considered clinically because of young patient age or presence of tuberculous lesions in other areas of the lungs. In six of these patients, TB was diagnosed, but bacteriologic results were negative. PTNA was performed with a 21-gauge needle by one chest radiologist by using CT (n = 25), ultrasonographic (n = 5), or fluoroscopic guidance (n = 15). Final diagnoses were malignant neoplasm (n = 19), hamartoma (n = 1), TB (n = 17), and pneumonia (including actinomycosis and aspergillosis) (n = 8). Sensitivity, specificity, and positive predictive values of PCR in PTNA specimens for diagnosis of TB were calculated. In 17 patients with TB, PCR results were positive in 11 and negative in six. PCR results were negative in all cases of malignant neoplasm, hamartoma, and pneumonia. Cytologic and histologic analysis of PTNA specimens resulted in a specific diagnosis of TB in two (12%) of 17 patients. By adding the PCR results, diagnosis of TB was established in 12 (71%) of 17 patients. Sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values of PCR for diagnosis of TB in PTNA specimens were 65% (11 of 17), 100% (28 of 28), 100% (11 of 11), and 82% (28 of 34), respectively. PCR for detection of M tuberculosis in PTNA specimens is a useful adjuvant to cytologic and histologic analysis for diagnosis of TB."}
{"id": "12230214", "title": "A review of nucleic acid-based diagnostic tests for systemic mycoses with an emphasis on polymerase chain reaction-based assays.", "content": "A review of nucleic acid-based diagnostic tests for systemic mycoses with an emphasis on polymerase chain reaction-based assays. Nucleic acid-based assays have good potential to complement and enhance the sensitivity and rapidity of conventional methods used in diagnostic mycology. The majority of molecular tests are polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based assays focusing mainly on the detection of Candida and Aspergillus spp. from clinical samples. DNA extraction and purification procedures should be standardized and can be facilitated by using commercial extraction kits. In general, protocols that target multi-copy genes provide the greatest sensitivity. Objective endpoint assessments of PCR tests using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISA) or commercial quantitative systems are capable of rapidly detecting and identifying Candida and Aspergillus spp. Sequencing of PCR products can be used to confirm the identity of amplicons. In cases of suspected invasive aspergillosis, PCR should be performed on both blood and bronchoalveolar lavage fluid to maximize test sensitivity and the positive predictive value. At least two blood specimens should be tested if PCR is undertaken on blood samples alone. In situ hybridization techniques have been used with success to identify fungi in tissue specimens. The wide application of PCR-based assays relies on the introduction of standardized protocols following their evaluation in multicentre, prospective studies."}
{"id": "12228297", "title": "Secreted metalloprotease gene family of Microsporum canis.", "content": "Secreted metalloprotease gene family of Microsporum canis. Keratinolytic proteases secreted by dermatophytes are likely to be virulence-related factors. Microsporum canis, the main agent of dermatophytosis in dogs and cats, causes a zoonosis that is frequently reported. Using Aspergillus fumigatus metalloprotease genomic sequence (MEP) as a probe, three genes (MEP1, MEP2, and MEP3) were isolated from an M. canis genomic library. They presented a quite-high percentage of identity with both A. fumigatus MEP and Aspergillus oryzae neutral protease I genes. At the amino acid level, they all contained an HEXXH consensus sequence, confirming that these M. canis genes (MEP genes) encode a zinc-containing metalloprotease gene family. Furthermore, MEP3 was found to be the gene encoding a previously isolated M. canis 43.5-kDa keratinolytic metalloprotease, and was successfully expressed as an active recombinant enzyme in Pichia pastoris. Reverse transcriptase nested PCR performed on total RNA extracted from the hair of M. canis-infected guinea pigs showed that at least MEP2 and MEP3 are produced during the infection process. This is the first report describing the isolation of a gene family encoding potential virulence-related factors in dermatophytes."}
{"id": "12224649", "title": "Cloning and expression of the exo-beta-D-1,3-glucanase gene (exgS) from Aspergillus saitoi.", "content": "Cloning and expression of the exo-beta-D-1,3-glucanase gene (exgS) from Aspergillus saitoi. A gene of exo-1,3-beta-D-glucanase (exgS) was cloned from a koji mold, Aspergillus saitoi, genomic DNA using PCR. The exgS has an ORF comprising 2832 bp, which contains one intron of 45 bp, and encodes 945 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequences showed that the ExgS has a non-homologous linker region consisting of 180 amino acids, which encompassed highly conserved regions observed in Exg homologues from filamentous fungi. A recombinant protein (ExgS) has been recovered from the cultural filtrate of an Aspergillus oryzae strain that carried an expression vector containing full length of the exgS. The N-terminal amino acid sequences of the recombinant exo-1,3-beta-D-glucanase (ExgS) were identical to that of native ExgS from A. saitoi."}
{"id": "12172968", "title": "A novel method used to delete a new Aspergillus fumigatus ABC transporter-encoding gene.", "content": "A novel method used to delete a new Aspergillus fumigatus ABC transporter-encoding gene. Aspergillus fumigatus is an important opportunistic human pathogenic fungus. In severely immunocompromised patients, the fungus causes life-threatening diseases, such as pneumonia and invasive aspergillosis. In order to obtain a better understanding of the key elements involved in A. fumigatus virulence and for identifying possible drug targets, it is essential to be able to generate gene-deletion strains. Until recently, the molecular techniques available did not provide a rapid method for gene deletion. A novel method described for A. nidulans was adapted for A. fumigatus. This method is quick and produces an increased homologous recombination efficiency. By using an Escherichia coli strain expressing the lambda red operon, it is possible to induce an in vivo recombination of a PCR fragment flanked by >50-bp regions with a cosmid containing the gene of interest. This produces cosmids in which the gene of interest has been replaced by a bi-functional marker. Such cosmids have large flanking regions surrounding the selectable marker pyrG of A. fumigatus used here, which result in high recombination efficiencies in A. fumigatus. Here, we identified a new ABC transporter-encoding gene in A. fumigatus, designated abcA. By using this method, an A. fumigatus knock-out mutant was generated, providing evidence that this method of generating gene deletions can also be used in A. fumigatus and significantly broadens our repertoire of molecular techniques to study A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "12149346", "title": "Evaluation of performance of four genotypic methods for studying the genetic epidemiology of Aspergillus fumigatus isolates.", "content": "Evaluation of performance of four genotypic methods for studying the genetic epidemiology of Aspergillus fumigatus isolates. In the present investigation, 49 Aspergillus fumigatus isolates obtained from four nosocomial outbreaks were typed by Afut1 restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis and three PCR-based molecular typing methods: random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis, sequence-specific DNA primer (SSDP) analysis, and polymorphic microsatellite markers (PMM) analysis. The typing methods were evaluated with respect to discriminatory power (D), reproducibility, typeability, ease of use, and ease of interpretation to determine their performance and utility for outbreak and surveillance investigations. Afut1 RFLP analysis detected 40 types. Thirty types were observed by RAPD analysis. PMM analysis detected 39 allelic types, but SSDP analysis detected only 14 types. All four methods demonstrated 100% typeability. PMM and RFLP analyses had comparable high degrees of discriminatory power (D = 0.989 and 0.988, respectively). The discriminatory power of RAPD analysis was slightly lower (D = 0.971), whereas SSDP analysis had the lowest discriminatory power (D = 0.889). Overall, SSDP analysis was the easiest method to interpret and perform. The profiles obtained by PMM analysis were easier to interpret than those obtained by RFLP or RAPD analysis. Bands that differed in staining intensity or that were of low intensity were observed by RAPD analysis, making interpretation more difficult. The reproducibilities with repeated runs of the same DNA preparation or with different DNA preparations of the same strain were high for all the methods. A high degree of genetic variation was observed in the test population, but isolates were not always similarly divided by each method. Interpretation of band profiles requires understanding of the molecular mechanisms responsible for genetic alternations. PMM analysis and Afut1 RFLP analysis, or their combination, appear to provide the best overall discriminatory power, reproducibility, ease of interpretation, and ease of use. This investigation will aid in planning epidemiologic and surveillance studies of A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "12149343", "title": "Rapid identification of pathogenic fungi directly from cultures by using multiplex PCR.", "content": "Rapid identification of pathogenic fungi directly from cultures by using multiplex PCR. A multiplex PCR method was developed to identify simultaneously multiple fungal pathogens in a single reaction. Five sets of species-specific primers were designed from the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions, ITS1 and ITS2, of the rRNA gene to identify Candida albicans, Candida glabrata, Candida parapsilosis, Candida tropicalis, and Aspergillus fumigatus. Another set of previously published ITS primers, CN4 and CN5, were used to identify Cryptococcus neoformans. Three sets of primers were used in one multiplex PCR to identify three different species. Six different species of pathogenic fungi can be identified with two multiplex PCRs. Furthermore, instead of using templates of purified genomic DNA, we performed the PCR directly from yeast colonies or cultures, which simplified the procedure and precluded contamination during the extraction of DNA. A total of 242 fungal isolates were tested, representing 13 species of yeasts, four species of Aspergillus, and three zygomycetes. The multiplex PCR was tested on isolated DNA or fungal colonies, and both provided 100% sensitivity and specificity. However, DNA from only about half the molds could be amplified directly from mycelial fragments, while DNA from every yeast colony was amplified. This multiplex PCR method provides a rapid, simple, and reliable alternative to conventional methods to identify common clinical fungal isolates."}
{"id": "12147467", "title": "Nonfunctionality of Aspergillus sojae aflR in a strain of Aspergillus parasiticus with a disrupted aflR gene.", "content": "Nonfunctionality of Aspergillus sojae aflR in a strain of Aspergillus parasiticus with a disrupted aflR gene. Aspergillus sojae belongs to the Aspergillus section Flavi but does not produce aflatoxins. The functionality of the A. sojae aflR gene (aflRs) was examined by transforming it into an DeltaaflR strain of A. parasiticus, derived from a nitrate-nonutilizing, versicolorin A (VERA)-accumulating strain. The A. parasiticus aflR gene (aflRp) transformants produced VERA, but the aflRs transformants did not. Even when aflRs was placed under the control of the amylase gene (amyB) promoter of Aspergillus oryzae, the amy(p)::aflRs transformants did not produce VERA. A chimeric construct containing the aflRs promoter plus the aflRs N- and aflRp C-terminal coding regions could restore VERA production, but a construct containing the aflRp promoter plus the aflRp N- and aflRs C-terminal coding regions could not. These results show that the A. sojae aflR promoter is functional in A. parasiticus and that the HAHA motif does not affect the function of the resulting hybrid AflR. We conclude that the lack of aflatoxin production by A. sojae can be attributed, at least partially, to the premature termination defect in aflRs, which deletes the C-terminal transcription activation domain that is critical for the expression of aflatoxin biosynthetic genes."}
{"id": "12136655", "title": "[A case of disseminated aspergillosis with smoldering adult T-cell leukemia].", "content": "[A case of disseminated aspergillosis with smoldering adult T-cell leukemia]. The patient was 39-year-old male who had been administrated 20 mg of prednisolone for control of chronic eosinophilic pneumonia. He consulted the hospital with fever, headache and gait disturbance. The laboratory data of peripheral blood revealed a smoldering adult T cell leukemia. Computed tomogram of the chest and MRI of the brain revealed a mass in the right middle lobe of the lung and a brain abscess in the left hemisphere respectively. Biopsied specimens from the lung and brain abscess showed an Aspergillus like fungus. In spite of placement of an Ommaya reservoir for administration of AMPH-B and control of intracranial pressure, he died. During the course, specific antigen and specific gene were not detected in the peripheral blood, and no viable organism was isolated from the specimens. Post mortem examination revealed multiple nodular lesions in the lung, parietal pleura, liver, heart and kidney. After autopsy, disseminated aspergillosis was confirmed through a tissue examination using nested PCR for Aspergillus DNA. In this case, we think that viable fungi could endure in the tissue while circulating Aspergillus markers remained undetectable."}
{"id": "12127859", "title": "Recent progress in the diagnosis of fungal infections in the immunocompromised host.", "content": "Recent progress in the diagnosis of fungal infections in the immunocompromised host. The management of invasive fungal infections has been hampered by the inability to diagnose the infection at an early stage of disease. Although proving the presence of infection by histology and culture remains the cornerstone of the diagnosis, non-culture based methods are becoming available that enable early detection. Molecular diagnosis by PCR appears very promising since fungal DNA can be detected in the blood of infected patients before conventional methods. Furthermore, a broad range of yeasts and molds can be identified to species level. Automation of sample preparation and use of real-time PCR systems will help standardize the procedure and reduce false positive results due to contamination. Promising assays for the detection of fungal antigens in serum have been commercialized, including detection systems for mannan (Candida) and galactomannan (Aspergillus). Circulating antigens can be detected at an early stage of infection, often before the onset of clinical symptoms. Antigen detection is limited to detecting only one genus and not enabling speciation. Furthermore, both PCR and antigen detection can be used to monitor the response of patients to treatment with anti-fungal agents. Although prospective screening of high-risk patients for the presence of circulating markers of fungal infection appears to be an appropriate strategy, studies are needed to help to establish the optimal approach to managing invasive fungal infections that incorporates the benefits of non-culture based methods."}
{"id": "12111557", "title": "A regulator gene for acetate utilisation from Neurospora crassa.", "content": "A regulator gene for acetate utilisation from Neurospora crassa. The Neurospora crassa homologue of the Aspergillus nidulans regulatory gene facB has been cloned. The gene encodes a putative transcriptional activator of 865 amino acids that contains a DNA-binding domain with a Zn(II)(2)Cys(6) binuclear cluster, a linker region and a leucine zipper-like heptad repeat. Two internal amino acid sequences are identical to peptide sequences determined from proteolytic fragments of a DNA-binding protein complex specific for genes involved in acetate utilisation and expressed in acetate-induced mycelia of N. crassa. Recombinant expression of the predicted DNA-binding domain demonstrates that it is capable of independent recognition of a subset of the promoter sequences that bind the protein complex from N. crassa. A duplication-induced mutation in the corresponding gene results in an acetate non-utilising phenotype that is characterised by inefficient induction of the enzymes required for acetate utilisation. The new gene does not fall into any existing complementation group and has been designated acu-15."}
{"id": "12092808", "title": "Molecular cloning and overexpression of fleA gene encoding a fucose-specific lectin of Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Molecular cloning and overexpression of fleA gene encoding a fucose-specific lectin of Aspergillus oryzae. A protein from the cell lysate of Aspergillus oryzae was purified by column chromatography immobilized with a ferrichrysin (Fcy), which is one of the siderophores of A. oryzae. It is produced only in an iron-deficient culture and its molecular weight is estimated as 35,000 by SDS-PAGE. Two internal amino acid sequences of the protein obtained by lysylendopeptidase digestion were analyzed. Molecular cloning shows that it encodes 310 putative amino acid residues separated by 4 introns and is designated as fleA. It shows approximately 26% similarity with the gene encoding a fucose-specific lectin of Aleuria aurantia (AAL). The gene was overexpressed under control of the melO promoter in a submerged culture of A. oryzae. The fleA gene product showed hemagglutination activity against rabbit erythrocytes. A hemagglutination inhibition assay of monosaccharides showed that this lectin specifically binds to L-fucose and weakly reacts with mannose and N-acetyl-neuraminic acid."}
{"id": "12089041", "title": "Silencing of the aspergillopepsin B (pepB) gene of Aspergillus awamori by antisense RNA expression or protease removal by gene disruption results in a large increase in thaumatin production.", "content": "Silencing of the aspergillopepsin B (pepB) gene of Aspergillus awamori by antisense RNA expression or protease removal by gene disruption results in a large increase in thaumatin production. Aspergillopepsin B was identified in culture broths of Aspergillus awamori by in situ detection of its proteolytic activity and by immunodetection with anti-aspergillopepsin B antibodies. Severe thaumatin degradation was observed after in vitro treatment of thaumatin with purified aspergillopepsin B. The pepB gene encoding aspergillopepsin B of A. awamori was cloned and characterized. It is located in chromosome IV of A. awamori, as shown by pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, and encodes a protein of 282 amino acids with high similarity to the aspergillopepsin B of Aspergillus niger var. macrosporus. The pepB gene is expressed at high rates as a monocistronic 1.0-kb transcript in media with casein at acidic pH values. An antisense cassette constructed by inserting the pepB gene in the antisense orientation downstream from the gpdA promoter resulted in a good level of antisense mRNA, as shown by reverse transcription-PCR. Partial silencing of the pepB gene by the antisense mRNA resulted in a 31% increase in thaumatin yield. However, significant residual degradation of thaumatin still occurred. To completely remove aspergillopepsin B, the pepB gene was deleted by double crossover. Two of the selected transformants lacked the endogenous pepB gene and did not form aspergillopepsin B. Thaumatin yields increased by between 45% in transformant APB 7/25 and 125% in transformant 7/36 with respect to the parental strain. Reduction of proteolytic degradation by gene silencing with antisense mRNA or total removal of the aspergillopepsin B by directed gene deletion was a very useful method for improving thaumatin production in A. awamori."}
{"id": "12086105", "title": "Cloning and expression of pkaC and pkaR, the genes encoding the cAMP-dependent protein kinase of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Cloning and expression of pkaC and pkaR, the genes encoding the cAMP-dependent protein kinase of Aspergillus fumigatus. This report describes the cloning and expression of both subunits of PKA in the opportunistic fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus. The predicted translation product of the regulatory subunit, pkaR, is defined as a type II regulatory subunit. The gene encoding the A. fumigatus catalytic subunit, pkaC, contains the conserved kinase and activation domains that are characteristic of PkaC proteins. Both subunit mRNAs are expressed throughout the asexual life cycle of A. fumigatus. Message levels of pkaR and pkaC are higher during co-cultivation with alveolar epithelial cells than during culture alone."}
{"id": "12084578", "title": "Molecular and functional characterization of a second copy of the aflatoxin regulatory gene, aflR-2, from Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Molecular and functional characterization of a second copy of the aflatoxin regulatory gene, aflR-2, from Aspergillus parasiticus. The genes required for the synthesis of aflatoxin (AF) in Aspergillus flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus have been shown to be clustered on a chromosome in these fungi. Transcription of most of these genes is dependent upon the activity of the aflR gene, also present on the gene cluster, which encodes a zinc binuclear cluster DNA-binding protein. While many strains of A. parasiticus have only one copy of aflR (aflR-1), many others contain a second copy of this gene (aflR-2) which resides on a duplicated region of the aflatoxin gene cluster. Targeted disruption of aflR-1 generated a number of non-aflatoxin producing transformants of A. parasiticus SU-1 which still harbored a wild-type aflR-2 gene. Southern and Northern hybridization analyses and ELISA assays demonstrated that aflR-1 had been successfully inactivated in strain AFS10. DNA sequence analysis showed that aflR-2 was capable of encoding a deduced 47 kDa protein. Northern and RT-PCR analysis of RNA from a toxin producing strain indicated that aflR-2 was transcribed at extremely low levels compared to aflR-1. RT-PCR analysis of RNA from AFS10 demonstrated that mRNAs of aflatoxin pathway genes were not processed to their mature forms. Functional analysis of aflr-2 protein in a yeast system showed that it was not activating transcription."}
{"id": "12074058", "title": "Expression of an alpha-galactosidase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae in Aspergillus awamori and Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Expression of an alpha-galactosidase from Saccharomyces cerevisiae in Aspergillus awamori and Aspergillus oryzae. A gene encoding alpha-galactosidase activity was isolated by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae NCYC686 and separately placed under the control of transcriptional elements regulating alpha-amylase expression in Aspergillus oryzae and glucoamylase expression in A. awamori. Following transformation of both A. oryzae and A. awamori with their respective expression vectors, induction of heterologous alpha-galactosidase from positively selected clones was effected through the addition of soluble starch (10% wt/vol) to the growth medium. Upon induction in A. oryzae, a transcriptional instability resulted in degradation of mRNA encoding heterologous alpha-galactosidase, thus preventing expression of the active enzyme. The use of a gene fusion strategy in A. awamori overcame this instability and resulted in stable expression of S. cerevisiae alpha-galactosidase. Subsequent to initial (shake flask) experiments, a series of scale-up and optimisation studies led to heterologous expression of the recombinant enzyme in batch fermentation at 51 U mg(-1) total extracellular protein. This was higher than previously published works, which reported extracellular levels of heterologous alpha-galactosidase up to 38 U mg(-1) total protein. Analysis of crude extracts of the fermentation medium revealed significant differences between the activity parameters reported previously in the literature for this enzyme and those observed here. The recombinant enzyme exhibited thermostability properties not previously reported for S. cerevisiae alpha-galactosidase, a trait which would make it suitable for use in processes requiring high temperatures."}
{"id": "12069913", "title": "Management of mycoses in patients with hematologic disease and cancer -- review of the literature.", "content": "Management of mycoses in patients with hematologic disease and cancer -- review of the literature. During the past years, progress has been made in the treatment of patients with cancer, and the proportion of patients achieving a complete remission and longer survival has increased. However, fungal infections have become one the leading factors contributing to morbidity and mortalitiy in patient with heamatological malignancies and solid tumours. Most opportunistic fungal infections are caused by Candida and Aspergillus species, but a growing number of less frequent fungal pathogens has been observed in recent years. The management of patients consist of a multidisciplinary approach combining radiology, new techniques in laboratory diagnostics such as serology and PCR as well as use of a growing armentarium of antifungal agents. Therapy of invasive mycosis no more rely on amphotericin B, but newer antifungal agents such as voriconazole and caspofungin have the potential to substitute the current standard therapy."}
{"id": "12051895", "title": "The use of direct cDNA selection to rapidly and effectively identify genes in the fungus Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "The use of direct cDNA selection to rapidly and effectively identify genes in the fungus Aspergillus fumigatus. Aspergillus fumigatus is one of the causes of invasive lung disease in immunocompromised individuals. To rapidly identify genes in this fungus, including potential targets for chemotherapy, diagnostics, and vaccine development, we constructed cDNA libraries. We began with non-normalized libraries, then to improve this approach we constructed a normalized cDNA library using direct cDNA selection. Normalization resulted in a reduction of the frequency of clones with highly expressed genes and an enrichment of underrepresented cDNAs. Expressed sequence tags generated from both the original and the normalized libraries were compared with the genomes of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Schizosaccharomyces pombe, and Candida albicans, indicating that a large proportion of A. fumigatus genes do not have orthologs in these fungal species. This method allowed the expeditious identification of genes in a fungal pathogen. The same approach can be applied to other human or plant pathogens to rapidly identify genes without the need for genomic sequence information."}
{"id": "12037097", "title": "Automated extraction of genomic DNA from medically important yeast species and filamentous fungi by using the MagNA Pure LC system.", "content": "Automated extraction of genomic DNA from medically important yeast species and filamentous fungi by using the MagNA Pure LC system. A fully automated assay was established for the extraction of DNA from clinically important fungi by using the MagNA Pure LC instrument. The test was evaluated by DNA isolation from 23 species of yeast and filamentous fungi and by extractions (n = 28) of serially diluted Aspergillus fumigatus conidia (10(5) to 0 CFU/ml). Additionally, DNA from 67 clinical specimens was extracted and compared to the manual protocol. The detection limit of the MagNA Pure LC assay of 10 CFU corresponded to the sensitivity when DNA was extracted manually; in 9 of 28 runs, we could achieve a higher sensitivity of 1 CFU/ml blood, which was found to be significant (p <or= 0.004). DNA from all fungal species analyzed could be extracted and amplified by real-time PCR. Negative controls from all MagNA Pure isolations remained negative. Sixty-three clinical samples showed identical results by both methods, whereas in 4 of 67 samples, discordant results were obtained. Thus, the MagNA Pure LC technique offers a fast protocol for automated DNA isolation from numerous fungi, revealing high sensitivity and purity."}
{"id": "12037094", "title": "Differentiation of Aspergillus ustus strains by random amplification of polymorphic DNA.", "content": "Differentiation of Aspergillus ustus strains by random amplification of polymorphic DNA. The sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis patterns of water-soluble proteins and the randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) patterns of whole-cell lysates from 21 Aspergillus ustus isolates, including 11 reference strains and 10 patient and environmental strains from one hospital, were investigated. All isolates showed identical protein patterns. The RAPD assay discriminated between all reference strains. Comparison of hospital isolates showed identical RAPD patterns in some of the patient and environmental isolates. The data indicate that the RAPD technique is useful for fingerprinting A. ustus."}
{"id": "12037092", "title": "Real-time PCR coupled with automated DNA extraction and detection of galactomannan antigen in serum by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Real-time PCR coupled with automated DNA extraction and detection of galactomannan antigen in serum by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. To improve the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA), we developed a LightCycler PCR assay targeted to Aspergillus fumigatus and A. flavus mitochondrial DNA. To avoid contamination, fully automated nucleic acid extraction with the MagNA Pure LC apparatus was used. The linearity of the results was achieved over a 6-log range of input A. fumigatus DNA, from 0.3 ng to 3 fg/10 microl of water. We retrospectively compared the LightCycler PCR and an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay for the detection of galactomannan (GM) in serum from 14 patients with IA. The GM assay was more frequently positive (57 of 109; 52%) than the PCR assay (49 of 109; 45%). The LightCycler PCR assay, combined with automated DNA extraction, could be used in association with the GM assay to improve the reliability of IA diagnosis."}
{"id": "12036596", "title": "A polymerase chain reaction-based method for cloning novel members of a gene family using a combination of degenerate and inhibitory primers.", "content": "A polymerase chain reaction-based method for cloning novel members of a gene family using a combination of degenerate and inhibitory primers. We have developed a novel method for cloning gene family members by using a polymerase chain reaction technique. The method is based on the amplification of a broad range of homologous genes in combination with the specific inhibition of already cloned genes. To accomplish this, we designed degenerate primers to highly conserved regions among the gene family members, and inhibitory primers to the divergent region at the 3'-margin of each degenerate primer. The 5'-end of the inhibitory primer, the 3'-end of which was aminated, had 3-4 bases overlapping the 3'-end of the degenerate primer. The potential of this method was demonstrated by the successful cloning of a novel member of the yeast MKC7/YAP3 gene family homologue from a filamentous fungus, Aspergillus oryzae, by inhibiting amplification of an already cloned homologue, opsB."}
{"id": "12030297", "title": "Polymerase chain reaction-mediated characterization of molds belonging to the Aspergillus flavus group and detection of Aspergillus parasiticus in peanut kernels by a multiplex polymerase chain reaction.", "content": "Polymerase chain reaction-mediated characterization of molds belonging to the Aspergillus flavus group and detection of Aspergillus parasiticus in peanut kernels by a multiplex polymerase chain reaction. The Aspergillus flavus group covers species of A. flavus and Aspergillus parasiticus as aflatoxin producers and Aspergillus oryzae and Aspergillus sojae as koji molds. Genetic similarity among these species is high, and aflatoxin production of a culture may be affected by cultivation conditions and substrate composition. Therefore, a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-mediated method of detecting the aflatoxin-synthesizing genes to indicate the degree of risk a genotype has of being a phenotypic producer was demonstrated. In this study, 19 strains of the A. flavus group, including A. flavus, A. parasiticus, A. oryzae, A. sojae, and one Aspergillus niger, were subjected to PCR testing in an attempt to detect four genes, encoding for norsolorinic acid reductase (nor-1), versicolorin A dehydrogenase (ver-1), sterigmatocystin O-methyltransferase (omt-1), and a regulatory protein (apa-2), involved in aflatoxin biosynthesis. Concurrently, the strains were cultivated in yeast-malt (YM) broth for aflatoxin detection. Fifteen strains were shown to possess the four target DNA fragments. With regard to aflatoxigenicity, all seven aflatoxigenic strains possessed the four DNA fragments, and five strains bearing less than the four DNA fragments did not produce aflatoxin. When peanut kernels were artificially contaminated with A. parasiticus and A. niger for 7 days, the contaminant DNA was extractable from a piece of cotyledon (ca. 100 mg), and when subjected to multiplex PCR testing using the four pairs of primers coding for the above genes, they were successfully detected. The target DNA fragments were detected in the kernels infected with A. parasiticus, and none was detected in the sound (uninoculated) kernels or in the kernels infected with A. niger."}
{"id": "12010653", "title": "Aspergillus antigen and PCR assays in bone marrow transplanted children.", "content": "Aspergillus antigen and PCR assays in bone marrow transplanted children. Screening for Aspergillus antigen and DNA has been introduced for the early diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA) in adults, but data in children at risk are scarce. Seventeen 1-108 month-old children were screened for Aspergillus antigenaemia by a commercial assay before and after bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Seventy-one serum samples were examined retrospectively by a novel nested PCR assay. Results of both assays were correlated with clinical, radiological and microbiological findings used for the definition of invasive aspergillosis by the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC). Three cases of probable or possible IA were defined, and in 14 children invasive aspergillosis was ruled out. In 10 children, Aspergillus antigen was detected in at least two consecutive serum samples, a microbiological EORTC criteria of IA. Specific DNA was detected in 8 antigen-positive and 2 antigen-negative sera. A positive predictive value of 20% was calculated for both assays. Hence, a high rate of positive results of antigen Elisa and PCR assays in BMT children are due to transient antigenaemia and fungaemia without clinical relevance. According to our data, prospective studies in well defined pediatric patients are urgently needed to determine the value of serial Aspergillus PCR assays for the early diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in children at risk."}
{"id": "11999400", "title": "Molecular cloning, characterization, and expression analysis of the xynF3 gene from Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Molecular cloning, characterization, and expression analysis of the xynF3 gene from Aspergillus oryzae. The gene encoding xylanase F3 (xynF3) was isolated from a genomic library of Aspergillus oryzae KBN616, used for making shoyu koji. The structural part of xynF3 was found to be 1468 bp. The nucleotide sequence of cDNA amplified by RT-PCR showed that the open reading frame of xynF3 was interrupted by ten short introns and encoded 323 amino acids. Direct N-terminal amino acid sequencing showed that the precursor of XynF3 had a signal peptide of 22 amino acids. The predicted amino acid sequence of XynF3 has strong similarity to other family 10 xylanases from fungi. The xynF3 gene was successfully overexpressed in A. oryzae and the XynF3 was purified. The molecular mass of XynF3 estimated on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was 32,000. This was almost the same as the molecular mass of 32,437 calculated from the deduced amino acid sequence. The purified XynF3 showed an optimum activity at pH 5.0 and 58 degrees C. It had a Km of 6.5 mg/ml and a Vmax of 435 micromol x min(-1) x mg(-1) when birch wood xylan was used as a substrate. Expression of the xynF3 gene was analyzed using an Escherichia coli beta-glucuronidase gene as a reporter. The result indicated that xynF3 is expressed in the medium containing wheat bran as a carbon source."}
{"id": "11999005", "title": "Diagnosis and treatment of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in neutropenic patients.", "content": "Diagnosis and treatment of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in neutropenic patients. Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis is a major cause of morbidity and mortality in neutropenic patients. Microbiological and serological tests are of limited value. The diagnosis should be considered in neutropenic patients with fever not responding to antibiotics, and typical findings on thoracic computed tomography scan. Whenever possible, diagnosis should be confirmed by tissue examination. Newer techniques, such as polymerase chain reaction may change the current diagnostic approach. Therapeutic strategies consist of prophylaxis in risk groups and the early application of antifungal agents in suspected or probable disease. Amphotericin B as desoxycholate or lipid formulation is the current standard medication in invasive infection, although it has major side effects. Its role is challenged by the new azole derivates, such as itraconazole and voriconazole, and the new echinocandins. Additional therapies with cytokines, such as granulocyte macrophage colony stimulating factor and interferon-gamma, and with granulocyte transfusions are under evaluation. In selected cases lung resection is of proven diagnostic and therapeutic value. This paper analyses the current understanding of the pathogenesis and epidemiology of invasive aspergillosis and reviews the actual diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in neutropenic patients."}
{"id": "11988507", "title": "Repression of chsB expression reveals the functional importance of class IV chitin synthase gene chsD in hyphal growth and conidiation of Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Repression of chsB expression reveals the functional importance of class IV chitin synthase gene chsD in hyphal growth and conidiation of Aspergillus nidulans. The functions of two previously identified chitin synthase genes in Aspergillus nidulans, chsB and chsD, were analysed. First, a conditional chsB mutant was constructed in which the expression of chsB is under the control of a repressible promoter, the alcA promoter, of A. nidulans. Under repressing conditions, the mutant grew slowly and produced highly branched hyphae, supporting the idea that chsB is involved in normal hyphal growth. The involvement of chsB in conidiation was also demonstrated. Next, double mutants of chsB and chsD were constructed, in which chsB was placed under the control of the alcA promoter and chsD was replaced with the argB gene of A. nidulans. These double mutants grew more slowly than the chsB single mutant under high-osmolarity conditions. The hyphae of the double mutant appeared to be more disorganized than those of the chsB single mutant. It was also found that ChsD was functionally implicated in conidiation when the expression of chsB was limited. These results indicate the importance of the ChsD function in the absence of chsB expression. The roles of ChsB and ChsD in hyphal growth and in conidiation were supported by the analysis of the spatial expression patterns of chsB and chsD, using lacZ of Escherichia coli as a reporter gene."}
{"id": "11979043", "title": "cDNA cloning and immunological characterization of a newly identified enolase allergen from Penicillium citrinum and Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "cDNA cloning and immunological characterization of a newly identified enolase allergen from Penicillium citrinum and Aspergillus fumigatus. Penicillium citrinum and Aspergillus fumigatus are prevalent indoor airborne fungal species that have been implicated in human respiratory allergic disorders. It is important to understand the allergenic profile of these fungal species. The purpose of the present study is to characterize a newly identified enolase allergen from P. citrinum and A. fumigatus. Fungal proteins were separated by two-dimensional (2D) gel electrophoresis and blotted onto polyvinylidene difluoride membranes. Protein spots that reacted with IgE antibodies in serum samples from asthmatic patients were identified and the N-terminal amino acid sequences were determined by Edman degradation. The peptide sequences obtained were utilized in cloning the cDNA of the allergen genes by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction and the 5'- and 3'-rapid amplification cDNA end reactions. Our results from 2D immunoblotting identified a 47-kD IgE-reactive component in the extracts of P. citrinum and A. fumigatus. The N-terminal amino acid sequences of the 47-kD proteins are homologous to those of fungal enolases. The corresponding enolase cDNA from P. citrinum contains 1,552 bp and encodes a protein of 438 residues. In A. fumigatus, the isolated enolase cDNA has 1,649 bp and contains a 438-amino acid open reading frame. The deduced amino acid sequences of these two enolases have 94% identity. These enolases from P. citrinum and A. fumigatus were expressed in Escherichia coli as a His-tagged protein and designated as rPen c 22 and rAsp f 22, respectively. Sera from 7 (30%) of the 23 Penicillium-sensitized asthmatic patients showed IgE binding to the 47-kD P. citrinum component (Pen c 22) and rPen c 22. In addition, six of seven Pen c 22-positive serum samples have IgE immunoblot reactivity to the 47-kD A. fumigatus component (Asp f 22) and rAsp f 22. A polyclonal rabbit antiserum generated against the N-terminal peptide of Pen c 22 can react with Pen c 22, rPen c 22, Asp f 22 and rAsp f 22. In addition, the presence of IgE cross-reactivity between rPen c 22 and rAsp f 22 and between enolases from A. fumigatus and Alternaria alternata was also detected by immunoblot inhibition. These results demonstrated that a novel enolase allergen from P. citrinum (Pen c 22) and A. fumigatus (Asp f 22) was identified. In addition, IgE cross-reactivity between enolase allergens from A. fumigatus and P. citrinum and between enolases from A. fumigatus and A. alternata was also detected. Results obtained provide more information on fungal enolase allergens."}
{"id": "11978610", "title": "Unusual late onset of X-linked chronic granulomatous disease in an adult woman after unsuspicious childhood.", "content": "Unusual late onset of X-linked chronic granulomatous disease in an adult woman after unsuspicious childhood."}
{"id": "11976961", "title": "A novel ABC transporter gene, PMR5, is involved in multidrug resistance in the phytopathogenic fungus Penicillium digitatum.", "content": "A novel ABC transporter gene, PMR5, is involved in multidrug resistance in the phytopathogenic fungus Penicillium digitatum. We have cloned a novel ABC transporter gene PMR5 from the phytopathogenic fungus Penicillium digitatum by RT-PCR using degenerate primers. The deduced amino acid sequence of PMR5 showed 37% identity to PMR1 from the same fungus, 71% identity to AtrB from Aspergillus nidulans, and 65% identity to BcatrB from Botrytis cinerea. Disruption mutants for PMR5 were generated in two independent P. digitatum strains and their phenotypes were characterized. These mutants displayed increased sensitivity to thiabendazole (a benzimidazole), benomyl (a benzimidazole), dithianon (a quinone), resveratrol (the phytoalexin of grape), and camptothecin (an alkaloid). Delta pmr1 disruption mutants were previously reported to show resistance to demethylation inhibitors (DMIs). These mutants were found also to display increased sensitivity to phloretin (the phytoanticipin of apples), camptothecin and oligomycin (an antibiotic). Transcription of PMR1 and PMR5 was strongly induced in response to several toxicants, including DMIs that specifically induced PMR1. In contrast, dithianon and resveratrol specifically induced PMR5 transcription. These findings indicate that expression of the two ABC transporter genes is regulated differently, and that they have complementary roles in multidrug resistance, with each having different substrate-specificities."}
{"id": "11964921", "title": "Recent advances in the epidemiology, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of fungal pneumonia.", "content": "Recent advances in the epidemiology, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of fungal pneumonia. Although pneumonia caused by fungi is not a common occurrence in the general population, disease in an enlarging immunocompromised population is encountered with increasing frequency. Fungal pneumonias are most frequently caused by Aspergillus spp., dimorphic fungi and Cryptococcus neoformans. Recent studies have identified risk factors of thrombocytopenia, environmental events (such as construction or renovation) and immunosuppressive drug therapies as being specific risk factors for invasive fungal disease in select patient populations. Diagnostic strategies to detect circulating antigens and polymerase chain reaction based detection systems have been explored to improve identification prior to the progressive advanced disease. Advances in prophylactic strategies include increased use of aerosolized formulations of amphotericin B, usually in conjunction with new and old systemic antifungal agents. Despite recent published guidelines for treatment of fungal pneumonia based on etiology, mortality remains high in some infections with advanced disease. Caspofungin, a new echinocandin antifungal, has recently been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration for the treatment of invasive Aspergillus infections in patients unresponsive to or unable to receive amphotericin B. A triazole antifungal, voriconazole, has shown promise in phase III clinical trials in patients with refractory fungal infections and is expected to be available in early 2002. Other echinocandin and triazole antifungals are under development in attempts to provide improved effective therapy for fungal pneumonia."}
{"id": "11954796", "title": "Overproduction of BiP negatively affects the secretion of Aspergillus niger glucose oxidase by the yeast Hansenula polymorpha.", "content": "Overproduction of BiP negatively affects the secretion of Aspergillus niger glucose oxidase by the yeast Hansenula polymorpha. We have cloned the Hansenula polymorpha BIP gene from genomic DNA using a PCR-based strategy. H. polymorpha BIP encodes a protein of 665 amino acids, which shows very high homology to Saccharomvces cerevisiae KAR2p. KAR2p belongs to the Hsp70 family of molecular chaperones and resides in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER)-lumen. H. polymorpha BiP contains a putative N-terminal signal sequence of 30 amino acids together with the conserved -HDEL sequence, the typical ER retention signal, at the extreme C-terminus. We have analysed the effect of BIP overexpression, placing the gene under control of the strong alcohol oxidase promoter (P(MOX)) on the secretion of artificially produced Aspergillus niger glucose oxidase (GOX) by H. polymorpha. BiP overproduction did not lead to any growth defects of the cells; at the subcellular level, proliferation of ER-like vesicles was observed. However, artificially enhanced BiP levels strongly affected GOX secretion and led to accumulation of this protein in the ER-like vesicles. This was not simply due to the high BiP overproduction, because it was also observed under conditions of low P(MOX) induction during growth of cells on glycerol. Vacuolar carboxypeptidase Y was properly sorted to its target organelle in the BiP overproducing strains."}
{"id": "11948049", "title": "Diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis using polymerase chain reaction-based detection of aspergillus in BAL.", "content": "Diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis using polymerase chain reaction-based detection of aspergillus in BAL. To assess the value of Aspergillus polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test performed on the BAL in diagnosing invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA). Between January 1996 and 1997, we prospectively followed up 249 cancer patients with pulmonary infiltrates suggestive of pneumonia. Bronchoscopy with fungal stains, cultures, and PCR was performed on all patients. PCR was used for the detection of Aspergillus mitochondrial and alkaline protease gene DNA. The PCR products were visualized either directly on polyacrylamide gel or after Southern transfer and probing with specific probes for mitochondrial and alkaline protease DNA. The 249 patients consisted of 10 patients with proven IPA (tissue invasion), 22 patients with probable IPA (microbiologic culture), 18 patients with possible IPA (consistent clinical and radiologic findings), and 199 control patients with no evidence of IPA. PCR positivity was strongly associated with all forms of IPA (p < 0.002). The sensitivity, specificity, positive predictive value, and negative predictive value of PCR were 80%, 93%, 38%, and 99%, respectively, for proven IPA, and 64%, 93%, 52%, and 96%, respectively, for probable IPA. Southern blotting analysis did not improve the diagnostic yield of the PCR test. PCR performed on BAL is associated with high specificity and negative predictive value for IPA. The low positive predictive value could be related to the transient colonizing presence of aspergilli in the respiratory tract. The sensitivity correlates with the certainty of the diagnosis based on tissue invasion."}
{"id": "11939394", "title": "False-positive results caused by cotton swabs in commercial Aspergillus antigen latex agglutination test.", "content": "False-positive results caused by cotton swabs in commercial Aspergillus antigen latex agglutination test. While testing for Aspergillus spp. using a commercially available latex agglutination test on a brain biopsy wrapped in a cotton swab, false-positive results were obtained. Subsequent application of the test on lavage samples obtained using cotton and synthetic swabs resulted positive with the cotton swabs only. This suggests that epitopes cross-reactive with Aspergillus galactomannan may be present in cotton."}
{"id": "11932457", "title": "Redundancy, phylogeny and differential expression of Histoplasma capsulatum catalases.", "content": "Redundancy, phylogeny and differential expression of Histoplasma capsulatum catalases. Histoplasma capsulatum produces an extracellular catalase termed M antigen, which is similar to catalase B of Aspergillus and Emericella species. Evidence is presented here for two additional catalase isozymes in H. capsulatum. Catalase A is highly similar to a large-subunit catalase in Aspergillus and Emericella species, while catalase P is a small-subunit catalase protein with greatest similarity to known peroxisomal catalases of animals and Saccharomycotina yeasts. Complete cDNAs for the CATA and CATP genes (encoding catalases A and P, respectively) were isolated. The transcriptional expression of the H. capsulatum CATA, CATB (M antigen) and CATP genes was assessed by Northern blot hybridizations on total RNA. Results at the transcript levels for these genes are shown for three conditions: cell morphology (mycelial versus yeast phase cells), oxidative stress (in response to a challenge with H(2)O(2)) and carbon source (glucose vs glycerol). Collectively, these results demonstrated regulation of CATA by both cell morphology and oxidative stress, but not by carbon source, and regulation of CATB and CATP by carbon source but not cell morphology or oxidative stress. A phylogenetic analysis of presently available catalase sequences and intron residences was done. The results support a model for evolution of eukaryotic monofunctional catalase genes from prokaryotic genes."}
{"id": "11929216", "title": "Isolation and characterization of the mating-type idiomorphs from the wheat septoria leaf blotch fungus Mycosphaerella graminicola.", "content": "Isolation and characterization of the mating-type idiomorphs from the wheat septoria leaf blotch fungus Mycosphaerella graminicola. Both mating-type loci from the wheat septoria leaf blotch pathogen Mycosphaerella graminicola have been cloned and sequenced. The MAT1-2 gene was identified by screening a genomic library from the MAT1-2 isolate IPO94269 with a heterologous probe from Tapesia yallundae. The MAT1-2 idiomorph is 2772 bp and contains a single gene encoding a putative high-mobility-group protein of 394 amino acids. The opposite idiomorph was obtained from isolate IPO323, which has the complementary mating type, by long-range PCR using primers derived from sequences flanking the MAT1-2 idiomorph. The MAT1-1 locus is 2839 bp in size and contains a single open reading frame encoding a putative alpha1-domain protein of 297 amino acids. Within the nonidiomorphic sequences, homology was found with palI, encoding a membrane receptor from Aspergillus nidulans, and a gene encoding a putative component of the anaphase-promoting complex from Schizosaccharomyces pombe and a DNA-(apurinic or apyrimidinic) lyase from S. pombe. For each of the MAT genes specific primers were designed and tested on an F1 mapping population that was generated from a cross between IPO323 and IPO94269. An absolute correlation was found between the amplified allele-specific fragments and the mating type as determined by backcrosses of each F1 progeny isolate to the parental isolates. The primers were also used to screen a collection of field isolates in a multiplex PCR. An equal distribution of MAT1-1 and MAT1-2 alleles was found for most geographic origins examined."}
{"id": "11923400", "title": "Anticoagulants interfere with PCR used to diagnose invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Anticoagulants interfere with PCR used to diagnose invasive aspergillosis."}
{"id": "11920473", "title": "Polymerase chain reaction on blood for the diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in cancer patients.", "content": "Polymerase chain reaction on blood for the diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in cancer patients. The premortem diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) is difficult to make and often missed. Several retrospective studies have suggested that Aspergillus polymerase chain reaction (PCR) performed on serum or whole blood is useful in diagnosing IPA. Two prospective studies confirmed this finding but included a small number of IPA cases. The current study was performed to determine the diagnostic role of Aspergillus PCR performed on whole blood specimens from 54 patients with cancer and pulmonary infiltrates for which bronchoscopy with fungal stains and cultures were performed. PCR through amplified Aspergillus mitochondrial DNA and alkaline protease genes was performed on whole blood samples. The cohort in the current study was comprised of 4 patients with definite IPA, 7 patients with probable IPA, 7 patients with possible IPA, and 36 control patients with no evidence of IPA. The sensitivity, specificity, and positive and negative predictive values all were 100% for definite IPA cases and 57%, 100%, 100%, and 92%, respectively, for each of the probable and possible IPA cases. Aspergillus PCR on whole blood samples is highly sensitive for the detection of IPA and is predictive for IPA. The sensitivity appears to be correlated with the certainty of diagnosis as proven by tissue invasion."}
{"id": "11913767", "title": "Cloning of Aspergillus fumigatus histidine kinase gene fragment and its expression during invasive infection.", "content": "Cloning of Aspergillus fumigatus histidine kinase gene fragment and its expression during invasive infection. It was demonstrated recently that three histidine kinases genes in Candida albicans contributed to virulence, indicating the importance of signaling pathways regulated by histidine kinases. In the present study, using a set of degenerate primers, RT-PCR was performed with cDNA of A. fumigatus as a template. PCR products were cloned and sequenced. After Blast analysis, it was found that one fragment (named as AFHK1), 305 bp, was highly homologous to the two-component histidine kinase tesA gene of Aspergillus nidulans. But AFHKI was not completely identical to the FOS-1 gene of A. fumigatus. The same A. fumigatus strain was used to inoculate the mice for a murine model of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA). After 5-days post-inoculation, the lungs of infected animals were removed and incubated for 2 h at 37 degrees C in digestion buffer containing collagenase and trypsin. The pulmonary cells were removed by passing the suspension through a sieve. The non-filterable hyphae were treated with deoxygenated sodium cholate. Total RNA of A. fumigatus isolated from the infected tissues or cultured in vitro was extracted. With AFHKI as a probe. a Northern blot was performed. A 3.0 kb (approximate) transcript of mRNA was detected corresponding to the putative histidine kinase gene. It was demonstrated that that gene was expressed at markedly higher levels in vivo than in vitro. The results suggest that this gene may contribute to the survival and virulence of A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "11899029", "title": "Development of a nested polymerase chain reaction assay for the detection and identification of Pythium insidiosum.", "content": "Development of a nested polymerase chain reaction assay for the detection and identification of Pythium insidiosum. Pythium insidiosum is an important cause of cutaneous and gastrointestinal disease in horses and dogs in the southeastern United States. Culture-based diagnosis of pythiosis is rarely definitive because production and identification of reproductive structures is difficult. The purpose of this study was to develop a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based assay for the identification of P insidiosum. Genomic DNA was extracted from 3 clinical isolates of P insidiosum and I isolate each of Pythium graminicola and Pythium arrhenomanes. The ITS I region of the ribosomal RNA gene of each isolate was amplified and sequenced, and the resultant sequences were aligned with published sequences for Pythium aphanidermatum, P acanthicum, and P myriotylum. A pair of P insidiosum-specific primers (PI-1 and PI-2) were designed from variable regions within the ITSI region. A nested PCR assay was developed in which the 1st round amplified the ITSI region by use of universal fungal primers. Second-round amplification utilized the internal P insidiosum-specific primers PI-1 and PI-2. Specificity of the assay was tested with DNA extracted from cultures of the following: 10 clinical isolates of P insidiosum and 1 isolate each of P graminicola, P irregulare, P arrhenomanes, P myriotylum, P deliense, Basidiobolus ranarum, Conidiobolus coronatus, Aspergillus terreus, Lagenidium giganteum, and a canine-pathogenic Lagenidium species. Nested PCR produced a single 105-base pair amplicon for each of the P insidiosum isolates, but did not produce amplicons for any of the other isolates. Results of this study suggest that PCR is a useful tool for the identification of P insidiosum."}
{"id": "11886384", "title": "Clinical evaluation of a polymerase chain reaction assay to detect Aspergillus species in bronchoalveolar lavage samples of neutropenic patients.", "content": "Clinical evaluation of a polymerase chain reaction assay to detect Aspergillus species in bronchoalveolar lavage samples of neutropenic patients. The increasing incidence of invasive aspergillosis, a life-threatening infection in immunocompromised patients, emphasizes the need to improve the currently limited diagnostic tools. Using a recently developed two-step polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay to detect 10 fg of Aspergillus DNA, corresponding to 1-5 colony-forming units (CFU)/ml of spiked samples in vitro, we prospectively examined 197 bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples from 176 subjects, including 141 neutropenic, febrile patients with lung infiltrates, at risk for invasive fungal disease. Underlying diseases of these patients were haematological malignancies; 93 patients suffered from acute leukaemias. Thirty-one of these immunocompromised patients (17.6%) were PCR positive, correlating with positive BAL culture, positive histology from lung surgery or from autopsy, positive computerized tomography scans or positive galactomannan enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Six patients (4.3%) of this group had positive PCR results without any correlation to clinical or other diagnostic data, probably owing to contamination of the samples by ubiquitous Aspergillus spores. The samples of two patients (1.4%) with a subsequent histologically proven mould infection were PCR negative. All 102 immunocompromised patients (72.3%) with a negative PCR showed no evidence of invasive fungal disease. From 35 patients without immunodeficiency, four (11.4%) showed positive results, without evidence of invasive or non-invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. In this haematological population, the sensitivity and specificity values of the test reached 93.9% and 94.4%, the positive predictive value 83.8%, the negative predictive value 98.1%. Our data support the considerable clinical value of this PCR assay for confirming and improving diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis in high-risk patients."}
{"id": "11872487", "title": "Quantitative analysis of the relative transcript levels of ABC transporter Atr genes in Aspergillus nidulans by real-time reverse transcription-PCR assay.", "content": "Quantitative analysis of the relative transcript levels of ABC transporter Atr genes in Aspergillus nidulans by real-time reverse transcription-PCR assay. The development of assays for quantitative analysis of the relative transcript levels of ABC transporter genes by real-time reverse transcription-PCR (RT-PCR) might provide important information about multidrug resistance in filamentous fungi. Here, we evaluate the potential of real-time RT-PCR to quantify the relative transcript levels of ABC transporter Atr genes from Aspergillus nidulans. The AtrA to AtrD genes showed different and higher levels in the presence of structurally unrelated drugs, such as camptothecin, imazalil, itraconazole, hygromycin, and 4-nitroquinoline oxide. We also verified the relative transcript levels of the Atr genes in the A. nidulans imazalil-resistant mutants. These genes displayed a very complex pattern in different ima genetic backgrounds. The imaB mutant has higher basal transcript levels of AtrB and -D than those of the wild-type strain. The levels of these two genes are comparable when the imaB mutant is grown in the presence and absence of imazalil. The imaC, -D, and -H mutants have higher basal levels of AtrA than that of the wild type. The same behavior is observed for the relative transcript levels of AtrB in the imaG mutant background."}
{"id": "11864908", "title": "Pcp1p, an Spc110p-related calmodulin target at the centrosome of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe.", "content": "Pcp1p, an Spc110p-related calmodulin target at the centrosome of the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the calmodulin-binding protein Spc110p/Nuf1p facilitates mitotic spindle formation from the fungal centrosome or spindle pole body (SPB). The human Spc110p orthologue kendrin is a centrosomal, calmodulin-binding pericentrin isoform that is specifically overexpressed in carcinoma cells. Here we establish an evolutionary and functional link between Spc110p and kendrin through identification and analysis of similar calmodulin-binding proteins in the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe (Pcp1p, pole target of calmodulin in S. pombe) and the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. Like Spc110p and kendrin, Pcp1p and the A. nidulans protein contain predicted coiled-coil secondary structure and a COOH-terminal calmodulin-binding region. Green fluorescent protein fusions of Pcp1p localize to the SPB as analyzed by fluorescence and immunoelectron microscopy. Pcp1p overexpression causes chromosome missegregation, multiple mitotic spindle fragments, and multiple abnormal SPB-like structures, a phenotype remarkably similar to that of many human carcinoma lines, which exhibit chromosome and spindle defects, and supernumerary centrosomes."}
{"id": "11860262", "title": "Cloning of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase-encoding genes in Mucor circinelloides (Syn. racemosus) and use of the gpd1 promoter for recombinant protein production.", "content": "Cloning of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase-encoding genes in Mucor circinelloides (Syn. racemosus) and use of the gpd1 promoter for recombinant protein production. Three genes (gpd1, gpd2, and gpd3) encoding glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase were isolated from the dimorphic zygomycete Mucor circinelloides by PCR using degenerated primers. Transcription of gpd1 could be detected during vegetative growth under both aerobic and anaerobic conditions, whereas neither gpd2 nor gpd3 transcription was detected, indicating that gpd1 is the major transcribed gpd gene. The transcription of gpd1 was regulated by carbon source. The gpd1 promoter was successfully used for recombinant expression of genes of both homologous (crgA encoding a regulator of carotene biosynthesis) and heterologous (gox1 from Aspergillus niger encoding glucose oxidase; GOX) nature. Growth of a gox1 transformant strain resulted in the secretion of enzymatically active GOX. The potential advantages of using a dimorphic fungus for heterologous protein production are discussed."}
{"id": "11850239", "title": "Molecular evaluation of the plasma membrane proton pump from Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Molecular evaluation of the plasma membrane proton pump from Aspergillus fumigatus. The gene encoding the plasma membrane proton pump (H+ -ATPase) of Aspergillus fumigatus, PMA1, was characterized from A. fumigatus strain NIH 5233 and clinical isolate H11-20. An open reading frame of 3,109 nucleotides with two introns near the N terminus predicts a protein consisting of 989 amino acids with a molecular mass of approximately 108 kDa. The predicted A. fumigatus enzyme is 89 and 51% identical to H+ - ATPases of Aspergillus nidulans and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, respectively. The A. fumigatus PMA1 is a typical member of the P-type ATPase family that contains 10 predicted transmembrane segments and conserved sequence motifs TGES, CSDKTGT, MLTGD, and GDGVN within the catalytic region. The enzyme represents 2% of the total plasma membrane protein, and it is characteristically inhibited by orthovanadate, with a 50% inhibitory concentration of approximately 1.8 microM. H+ -ATPases from Aspergillus spp. contain a highly acidic insertion region of 60 amino acids between transmembrane segments 2 and 3, which was confirmed for the membrane-assembled enzyme with a peptide-derived antibody. An increasing A. fumigatus PMA1 copy number confers enhanced growth in low-pH medium, consistent with its role as a proton pump. These results provide support for the development of the A. fumigatus H+ -ATPase as a potential drug discovery target."}
{"id": "11831480", "title": "Identification and characterization of novel cytochrome P450 genes from the white-rot basidiomycete, Coriolus versicolor.", "content": "Identification and characterization of novel cytochrome P450 genes from the white-rot basidiomycete, Coriolus versicolor. Using a reverse-transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) technique, cytochrome P450 genes were cloned from the lignin-degrading basidiomycete, Coriolus versicolor. One possible P450 gene was identified, which consisted of 1,672 nucleotides and a poly(A) tail and encoded a deduced protein containing 449 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence revealed the presence of the P450 heme-binding motif, strongly suggesting that this protein belongs to the P450 superfamily, then designated CYP512A1. The deduced protein showed sequential similarity to other known P450s from several micro-organisms, such as Aspergillus terreus, Gibberella fujikuroi, and Neurospora crassa, with 30-35% identity. Since the identity of the amino id sequence was less than 40% with any other P450s, this protein was suggested to be the first member of a new family of cytochrome P450. In addition, a differential display RT-PCR analysis showed the expression of the other P450 genes, which were up-regulated by the addition of dibenzothiophene and 4-methyldibenzothiophene-5-oxide. Using the 5' rapid amplification of cDNA ends method, a 520-nucleotide sequence, including the P450 motif-coding region, was determined for one clone. The deduced protein showed high similarity to CYP512A1 but less than 40% identity with P450s from other organisms. A chemical stress-responsive expression of P450 is suggested for the first time in basidiomycetes."}
{"id": "11829749", "title": "Purification, characterization, gene cloning and preliminary X-ray data of the exo-inulinase from Aspergillus awamori.", "content": "Purification, characterization, gene cloning and preliminary X-ray data of the exo-inulinase from Aspergillus awamori. Extracellular exo-inulinase has been isolated from a solid-phase culture of the filamentous fungus Aspergillus awamori var. 2250. The apparent molecular mass of the monomer enzyme was 69 +/- kDa, with a pI of 4.4 and a pH optimum of 4.5. The enzyme hydrolysed the beta-(2-->1)-fructan (inulin) and beta-(2-->6)-fructan (levan) via exo-cleavage, releasing fructose. The values for the Michaelis constants K(m) and V(max) in the hydrolysis of inulin were 0.003 +/- 0.0001 mM and 175 +/- 5 micromol.min(-1).mg(-1). The same parameters in the hydrolysis of levan were 2.08 +/- 0.04 mg/ml and 1.2 +/- 0.02 micromol/min per mg, respectively. The gene and cDNA encoding the A. awamori exo-inulinase were cloned and sequenced. The amino acid sequence indicated that the protein belongs to glycoside hydrolase family 32. A surprisingly high similarity was found to fructosyltransferase from Aspergillus foetidus (90.7% on the level of the amino acid sequence), despite the fact that the latter enzyme is unable to hydrolyse inulin and levan. Crystals of the native exo-inulinase were obtained and found to belong to the orthorhombic space group P2(1)2(1)2(1) with cell parameters a=64.726 A (1A=0.1 nm), b=82.041 A and c=136.075 A. Crystals diffracted beyond 1.54 A, and useful X-ray data were collected to a resolution of 1.73 A."}
{"id": "11824538", "title": "Expression of a synthetic gene encoding the Asp-hemolysin from Aspergillus fumigatus in Escherichia coli.", "content": "Expression of a synthetic gene encoding the Asp-hemolysin from Aspergillus fumigatus in Escherichia coli. Asp-hemolysin is a hemolytic toxin from Aspergillus fumigatus and is a specific binding protein with high affinity for oxidized low density lipoprotein (Ox-LDL). As a first step in clarifying the structure-function relationship of Asp-hemolysin, we expressed Asp-hemolysin in Escherichia coli (E. coli) as a fusion protein with a maltose-binding protein (MBP) and purified it by affinity chromatography on an amylose resin. The apparent molecular size of the protein produced by E. coli was approximately 57 kDa, as determined by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of sodium dodecyl sulfate. This is consistent with the predicted molecular size of 56.9 kDa for a fusion protein which includes 14.2 kDa of Asp-hemolysin and 42.7 kDa from MBP. The purified recombinant Asp-hemolysin showed an immunoreactivity with the anti-Asp-hemolysin antibody as revealed by western blot analysis. Furthermore, in dot blot analysis, MBP-Asp-hemolysin fusion protein exhibited binding activity to Ox-LDL as did native Asp-hemolysin."}
{"id": "11801580", "title": "AmBisome in the treatment of fungal infections: the UK experience.", "content": "AmBisome in the treatment of fungal infections: the UK experience. Despite a number of recent advances in diagnosis and treatment strategies, fungal infections remain an important cause of morbidity and mortality in neutropenic and immunosuppressed patients. The main fungal infections are candidosis and aspergillosis, although an increased incidence of rarer fungal infections including Fusarium spp., Aurebasidium pullulans and Mucor spp. has been noted. Mortality may be decreased with earlier diagnosis and aggressive treatment with lipid-associated amphotericin B. Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) in the neutropenic host presents particular challenges in terms of diagnosis and therapy. We undertook a prospective study over a 36 month period to link the status of early diagnosis and early aggressive therapy with lipid-associated amphotericin B. Early investigation comprised the use of bronchoscopy and bronchoalveolar lavage together with real-time PCR to detect Aspergillus spp. This combined approach revealed the incidence of proven or probable IPA to be 19%. Early therapy resulted in no mortality from IPA. In treating the rarer fungal species, AmBisome was found to be the most effective agent, and could be used at doses of up to 12 mg/kg with few side effects."}
{"id": "11801576", "title": "Diagnosis of fungal infections: current status.", "content": "Diagnosis of fungal infections: current status. Diagnosing infections remains a problem in the management of fungal diseases, particularly in the immunocompromised host. Signs and symptoms are non-specific, colonization is difficult to distinguish from invasive disease, blood cultures are commonly negative and patients are often unable to undergo invasive diagnostic procedures. This situation has led to the strategy of initiating empirical therapy in the high-risk patient. A variety of tests has been applied to several body fluids. At the simplest level, the clinician must be familiar with the appearance of various fungi in tissue. Non-culture methods include antibody- and antigen-based assays, metabolite detection and molecular identification. The latter includes PCR identification of fungal DNA from body fluid samples using conserved or specific genome sequences. Detection of glucan in blood has been achieved using crab amoebocyte lysate. With aspergillosis, predictive clinical correlates have been defined, respiratory tract cultures are highly predictive of invasive disease in the appropriate setting and certain CT scan findings enable early diagnosis. Bronchoalveolar lavage is also very useful. Galactomannan antigen testing of blood is routine in some European centres, with EIA methodology supplanting agglutination because of apparently greater sensitivity. PCR has been made specific by genus-specific probes, with 100% sensitivity and reasonable specificity. In candidosis, the number of sites of colonization correlates with invasion. Tests for mannan antibodies and antigenaemia are currently of interest. Metabolite assays appeared promising but have not been pursued commercially. In cryptococcosis, pronase treatment of serum has reduced false positives and false negatives, and improved reproducibility of titres. Birdseed agar improves culture specificity. In coccidioidomycosis, serology is the exemplar for all mycology. Gene probes have accelerated diagnosis by culture. In histoplasmosis, the antigenuria test's high sensitivity and specificity has dispelled the chronic confusion in interpreting antibody test results."}
{"id": "11792987", "title": "Treatment of posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease with rituximab: the remission, the relapse, and the complication.", "content": "Treatment of posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease with rituximab: the remission, the relapse, and the complication. Rituximab, a humanized anti-CD20 monoclonal antibody, is a promising new tool for the treatment of posttransplant lymphoproliferative disease (PTLD), especially for patients transplanted with rejection prone transplants of vital organs, such as patients after lung transplantation. Thus far, no major complications have been described. We treated three lung transplant recipients with Rituximab because of PTLD. Patients were treated with four weekly doses of 375 mg/m2 of Rituximab. Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) DNA was monitored with quantitative-competitive polymerase chain reaction and circulating B cells with flow cytometry. Treatment with Rituximab resulted in a complete remission in all patients without signs of or progression of bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome. Patient 1 relapsed after 2 months with a partly CD20-negative PTLD but is in stable remission after radiotherapy. Patient 2 is in complete remission 16 months after treatment, but patient 3 developed a hypogammaglobulinemia and died of invasive aspergillosis after 6 months. EBV DNA was detectable in the blood samples of patients 2 and 3 before treatment with Rituximab and became negative instantly after Rituximab. In all three patients, B cells are absent in the peripheral blood 7 months (at death), 16 months, and 16 months after treatment with Rituximab. Antiproliferating agents, such as mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), might prolong B-cell depletion. Rituximab was effective for the treatment of PTLD without progression of transplant dysfunction in our patients. Complications were a partly CD20-negative relapse of PTLD and a hypogammaglobulinemia. Attention should be paid to immunoglobulin G (IgG) levels, especially in patients treated with antiproliferating agents such as MMF."}
{"id": "11772640", "title": "Chromosomal location plays a role in regulation of aflatoxin gene expression in Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Chromosomal location plays a role in regulation of aflatoxin gene expression in Aspergillus parasiticus. The nor-1 gene in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus parasiticus encodes a ketoreductase involved in aflatoxin biosynthesis. To study environmental influences on nor-1 expression, we generated plasmid pAPGUSNNB containing a nor-1 promoter-beta-glucuronidase (GUS) (encoded by uidA) reporter fusion with niaD (encodes nitrate reductase) as a selectable marker. niaD transformants of A. parasiticus strain NR-1 (niaD) carried pAPGUSNNB integrated predominantly at the nor-1 or niaD locus. Expression of the native nor-1 and nor-1::GUS reporter was compared in transformants grown under aflatoxin-inducing conditions by Northern and Western analyses and by qualitative and quantitative GUS activity assays. The timing and level of nor-1 promoter function with pAPGUSNNB integrated at nor-1 was similar to that observed for the native nor-1 gene. In contrast, nor-1 promoter activity in pAPGUSNNB and a second nor-1::GUS reporter construct, pBNG3.0, was not detectable when integration occurred at niaD. Because niaD-dependent regulation could account for the absence of expression at niaD, a third chromosomal location was analyzed using pAPGUSNP, which contained nor-1::GUS plus pyrG (encodes OMP decarboxylase) as a selectable marker. GUS expression was detectable only when pAPGUSNP integrated at nor-1 and was not detectable at pyrG, even under growth conditions that required pyrG expression. nor-1::GUS is regulated similarly to the native nor-1 gene when it is integrated at its homologous site within the aflatoxin gene cluster but is not expressed at native nor-1 levels at two locations outside of the aflatoxin gene cluster. We conclude that the GUS reporter system can be used effectively to measure nor-1 promoter activity and that nor-1 is subject to position-dependent regulation in the A. parasiticus chromosome."}
{"id": "12702357", "title": "High-level production of recombinant Aspergillus niger cinnamoyl esterase (FAEA) in the methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris.", "content": "High-level production of recombinant Aspergillus niger cinnamoyl esterase (FAEA) in the methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris. The cDNA encoding Aspergillus niger cinnamoyl esterase (FAEA) with its native signal sequence was isolated by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, sequenced, and expressed in Pichia pastoris. Secretion yields up to 300 mg l(-1) were obtained in buffered medium. The recombinant FAEA was purified to homogeneity using a one-step purification protocol and found to be identical to the native enzyme with respect to size, pI, immunoreactivity and N-terminal sequence. Specific activity, pH and temperature optimum, and kinetic parameters were also found similar to the native esterase. FAEA is thus the first fungal esterase efficiently produced using a heterologous system."}
{"id": "12561778", "title": "[Cloning and sequence analysis of the phytase phyA gene of Aspergillus niger N25].", "content": "[Cloning and sequence analysis of the phytase phyA gene of Aspergillus niger N25]. The phyA encoding phytase of Aspergillus niger N25 was amplified by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with primers designed according to the sequences of the phyA in GenBank. The amplified fragment was cloned and sequenced. The results show that: the coding region is 1506 bp in size, includes a 102 bp intron, and encodes a peptide of 476 amino acid residues, in which there is a signal peptide with 19 amino acids and a mature peptide of 448 amino acids. Comparison of this sequence with the phyA of the natural A. niger NRRL3135 (GenBank Accession: M94550), the most highly secreting-phytase strain, shows that the nucleotide homology is as high as 96.746%, and the amino acid homology comes up to 97.64%. The phyA of A. niger N25 strain in this paper is appropriate to be used to construct the phytase gene-engineering bacteria."}
{"id": "12063396", "title": "Molecular cloning and characterization of the human NIMA-related protein kinase 3 gene (NEK3).", "content": "Molecular cloning and characterization of the human NIMA-related protein kinase 3 gene (NEK3). NEKs (NIMA-related kinases) are a group of protein kinases sharing high amino acid sequence identities with NIMA (never in mitosis gene a) which control mitosis in Aspergillus nidulans. We have cloned a cDNA for human NEK3, a novel human gene structurally related to NIMA, by RT-PCR. Its open reading frame encodes a protein of 489 amino acid residues with the calculated molecular mass of 56.0 kDa and a predicted pI of 6.58. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that mouse and human NEK3s constitute a subfamily within the NIMA family of protein kinases. The expression pattern of NEK3 was studied by RT-PCR and a high level of expression was detected in testis, ovary, and brain, with low-level expression being detected in most of the tissues studied. NEK3 mRNA was detected in all the proliferating cell lines studied, and the amount did not change during the cell cycle. The human NEK3 gene was assigned to human chromosome 13 by somatic cell hybrids and 13q14.2 by radiation hybrid mapping."}
{"id": "11921835", "title": "Polymerase chain reaction in the diagnosis of Aspergillus endophthalmitis.", "content": "Polymerase chain reaction in the diagnosis of Aspergillus endophthalmitis. Aspergillus endophthalmitis is the commonest type of vision threatening fungal endophthalmitis encountered in India. Since conventional methods lack sensitivity, we evaluated polymerase chain reaction (PCR) against the conventional mycological methods in the diagnosis of Aspergillus endophthalmitis. Twenty-seven intraocular specimens from 22 patients with suspected fungal endophthalmitis (proven as non-bacterial origin) and 10 patients with non-infective intraocular disorders (controls) were tested. The intraocular specimens from these patients were subjected to the conventional methods, viz., microscopy and culture for growth of fungi, as well as PCR for the detection and differentiation of species of Aspergillus. None of the controls were positive by microscopy, culture or PCR. Among the 27 test samples, 4 were positive by culture for Aspergillus species, these were also positive by PCR. In addition, PCR detected and identified Aspergillus species in 2 culture negative specimens. The average time required for culture and identification of Aspergillus was 10 days, whereas PCR needed only 24 h. This study indicates that PCR was not only a more sensitive, but also a rapid diagnostic tool compared to the conventional mycological methods in the diagnosis of Aspergillus endophthalmitis."}
{"id": "11816981", "title": "Distribution of ochratoxin A producing strains in the A. niger aggregate.", "content": "Distribution of ochratoxin A producing strains in the A. niger aggregate. Ochratoxin A (OA) production of 92 isolates belonging to the A. niger aggregate was tested. All these isolates were grouped into the two proposed species A. niger and A. tubingensis, according to their ITS-5.8S rDNA RFLP patterns. The distribution of the isolates into the two species was very similar since 52.2% were classified as pattern T (corresponding to A. tubingensis), and 47.8% were classified as pattern N (corresponding to A. niger). Six out of the 92 isolates studied produced OA. All the OA producing strains were classified as pattern N while none of the isolates classified as pattern T produced OA."}
{"id": "11799307", "title": "Systemic infections with Aspergillus species in patients with hematological malignancies: current serological and molecular diagnostic approaches.", "content": "Systemic infections with Aspergillus species in patients with hematological malignancies: current serological and molecular diagnostic approaches. Within the recent years, novel molecular and serological methods have been developed to improve the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in patients with malignant hematological diseases being at highest risk for this life-threatening infection. Early diagnosis and treatment are essential for adequate therapeutic management, which, however, often remains difficult since most of the diagnostic tools used clinically at present either lack specificity or sensitivity, or both at the worst. The clinical value, advantages and remaining problems of recently developed serological assays and molecular approaches to detect this emerging pathogen are reviewed."}
{"id": "11798263", "title": "Galactomannan and polymerase chain reaction for the diagnosis of primary digestive aspergillosis in a patient with acute myeloid leukaemia.", "content": "Galactomannan and polymerase chain reaction for the diagnosis of primary digestive aspergillosis in a patient with acute myeloid leukaemia. Primary intestinal invasive aspergillosis is rarely reported in leukaemic patients. We describe a case of jejunal invasive aspergillosis in the setting of aplasia following chemotherapy for acute myeloid leukaemia. The diagnosis was confirmed by biopsy obtained during surgery and our polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test confirmed Aspergillus flavus as the fungus responsible. This patient had high levels of circulating galactomannan, an antigen secreted by Aspergillus sp., in serum. The ELISA test for galactomannan has been developed to improve the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis but presents a 5-15% false positive rate. We suggest that some false positive results might be due to non-respiratory invasive aspergillosis, the usual localization of invasive aspergillosis. Our PCR test was also positive in serum. In case of positive results in serum with antigen and/or PCR tests without respiratory symptoms, the intestinal localizations should be investigated."}
{"id": "11779799", "title": "The Aspergillus nidulans musN gene encodes a RecQ helicase that interacts with the PI-3K-related kinase UVSB.", "content": "The Aspergillus nidulans musN gene encodes a RecQ helicase that interacts with the PI-3K-related kinase UVSB. In Aspergillus nidulans, the uvsB gene encodes a member of the PI-3K-related kinase family of proteins. We have recently shown that UVSB is required for multiple aspects of the DNA damage response. Since the musN227 mutation is capable of partially suppressing defects caused by uvsB mutations, we sought to understand the mechanism underlying the suppression by cloning the musN gene. Here, we report that musN encodes a RecQ helicase with homology to S. pombe rqh1, S. cerevisiae sgs1, and human BLM and WRN. Phenotypic characterization of musN mutant alleles reveals that MUSN participates in the response to a variety of genotoxic agents. The slow growth and genotoxin sensitivity of a musN null mutant can be partially suppressed by a defect in homologous recombination caused by the uvsC114 mutation. In addition, we present evidence suggesting that MUSN may promote recovery from the DNA damage response. We suggest that a block to recovery caused by the musN227 mutation, coupled with the modest accumulation of recombination intermediates, can suppress defects caused by uvsB mutations. Finally, we report that another RecQ helicase, ORQA, performs a function that partially overlaps that of MUSN."}
{"id": "11766380", "title": "[A case of diffuse panbronchiolitis with SLE complicated by fungal infection].", "content": "[A case of diffuse panbronchiolitis with SLE complicated by fungal infection]. We report a patient who developed SLE during the course of diffuse panbronchiolitis (DPB) and had candidiasis later. The patient fulfilled the criteria for diagnosis of SLE after appearance of fever and general peripheral arthritis. Regarding serum virus antibody values at the time of SLE diagnosis, IgG and IgM of human Parvovirus B19 (B19) were positive by the EIA test and also by the serum PCR test. For continuously Pseudomonas aeruginozae in sputum cultures because of existing DPB, immunosuppressasnt therapy with prednisolone and mizoribine was given while suppressing proliferation of bacterial infections with antibiotics. As a result, the intensity of SLE decreased smoothly. About 1 month after beginning of the treatment, the chest X-ray revealed infiltrative densities in the lingual area of the left lobule and in S3 of the right lobule. Judging from the clinical course and various examination findings, concurrence of candidiasis was suspected. Fungal infection in this patient was progressive, so various antifungal agents were used concurrently. Furthermore, immunoglobulin therapy was supplemented while determining serum immunoglobulin levels, and doses of prednisolone and mizoribine were reduced rapidly. Afterward the patient followed a satisfactory clinical course. About 2 years later SLE recurred, aspergillosis developed concurrently and the disease progressed rapidly to its termination. DPB itself is difficult to control and often complicated with various diseases. Therefore, immunosuppresant therapy for complications is sometimes used in addition to the treatment of DPB. More careful observations on the clinical course are necessary in dealing with this disease."}
{"id": "11764895", "title": "Identification of species in Aspergillus section Flavi based on sequencing of the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene.", "content": "Identification of species in Aspergillus section Flavi based on sequencing of the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene. The partial sequences of the mitochondrial (mt) cytochrome b gene (402 bp) were determined for species of Aspergillus section Flavi. On the basis of identities of DNA sequences, 77 strains were divided into seven DNA types, from D-1 to D-7. The type strains of A. sojae, A. parasiticus, A. flavus and A. oryzae together, A. tamarii, and A. nomius were placed in DNA types D-1. D-2, D-4, D-5 and D-7, respectively. These species could be differentiated from each other. Furthermore, two other DNA types, D-3 and D-6 were found. DNA type D-3 was closely related to A. parasiticus (D-2) and included one strain that deposited as A. flatus var. flavus and produced aflatoxins B and G. DNA types D-6 included one strain named A. flavus and closely related to A. tamarii. The observations of conidial wall texture by SEM (Scanning Electron Microscopy) supported the relationships derived from the cytochrome b gene. The production of aflatoxins was also examined. Using the DNA sequence of cytochrome b gene, several strains were reidentified. The derived amino acids sequences were all the same in the studied strains. The mt cytochrome b gene is useful and reliable in distinguishing and identifying the species in Aspergillus section Flavi."}
{"id": "11764679", "title": "The art of Aspergillus and Penicillium speciation.", "content": "The art of Aspergillus and Penicillium speciation."}
{"id": "11763128", "title": "Ornithine decarboxylase knockout in Tapesia yallundae abolishes infection plaque formation in vitro but does not reduce virulence toward wheat.", "content": "Ornithine decarboxylase knockout in Tapesia yallundae abolishes infection plaque formation in vitro but does not reduce virulence toward wheat. A knockout strain of Tapesia yallundae lacking the single ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) allele has been created by targeted gene replacement. A central region of the ODC gene was isolated by polymerase chain reaction with degenerate oligonucleotides and used to probe a lambda genomic library. The gene was sequenced, and the encoded ODC protein sequence was shown to be similar to those from other fungi. The functionality of the T. yallundae ODC was confirmed by complementation of an Aspergillus nidulans mutant (puA) strain devoid of ODC activity, restoring growth in the absence of exogenous polyamines. Transformation-mediated gene replacement was used to create strains that were auxotrophic for putrescine and lack ODC coding sequences. ODC knockout strains were unable to differentiate infection structures after in vitro induction and showed an abnormal hyphal branching phenotype. Pathogenicity studies on these mutants showed that, surprisingly, they are not reduced in virulence compared with nondisrupted transformants. This suggests that the strains carrying an ODC disruption can obtain sufficient polyamines from the host plant for normal growth and differentiation and, therefore, that fungal ODC may not be a suitable target for fungicides."}
{"id": "11757979", "title": "Diagnosis of disseminated zygomycosis using a polymerase chain reaction assay.", "content": "Diagnosis of disseminated zygomycosis using a polymerase chain reaction assay. Invasive pulmonary zygomycosis is an uncommon opportunistic infection in patients with haematological malignancies. Clinical manifestations are in distinguishable from the more frequent invasive aspergillosis. Standard diagnostic methods like culture and microscopy from respiratory secretions have a low diagnostic sensitivity. A case in which proven invasive pulmonary zygomycosis was confirmed using a panfungal polymerase chain reaction assay in blood is presented. Since zygomycosis requires more aggressive treatment than aspergillosis (high-dose amphotericin B and surgical intervention), the polymerase chain reaction assay may improve the outcome of these often fatal infections by guiding the therapeutic approach through an early, non-invasive diagnosis."}
{"id": "11722900", "title": "Degradation of xylan to D-xylose by recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae coexpressing the Aspergillus niger beta-xylosidase (xlnD) and the Trichoderma reesei xylanase II (xyn2) genes.", "content": "Degradation of xylan to D-xylose by recombinant Saccharomyces cerevisiae coexpressing the Aspergillus niger beta-xylosidase (xlnD) and the Trichoderma reesei xylanase II (xyn2) genes. The beta-xylosidase-encoding xlnD gene of Aspergillus niger 90196 was amplified by the PCR technique from first-strand cDNA synthesized on mRNA isolated from the fungus. The nucleotide sequence of the cDNA fragment was verified to contain a 2,412-bp open reading frame that encodes a 804-amino-acid propeptide. The 778-amino-acid mature protein, with a putative molecular mass of 85.1 kDa, was fused in frame with the Saccharomyces cerevisiae mating factor alpha1 signal peptide (MFalpha1(s)) to ensure correct posttranslational processing in yeast. The fusion protein was designated Xlo2. The recombinant beta-xylosidase showed optimum activity at 60 degrees C and pH 3.2 and optimum stability at 50 degrees C. The K(i(app)) value for D-xylose and xylobiose for the recombinant beta-xylosidase was determined to be 8.33 and 6.41 mM, respectively. The XLO2 fusion gene and the XYN2 beta-xylanase gene from Trichoderma reesei, located on URA3-based multicopy shuttle vectors, were successfully expressed and coexpressed in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae under the control of the alcohol dehydrogenase II gene (ADH2) promoter and terminator. These recombinant S. cerevisiae strains produced 1,577 nkat/ml of beta-xylanase activity when expressing only the beta-xylanase and 860 nkat/ml when coexpressing the beta-xylanase with the beta-xylosidase. The maximum beta-xylosidase activity was 5.3 nkat/ml when expressed on its own and 3.5 nkat/ml when coexpressed with the beta-xylanase. Coproduction of the beta-xylanase and beta-xylosidase enabled S. cerevisiae to degrade birchwood xylan to D-xylose."}
{"id": "11714525", "title": "Analysis of fungal communities on historical church window glass by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and phylogenetic 18S rDNA sequence analysis.", "content": "Analysis of fungal communities on historical church window glass by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis and phylogenetic 18S rDNA sequence analysis. Besides lichens and bacteria, fungi play a crucial role in the biodeterioration of historical glass. In the present paper, the fungal diversity on the surface of two historical church window glasses was investigated by 18S rDNA-based denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis (DGGE) analysis. 566-bp 18S rDNA-specific clone libraries were constructed with primer set NS1/NS2+10. Positive clones were reamplified with primer sets EF4/518rGC (426-bp fragments) and NS26/518rGC (316-bp fragments), amplicons were screened by DGGE and clustered according to their position in DGGE. Results indicated that fungal 18S rDNA clone libraries should be screened with at least two different primer sets to obtain the maximum number of different clones. For phylogenetic sequence analyses, clone inserts were sequenced and compared with 18S rDNA sequences listed in the EMBL database. Similarity values ranged from 93.7% to 99.81% to known fungi. Analyses revealed complex fungal communities consisting of members and relatives of the genera Aspergillus, Aureobasidium, Coniosporum, Capnobotryella, Engyodontium, Geomyces, Kirschsteiniothelia, Leptosphaeria, Rhodotorula, Stanjemonium, Ustilago, and Verticillium. The genera Geomyces and Aureobasidium were present on both glass surfaces. Some genera had not been detected on historical glass so far."}
{"id": "11706168", "title": "Expression of an antimicrobial peptide via the chloroplast genome to control phytopathogenic bacteria and fungi.", "content": "Expression of an antimicrobial peptide via the chloroplast genome to control phytopathogenic bacteria and fungi. The antimicrobial peptide MSI-99, an analog of magainin 2, was expressed via the chloroplast genome to obtain high levels of expression in transgenic tobacco (Nicotiana tabacum var. Petit Havana) plants. Polymerase chain reaction products and Southern blots confirmed integration of MSI-99 into the chloroplast genome and achievement of homoplasmy, whereas northern blots confirmed transcription. Contrary to previous predictions, accumulation of MSI-99 in transgenic chloroplasts did not affect normal growth and development of the transgenic plants. This may be due to differences in the lipid composition of plastid membranes compared with the membranes of susceptible target microbes. In vitro assays with protein extracts from T(1) and T(2) plants confirmed that MSI-99 was expressed at high levels to provide 88% (T(1)) and 96% (T(2)) inhibition of growth against Pseudomonas syringae pv tabaci, a major plant pathogen. When germinated in the absence of spectinomycin selection, leaf extracts from T(2) generation plants showed 96% inhibition of growth against P. syringae pv tabaci. In addition, leaf extracts from transgenic plants (T(1)) inhibited the growth of pregerminated spores of three fungal species, Aspergillus flavus, Fusarium moniliforme, and Verticillium dahliae, by more than 95% compared with non-transformed control plant extracts. In planta assays with the bacterial pathogen P. syringae pv tabaci resulted in areas of necrosis around the point of inoculation in control leaves, whereas transformed leaves showed no signs of necrosis, demonstrating high-dose release of the peptide at the site of infection by chloroplast lysis. In planta assays with the fungal pathogen, Colletotrichum destructivum, showed necrotic anthracnose lesions in non-transformed control leaves, whereas transformed leaves showed no lesions. Genetically engineering crop plants for disease resistance via the chloroplast genome instead of the nuclear genome is desirable to achieve high levels of expression and to prevent pollen-mediated escape of transgenes."}
{"id": "11705928", "title": "WdChs2p, a class I chitin synthase, together with WdChs3p (class III) contributes to virulence in Wangiella (Exophiala) dermatitidis.", "content": "WdChs2p, a class I chitin synthase, together with WdChs3p (class III) contributes to virulence in Wangiella (Exophiala) dermatitidis. The chitin synthase structural gene WdCHS2 was isolated by screening a subgenomic DNA library of Wangiella dermatitidis by using a 0.6-kb PCR product of the gene as a probe. The nucleotide sequence revealed a 2,784-bp open reading frame, which encoded 928 amino acids, with a 59-bp intron near its 5' end. Derived protein sequences showed highest amino acid identities with those derived from the CiCHS1 gene of Coccidioides immitis and the AnCHSC gene of Aspergillus nidulans. The derived sequence also indicated that WdChs2p is an orthologous enzyme of Chs1p of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which defines the class I chitin synthases. Disruptions of WdCHS2 produced strains that showed no obvious morphological defects in yeast vegetative growth or in ability to carry out polymorphic transitions from yeast cells to hyphae or to isotropic forms. However, assays showed that membranes of wdchs2Delta mutants were drastically reduced in chitin synthase activity. Other assays of membranes from a wdchs1Deltawdchs3Deltawdchs4Delta triple mutant showed that their residual chitin synthase activity was extremely sensitive to trypsin activation and was responsible for the majority of zymogenic activity. Although no loss of virulence was detected when wdchs2Delta strains were tested in a mouse model of acute infection, wdchs2Deltawdchs3Delta disruptants were considerably less virulent in the same model, even though wdchs3Delta strains also had previously shown no loss of virulence. This virulence attenuation in the wdchs2Deltawdchs3Delta mutants was similarly documented in a limited fashion in more-sensitive cyclophosphamide-induced immunocompromised mice. The importance of WdChs2p and WdChs3p to the virulence of W. dermatitidis was then confirmed by reconstituting virulence in the double mutant by the reintroduction of either WdCHS2 or WdCHS3 into the wdchs2Deltawdchs3Delta mutant background."}
{"id": "11704746", "title": "[Monitoring and prophylaxis].", "content": "[Monitoring and prophylaxis]. Invasive deep mycoses following bone marrow and solid-organ transplantation remain a major cause of morbidity and mortality. Species of Candida and Aspergillus account for more than 80% of these mycoses. Because these infections are often difficult to diagnose and treat successfully, antifungal prophylaxis is recommended in high-risk patients. Fluconazole is useful in patients who are at risk of invasive candidiasis, including bone marrow transplants, liver and pancreatic transplants. Although invasive aspergillosis is frequent in patients with bone marrow, lung and heart transplantation, no established methods have been available for its prophylaxis. Recently, efforts to improve the efficiency of diagnostic tests have been directed toward the detection of fungal components or metabolites. The requirements for clinical use (monitoring) are as follows: capability of early diagnosis, quantitative measurement, and easy sampling and simple assay procedure. The detection of plasma (1-3)-beta-D-glucan (BDG), a characteristic cell wall component of almost all fungi, is widely used in Japan. Twenty-seven episodes of fungemia were observed in our hematology ward and all were positive with BDG. Positive results were observed before the documentation of fungemia in 14 patients (51.9%). Although the positive rate of BDG also was 100% in 17 patients with invasive aspergillosis, it rose slightly at an early stage of the disease in 13 patients (76.5%). The determination of plasma BDG appears useful in the monitoring of deep fungal infection, but its usefulness for early diagnosis remains to be determined. The utility of detection of Aspergillus galactomannan by ELISA and fungal DNA by polymerase chain reaction are also discussed."}
{"id": "11704742", "title": "[Current approaches to diagnose invasive aspergillosis: application of real-time automated polymerase chain reaction].", "content": "[Current approaches to diagnose invasive aspergillosis: application of real-time automated polymerase chain reaction]. Blood and radiological tests are used to diagnose invasive aspergillosis (IA), but it remains unknown which is more useful. We recently made a prospective study to compare the usefulness of chest CT scan, latex agglutination test (LA) and determination of plasma (1-3)-beta-D-glucan (BDG) levels for IA diagnosis. Of 215 patients, 16 were diagnosed as definite IA. While sensitivities of LA and BDG were 44% and 63%, respectively, all the patients showed some abnormal signs on chest CT scans. On average, CT scans preceded LA by 7.1 days and BDG by 11.5 days. Interestingly, false-positive rate of the blood tests increased during neutropenia. Because lung is the usual portal of Aspergillus, chest CT scan may be more beneficial than the blood tests for early diagnosis of IA. Care is necessary in interpreting the results of these tests, especially when patients are neutropenic. Blood tests must be sensitive and their results must be interpreted quantitatively. We recently developed a new quantitative diagnostic system for IA using real-time PCR. In vitro examination using 10(2) copies of Aspergillus DNA showed that linearity was obtained when there were more than 20 copies. We examined 323 samples taken from 122 patients with hematological malignancies. Blood samples were subjected to real-time PCR, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (EIA) and BDG. Sensitivity of real-time PCR, EIA and BDG was 79, 58 and 67%, respectively. Specificity of each assay was 92, 97 and 84%, respectively. Real-time PCR was highly sensitive for IA diagnosis, and quantification was accurate."}
{"id": "11702696", "title": "[Cloning and expression of Aspergillus niger glucose oxidase gene in methylotrophic yeast].", "content": "[Cloning and expression of Aspergillus niger glucose oxidase gene in methylotrophic yeast]. The DNA fragment encoding A. niger glucose oxidase was amplified by PCR using A. niger genomic DNA as template, and was cloned into vector of pPIC9 for expression in Pichia pastoris. When transformed into methylotrophic yeast Pichia pastoris GS115, The constructed plasmid pPICGOD1 directed the synthesis and secretion of functionally active GOD. After induction in MM medium for 4 days, the GOD activity in the medium reached 30-40 u/mL. SDS-PAGE revealed that recombinant yeast GOD was expressed up to 60%-70% of the total soluble protein, and the secreted GOD could be purified to electrophoretic homogeneity with one purification step using Q Sepharose Fast Flow ion exchange chromatography. The recombinant yeast GOD had very high catalytic activity, showed about 1.6-fold increase of specific activity over the commercial A. niger GOD. Kinetic analysis clearly demonstrated that recombinant yeast GOD showed similar substrate affinity for glucose to A. niger GOD, but the turnover number of the GOD from yeast was determined to be much higher than that of A. niger GOD. In addition, the linear range of glucose electrode made with recombinant yeast GOD was efficiently widened due to the high catalytic activity of yeast GOD."}
{"id": "11701951", "title": "Identification and assignment of the human NIMA-related protein kinase 7 gene (NEK7) to human chromosome 1q31.3.", "content": "Identification and assignment of the human NIMA-related protein kinase 7 gene (NEK7) to human chromosome 1q31.3. Neks (NIMA-related kinase) are a group of protein kinases sharing high amino acid sequence identity with NIMA which controls initiation of mitosis in Aspergillus nidulans. We have identified and characterized human NEK7, a novel human gene structurally related to NIMA. Its open reading frame encodes a 302-amino acid protein and is 77% identical to human NEK6 protein. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that NEK6, NEK7, and Caenorhabditis elegans F19H6.1 constitute a subfamily within the NIMA family of protein kinases. Tissue distributions of NEK7 and NEK6 were studied by RT-PCR. NEK7 expression was restricted to a subset of tissues containing lung, muscle, testis, brain, heart, liver, leukocyte, and spleen, but NEK6 transcripts were detected in all tissues studied. The human NEK7 gene was assigned to human chromosome 1 by somatic cell hybrids and 1q31.3 by radiation hybrid mapping."}
{"id": "11693910", "title": "Establishment of a hyper-protein production system in submerged Aspergillus oryzae culture under tyrosinase-encoding gene (melO) promoter control.", "content": "Establishment of a hyper-protein production system in submerged Aspergillus oryzae culture under tyrosinase-encoding gene (melO) promoter control. UV-mediated mutagenesis generated a high glucoamylase-producing mutant of Aspergillus oryzae exhibiting strong melanization in solid-state culture. Expression of the glucoamylase-encoding gene (glaB), which is specifically expressed in solid-state culture, and the tyrosinase-encoding gene (melO), was analyzed using an E. coli beta-glucuronidase (GUS) reporter assay to investigate this phenomenon. Although no common regulation was found for melO and glaB expression, the former was greatly enhanced in submerged culture. Interestingly, the melO promoter was about four times stronger for GUS production than the powerful promoters amyB, glaA, and modified agdA, previously isolated for industrial heterologous gene expression in A. oryzae. These findings indicated that the melO promoter would be suitable for hyper-production of heterologous protein in Aspergillus. The glaB-type glucoamylase selected as the target protein was produced in a submerged culture of A. oryzae under the control of the melO promoter. The maximum yield was 0.8 g/l broth, and the total extracellular protein purity was 99%. Repeated batch culture, to improve productivity, gave a maximum yield of 3.3 g/l broth. The importance of this work is in the establishment of a both high-level and high-purity protein overproduction system in A. oryzae by use of the melO promoter."}
{"id": "11680825", "title": "Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated genetic transformation of the phytopathogenic ascomycete Calonectria morganii.", "content": "Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated genetic transformation of the phytopathogenic ascomycete Calonectria morganii. Conidia of the phytopathogenic fungus Calonectria morganii were transformed to hygromycin B resistance using the hph gene of Escherichia coli as the selective trait, governed by a heterologous fungal promoter and the Aspergillus nidulans trpC terminator. Agrobacterium tumefaciens-mediated transformation yielded stable hygromycin B-resistant clones (average number (106 per 10(7)) [corrected] conidia). Putative transformants appeared to be mitotically and meiotically stable. The presence of the hph gene was checked by PCR. In four randomly chosen transformants, single-copy integrations of the marker gene at different chromosomal sites were proven by Southern analysis."}
{"id": "11592501", "title": "Effects of aflastatin A, an inhibitor of aflatoxin production, on aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway and glucose metabolism in Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Effects of aflastatin A, an inhibitor of aflatoxin production, on aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway and glucose metabolism in Aspergillus parasiticus. Aflastatin A inhibits aflatoxin production by Aspergillus parasiticus via an unknown mechanism. We found that aflastatin A clearly inhibited production of norsolorinic acid, an early biosynthetic intermediate of aflatoxin, at a concentration of 0.25 microg/ml. Reverse-transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), and real-time quantitative PCR (TaqMan PCR) experiments indicated that the transcription of genes encoding aflatoxin biosynthetic enzymes (pksA, ver-1, and omtA) and a gene encoding a regulatory protein for expression of the biosynthetic enzymes (aflR) were significantly reduced by the addition of aflastatin A. We also found that aflastatin A elevated the glucose consumption and ethanol accumulation by A. parasiticus, and repressed transcription of genes involved in ethanol utilization. These results suggest that aflastatin A inhibits a very early step in aflatoxin biosynthesis prior to the transcription of aflR and can influence glucose metabolism in the fungus."}
{"id": "11588697", "title": "Use of real-time PCR on blood samples for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Use of real-time PCR on blood samples for diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. We developed a new quantitative system for diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) using real-time automated polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Intra-assay and interassay precision rates for in vitro examination were 2.53% and 2.20%, respectively, and the linearity of this assay was obtained when there were >20 copies/well. We examined 323 samples taken from 122 patients with hematological malignancies, including 33 patients with IPA and 89 control patients. Blood samples were subjected to PCR antigen detection methods, using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) and determination of plasma (1-->3)-beta-D-glucan (BDG) concentration. The sensitivities of PCR, ELISA, and BDG measurement for diagnosis of IPA were 79%, 58%, and 67%, respectively; the specificities were 92%, 97%, and 84%. Positive findings on PCR preceded those of computed tomography by -0.3+/-6.6 days, those of BDG measurement by 6.5+/-4.9 days, and those of ELISA by 2.8+/-4.1 days. Real-time PCR was sensitive for IPA diagnosis, and quantitation was accurate."}
{"id": "11559403", "title": "Differentiation of aflatoxin-producing and non-producing strains of Aspergillus flavus group.", "content": "Differentiation of aflatoxin-producing and non-producing strains of Aspergillus flavus group. Three conventional methods and a multiplex PCR procedure with a set of four primers (Quadruplex-PCR) were used to differentiate between aflatoxin-producing and non-producing strains of the Aspergillus flavus group. By combining sets of primers for aflR, nor-1, ver-1 and omt-A genes of the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway, Quadruplex-PCR showed that aflatoxinogenic strains gave a quadruplet pattern, indicating the presence of all the genes involved in the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway which encode for functional products. Non-aflatoxinogenic strains gave varying results with one, two, three or four banding patterns. A banding pattern in three non-aflatoxinogenic strains resulted in non-differentiation between these and aflatoxinogenic strains. Because conventional methods are time-consuming, further studies are needed to develop a rapid and objective technique that permits complete differentiation between aflatoxin-producing and non-producing strains of the A. flavus group."}
{"id": "11557192", "title": "A longitudinal study of lung transplant recipients infected with Aspergillus: genetic polymorphism of A fumigatus.", "content": "A longitudinal study of lung transplant recipients infected with Aspergillus: genetic polymorphism of A fumigatus. Aspergillus infection is a well-known complication of lung transplantation and remains associated with high mortality rates. Molecular typing methods are required to elucidate the complex epidemiology of Aspergillus disease in lung transplant recipients. Eight lung transplant recipients from one hospital were followed for A fumigatus colonization or infection. Forty-four sequential isolates from these patients were selected and typed by three molecular methods (random amplified polymorphic DNA, sequence-specific DNA primer and multi-locus enzyme electrophoresis). Sixteen different types were identified of which 14 were specific to 1 patient. A factorial correspondence analysis showed that variability between sequential isolates from a single patient was as high as between isolates from the other patients. Lung transplant recipients presented many different genotypes, reflecting the environmental diversity of A fumigatus. Nevertheless, throughout their follow-up, 2 of the 8 lung transplant recipients harbored a common genotype that was not replaced by others. These results confirm the important genetic polymorphism of the A fumigatus population. The observed genotypes were not related to the type of Aspergillus disease or anti-fungal treatment used nor to the outcome of the patient. These data confirm that all A fumigatus molecular types present the same pathogenic risk."}
{"id": "11545278", "title": "A new class of glutaminase from Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "A new class of glutaminase from Aspergillus oryzae. The koji mold Aspergillus oryzae is able to produce glutaminase which converts glutamine to glutamic acid, one of the most important flavor components in soy sauce. We present here the isolation and the complete nucleotide sequence of the glutaminase- encoding gene from A. oryzae U212, an industrial strain used in Thailand. N-terminal and internal amino acid sequences were determined from purified glutaminase. A 700-bp fragment was amplified by PCR using oligonucleotide primers designed from partial amino acid sequences. This PCR fragment was used as a homologous probe for screening an A. oryzae genomic DNA library. RT-PCR showed that the gene contained seven short introns. Sequence analysis revealed an open reading frame that encodes a protein of 690 amino-acid residues with a predicted molecular mass of 76 kDa. The N-terminal and internal amino acid sequences of the deduced protein exactly matched the ones determined from the purified protein. Comparison of the amino acid sequence with glutaminase sequences from other origins showed that A. oryzae glutaminase shares little homology with those of bacteria, eukaryote and mammals. The A. oryzae glutaminase gene was expressed in A. nidulans to confirm the presence of a functional glutaminase gene in the cloned DNA. To our knowledge, this is the first reported glutaminase gene cloned from filamentous fungi."}
{"id": "11526009", "title": "Heteroduplex panel analysis, a novel method for genetic identification of Aspergillus Section Flavi strains.", "content": "Heteroduplex panel analysis, a novel method for genetic identification of Aspergillus Section Flavi strains. For genetic identification of Aspergillus Section Flavi isolates and detection of intraspecific variation, we developed a novel method for heteroduplex panel analysis (HPA) utilizing fragments of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions (ITS1-5.8S-ITS2) of the rRNA gene that was PCR amplified with universal primers. The method involves formation of heteroduplexes with a set of reference fragments amplified from Aspergillus flavus, A. parasiticus, A. tamarii, and A. nomius and subsequent minislab vinyl polymer gel electrophoresis. The test panel is compared with species-specific standard panels (F-1, P-1, T-1, and N-1) generated by pairwise reannealing among four reference fragments. Of 90 test panels, 89 succeeded in identifying the species and 74 were identical to one of the four standard panels. Of the 16 new panels, 11 A. flavus/A. oryzae panels were identical and typed as F-2 and 4 of 5 A. nomius panels were typed as N-2 or N-3. The other strain, A. nomius IMI 358749, was unable to identify the species because no single bands were formed with any of the four reference strains. DNA sequencing revealed that our HPA method has the highest sensitivity available and is able to detect as little as one nucleotide of diversity within the species. When Penicillium or non-Section Flavi Aspergillus was subjected to HPA, the resulting bands of heteroduplexes showed apparently lower mobility and poor heteroduplex formation. This indicates that HPA is a useful identification method without morphological observation and is suitable for rapid and inexpensive screening of large numbers of isolates. The HPA typing coincided with the taxonomy of Section Flavi and is therefore applicable as an alternative to the conventional methods (Samson, R. A., E. S. Hoekstra, J. C. Frisvad, and O. Filtenborg, p. 64-97, in Introduction to Food- and Airborne Fungi, 6th ed., 2000)."}
{"id": "11525216", "title": "Critical assessment of issues in the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Critical assessment of issues in the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. Invasive aspergillosis remains a devastating disease, which is partly because of the inability to identify infected patients at an early stage of the disease. Recently, new diagnostic tests and procedures have been developed to help in identifying high-risk patients. High-resolution computed tomography has been shown to be a potent tool for detecting pulmonary abnormalities in neutropenic patients. Assays for the detection of circulating markers such as fungal antigens or Aspergillus DNA have been developed and show that markers can be detected in the blood at an early stage of infection. Also, the markers correlate with the fungal burden in the tissue, which allows monitoring of response to antifungal therapy. The tests and procedures that are now available need to be incorporated into management strategies for at-risk patients and evaluated in clinical trials. Although we now have markers that allow the early detection of fungal products, many questions remain unanswered with respect to the kinetics of the markers in different patient groups, the optimal management strategy and the effect of prophylaxis and treatment on the markers. Nevertheless, the implementation of new approaches for the management of invasive aspergillosis offers opportunities to improve outcome of patients."}
{"id": "11520777", "title": "Alterations of the X-linked lymphoproliferative disease gene SH2D1A in common variable immunodeficiency syndrome.", "content": "Alterations of the X-linked lymphoproliferative disease gene SH2D1A in common variable immunodeficiency syndrome. X-linked lymphoproliferative (XLP) disease is a primary immunodeficiency caused by a defect in the SH2D1A gene. At least 3 major manifestations characterize its clinical presentation: fatal infectious mononucleosis (FIM), lymphomas, and immunoglobulin deficiencies. Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) is a syndrome characterized by immunoglobulin deficiency leading to susceptibility to infection. In some patients with CVID, a defective btk or CD40-L gene has been found, but most often there is no clearly identified etiology. Here, 2 unrelated families in whom male members were affected by CVID were examined for a defect in the XLP gene. In one family previously reported in the literature as having progressive immunoglobulin deficiencies, 3 brothers were examined for recurrent respiratory infections, whereas female family members showed only elevated serum immunoglobulin A levels. A grandson of one of the brothers died of a severe Aspergillus infection secondary to progressive immunoglobulin deficiency, FIM, aplastic anemia, and B-cell lymphoma. In the second family, 2 brothers had B lymphocytopenia and immunoglobulin deficiencies. X-linked agammaglobulinemia syndrome was excluded genetically, and they were classified as having CVID. The occurrence of FIM in a male cousin of the brothers led to the XLP diagnosis. Because the SH2D1A gene was found altered in both families, these findings indicate that XLP must be considered when more than one male patient with CVID is encountered in the same family, and SH2D1A must be analyzed in all male patients with CVID. Moreover, these data link defects in the SH2D1A gene to abnormal B-lymphocyte development and to dysgammaglobulinemia in female members of families with XLP disease."}
{"id": "11498744", "title": "Adenoviral infection after allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT): report on 130 patients from a single SCT unit involved in a prospective multi center surveillance study.", "content": "Adenoviral infection after allogeneic stem cell transplantation (SCT): report on 130 patients from a single SCT unit involved in a prospective multi center surveillance study. The incidence of adenovirus (AV) infections following SCT was determined in a prospective multicenter trial. Over 1 year, 130 consecutive patients undergoing allogeneic SCT at Essen University Hospital were included and followed for 6 months. Source of stem cells was blood in 68 cases. Fifty-eight patients had HLA-identical sibling donors. Throat swabs, urine and stool samples were screened weekly for AV antigen and DNA by ELISA and nested PCR, respectively. In 35 cases adenovirus infection was detected. There was no seasonal variation. Throat swabs were positive in 24, urine in 12, and stool in 11 cases, resulting in a cumulative risk of infection of 29%. The incidences of AV infection of the respiratory, gastrointestinal and urinary tract were 19%, 10%, and 9%, respectively, and infections were diagnosed after a median (range) interval of 44 (-2-179), 37 (-2-168), and 53 (17-153) days after transplantation. On multivariate analysis, presence of AV antibody in the donor and acute graft-versus-host disease grade IV were found to be independent risk factors for AV infection. Eleven patients had AV isolated from more than one site and five patients had probable AV disease. We were not able to identify patients in whom AV infection was the leading cause of death. The majority of patients infected with AV suffered from severe acute graft-versus-host disease often accompanied by other opportunistic infections, such as aspergillosis or CMV reactivation. Nineteen out of 36 patients who died during the observation period had AV infection. In summary, AV infection after allogeneic SCT was observed in a substantial number of patients. In addition to well-known risk factors for viral infection after SCT we were able to demonstrate that a positive AV antibody test in the donor is an important risk factor for AV infection. Further studies are needed, however, before final conclusions on the clinical sequelae of AV infection can be made and the role of preventive and therapeutic strategies toward AV infection after allogeneic SCT can be defined."}
{"id": "11489135", "title": "Identification and characterization of a family of secretion-related small GTPase-encoding genes from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger: a putative SEC4 homologue is not essential for growth.", "content": "Identification and characterization of a family of secretion-related small GTPase-encoding genes from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger: a putative SEC4 homologue is not essential for growth. DNA fragments containing genetic information for five secretion-related small GTPases of Aspergillus niger (srgA-E) were isolated and identified as members of different Rab/Ypt subfamilies. This isolation and the search for similar sequences in fungal genomic and EST databases showed that, in contrast to Saccharomyces cerevisiae, filamentous fungi also possess homologues of mammalian Rab2 GTPases. Multiple transcripts with unusually long 5' and 3' untranslated regions were found for all srg genes. Their level of expression was independent of the type of carbon source used for growth. Although the transcripts of srgA and srgB were abundant to the same extent throughout the cultivation, that of the other genes peaked during the early growth phase and then declined. Two genes, srgA and srgB, were characterized further. The protein encoded by srgA exhibited relatively low identity (58%) to its closest S. cerevisiae homologue SEC4, whereas the protein encoded by srgB showed 73% identity with S. cerevisiae YPT1. In contrast to other SEC4 homologues, srgA was unable to complement an S. cerevisiae sec4 mutant, and its disruption was not lethal in A. niger. SrgA mutants displayed a twofold increase in their hyphal diameter, unusual apical branching and strongly reduced protein secretion during growth on glucose."}
{"id": "11483612", "title": "A single gene produces mitochondrial, cytoplasmic, and peroxisomal NADP-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "A single gene produces mitochondrial, cytoplasmic, and peroxisomal NADP-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase in Aspergillus nidulans. NADP-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase enzymes catalyze the decarboxylation of isocitrate to 2-oxoglutarate accompanied by the production of NADPH. In mammals two different genes encode mitochondrial and cytoplasmic/peroxisomal located enzymes, whereas in Saccharomyces cerevisiae three separate genes specify compartment specific enzymes. We have identified a single gene, idpA, in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans that specifies a protein with a high degree of identity to mammalian and S. cerevisiae enzymes. Northern blot analysis and reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed the presence of two idpA transcripts and two transcription start points were identified by sequencing cDNA clones and by 5'-rapid amplification of cDNA ends. The shorter transcript was found to be inducible by acetate and by fatty acids while the longer transcript was present in higher amounts during growth in glucose containing media. The longer transcript is predicted to encode a polypeptide containing an N-terminal mitochondrial targeting sequence as well as a C-terminal tripeptide (ARL) as a potential peroxisomal targeting signal. The shorter transcript is predicted to encode a polypeptide lacking the mitochondrial targeting signal but retaining the C-terminal sequence. Immunoblotting using antibody raised against S. cerevisiae Idp1p detected two polypeptides consistent with these predictions. The functions of the predicted targeting sequences were confirmed by microscopic analysis of transformants containing fluorescent protein fusion constructs. Using anti-Idp1p antibodies, protein localization to mitochondria and peroxisomes was observed during growth on glucose whereas cytoplasmic and peroxisomal localization was found upon acetate or fatty acid induction. Therefore, we have established that by the use of two transcription start points a single gene is sufficient to specify localization of NADP-dependent isocitrate dehydrogenase to three different cellular compartments in A. nidulans."}
{"id": "11479709", "title": "Development of a homologous transformation system for the opportunistic human pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus based on the sC gene encoding ATP sulfurylase.", "content": "Development of a homologous transformation system for the opportunistic human pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus based on the sC gene encoding ATP sulfurylase. The development of a homologous transformation system for the opportunistic human pathogenic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus is described. The system is based on the sC gene encoding ATP sulfurylase. Several A. fumigatus sC mutant strains were readily isolated by strong selection for selenate resistance. The coding region plus upstream and downstream regulatory sequences of the A. fumigatus sC gene were cloned by inverse PCR and then sequenced. Sequencing of the sC cDNA revealed the presence of five introns located within the first half of the gene. The A. fumigatus sC gene encodes a protein of 574 amino acids which is highly similar to ATP sulfurylases from the filamentous fungal species Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus terreus and Penicillium chrysogenum. By contrast, ATP sulfurylases from the yeasts Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe lack the C-terminal adenosine-5'-phosphosulfate kinase-like domain present in the filamentous fungal orthologues. A 3.8-kb DNA fragment amplified by PCR and containing the sC gene plus 5' and 3' flanking regions was cloned into pUC19 to give the vector pSCFUM. Transformation of two different sC mutant isolates with the plasmid pSCFUM established the functionality of this new homologous transformation system. Molecular analysis of sC+ transformants showed that up to 44% of transformed clones contained one or more copies of the entire plasmid integrated at the sC locus. This result also demonstrates the utility of the sC marker for targeting specific genetic constructs to the A. fumigatus sC locus, facilitating studies of gene regulation and function."}
{"id": "11476976", "title": "New restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) markers for Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "New restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) markers for Aspergillus fumigatus. In this study, we isolated and tested restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) markers for Aspergillus fumigatus based on PCR products amplified by the random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) primer R108. Four DNA fragments, Afd, Af5, Af4, and Af4A, were amplified. Fragments Afd and Af5 were 85% and 88% identical at the DNA level to part of the Afut1 retrotransposon from A. fumigatus. Fragment Af4A is a duplication of fragment Af4 and both showed similarity at the amino acid level with endonucleases from other fungal retrotransposons. We used both RAPD with primer R108 and RFLP assays with Afut1, Afd, and Af4A, to determine the genetic relatedness of clinical isolates of A. fumigatus isolated sequentially from four patients colonized with A. fumigatus. The combination of these different methods suggested that the isolates infecting the four patients were not identical."}
{"id": "11474427", "title": "Mannose-binding lectin gene polymorphisms as a susceptibility factor for chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis.", "content": "Mannose-binding lectin gene polymorphisms as a susceptibility factor for chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis. It was investigated whether a deficiency of mannose-binding lectin (MBL), which binds Aspergillus species avidly in vitro, could account for chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis (CNPA), which is seen most commonly in nonimmunocompromised patients. Blood samples were obtained from 11 patients (10 white) with CNPA and were compared with blood samples from 82 white control subjects. MBL haplotype profiles were determined by polymerase chain reaction, using sequence-specific primers and sequence-specific oligonucleotide probing techniques. Seven of the 10 white patients with CNPA had MBL haplotypes that encode for low levels of the protein, compared with 25.6% of the white control subjects (P=.004). Presence of the codon 52 mutation was particularly common in patients with CNPA (P=.015), which suggests a greater involvement of this mutation."}
{"id": "11462176", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus species in blood and bronchoalveolar lavage samples from immunocompromised patients by means of 2-step polymerase chain reaction: clinical results.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus species in blood and bronchoalveolar lavage samples from immunocompromised patients by means of 2-step polymerase chain reaction: clinical results. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples from 67 patients who were at high risk for invasive aspergillosis were examined using a recently developed 2-step polymerase chain reaction (PCR) that detects </=10 fg of Aspergillus DNA in blood and BAL samples in vitro. Thirteen of these patients had PCR and diagnostic results positive for Aspergillus infection. Four patients with possible invasive aspergillosis also had positive PCR results, and the remaining 50 had negative PCR results. In addition, 907 blood samples from 218 high-risk patients were screened. Thirty-three patients with positive PCR results had invasive aspergillosis; 148 patients had PCR and diagnostic results that were negative, and 34 patients with positive PCR results had nonconclusive clinical data. Both blood and BAL testing were performed for 45 patients. All 8 patients with proven invasive aspergillosis showed concordance of positive PCR results. Our data suggest that this PCR method has possible clinical value for confirming and improving the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in high-risk patients."}
{"id": "11446528", "title": "Identification of genes of Aspergillus fumigatus up-regulated during growth on endothelial cells.", "content": "Identification of genes of Aspergillus fumigatus up-regulated during growth on endothelial cells. Aspergillus fumigatus is an important opportunistic fungal pathogen that can cause acute invasive disease in neutropenic hosts. Invasive aspergillosis is being diagnosed with increasing frequency, and morbidity and mortality remain high despite prompt antifungal therapy. Because little is known about the virulence factors used by A. fumigatus, a tissue culture model was developed to mimic the interaction of the fungus with the endothelium. Differential display was used to compare gene expression in fungal cells grown on endothelial cells with that of cells grown in the absence of endothelial cell contact, and genes that were up-regulated were selected for analysis as putatively virulence-related genes. Two of these up-regulated genes were chosen for further study and were identified as genes encoding the regulatory subunit of cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP)-dependent protein kinase and a member of the ras gene family, both of which are involved in cAMP-mediated signaling in fungi. This model system provides a new approach to the identification of potentially virulence-related genes induced in A. fumigatus by the interaction with host cells."}
{"id": "11435728", "title": "Identification of a Hevea brasiliensis latex manganese superoxide dismutase (Hev b 10) as a cross-reactive allergen.", "content": "Identification of a Hevea brasiliensis latex manganese superoxide dismutase (Hev b 10) as a cross-reactive allergen. Cross-reactive allergens play an increasingly important role in latex allergy in complicating both the diagnosis and time course of allergic symptoms. Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), a ubiquitous protein of prokaryotic and eukaryotic organisms, was described as a cross-reactive allergen in Aspergillus fumigatus. Little information is available on the importance of this pan-allergen in Hevea brasiliensis latex. The aim of this study was to clone and express MnSOD from H. brasiliensis latex, and to obtain the soluble and immunologically active recombinant allergen for diagnosis of latex allergy and to investigate possible cross-reactivities with the structurally related A. fumigatus and human MnSODs. A complementary DNA coding for Hevea latex MnSOD was amplified by PCR. The recombinant protein was produced in Escherichia coli with an N-terminal hexahistidyl tag. Enzymatic activity of the recombinant protein was determined using an enzyme assay for SODs. IgE immunoblotting and IgE inhibition assays were performed to characterize the recombinant allergen and its cross-reactivity. A Hevea latex MnSOD consisting of 206 amino acid residues was cloned and expressed in E. coli. The allergen was designated Hev b 10. The recombinant protein was enzymatically active, indicating the correct folding of the protein. In immunoblots, latex- as well as A. fumigatus-allergic patients revealed IgE binding to recombinant (r)Hev b 10. Cross-reactivity to Asp f 6, the MnSOD from A. fumigatus, and human MnSOD was determined by inhibition of IgE binding to these MnSODs by rHev b 10. Hev b 10 is a new cross-reactive allergen of H. brasiliensis which belongs to the 'latex-mold' group of latex allergens. Furthermore, it is a candidate for primary sensitization in patients allergic to the pan-allergen MnSOD."}
{"id": "11429479", "title": "Pneumonia in febrile neutropenic patients: radiologic diagnosis.", "content": "Pneumonia in febrile neutropenic patients: radiologic diagnosis. Pneumonia in febrile neutropenic cancer patients should be diagnosed as early as possible, because prompt institution of targeted therapeutic measures might be essential for their prognosis. Conventional chest radiographs frequently fail to detect lung infiltrates at an early stage, meaning that a normal chest radiograph finding must be interpreted with caution. Thoracic computed tomograph scans provide a much higher yield and are therefore recommended in patients at risk for a complicated pulmonary infection. Lung infiltrates documented by computed tomograph scans (eg, nodular infiltrates with or without a halo, ground-glass opacities, or cavitations with or without air crescent signs) open up a wide range of differential diagnoses, such as invasive pulmonary aspergillosis, other types of pneumonia, hemorrhage, infiltration by the underlying malignancy, drug toxicity, alveolar proteinosis, or acute respiratory distress syndrome. High-resolution techniques or magnetic resonance imaging may provide further details to help distinguish inflammatory processes from processes that may not require an antimicrobial intervention. Sequential nonculture-based monitoring for invasive fungal infections, using Aspergillus antigen sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, and panfungal or Aspergillus-specific polymerase chain reaction, may add important tools in the early identification of patients who may benefit from systemic antifungal treatment."}
{"id": "11427596", "title": "Comparison of restriction fragment length polymorphism, microsatellite length polymorphism, and random amplification of polymorphic DNA analyses for fingerprinting Aspergillus fumigatus isolates.", "content": "Comparison of restriction fragment length polymorphism, microsatellite length polymorphism, and random amplification of polymorphic DNA analyses for fingerprinting Aspergillus fumigatus isolates. Aspergillus fumigatus fingerprints generated by random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD), restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) upon hybridization with repeated DNA sequences, and PCR detection of microsatellite length polymorphism (MLP) were compared among 67 isolates. In contrast to RAPD, RFLP and MLP gave discriminating and significantly concordant genotyping results."}
{"id": "11427550", "title": "Identification of two different 14-alpha sterol demethylase-related genes (cyp51A and cyp51B) in Aspergillus fumigatus and other Aspergillus species.", "content": "Identification of two different 14-alpha sterol demethylase-related genes (cyp51A and cyp51B) in Aspergillus fumigatus and other Aspergillus species. Two cyp51-related genes (cyp51A and cyp51B) encoding 14-alpha sterol demethylase-like enzymes were identified in the opportunistic human pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus. PCR amplification using degenerate oligonucleotides based on conserved areas of cytochrome P450 demethylases of other filamentous fungi and yeasts allowed the cloning and sequencing of two different homologue genes in A. fumigatus. Southern analysis confirmed that both genes hybridized to distinct genomic loci and that both are represented as single copies in the genome. Comparison of the deduced Cyp51A and Cyp51B proteins with the CYP51 proteins from Penicillium italicum, Aspergillus nidulans, Erysiphe graminis, Uncinula necator, Botrytis cinerea, Ustilago maydis, Cryptococcus neoformans, Candida albicans, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Candida tropicalis, and Candida glabrata showed that the percentages of identity of the amino acid sequences (range, 40 to 70%) were high enough to consider Cyp51A and Cyp51B to be members of the fungal CYP51 family. Fragments from both genes were also cloned from other Aspergillus spp. (A. flavus, A. nidulans, and A. terreus). Phylogenetic analysis showed that, at least in the most pathogenic species of Aspergillus, there are two fungal CYP51 proteins. This is the first report of the existence of two homologue genes coding for 14-alpha sterol demethylase in the fungal kingdom. This finding could provide insights into the azole resistance mechanisms operating in fungi. The primers used here may be useful molecular tools for facilitating the cloning of novel 14-alpha sterol demethylase genes in other filamentous fungi."}
{"id": "11425482", "title": "Identification, classification and phylogeny of the Aspergillus section Nigri inferred from mitochondrial cytochrome b gene.", "content": "Identification, classification and phylogeny of the Aspergillus section Nigri inferred from mitochondrial cytochrome b gene. The partial mitochondrial cytochrome b gene from 32 strains of 12 species belonging to Aspergillus section Nigri was amplified by the polymerase chain reaction and sequenced directly. Using 402 nucleotide characters, nucleotide-based and amino acid-based phylogenetic trees were inferred and the genetic divergence among the species was evaluated. Based on analyses of the 402-bp nucleotide and 133-amino acid sequences, strains were divided into 11 DNA types and five amino acid types. Aspergillus niger and Aspergillus awamori showed different amino acid sequences. A. niger clade included A. niger var. niger and Aspergillus ficuum. A. awamori clade included A. awamori, Aspergillus phoenicis, Aspergillus pulverulentus, Aspergillus tubingensis, Aspergillus foetidus, and two varieties of A. niger, var. nanus and var. intermedius. Two varieties of A. niger will be reclassified. One strain of A. phoenicis and one strain of Aspergillus carbonarius were reidentified."}
{"id": "11417629", "title": "Molecular diagnosis of microbial contamination in cosmetic and pharmaceutical products: a review.", "content": "Molecular diagnosis of microbial contamination in cosmetic and pharmaceutical products: a review. Molecular methodologies such as adenosine triphosphate (ATP) bioluminescence and polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based assays provide rapid quality control analysis of cosmetic and pharmaceutical finished products and raw materials. Using a single enrichment broth for bacteria, yeast, and mold, ATP bioluminescence detected microbial contamination within 27 h. Samples were automatically lysed to release microbial ATP and light production was quantitated using the Celsis Optocomp. However, to maintain the detection time to within 27 h, different enrichment broths were required for neutralization of antimicrobial ingredients in finished products and to provide specific nutrients for growth optimization. To perform the PCR reaction, bacterial DNA was extracted using a Tris-EDTA-Tween 20-proteinase K buffer at 35 degrees C while yeast and mold DNA were extracted using a Tris-EDTA-SDS buffer at 95 degrees C. Extracted microbial DNA was added to Ready-To-Go PCR beads and specific DNA primers. The primers were targeted to amplify specific regions within Escherichia coli, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Staphylococcus aureus, Salmonella typhimurium, Burkholderia cepacia, Candida albicans, and Aspergillus niger. Furthermore, conserved bacterial ribosomal DNA sequences have also been used for sterility testing of samples. The results from these studies indicate that both ATP bioluminescence and PCR assays provide rapid, reliable, and cost effective methods for quality evaluation. This will ultimately result in faster product release and production optimization."}
{"id": "11413925", "title": "Phenotypic and genotypic characterization of reference strains of the genus Aspergillus.", "content": "Phenotypic and genotypic characterization of reference strains of the genus Aspergillus. Twenty-five culture collection strains from four Aspergillus species (A. fumigatus n = 8, A. flavus n = 8, A. niger n = 4, A. nidulans n = 5) were characterized by four methods: (i) determination of patterns in an assimilation assay; (ii) protein pattern of whole mycelial cell lysates in the sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS)-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE); (iii) reactivity of a pool serum obtained from cystic fibrosis patients with mycelial lysates in the immunoblot; and (iv) random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) with eight primers having arbitrary or repetitive sequences. In the assimilation assay the A. fumigatus strains showed identical patterns in contrast to the strains of the species A. flavus, A. niger, and A. nidulans, which each showed four patterns. In the SDS-PAGE no differences in the band patterns in the A. fumigatus strains were found, in contrast to the A. flavus (three patterns), A. nidulans (five patterns) and A. niger strains (two patterns). The immunoblot patterns were characteristic for each species with bands at 62 and 17/18 kDa in the A. fumigatus strains, at 51 and 18 kDa in the A. flavus strains, at 51 kDa in the A. niger strains, and at 51, 40 and 17/18 kDa in the A. nidulans strains allowing, however, no intraspecies typing. In the RAPD assay four out of eight primers gave interpretable patterns with 3-20 bands. None of the primers showed sufficient discriminatory power when used alone. However, when combining the results of two of the primers (5'-GTA TTG CCC T-3' and 5'-GAT AGA TAG ATA GAT A-3') all strains except two A. fumigatus strains could be clearly separated from each other. It is concluded that the the RAPD assay showed the most discriminatory power in all Aspergillus species investigated. In contrast to the phenotypically similar A. fumigatus strains, the strains of the species A. flavus, A. nidulans and A. niger differed in their phenotypic characteristics. The presented data of strains from international culture collections may serve as basis for interlaboratory standardization of typing methods."}
{"id": "11388486", "title": "Cloning and characterization of a chitosanase gene from the koji mold Aspergillus oryzae strain IAM 2660.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of a chitosanase gene from the koji mold Aspergillus oryzae strain IAM 2660. A genomic copy of the gene coding for chitosanase (csnA) was isolated from Aspergillus oryzae IAM 2660. A. oryzae csnA contains an open reading frame that encodes a polypeptide of 245 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 26,500 Da. The deduced amino acid sequence of A. oryzae csnA indicates extensive similarities to those of other fungal chitosanases."}
{"id": "11376086", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus species DNA by PCR in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus species DNA by PCR in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. The usefulness of a nested PCR assay for detection of Aspergillus sp. DNA was evaluated in 177 bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid specimens. This test was accurate both to diagnose culture-negative BAL fluid specimens from patients with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis and to confirm culture-positive samples. However, it did not differentiate between infection and colonization."}
{"id": "11376067", "title": "Identification of Aspergillus fumigatus and related species by nested PCR targeting ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer regions.", "content": "Identification of Aspergillus fumigatus and related species by nested PCR targeting ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer regions. Aspergillus fumigatus is the most common species that causes invasive aspergillosis. In order to identify A. fumigatus, partial ribosomal DNA (rDNA) from two to six strains of five different Aspergillus species was sequenced. By comparing sequence data from GenBank, we designed specific primer pairs targeting rDNA internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of A. fumigatus. A nested PCR method for identification of other A. fumigatus-related species was established by using the primers. To evaluate the specificities and sensitivities of those primers, 24 isolates of A. fumigatus and variants, 8 isolates of Aspergillus nidulans, 7 isolates of Aspergillus flavus and variants, 8 isolates of Aspergillus terreus, 9 isolates of Aspergillus niger, 1 isolate each of Aspergillus parasiticus, Aspergillus penicilloides, Aspergillus versicolor, Aspergillus wangduanlii, Aspergillus qizutongii, Aspergillus beijingensis, and Exophiala dermatitidis, 4 isolates of Candida, 4 isolates of bacteria, and human DNA were used. The nested PCR method specifically identified the A. fumigatus isolates and closely related species and showed a high degree of sensitivity. Additionally, four A. fumigatus strains that were recently isolated from our clinic were correctly identified by this method. Our results demonstrate that these primers are useful for the identification of A. fumigatus and closely related species in culture and suggest further studies for the identification of Aspergillus fumigatus species in clinical specimens."}
{"id": "11358516", "title": "Cloning and characterization of Aspergillus niger genes encoding an alpha-galactosidase and a beta-mannosidase involved in galactomannan degradation.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of Aspergillus niger genes encoding an alpha-galactosidase and a beta-mannosidase involved in galactomannan degradation. Alpha-galactosidase (EC 3.2.1.22) and beta-mannosidase (EC 3.2.1.25) participate in the hydrolysis of complex plant saccharides such as galacto(gluco)mannans. Here we report on the cloning and characterization of genes encoding an alpha-galactosidase (AglC) and a beta-mannosidase (MndA) from Aspergillus niger. The aglC and mndA genes code for 747 and 931 amino acids, respectively, including the eukaryotic signal sequences. The predicted isoelectric points of AglC and MndA are 4.56 and 5.17, and the calculated molecular masses are 79.674 and 102.335 kDa, respectively. Both AglC and MndA contain several putative N-glycosylation sites. AglC was assigned to family 36 of the glycosyl hydrolases and MndA was assigned to family 2. The expression patterns of aglC and mndA and two other genes encoding A. niger alpha-galactosidases (aglA and aglB) during cultivation on galactomannan were studied by Northern analysis. A comparison of gene expression on monosaccharides in the A. niger wild-type and a CreA mutant strain showed that the carbon catabolite repressor protein CreA has a strong influence on aglA, but not on aglB, aglC or mndA. AglC and MndA were purified from constructed overexpression strains of A. niger, and the combined action of these enzymes degraded a galactomanno-oligosaccharide into galactose and mannose. The possible roles of AglC and MndA in galactomannan hydrolysis is discussed."}
{"id": "11346268", "title": "Afut2, a new family of degenerate gypsy-like retrotransposon from Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Afut2, a new family of degenerate gypsy-like retrotransposon from Aspergillus fumigatus. Four recombinant lambda clones containing non-ribosomal repetitive DNA sequences useful for fingerprinting Aspergillus fumigatus strains contained a new member of the gypsy family of retrotransposons, Afut2. It is 5810 bp in length with long terminal repeats of 245 bp and is defective. All non-ribosomal repetitive DNA sequences isolated so far in A. fumigatus are defective retrotransposons of the gypsy family."}
{"id": "11331470", "title": "Molecular identification of a clinical isolate of non-pigmented and asporogenic Aspergillus fumigatus strain which cannot be identified by traditional morphological methods.", "content": "Molecular identification of a clinical isolate of non-pigmented and asporogenic Aspergillus fumigatus strain which cannot be identified by traditional morphological methods. A non-pigmented and asporogenic fungal strain without taxonomically useful characteristics was isolated from sputum of a patient with chronic bronchitis. Although the taxonomic position could not be determined based on traditional morphological criteria, the fungus was identified as an Aspergillus fumigatus mutant strain by molecular techniques including ITS sequence analysis and PCR identification system using a PCR primer pair specific for A. fumigatus. Usefulness of these molecular techniques for the identification of non-classifiable fungal strains in a clinical laboratory is discussed."}
{"id": "11328298", "title": "Screening for Aspergillus spp. using polymerase chain reaction of whole blood samples from patients with haematological malignancies.", "content": "Screening for Aspergillus spp. using polymerase chain reaction of whole blood samples from patients with haematological malignancies. Sensitive screening for Aspergillus spp. using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of whole blood samples in patients with haematological disorders has not been performed to date. In a 2-year study, 121 patients admitted to the University Hospital of Innsbruck for cancer chemotherapy without clinical signs of fungal infection were prospectively screened for Aspergillus spp. In 28 out of 121 (23%) patients, Aspergillus DNAaemia was detected. Of these patients, 16 (57%) were positive only once for Aspergillus DNA, but positivity was never associated with invasive aspergillosis. PCR positive episodes were short and resolved without antifungal treatment. Five patients (18%) had intermittent PCR positive results. Seven (25%) patients presented at least two consecutive positive PCR results; one of these patients developed invasive aspergillosis and another two were strongly suspected as having aspergillosis. Based on the criteria of the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer case definitions, sensitivity and specificity of serial PCR monitoring were 75% and 96%. Positive PCR results became negative shortly after commencement of antifungal treatment, but the changes did not correlate with clinical responsiveness to treatment in three patients. Our results indicate the potential usefulness of PCR for screening for Aspergillus spp. in patients at risk, but without antifungal treatment."}
{"id": "11325982", "title": "Genetic polymorphism of Aspergillus fumigatus in clinical samples from patients with invasive aspergillosis: investigation using multiple typing methods.", "content": "Genetic polymorphism of Aspergillus fumigatus in clinical samples from patients with invasive aspergillosis: investigation using multiple typing methods. The genotypes of 52 strains of Aspergillus fumigatus isolated from 12 patients with invasive aspergillosis were investigated using three typing methods (random amplified polymorphic DNA, sequence-specific DNA polymorphism, and microsatellite polymorphism) combined with multilocus enzyme electrophoresis. Isolates were from patients hospitalized in three different geographic areas (Lyon, France; Grenoble, France; and Milan, Italy). In each case, the genetic polymorphism of several colonies (two to five) within the first respiratory clinical sample was studied. For the 52 isolates tested, random amplified polymorphic DNA identified 8 different genotypes, sequence-specific DNA polymorphism identified 9 different types, and microsatellite polymorphism identified 14 types. A combination of these results with multilocus enzyme electrophoresis study identified 25 different types within the sample studied. We identified 3 patients (of the 12 studied) who carried a single genotype; 6 patients were infected by two genotypes, 1 patient had four genotypes, while the last patient had five. A combination of typing methods provided better discrimination than the use of a single method. Typing methods revealed a population structure within each geographical site, suggesting that the epidemiology of A. fumigatus should be considered separately for each of these geographic areas. This study demonstrates the usefulness of combining several typing methods in reaching an understanding of the epidemiology of A. fumigatus and clarifies whether it is sufficient to type one isolate from each specimen to determine the strain involved in invasive aspergillosis."}
{"id": "11319592", "title": "Early diagnosis of adenovirus infection and treatment with cidofovir after bone marrow transplantation in children.", "content": "Early diagnosis of adenovirus infection and treatment with cidofovir after bone marrow transplantation in children. Adenovirus infection remains an important cause of mortality after bone marrow transplantation (BMT). Currently no efficient antiviral treatment is known. Thus, testing new modalities of early diagnosis and treatment is a crucial objective. Adenovirus infection is defined by the combination of symptoms and the isolation of virus from the source of clinical symptoms. The involvement of two or more organs and the presence of virus in blood cultures define disseminated disease. Seven children with a median age of 7 years received bone marrow transplantation for leukemia. All received an unrelated graft without T cell depletion. Adenovirus was sought in blood, urine and biopsy specimens using PCR and culture. Analysis of biopsy specimens included systematic immunohistochemistry. Cidofovir treatment was initiated as soon as biopsy revealed the histopathological signs of adenovirus. Cidofovir was given at 5 mg/kg once weekly for 3 weeks then every 2 weeks. Six patients had diarrhoea and one patient had cystitis. Adenovirus infection and disseminated disease were diagnosed in four cases and three cases, respectively. In six cases, serotype A31 was isolated from gastrointestinal biopsy and in two cases serotypes B2 and C6 were detected in blood and urine. Cidofovir treatment was associated with clinical improvement of diarrhoea, cystitis and fever in five patients, in whom the virus became undetectable in cultures and PCR analyses despite the persistence of immunodeficiency. The median follow-up was 360 days after BMT (240-570). One child died of invasive aspergillosis and another of disseminated adenovirus after interruption of cidofovir therapy. Further studies in immunocompromised patients will be needed to extend these promising results concerning the role of cidofovir in adenovirus infection."}
{"id": "11318104", "title": "A type 2A protein phosphatase gene from Aspergillus nidulans is involved in hyphal morphogenesis.", "content": "A type 2A protein phosphatase gene from Aspergillus nidulans is involved in hyphal morphogenesis. A PCR-based approach, using degenerate oligonucleotide primers, was used to isolate fragments of two genes encoding type 2A protein phosphatases from the filamentous fungus, Aspergillus nidulans. The complete genomic sequence of one of these genes, pphA, was isolated and characterised. The pphA gene was predicted to encode a 329-residue protein which is about 85% identical to mammalian protein phosphatase 2A. Ectopic expression of the wild-type pphA+ gene slightly inhibited growth in some transformants; but a mutant form of pphA, in which R259 was mutated to Q, led to slow growth, delayed germ tube emergence and mitotic defects at low temperature. These results indicate that the pphA+ gene plays an important role in hyphal growth."}
{"id": "11306922", "title": "Tapping allergen repertoires by advanced cloning technologies.", "content": "Tapping allergen repertoires by advanced cloning technologies. Complex allergenic sources such as moulds, foods and mites contain complex panels of IgE-binding molecules which need to be cloned, produced and characterized in order to mimic the entire allergenicity of whole extracts reconstituted by mixing single standardized recombinant allergens. Phage surface display of cDNA libraries selectively enriched for allergen-expressing clones using IgE from allergic patients allows rapid isolation of large panels of allergens. For the characterization of all different clones present in enriched cDNA libraries in a fast and cost-effective way, high-throughput screening technology is required. The combination of selective enrichment of cDNA libraries based on biopanning against serum IgE from sensitized patients and automated robot technology for picking and high-density gridding of clones onto filter membranes, followed by hybridization, enables fast identification of all the different clones present in an enriched library. The consequent application of selective enrichment and robotic-based screening allows, within weeks, cloning and characterization of the whole allergenic repertoire of any organisms. Robotic-based high-throughput screening of clones selected for IgE-binding capacity from phage surface-displayed cDNA libraries of Aspergillus fumigatus, Cladosporium herbarum, Coprinus comatus, Malassezia furfur, peanut and human lung tissue allowed rapid characterization of 81, 28, 37, 27, 8 and 151 different sequences, respectively. All these cDNAs bear a high probability to encode allergens derived from the respective allergenic source."}
{"id": "11292325", "title": "Detection and quantitation of Aspergillus fumigatus in pure culture using polymerase chain reaction.", "content": "Detection and quantitation of Aspergillus fumigatus in pure culture using polymerase chain reaction. Research was conducted with laboratory cultures to establish a protocol for the rapid detection and quantitation of the thermophilic fungus, Aspergillus fumigatus, using genetic amplification. Oligonucleotide primers and a fluorescently labelled probe were designed for use with quantitative polymerase chain reaction (QPCR). Primers and probe were tested for selectivity, specificity and sensitivity of detection of the target organism using a fluorogenic nuclease assay and a sequence detector. The DNA extraction protocol consisted of enzymatic treatment and boiling of fungal spore suspensions followed by DNA concentration and purification. The primer set developed was specific for A. fumigatus and had a sensitivity of <20 template copies. These primers amplified all A. fumigatus isolates tested and did not amplify DNA extracted from other Aspergillus species or 15 other fungal genera. However, one A. fumigatus sample was initially negative after PCR amplification. Incorporation of an internal positive control in the PCR reaction demonstrated the presence of inhibitors in this and other samples. PCR inhibitors were removed by dilution or further purification of the DNA samples. This research resulted in a QPCR method for detection and quantitation of A. fumigatus and demonstrated the presence of PCR inhibitors in several A. fumigatus isolates."}
{"id": "11289522", "title": "Molecular epidemiology of airway colonisation by Aspergillus fumigatus in cystic fibrosis patients.", "content": "Molecular epidemiology of airway colonisation by Aspergillus fumigatus in cystic fibrosis patients. A total of 109 sequential and multiple Aspergillus fumigatus isolates corresponding to 41 samples from seven cystic fibrosis (CF) patients was typed by random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) with the primer NS3 from the fungal ribosomal gene 18S subunit, and by sequence-specific DNA primer (SSDP) analysis. RAPD typing of the isolates revealed 10 different genotypes, whereas nine genotypes were identified by SSDP. Combination of the two typing methods permitted the differentiation of 25 overall genotypes. The colonisation typing patterns differed greatly between patients colonised for <1 year by A. fumigatus and long-term colonised patients. Two of three recently colonised patients presented a large number of types even in the same sample, unlike the chronically colonised patients, who harboured a limited number of genotypes. In the latter, the occurrence of a dominant genotype, usually the overall genotype 2, tended to reflect to the duration of colonisation. Moreover, anti-catalase antibodies to A. fumigatus appeared in most cases to be in response to genotype 2. These findings suggest that some strains of A. fumigatus may be selected during prolonged colonisation of the airways in CF patients."}
{"id": "11283102", "title": "Nucleic acid sequence-based amplification of Aspergillus RNA in blood samples.", "content": "Nucleic acid sequence-based amplification of Aspergillus RNA in blood samples. Nucleic acid sequence-based amplification (NASBA), an isothermal amplification technique, was established and evaluated for the detection of Aspergillus RNA and compared with a previously published, well-defined real-time PCR assay amplifying a region of the Aspergillus 18S rRNA gene. NASBA showed a lower detection limit of 1 CFU and detected RNA from five different clinically relevant Aspergillus species, including Aspergillus fumigatus. All 77 blood samples tested by PCR and NASBA showed identical results in both assays. Results with the NASBA technique were obtained within 6 h. Thus, the NASBA technique provided a valuable tool for sensitive, specific, fast, and reliable detection of Aspergillus RNA with potential for routine diagnosis, including the possibility to test the viability of cells."}
{"id": "11277429", "title": "Expression of the Avirulence gene Avr9 of the fungal tomato pathogen Cladosporium fulvum is regulated by the global nitrogen response factor NRF1.", "content": "Expression of the Avirulence gene Avr9 of the fungal tomato pathogen Cladosporium fulvum is regulated by the global nitrogen response factor NRF1. Here we describe the role of the Cladosporium fulvum nitrogen response factor 1 (Nrf1) gene in regulation of the expression of avirulence gene Avr9 and virulence on tomato. The Nrf1 gene, which was isolated by a polymerase chain reaction-based strategy, is predicted to encode a protein of 918 amino acid residues. The protein contains a putative zinc finger DNA-binding domain that shares 98% amino acid identity with the zinc finger of the major nitrogen regulatory proteins AREA and NIT2 of Aspergillus nidulans and Neurospora crassa, respectively. Functional equivalence of Nrf1 to areA was demonstrated by complementation of an A. nidulans areA loss-of-function mutant with Nrf1. Nrf1-deficient transformants of C. fulvum obtained by homologous recombination were unable to utilize nitrate and nitrite as a nitrogen source. In contrast to what was observed in the C. fulvum wild-type, the Avr9 gene was no longer induced under nitrogen-starvation conditions in Nrf1-deficient strains. On susceptible tomato plants, the Nrf1-deficient strains were as virulent as wild-type strains of C. fulvum, although the expression of the Avr9 gene was strongly reduced. In addition, Nrf1-deficient strains were still avirulent on tomato plants containing the functional Cf-9 resistance gene, indicating that in planta, apparently sufficient quantities of stable AVR9 elicitor are produced. Our results suggest that the NRF1 protein is a major regulator of the Avr9 gene."}
{"id": "11254600", "title": "Involvement of CD14 and toll-like receptors in activation of human monocytes by Aspergillus fumigatus hyphae.", "content": "Involvement of CD14 and toll-like receptors in activation of human monocytes by Aspergillus fumigatus hyphae. Invasive fungal infections represent an increasing problem associated with high mortality. The present study was undertaken to identify leukocyte subsets that are activated by hyphal fragments in a whole-human-blood model, as well as to examine the involvement of CD14 and Toll-like receptors (TLRs) in activation of monocytes by hyphae. Incubation of whole human blood with hyphal fragments from Aspergillus fumigatus and Scedosporium prolificans for 6 h caused induction of mRNAs for tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), and IL-6 in T cells, B cells, and monocytes, but not in granulocytes, as analyzed by reverse transcription-PCR with mRNA isolated from very pure populations of these leukocyte subsets. In primary adherent human monocytes, induction of TNF-alpha by hyphal fragments was dependent on plasma. Heat treatment of plasma at 56 degrees C for 30 min strongly reduced the ability of plasma to prime for activation. Pretreatment of human monocytes with different concentrations (1, 3, and 10 microg/ml) of monoclonal antibody (MAb) HTA125 (anti-TLR4) or MAb 18D11 (anti-CD14) for 30 min inhibited the release of TNF-alpha induced by hyphal fragments in a dose-dependent manner. Maximal inhibitions of 35 and 70% were obtained with 10 microg of HTA125 and 18D11 per ml, respectively. In contrast, pretreatment with MAb TL2.1 (anti-TLR2) did not affect signaling induced by hyphae. Pretreatment with the lipid A antagonist B975 blocked lipopolysaccharide signaling but did not inhibit TNF-alpha production induced by hyphal fragments. Our results suggest that T cells, B cells, and monocytes are involved in the innate immune response to invasive fungal pathogens and that serum components are relevant for activation of monocytes by hyphae. CD14 and TLR4 may be involved in signaling of Aspergillus hyphae in monocytes, but further studies to elucidate this issue are warranted."}
{"id": "11240049", "title": "Development of two real-time quantitative TaqMan PCR assays to detect circulating Aspergillus fumigatus DNA in serum.", "content": "Development of two real-time quantitative TaqMan PCR assays to detect circulating Aspergillus fumigatus DNA in serum. Several PCR assays have been developed for detecting Aspergillus fumigatus DNA in blood of patients with invasive aspergillosis. However, the best blood fraction to be assayed has not been defined and the multicopy genes used as the DNA targets for amplification not characterized. Firstly, we developed a real-time PCR assays based on the TaqMan technology targeted to a single copy gene. To compare serum, white cell pellet, and plasma for effectiveness as blood assay fractions, we spiked whole blood with A. fumigatus DNA and processed these fractions similarly. The difference between white cell pellet and serum was not significant. In contrast, the yield from plasma was 10 times lower than from serum. Then, we compared serum processed immediately or after 24 h at room temperature and observed a lower yield after 24 h. Secondly, a real-time PCR assay targeted to a mitochondrial gene was also developed. The copy number was estimated between 9 and 10 mitochondrial genes per single copy gene. Therefore, we recommend serum, stored and frozen as soon as possible, to be used for detecting circulating A. fumigatus DNA for diagnosis. Moreover, the mitochondrial multicopy gene was characterized in order to compare results from different patients."}
{"id": "11222566", "title": "Acquired itraconazole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Acquired itraconazole resistance in Aspergillus fumigatus. The antifungal susceptibility profiles of four ASPERGILLUS: fumigatus isolates, recovered at different times from a patient treated with itraconazole for a pulmonary ASPERGILLUS: infection, were evaluated. Itraconazole MICs against two pre-treatment isolates were 0.5 mg/L, whilst two later isolates, recovered after at least 4 months of itraconazole therapy, had itraconazole MICs of >16 mg/L. In vivo susceptibilities to itraconazole and amphotericin B were tested in a murine model of disseminated aspergillosis. Treatment efficacy was evaluated by examining mortality rates and qualitative cultures of brain and kidneys. Itraconazole therapy significantly prolonged survival of mice infected with the initial isolates as compared with untreated controls. The third isolate was only partially susceptible to itraconazole in vivo, and the fourth isolate was highly resistant. The four isolates were typed by random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) with four different primers. RAPD patterns obtained with each of them were identical, suggesting that the same strain was recovered over time and had acquired resistance to itraconazole."}
{"id": "11213075", "title": "Fatal primary infection due to human herpesvirus 6 variant A in a renal transplant recipient.", "content": "Fatal primary infection due to human herpesvirus 6 variant A in a renal transplant recipient. We describe a fatal primary human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6) variant A infection in a kidney transplanted adult woman. On day 20 post transplantation (TX), after rejection therapy, the patient presented an acute hemophagocytic syndrome with hepatitis and central nervous system involvement. HHV-6 IgG and IgM antibodies seroconversion was demonstrated. HHV-6 variant A was the sole pathogen detected by nested PCR and/or culture in blood, bone marrow aspiration, liver biopsy, cerebrospinal fluid and bronchoalveolar lavage. The graft was HHV-6 seropositive and the patient was not transfused before day 28 post TX, suggesting that the virus was transmitted by the graft. Despite immunoglobulins, ganciclovir and foscarnet therapy, the HHV-6 infection progressed and led to severe aplasia. The patient developed Aspergillus fumigatus pneumonia and died from fulminant candidemia. This case demonstrated for the first time that HHV-6 variant A primary infection can cause life-threatening disseminated infection in immunosuppressed patients."}
{"id": "11204778", "title": "Exploring infection of wheat and carbohydrate metabolism in Mycosphaerella graminicola transformants with differentially regulated green fluorescent protein expression.", "content": "Exploring infection of wheat and carbohydrate metabolism in Mycosphaerella graminicola transformants with differentially regulated green fluorescent protein expression. A Mycosphaerella graminicola strain transformed with the green fluorescent protein (GFP) downstream of either a carbon source-repressed promoter or a constitutive promoter was used to investigate in situ carbohydrate uptake during penetration of the fungus in wheat leaves. The promoter region of the acu-3 gene from Neurospora crassa encoding isocitrate lyase was used as a carbon source-repressed promoter. The promoter region of the Aspergillus nidulans gpdA gene encoding glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase was used as a constitutive promoter. Fluorometric measurement of GFP gene expression in liquid cultures of acu-3-regulated transformants indicated that the N. crassa acu-3 promoter functions in M. graminicola as it does in N. crassa, i.e., acetate induced and carbon source repressed. Glucose, fructose, and saccharose triggered the repression, whereas mannitol, xylose, and cell wall polysaccharides did not. Monitoring the GFP level during fungal infection of wheat leaves revealed that acu-3 promoter repression occurred after penetration until sporulation, when newly differentiated pycnidiospores fluoresced. The use of GFP transformants also allowed clear visualization of M. graminicola pathogenesis. No appressoria were formed, but penetration at cell junctions was observed. These results give new insight into the biotrophic status of M. graminicola."}
{"id": "11178973", "title": "Molecular cloning of an alpha-glucosidase-like gene from Penicillium minioluteum and structure prediction of its gene product.", "content": "Molecular cloning of an alpha-glucosidase-like gene from Penicillium minioluteum and structure prediction of its gene product. The dexC cDNA, which is expressed in dextran-containing medium by the filamentous fungus Penicillium minioluteum, was cloned and sequence characterized. The cDNA sequence comprises 1859 bp plus a poly (A) tail, coding for a predicted protein of 597 amino acids. The genomic counterpart was isolated by PCR, finding three introns in its sequence. The dexC gene was located by Southern blot in the same 9-kb fragment that the previously isolated dextranase-encoding gene (dexA). Sequence analysis revealed that the deduced DexC protein belongs to glycosyl hydrolase family 13, showing a high sequence identity (58%) with Aspergillus parasiticus alpha-1,6-glucosidase. In addition, the high sequence identity (51%) between DexC protein and oligo-1,6-glucosidase of Bacillus cereus, with three-dimensional (3D) structure determined, leads us to proposed a 3D model for the structural core of DexC protein."}
{"id": "11162394", "title": "Expression of the Aspergillus aculeatus endo-beta-1,4-mannanase encoding gene (man1) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and characterization of the recombinant enzyme.", "content": "Expression of the Aspergillus aculeatus endo-beta-1,4-mannanase encoding gene (man1) in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and characterization of the recombinant enzyme. The endo-beta-1,4-mannanase encoding gene man1 of Aspergillus aculeatus MRC11624 was amplified from mRNA by polymerase chain reaction using sequence-specific primers designed from the published sequence of man1 from A. aculeatus KSM510. The amplified fragment was cloned and expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae under the gene regulation of the alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH2(PT)) and phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK1(PT)) promoters and terminators, respectively. The man1 gene product was designated Man5A. Subsequently, the FUR1 gene of the recombinant yeast strains was disrupted to create autoselective strains: S. cerevisiae Man5ADH2 and S. cerevisiae Man5PGK1. The strains secreted 521 nkat/ml and 379 nkat/ml of active Man5A after 96 h of growth in a complex medium. These levels were equivalent to 118 and 86 mg/l of Man5A protein produced, respectively. The properties of the native and recombinant Man5A were investigated and found to be similar. The apparent molecular mass of the recombinant enzyme was 50 kDa compared to 45 kDa of the native enzyme due to glycosylation. The determined K(m) and V(max) values were 0.3 mg/ml and 82 micromol/min/mg for the recombinant and 0.15 mg/ml and 180 micromol/min/mg for the native Man5A, respectively. The maximum pH and thermal stability were observed within the range of pH 4-6 and 50 degrees C and below. The pH and temperature optima and stability were relatively similar for recombinant and native Man5A. Hydrolysis of an unbranched beta-1,4-linked mannan polymer released mannose, mannobiose, and mannotriose as the main products."}
{"id": "11133467", "title": "Gene cloning and functional characterization by heterologous expression of the fructosyltransferase of Aspergillus sydowi IAM 2544.", "content": "Gene cloning and functional characterization by heterologous expression of the fructosyltransferase of Aspergillus sydowi IAM 2544. We have purified a fructosyltransferase from conidia of the inulin-producing fungus Aspergillus sydowi IAM 2544 and obtained peptide sequences from proteolytic fragments of the protein. With degenerated primers, we amplified a PCR fragment that was used to screen a cDNA library. The fructosyltransferase gene from Aspergillus sydowi (EMBL accession no. AJ289046) is expressed in conidia, while no expression could be detected in mycelia by Northern blot analysis of mycelial RNA. The gene encodes a protein with a calculated molecular mass of 75 kDa that is different from all fructosyltransferases in the databases. The only homology that could be detected was to the invertase of Aspergillus niger (EMBL accession no. L06844). The gene was functionally expressed in Escherichia coli, yeast, and potato plants. With protein extracts from transgenic bacteria and yeast, fructooligosaccharides could be produced in vitro. In transgenic potato plants, inulin molecules of up to 40 hexose units were synthesized in vivo. While in vitro experiments with protein extracts from conidia of Aspergillus sydowi yielded the same pattern of oligosaccharides as extracts from transformed bacteria and yeast, in vivo inulin synthesis with fungal conidia leads to the production of a high-molecular-weight polymer."}
{"id": "12548939", "title": "[Characterization and transformation of anti-FOA strain of Aspergillus awamori].", "content": "[Characterization and transformation of anti-FOA strain of Aspergillus awamori]. A suspension of freshly harvested spores of Aspergillus awamori SG1 strain was exposed to UV light. The irradiated spores with survival rate of 10%-15% were plated directly on minimal medium (MM) agar plates containing 10 mmol/L uridine and 5-fluoro-orotic acid (FOA 1 mg/mL). Five stable anti-FOA colonies with the reversed rate below 10(-9) were obtained. All anti-FOA strains, can grow on uridine or uricil-containing minimal medium agar plate but not on orotic acid-containing MM plate, indicating that the mutation happened in the URA3 gene. Northern blotting analysis showed that the mutation of URA3 gene could not be transcribed and it was confirmed by RT-PCR. With modified PEG-mediated protoplast transformation method the wild URA3 gene could complement the ura3 mutant strain SA5 to wild type. Southern blotting of the transformant indicated the wild RUA3 gene replaced the mutated ura3 gene."}
{"id": "11429016", "title": "Microbiological diagnosis of invasive fungal infections in transplant recipients.", "content": "Microbiological diagnosis of invasive fungal infections in transplant recipients. Invasive fungal infections remain an important cause of morbidity and mortality in transplant recipients. Since conventional diagnostic tools such as culture lack sensitivity and specificity, alternative diagnostic assays have been developed. Among the most promising techniques are the detection of fungal DNA and serology. Fungal DNA can be detected with high sensitivity and specificity when performed with specimens from sterile sites such as blood. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays can be used to detect a broad range of fungal pathogens and combined with species identification. Multicenter diagnostic studies are needed to establish the diagnostic value of PCR but lack of standardization hampers such studies. The serodiagnosis of invasive fungal infections has become an important tool in the management of invasive fungal infections. Especially the detection of circulating galactomannan has been shown to be a sensitive marker for invasive aspergillosis. Both serology and PCR can be used to monitor the response to antifungal therapy. The optimal use of non-culture-based methods is in prospective screening of patients at high risk. Since the incidence of disease greatly influences the positive predictive value, screening should take place only in those patients at very high risk for invasive fungal disease."}
{"id": "11217803", "title": "Blasticidin A derivatives with highly specific inhibitory activity toward aflatoxin production in Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Blasticidin A derivatives with highly specific inhibitory activity toward aflatoxin production in Aspergillus parasiticus. Blasticidin A (1), an antibiotic, has strong inhibitory activity toward aflatoxin production by Aspergillus parasiticus. We prepared some derivatives of 1 and examined their biological activities. Among them, derivatives 3 and 4 without the tetramic acid moiety of 1 maintained inhibitory activity toward aflatoxin production, but did not show antifungal activity or toxicity. RT-PCR experiments indicated that derivatives 3 and 4 as well as 1 significantly reduced the expression of genes encoding aflatoxin biosynthetic enzymes (pksA, ver-1 and omtA) and a regulatory gene (aflR) in A. parasiticus. These results suggested that derivatives 3 and 4 can inhibit aflatoxin production more specifically than 1 by inhibiting an early step prior to the expression of aflR in the pathway of aflatoxin biosynthesis."}
{"id": "11211316", "title": "Secondary infections of AIDS autopsy cases in Japan with special emphasis on Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare complex infection.", "content": "Secondary infections of AIDS autopsy cases in Japan with special emphasis on Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare complex infection. In order to study the frequency of secondary infections of AIDS autopsy cases in Japan, especially the frequency of Mycobacterium aviumintracellulare complex (MAC) infection, retrospective autopsy study was conducted between 1986 and 1997 at the affiliated hospital of Institute of Medical Sciences, University of Tokyo. Secondary infections of various organs from 43 AIDS autopsy cases were examined using histopathology, genetic diagnosis of tuberculosis, Ziehl-Neelsen stain for acid-fast bacilli and immunohistochemistry. Nontuberculous mycobacterial infection (Mycobacterium avium) was observed in 17 cases (40%) out of 43 using polymerase chain reaction (PCR), but M. tuberculosis infection was not observed. Ziehl-Neelsen staining showed a positive reaction in lung and spleen tissues of 7 AIDS autopsy cases. Immunohistochemistry using anti-BCG antibody revealed positivity in 7 AIDS autopsy cases. CD4 counts of 17 AIDS patients with mycobacterial infection were less than 18.7/microl. Other opportunistic infections were also examined by histopathology. Secondary infections were present in every case, and these included cytomegalovirus infection (32 cases), Pneumocystis carinii (15 cases), Candida (16 cases), Aspergillus (12 cases), Cryptococcus (6 cases), Toxoplasma (6 cases), methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (3 cases), herpes virus (1 case) and Entamoeba histolytica (1 case). Malignant lymphoma was recognized in 14 cases and Kaposi's sarcoma in 6. This is the systemic report on secondary infections of AIDS autopsy cases in Japan. In diagnosis of mycobacterial infections, PCR was more useful than staining for acid-fast bacilli and immunohistochemistry. Secondary infections (especially mycobacterial infection) were closely associated with the low CD4 count."}
{"id": "11210150", "title": "Molecular cloning, overexpression, and purification of a major xylanase from Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Molecular cloning, overexpression, and purification of a major xylanase from Aspergillus oryzae. The gene encoding xylanase G2 (xynG2) was isolated from a genomic library of Aspergillus oryzae KBN616, used for making shoyu koji. The structural part of xynG2 was found to be 767 bp. The nucleotide sequence of cDNA amplified by RT-PCR showed that the open reading frame of xynG2 was interrupted by a single intron which was 71 bp in size and encoded 232 amino acids. Direct N-terminal amino acid sequencing showed that the precursor of XynG2 had a signal peptide of 44 amino acids. The predicted amino acid sequence of XynG2 has strong similarity to other family 11 xylanases from fungi. The xynG2 gene was successfully overexpressed in A. oryzae and the overpexpressed XynG2 was purified. The molecular weight of XynG2 estimated on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was 21,000. This was almost the same as the molecular weight of 20,047 calculated from the deduced amino acid sequence. The purified XynG2 showed an optimum activity at pH 6.0 and 58 degrees C. It had a Km of 5.1 mg/ml and a Vmax of 123 micromol/min/mg when birch wood xylan was used as a substrate."}
{"id": "11205570", "title": "[Infectious and metabolic nervous system complications of systemic cancer].", "content": "[Infectious and metabolic nervous system complications of systemic cancer]. To review the incidence and causes of the infections and metabolic diseases of the nervous system in patients with systemic neoplasias. Patients with immunodeficiency, particularly those with hematological neoplasias and persons treated with immunosuppressive drugs have a considerable tendency to infection due to opportunist germs. Infections of the nervous system are relatively rare (0.02%-1%) and the commonest neoplasms are lymphomas, especially those of Hodgkin type and lymphosarcomas. The most frequent infections are caused by the herpes virus, meningitis due to Listeria monocytogenes and the meningitis due to fungi (Aspergillus, Candida and Cryptococcus). Cerebral abscesses, although rarer, are relatively common and are caused by gram negative bacteria, fungi and toxoplasmosis. In recent years there has been a notable increase in the number of patients diagnosed as having progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy due to the possibility of carrying out studies to detect the DNA of the JC virus by polymerase chain reaction techniques. Empirical treatment of patients with neurological infections and systemic cancer should be started following the guidelines for immunodepressed patients. The metabolic complications of these patients are mainly due to hormone overproduction, hydroelectrolytic changes and vitamin deficits, which in general cause alterations of mental function of the confusion state type. In all patients with an infection or metabolic complication involving the nervous system, the presence of a systemic neoplasm makes it necessary to vary both the diagnostic approach and the empirical therapeutic measures taken."}
{"id": "11204354", "title": "Identification of medically important Aspergillus species by single strand conformational polymorphism (SSCP) of the PCR-amplified intergenic spacer region.", "content": "Identification of medically important Aspergillus species by single strand conformational polymorphism (SSCP) of the PCR-amplified intergenic spacer region. The amplified 5.8S RNA coding DNA with the neighbouring internal transcribed spacers ITS I and ITS II (ITS I--5.8S rDNA--ITS II) of 27 culture collection strains of Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus niger, and Aspergillus terreus were investigated by single strand conformational polymorphism (SSCP) analysis. All strains showed a polymerase gel electrophoresis (PCR) product of 0.6 kb. Separation of DNA single strands of the PCR product in an acrylamide-bisacrylamide gel containing formamide SSCP resulted in individual patterns for each of the species. A minor variability within the species A. fumigatus and A. flavus did not affect the correct species identification. The results were confirmed when investigating 55 wild strains from patients and the environment. It is concluded that the analysis of the amplified ITS I--5.8S rDNA--ITS II region by SSCP allows the differentiation of the medically most relevant aspergilli. As the method does not require morphologically fully developed fungal colonies, it yields species diagnosis faster than the conventional macroscopic and microscopic identification."}
{"id": "11204140", "title": "Non-culture based diagnostic tests for mycotic infections.", "content": "Non-culture based diagnostic tests for mycotic infections. Non-culture methods being developed and evaluated for mycotic infections include polymerase chain reaction (PCR), galactomannan (GM) antigenemia, Western blot (WB) to detect antibodies, and detection of the fungal metabolites D-arabinitol and (1,3)-beta-D-glucan. Sample preparation for PCR from blood specimens depends on fractionation of peripheral blood, its pre-incubation in blood culture broth, or a total DNA method, which does not rely on fractionation, or pre-incubation. Targets for PCR of fungi in the 18S or ITS2 subunits of the ribosomal RNA genes facilitated the design of Aspergillus and Candida genus and species probes. Amplicons were identified using PCR-enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) or reverse line-blot formats. A pilot study indicated that PCR tests on blood specimens were positive at least once in patients with confirmed invasive aspergillosis (IA). When serum-PCR and serum-GM tests were compared in IA patients, antigenemia was more often positive. PCR detected Aspergillus DNA in bronchoalveolar lavage specimens from patients at risk even when cultures were negative. D-Arabinitol can be detected as a marker of candidiasis with gas chromatography-mass spectrometry or enzyme dependent-fluorometry. Each method can differentiate the microbial D- and host L-enantiomers. (1,3)-beta-D-Glucan is produced by most genera of pathogenic fungi and can be detected in plasma by the 'G-test'. In patients with febrile neutropenia the efficacy of azole therapy correlated with plasma (1,3)-beta-D-glucan concentrations of > or = 10 pg ml(-1). The diagnosis of early acute pulmonary histoplasmosis can be improved by a WB test utilizing deglycosylated M antigen, a 94-kDa glycoprotein. The identity of M antigen as a catalase was deduced from the sequence of the cloned gene. PCR identification of Histoplasma capsulatum cultures was accomplished with primer pairs selected from H and M antigen gene sequences."}
{"id": "11168048", "title": "Characterization of a possible nosocomial aspergillosis outbreak.", "content": "Characterization of a possible nosocomial aspergillosis outbreak. To study the epidemiologic aspects of a suspected outbreak of nosocomial invasive aspergillosis. Sixteen Aspergillus fumigatus strains were isolated from bronchoalveolar washings or sputa of 10 patients during a 9-month period. Furthermore, two environmental samples, isolated in a microbiological screening of the hospital, were also available for analysis. Random amplified polymorphic DNA analysis (RAPD) was carried out. The analysis performed by RAPD clearly demonstrated substantial genetic variation among the isolates. Both of the two different primers selected for RAPD analysis (R-108 and AP12h) were able to demonstrate that the strains isolated from all patients infected with the same fungal species and the environmental samples were genotypically distinct. The results by RAPD typing demonstrated that this technique could detect variability among isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus from different patients and even from the same patient. RAPD genotyping proved that the outbreak of invasive aspergillosis consisted of a series of events, non-related, and probably not coming from the same source within the hospital. This type of analysis is an easy, quick and highly discriminatory technique that may help in planning epidemiologic studies of aspergillosis."}
{"id": "11139027", "title": "P. nalgiovense carries a gene which is homologous to the paf gene of P. chrysogenum which codes for an antifungal peptide.", "content": "P. nalgiovense carries a gene which is homologous to the paf gene of P. chrysogenum which codes for an antifungal peptide. Penicillium nalgiovense is related to P. chrysogenum. P. chrysogenum carries the paf gene (Penicillium antifungal peptide) with homology to the afp gene of Aspergillus giganteus. This gene codes for a peptide with antifungal activity. Based on the sequence of the published P. chrysogenum paf gene primers were generated. By the use of these primers a PCR product of the expected length could be isolated from strains of P. nalgiovense. This fragment was sequenced and compared to the sequence of the paf gene of P. chrysogenum. According to the results P. nalgiovense carries a gene (naf = P. nalgiovense antifungal peptide) which is highly homologous to the paf gene of P. chrysogenum. The gene also codes for a preproprotein with the same processing sites as the paf gene, suggesting that the mature product is also a 55 amino acid (aa) peptide. The naf gene has three amino acid exchanges compared to the paf gene, which however do not influence the amino acid sequence of the mature peptide. It also carries two introns at the same positions, however, the sequence differences between the introns are higher than between the coding regions. When P. nalgiovense were grown on plates containing other food-relevant fungi it showed weak antifungal activity."}
{"id": "11126119", "title": "5' RACE by tailing a general template-switching oligonucleotide.", "content": "5' RACE by tailing a general template-switching oligonucleotide."}
{"id": "11123677", "title": "The abaA homologue of Penicillium marneffei participates in two developmental programmes: conidiation and dimorphic growth.", "content": "The abaA homologue of Penicillium marneffei participates in two developmental programmes: conidiation and dimorphic growth. Penicillium marneffei is the only known species of its genus that is dimorphic. At 25 degrees C, P. marneffei exhibits true filamentous growth and undergoes asexual development producing spores borne on complex structures called conidiophores. At 37 degrees C, P. marneffei undergoes a dimorphic transition to produce uninucleate yeast cells that divide by fission. We have cloned a homologue of the Aspergillus nidulans abaA gene encoding an ATTS/TEA DNA-binding domain transcriptional regulator and shown that it is involved in both these developmental programs. Targeted deletion of abaA blocks asexual development at 25 degrees C before spore production, resulting in aberrant conidiophores with reiterated terminal cells. At 37 degrees C, the abaA deletion strain fails to switch correctly from multinucleate filamentous to uninucleate yeast cells. Both the transitional hyphal cells, which produce the yeast cells, and the yeast cells themselves contain multiple nuclei. Expression of the abaA gene is activated during both conidiation and the hyphal-yeast switch. Interestingly, the abaA gene of the filamentous monomorphic fungus A. nidulans can complement both conidiation and dimorphic switching defects in the P. marneffei abaA mutant. In addition, ectopic overexpression of abaA results in anucleate yeast cells and multinucleate vegetative filamentous cells. These data suggest that abaA regulates cell cycle events and morphogenesis in two distinct developmental programmes."}
{"id": "11122112", "title": "Prospective screening by a panfungal polymerase chain reaction assay in patients at risk for fungal infections: implications for the management of febrile neutropenia.", "content": "Prospective screening by a panfungal polymerase chain reaction assay in patients at risk for fungal infections: implications for the management of febrile neutropenia. Invasive fungal infections are a major cause of mortality in neutropenic cancer patients. To determine whether a polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based assay enabled the identification of patients at risk for invasive fungal infections, a prospective monitoring once per week was performed during 92 neutropenic episodes in patients receiving chemotherapy for acute leukaemia or high-dose therapy followed by allogeneic or autologous stem cell transplantation, with the investigators blinded to clinical and microbiological data. PCR positivity was documented in 34 out of 92 risk episodes. All patients developing proven invasive fungal infection were found PCR positive, and PCR was found to be the earliest indicator of invasive fungal infection preceding clinical evidence by a mean of 5.75 d (range 0-14 d). In febrile neutropenic patients without a prior history of invasive fungal infection, a sensitivity of 100% and a specificity of 73% of the PCR assay for the development of proven or probable invasive fungal infection was documented. In conclusion, panfungal PCR performed prospectively once a week enabled the identification of patients at high risk for invasive fungal infections."}
{"id": "11100830", "title": "Molecular characterization and influence on fungal development of ALP2, a novel serine proteinase from Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Molecular characterization and influence on fungal development of ALP2, a novel serine proteinase from Aspergillus fumigatus. A novel subtilisin-related serine proteinase (ALP2) [EC 3.4.21.48] with a broad range of activity between pH 4.5 and 11.0 was released from a cell wall fraction of Aspergillus fumigatus by an alkaline pH shift. The enzyme which was not detected in the culture supernatant was partially purified by phenylbutylamine agarose chromatography. The N-terminal sequence revealed that ALP2 is the same protein identified as the major allergen of A. fumigatus in patients suffering from extrinsic bronchial asthma (Shen et al. 1999, Int. Arch. Allergy Immunol. 119, 259-264). Based on this N-terminal sequence and on a conserved region of fungal subtilisins, a specific PCR probe was generated and the ALP2 genomic and cDNA were isolated from corresponding phage libraries. ALP2 shares a 49% identity with the vacuolar proteinase B (PrB) of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In addition there is a 78% identity with PEPC, a serine proteinase which has been described in Aspergillus niger. Targeted disruption of the ALP2-encoding gene resulted in a slightly decreased speed of vegetative growth and in a more than 80% reduction of sporulation in the alp2-negative mutants, correlated with an approximately 50% reduction of the median diameter of conidiophore vesicles. The requirement of ALP2 for regular sporulation, in addition to its role in allergic asthma, raises further interest in cellular proteinases in respect to morphogenesis and pathogenesis in A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "11090263", "title": "Development of a fungus-specific PCR assay for detecting low-level fungi in an indoor environment.", "content": "Development of a fungus-specific PCR assay for detecting low-level fungi in an indoor environment. A fungus-specific PCR assay using only one primer set has been developed for detecting indoor fungi. Four fungal primer sets, NS3/NS4, NS5/NS6, FF1/FR1 and FF2/FR1, were tested with DNA from humans, rats, mice, bacteria, pollens and six commonly found fungal species (Alternaria chamydospora, Aspergillus flavus, Candida famata, Cladosporium fermentans, Penicillium chrycoIgenum and Stachybotrys chartarum). Results indicated that, although all four primer sets could amplify the fungal DNA, only FF2/FR1 demonstrated no cross-amplification with non-fungal DNA. In addition, these amplified fragments were sequenced to ensure that they indeed matched known fungal DNA sequences. Furthermore, besides the tested fungi, eighteen more genera of fungal sequences were examined and found to match the FF2/FR1. Here, the method of bead-beating was identified as the most effective way for spore breakage and fungal DNA release. The PCR amplification efficiency and potential inhibition were examined using different process solutions and preparation procedures. It was found that, when using 20% nutrient media and homogenization-first procedure, a higher amplification efficiency with less inhibition was achieved. Although positive bands were observed at 0.2 fungal spore/reaction using the homogenization-first procedure, the sensitivity of this assay would be two fungal spores/reaction for environmental samples."}
{"id": "11085267", "title": "sconC, a gene involved in the regulation of sulphur metabolism in Aspergillus nidulans, belongs to the SKP1 gene family.", "content": "sconC, a gene involved in the regulation of sulphur metabolism in Aspergillus nidulans, belongs to the SKP1 gene family. sconC, which encodes a negative regulator of sulphur metabolism in Aspergillus nidulans was cloned, sequenced, and found to belong to the highly conserved family of SKP1 genes essential for many cell functions, including cell cycle regulation. The ORF of 722 bp, encoding a protein of 161 amino acids, is interrupted by four introns. There is a fifth intron (135 bp long) in the upstream untranslated sequence. Two point mutations in conserved regions were identified in the mutant alleles sconC3 and sconC1, which result in relief of sulphur metabolite repression. The SCONC protein contains the PEST sequence common for proteins that are subject to rapid turnover. Transformation of the sconC3 mutant with sconB+ restores the wild-type phenotype. The sconB gene encodes a protein containing the F-box, a domain known to interact with Skp1 proteins. By analogy with other systems, it seems likely that the SCONC protein interacts with SCONB. sconC mRNA is present in the sconC3 and sconB2 mutants and the level of the sconC transcript seems not to be significantly regulated by supplementation of the medium with sulphur."}
{"id": "11071951", "title": "A rapid method for efficient gene replacement in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "A rapid method for efficient gene replacement in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. The construction of mutant fungal strains is often limited by the poor efficiency of homologous recombination in these organisms. Higher recombination efficiencies can be obtained by increasing the length of homologous DNA flanking the transformation marker, although this is a tedious process when standard molecular biology techniques are used for the construction of gene replacement cassettes. Here, we present a two-step technology which takes advantage of an Escherichia coli strain expressing the phage lambda Red(gam, bet, exo) functions and involves (i) the construction in this strain of a recombinant cosmid by in vivo recombination between a cosmid carrying a genomic region of interest and a PCR-generated transformation marker flanked by 50 bp regions of homology with the target DNA and (ii) genetic exchange in the fungus itself between the chromosomal locus and the circular or linearized recombinant cosmid. This strategy enables the rapid establishment of mutant strains carrying gene knock-outs with efficiencies >50%. It should also be appropriate for the construction of fungal strains with gene fusions or promoter replacements."}
{"id": "11060088", "title": "Panfungal PCR and multiplex liquid hybridization for detection of fungi in tissue specimens.", "content": "Panfungal PCR and multiplex liquid hybridization for detection of fungi in tissue specimens. A procedure based on panfungal PCR and multiplex liquid hybridization was developed for the detection of fungi in tissue specimens. The PCR amplified the fungal internal transcribed spacer (ITS) region (ITS1-5.8S rRNA-ITS2). After capture with specific probes, eight common fungal pathogens (Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus fumigatus, Candida albicans, Candida krusei, Candida glabrata, Candida parapsilosis, Candida tropicalis, and Cryptococcus neoformans) were identified according to the size of the amplification product on an automated sequencer. The nonhybridized products were identified by sequencing. The performance of the procedure was examined with 12 deep-tissue specimens and 8 polypous tissue biopsies from the paranasal sinuses. A detection level of 0.1 to 1 pg of purified DNA (2 to 20 CFU) was achieved. Of the 20 specimens, PCR was positive for 19 (95%), of which 10 (53%) were hybridization positive. In comparison, 12 (60%) of the specimens were positive by direct microscopy, but only 7 (35%) of the specimens showed fungal growth. Sequencing of the nonhybridized amplification products identified an infecting agent in six specimens, and three specimens yielded only sequences of unknown fungal origin. The procedure provides a rapid (within 2 days) detection of common fungal pathogens in tissue specimens, and it is highly versatile for the identification of other fungal pathogens."}
{"id": "11057445", "title": "Sulfate assimilation in Aspergillus terreus: analysis of genes encoding ATP-sulfurylase and PAPS-reductase.", "content": "Sulfate assimilation in Aspergillus terreus: analysis of genes encoding ATP-sulfurylase and PAPS-reductase. Two genes for the sulfate assimilation pathway in Aspergillus terreus were cloned. The genes sAT (coding for PAPS-reductase) and sCT (coding for ATP-sulfurylase) form a small gene cluster. Both genes are similar to their homologs in A. nidulans (sA and sC), Penicillium chrysogenum (aps) and Saccharomyces cerevisiae (MET3 and MET16). In the coding sequence of the sCT gene, a typical non-functional APS-kinase-like domain is present. The sCT gene is expressed in A. nidulans, but its expression there is less sensitive to methionine level than in the original species. Two regions 5' upstream of sAT were found to be similar to those of sA."}
{"id": "11035584", "title": "Primary pulmonary mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma with associated fungal ball in a patient with human immunodeficiency virus infection.", "content": "Primary pulmonary mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma with associated fungal ball in a patient with human immunodeficiency virus infection. We describe a case of primary mucosa-associated lymphoid tissue lymphoma of the lung in a 44-year-old man with human immunodeficiency virus. Low-grade pulmonary lymphomas in human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients are rare and are described most commonly in pediatric patients. The gross, histologic, and molecular features of this unusual case are described."}
{"id": "11031343", "title": "Evidence for the involvement of two different MHC class II regions in susceptibility or protection in allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis.", "content": "Evidence for the involvement of two different MHC class II regions in susceptibility or protection in allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis. Allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) is a disease with uncertain pathology. Studies have suggested a pathogenic role for T(H)2 cells. Previously, we demonstrated, in a small group of patients, that T(H)2 reactivity to a major Aspergillus fumigatus antigen was restricted by HLA-DR2 or HLA-DR5 alleles. We sought to confirm whether susceptibility to ABPA is exclusively associated with HLA-DR locus and to investigate the involvement of HLA-DQ genes in the development of ABPA. Genomic DNA was extracted from patients with ABPA, patients without ABPA but with positive A fumigatus skin test responses and asthma or cystic fibrosis, and healthy control subjects. HLA-DR and HLA-DQ genes were detected by using low-resolution typing; high-resolution typing was done only on HLA-DR2- and HLA-DR5-positive individuals by using sequence-specific primers (PCR-SSP). A significantly higher frequency of HLA-DR2 was observed in patients with ABPA versus those without ABPA (corrected P <.01) or healthy control subjects (corrected P <.01). Genotype analysis revealed that susceptibility to ABPA is associated with HLA-DR2 alleles DRB1*1503 and DRB1*1501 and, to a lesser extent, with the HLA-DR5 allele DRB1*1104. The presence of DR4 or DR7 alleles in non-DR2/5 patients with ABPA suggests that these alleles may also be contributing factors in this disease. Another striking observation was the significantly high frequency of HLA-DQ2 in patients without ABPA (67. 4%) compared with patients with ABPA (20.5%) and normal control subjects (37.7%), suggesting that these alleles may confer protection in the population without ABPA. These genetic studies suggest that HLA-DR molecules DR2, DR5, and possibly DR4 or DR7 contribute to susceptibility while HLA-DQ2 contributes to resistance and that a combination of these genetic elements determines the outcome of ABPA in patients with cystic fibrosis and asthma."}
{"id": "11023720", "title": "Aspergillus terreus infections in haematological malignancies: molecular epidemiology suggests association with in-hospital plants.", "content": "Aspergillus terreus infections in haematological malignancies: molecular epidemiology suggests association with in-hospital plants. During a three-year period nine patients with haematological diseases after myeloablative chemotherapy died from invasive fungal infections caused by Aspergillus terreus. The hospital inanimate environment was monitored and A. terreus was cultured from potted plants in the vicinity of the patients. The patients (N = 14) and the environmental isolates (N = 2) were fingerprinted by RAPD-PCR with four different primers. Based on RAPD patterns the patients' isolates were differentiated into five different types; the environmental isolates represented two types. The isolates of four patients were identical to those found in the environment. Five additional patients were infected by RAPD types not found in the environment. One patient was infected with two different types. The data indicate a hospital-acquired infection in many of the patients and underline the need for careful environmental monitoring of units in which high-risk patients are housed."}
{"id": "11015412", "title": "Comparison between plasma and whole blood specimens for detection of Aspergillus DNA by PCR.", "content": "Comparison between plasma and whole blood specimens for detection of Aspergillus DNA by PCR. Ninety-six plasma and whole blood specimens from nine selected patients were analyzed for the presence of Aspergillus DNA. Nineteen specimens from three patients with proven aspergillosis were PCR positive in both materials, whereas an additional 22 were PCR positive in whole blood only. All 36 samples from six patients without signs of aspergillosis were negative in both assays. We conclude that although plasma and whole blood spiked with Aspergillus conidia showed an identical lower detection limit (10 CFU), the sensitivity of plasma PCR was lower than that of PCR performed on whole blood samples."}
{"id": "11015393", "title": "Development of a PCR-based line probe assay for identification of fungal pathogens.", "content": "Development of a PCR-based line probe assay for identification of fungal pathogens. We report on a reverse-hybridization line probe assay (LiPA) which when combined with PCR amplification detects and identifies clinically significant fungal pathogens including Candida, Aspergillus, and Cryptococcus species. DNA probes have been designed from the internal transcribed-spacer (ITS) regions of Candida albicans, Candida parapsilosis, Candida glabrata, Candida tropicalis, Candida krusei, Candida dubliniensis, Cryptococcus neoformans, Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus versicolor, Aspergillus nidulans and Aspergillus flavus. The probes were incorporated into a LiPA for detection of biotinylated ITS PCR products, and the specificity of the probes was evaluated. We established LiPA detection limits for ITS 1 and for full ITS amplicons for genomic DNA from C. albicans, A. fumigatus, and C. neoformans. Further evaluation of the LiPA was carried out on clinical fungal isolates. One hundred twenty-seven isolates consisting of dimorphic yeasts and dermatophytic and filamentous fungi were tested by the LiPA, which correctly identified 77 dimorphic yeasts and 23 of the filamentous isolates; the remaining 27 isolates represented species of fungi for which probes were not included in the LiPA. The fungal-PCR-LiPA technology was applied to blood samples inoculated with Candida cells which were pretreated by minibead beating to mechanically disrupt the cells, with the DNA extracted by either a previously described guanidium thiocyanate-silica method or the commercially available QIAmp tissue kit. PCR amplification of the extracted DNA and subsequent DNA probe hybridization in the LiPA assay yielded detection limits of 2 to 10 cells/ml. An internal standard control was included in the PCR amplification to monitor for PCR inhibition. This fungal PCR-LiPA assay is robust and sensitive and can easily be integrated into a clinical-testing laboratory with the potential for same-day diagnosis of fungal infection."}
{"id": "11004483", "title": "Characterization of two putative histone deacetylase genes from Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Characterization of two putative histone deacetylase genes from Aspergillus nidulans. In eukaryotic organisms, acetylation of core histones plays a key role in the regulation of transcription. Multiple histone acetyltransferases (HATs) and histone deacetylases (HDACs) maintain a dynamic equilibrium of histone acetylation. The latter form a highly conserved protein family in many eukaryotic species. In this paper, we report the cloning and sequencing of two putative histone deacetylase genes (rpdA, hosA) of Aspergillus nidulans, which are the first to be analyzed from filamentous fungi. Hybridization with a chromosome-specific cosmid library of A. nidulans allowed the localization of rpdA to chromosome III and hosA to chromosome II, respectively. PCR analyses and Southern hybridization experiments revealed that no further members of the RPD3 family are present in the genome of the fungus. Although sequence alignment displays significant amino acid similarity to other eukaryotic RPD3-type deacetylases, the deduced RPDA sequence reveals an unusual 200-amino acid extension at the C-terminus. Expression of both genes was determined by RNA blot analysis. Treatment of the cells with trichostatin A (TSA), a potent inhibitor of HDACs, was found to stimulate expression of rpdA of A. nidulans."}
{"id": "10993142", "title": "Cloning and heterologous expression of gene encoding A polygalacturonase from Aspergillus awamori.", "content": "Cloning and heterologous expression of gene encoding A polygalacturonase from Aspergillus awamori. A polygalacturonase gene of Aspergillus awamori IFO 4033 was cloned by genomic Southern hybridization with a probe of a DNA fragment synthesized by PCR. This was done using primers constructed based on the N-terminal amino acid sequence of a polygalacturonase, protopectinase-AS, produced by the strain and the consensus internal amino acid sequence of fungal polygalacturonases. The cloned polygalacturonase gene, containing an ORF, encodes 362 amino acids, including a 52-bp intron. It contains the consensus nucleotide sequence of PacC binding sites, and its expression was appeared to be regulated by ambient pH. After the intron was excised, the cloned gene was inserted into an expression plasmid for yeast, pMA91, and introduced into Saccharomyces cerevisiae to be expressed. The expressed gene product was purified to a homogeneous preparation, and this confirmed that the polygalacturonase produced was the product of the cloned gene."}
{"id": "10977899", "title": "Overexpression of protein disulfide isomerase in Aspergillus.", "content": "Overexpression of protein disulfide isomerase in Aspergillus. One of the major problems with the production of biotechnologically valuable proteins has been the purification of the product. For Escherichia coli and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, there are several techniques for the purification of intracellular proteins, but these are time consuming and often result in poor yields. Purification can be considerably facilitated, if the product is secreted from the host cell. In the work presented, we have constructed an expression vector (pSGNH2) for the secretion of protein disulfide isomerase (PDI; EC 5.3.4.1) from Aspergillus niger, in which the retention signal His-Asp-Glu-Leu (H-D-E-L) was modified to Ala-Leu-Glu-Gln (A-L-E-Q) via the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method. The PDI gene was placed under the control of the A. oryzae alpha-amylase promoter. This expression vector was transformed into A. niger NRRL3, resulting in PDI secretion into the medium. The catalytic activity of overexpressed PDI from A. niger was indistinguishable from that of PDI isolated from bovine liver. With further strain improvement and optimization of culture conditions, it could be possible to raise the PDI production to the bioprocessing scale."}
{"id": "10975701", "title": "A new PCR primer for the identification of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis based on rRNA sequences coding the internal transcribed spacers (ITS) and 5 x 8S regions.", "content": "A new PCR primer for the identification of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis based on rRNA sequences coding the internal transcribed spacers (ITS) and 5 x 8S regions. Internal transcribed spacer (ITS) genes including the 5.8S ribosomal (r)RNA of Paracoccidioides brasiliensis were amplified and the DNA sequences were determined. Based on a comparison of the sequence information, a new polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primer pair was designed for specific amplification of DNA for P. brasiliensis. This primer pair amplified a 418-bp DNA sequence and was 100% successful in identifying 29 strains of P. brasiliensis (including the reference strains) isolated from the regions of Brazil, Costa Rica, Japan, Argentina or from different sources. The results of specificity tests of these primers to compare the fungus with those of Aspergillus fumigatus, Blastomyces dermatitidis, Candida albicans, Cryptococcus neoformans, Histoplasma capsulatum and Penicillium marneffei are also reported."}
{"id": "10974561", "title": "Characterization of the class I alpha-mannosidase gene family in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Characterization of the class I alpha-mannosidase gene family in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. We describe the cloning and sequence characterization of three Class I alpha-1,2-mannosidase genes from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans. We used degenerate PCR primers to amplify a portion of the alpha-1,2-mannosidase IA gene and used the PCR fragment to isolate the 2495 nt genomic gene plus several hundred bases of flanking region. Putative introns were confirmed by RT-PCR. Coding regions of the genomic sequence were used to identify two additional members of the gene family by BLAST search of the A. nidulans EST sequencing database. Specific PCR primers were designed to amplify portions of these genes which were used to isolate the genomic sequences. The 1619 nt coding region of the alpha-1,2-mannosidase IB gene and the 1759 nt coding region of the alpha-1,2-mannosidase IC gene, plus flanking regions, were fully sequenced. All three genes appeared to encode type-II transmembrane proteins that are typical of Class I alpha-1,2-mannosidases. The deduced protein sequences were aligned with 11 published Class I alpha-1, 2-mannosidases to determine sequence relationships. All three genes exhibited high similarity to other fungal alpha-1,2-mannosidases. The alpha-1,2-mannosidase IB exhibited very high similarity to the Aspergillus satoi and Penicillium citrinum alpha-1,2-mannosidases and likely represents an orthologue of these genes. Phylogenetic analysis suggests that the three A. nidulans Class I alpha-1, 2-mannosidases arose from duplication events that occurred after the divergence of fungi from animals and insects. This is the first report of the existence of multiple Class I mannosidases in a single fungal species."}
{"id": "10958971", "title": "Use of PCR analysis for detecting low levels of bacteria and mold contamination in pharmaceutical samples.", "content": "Use of PCR analysis for detecting low levels of bacteria and mold contamination in pharmaceutical samples. PCR assays were developed and compared to standard methods for quality evaluation of pharmaceutical raw materials and finished products with low levels of microbial contamination. Samples were artificially contaminated with less than 10 CFU of Escherichia coli, Staphylococcus aureus, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, and Aspergillus niger. Bacterial DNA was extracted from each enrichment broth by mild lysis in Tris-EDTA-Tween 20 buffer containing proteinase K while mold DNA was extracted by boiling samples in Tris-EDTA-SDS buffer for 1 h. A 10-microl aliquot of extracted DNA was added to Ready-To-Go PCR beads and specific primers for E. coli, S. aureus, and P. aeruginosa. However, 50-microl aliquots of extracted mold DNA were used for amplification of specific A. niger DNA sequences. Standard methods required 6-8 days while PCR detection of all microorganisms was completed within 27 h. Low levels of microbial contamination were detected in all raw materials and products using PCR assays. Rapid quality evaluation of pharmaceutical samples resulted in optimization of product manufacturing, quality control, and release of finished products."}
{"id": "10952006", "title": "Molecular cloning and characterization of a gene encoding glutaminase from Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Molecular cloning and characterization of a gene encoding glutaminase from Aspergillus oryzae. A glutaminase from Aspergillus oryzae was purified and its molecular weight was determined to be 82,091 by matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry. Purified glutaminase catalysed the hydrolysis not only of L-glutamine but also of D-glutamine. Both the molecular weight and the substrate specificity of this glutaminase were different from those reported previously [Yano et al. (1998) J Ferment Technol 66: 137-143]. On the basis of its internal amino acid sequences, we have isolated and characterized the glutaminase gene (gtaA) from A. oryzae. The gtaA gene had an open reading frame coding for 690 amino acid residues, including a signal peptide of 20 amino acid residues and a mature protein of 670 amino acid residues. In the 5'-flanking region of the gene, there were three putative CreAp binding sequences and one putative AreAp binding sequence. The gtaA structural gene was introduced into A. oryzae NS4 and a marked increase in activity was detected in comparison with the control strain. The gtaA gene was also isolated from Aspergillus nidulans on the basis of the determined nucleotide sequence of the gtaA gene from A. oryzae."}
{"id": "10932351", "title": "Molecular analysis of variability within the toxigenic Aspergillus ochraceus species.", "content": "Molecular analysis of variability within the toxigenic Aspergillus ochraceus species. Genetic variability of Aspergillus ochraceus was examined at the DNA level. Based on the HaeIII-Bg/II generated mitochondrial DNA restriction profiles, most isolates could be classified into two distinct groups. These two groups could also be distinguished by the random amplified polymorphic DNA technique, and with telomeric PCR amplifications. Phylogenetic analysis of sequences of the intergenic transcribed spacer region of some of the strains resulted in a dendrogram with the same topology as that based on mitochondrial DNA and amplified DNA data. None of the isolates with type 2 mtDNA profiles produce ochratoxins. Some strains (e.g., A. ochraceus ICMP 939) displayed strain-specific mitochondrial DNA patterns, and their amplified DNA profiles were also different from all other A. ochraceus strains examined."}
{"id": "10930731", "title": "Cloning and sequencing of the triacylglycerol lipase gene of Aspergillus oryzae and its expression in Escherichia coli.", "content": "Cloning and sequencing of the triacylglycerol lipase gene of Aspergillus oryzae and its expression in Escherichia coli. Aspergillus oryzae produces at least three extracellular lipolytic enzymes, L1, L2 and L3 (cutinase, mono- and diacylglycerol lipase, and triacylglycerol lipase, respectively). We cloned the triacylglycerol lipase gene (provisionally designated tglA) by screening a genomic library using a PCR product obtained with two degenerate oligonucleotide primers corresponding to amino acid sequences of L3 as probes. Nucleotide sequencing of the genomic DNA and cDNA revealed that the L3 gene (tglA) has an open reading frame comprising 954 nucleotides, which contains three introns of 47, 83 and 62 bp. The deduced amino acid sequence of the tglA gene corresponds to 254 amino acid residues including a signal sequence of 30 amino acids and, in spite of the difference in substrate specificity, it is homologous to those of cutinases from fungi. Three residues presumed to form the catalytic triad, Ser, Asp and His, are conserved. The cloned cDNA of the tglA gene was expressed in Escherichia coli, and enzyme assaying and zymography revealed that the cloned cDNA encodes a functional triacylglycerol lipase."}
{"id": "10921948", "title": "Rapid detection and identification of Candida, Aspergillus, and Fusarium species in ocular samples using nested PCR.", "content": "Rapid detection and identification of Candida, Aspergillus, and Fusarium species in ocular samples using nested PCR. A protocol for the rapid detection of fungal DNA in ocular samples, derived from three species, Candida albicans, Aspergillus fumigatus, and Fusarium solani, has been developed. Two novel panfungal primers complementary to 18S rRNA sequences present in all three species were designed. Panfungal PCR was followed by three nested PCRs utilizing species-specific primers. PCR sensitivity ranged from 50 to 100 fg of free DNA and between one and two C. albicans organisms. In addition, we also developed a rapid and reliable DNA extraction protocol. This protocol minimized DNA loss during extraction, whilst removing compounds from vitreous and aqueous fluids that have previously been shown to have inhibitory effects on PCR. Preliminary results obtained after testing the protocol on three patient samples support culture results and medical history. However, one patient was PCR positive but culture negative, suggesting that the sensitivity of this protocol may exceed that of traditional culture techniques. This system, therefore, constitutes an additional protocol that may significantly aid patient management in cases where fungal endophthalmitis is suspected."}
{"id": "10913868", "title": "Cloning and characterisation of a chitin synthase gene cDNA from the cultivated mushroom Agaricus bisporus and its expression during morphogenesis.", "content": "Cloning and characterisation of a chitin synthase gene cDNA from the cultivated mushroom Agaricus bisporus and its expression during morphogenesis. Full-length cDNA of a chitin synthase gene (chs1) was cloned from Agaricus bisporus by screening a cDNA library with a PCR amplified fragment of the chitin synthase gene. The chs1 contains an open reading frame of 2727 bp encoding a polypeptide of 909 amino acids and deduced molecular mass 102.3 kDa and pI 8.23. The central region of chs1 showed strong homology to other fungal chitin synthase genes with seven conserved domains. It belongs to the chitin synthase class III, analogous to chsB from Aspergillus nidulans, chsC and chsG from A. fumigatus and chs-1 from Neurospora crassa. It appears to be fruit body induced as the transcripts were higher in the developing mushroom compared to any mycelial stage."}
{"id": "10908023", "title": "SPECT thallium-201 combined with Toxoplasma serology for the presumptive diagnosis of focal central nervous system mass lesions in patients with AIDS.", "content": "SPECT thallium-201 combined with Toxoplasma serology for the presumptive diagnosis of focal central nervous system mass lesions in patients with AIDS. To determine the utility of brain thallium-201 single photon emission computerized tomography (Tl-201 SPECT) combined with Toxoplasma serology for the diagnosis of focal CNS lesions in patients with AIDS. Sixty-one consecutive HIV-infected patients with focal CNS lesion(s) on head computed tomography (CT) or MRI scan who underwent brain Tl-201 SPECT and serum Toxoplasma serology were evaluated, retrospectively. Thallium-201 uptake ratios were calculated by comparing lesion activity to contralateral scalp activity. Diagnoses were made by a combination of histology, serology, PCR, and empirical response to therapy. Toxoplasma serologies (IgG IFA) were compared in the patients with central nervous system (CNS) toxoplasmosis and those without CNS toxoplasmosis. Fifty-six patients were evaluable and a definitive diagnosis was made in 38 patients: toxoplasmosis (17), lymphoma (14), PML (three), Aspergillus (one), tuberculoma (one), Cryptococcus (one), varicella-zoster virus (one). Patients with lymphoma had significantly higher lesion/contralateral scalp ratios compared to patients without lymphoma: 1.03 vs. 0.67, P < 0.05. Using a cut-off of 0.90 for the lesion/scalp uptake ratios (based on analysis of ROC curves) the sensitivity and specificity for the diagnosis of lymphoma were 86% and 83%, respectively. Serum Toxoplasma IgG titres were significantly higher in patients diagnosed with toxoplasmosis compared to those with a diagnosis other than toxoplasmosis, 1:5444 vs. 1:15, P < 0.05. Only one patient with confirmed toxoplasmosis had a Toxoplasma serology < 1:256, while no patients without toxoplasmosis (including all lymphoma patients) had serologies > 1:256. In a series of HIV-infected patients, Tl-201 SPECT was able to accurately differentiate primary brain lymphoma from other causes of focal CNS lesions in most patients; however, both false positive and false negative results occurred. By combining Tl-201 SPECT with serum Toxoplasma IgG, diagnostic accuracy was improved."}
{"id": "10905429", "title": "Glucose dependent transcriptional expression of the cre1 gene in Acremonium chrysogenum strains showing different levels of cephalosporin C production.", "content": "Glucose dependent transcriptional expression of the cre1 gene in Acremonium chrysogenum strains showing different levels of cephalosporin C production. The cre1 gene from the beta-lactam producer Acremonium chrysogenum has been isolated and characterized in order to study glucose-dependent gene expression in this biotechnically important fungus. The deduced protein sequence is highly similar to amino-acid sequences of other known glucose repressors from filamentous fungi, and carries conserved zinc-finger and regulatory motifs. Contrary to cre gene expression in Trichoderma reesei and Aspergillus nidulans, the transcript level of the cre1 gene from an A. chrysogenum wild-type strain is increased in the presence of glucose. Remarkably, the glucose-dependent transcriptional upregulation does not take place in another A. chysogenum strain, which displays enhanced production of the beta-lactam antibiotic cephalosporin C. We surmise that the de-regulation of cre1 is connected with the increased production rate in this strain."}
{"id": "10905427", "title": "Identification of functional elements that regulate the glucoamylase-encoding gene (glaB) expressed in solid-state culture of Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Identification of functional elements that regulate the glucoamylase-encoding gene (glaB) expressed in solid-state culture of Aspergillus oryzae. Aspergillus oryzae has-two glucoamylase-encoding genes, glaA and glaB, whose expressions are distinguished by the type of culture used. The glaB gene is markedly expressed in solid-state culture but is little expressed in submerged culture. In solid-state culture, glaB expression at the transcriptional level is enhanced by low-Aw (water activity), high-temperature, and physical barriers to hyphal extension, as well as by starch. To determine the cis-acting factors in the glaB promoter, deletion analysis of the promoter was done with GUS (beta-glucuronidase) as the reporter. Deletion of the 27 bp from -350 to -324 (Region A) in 1.1 kb of the glaB promoter completely abolished starch, low-Aw, and high-temperature induction. Substitution of the 12-bp GC-rich motif from -335 to -324 (GC-box) resulted in significant loss of starch and low-Aw inductivities. These findings suggest that the GC-box is a cis-element essential for the high-level expression of glaB in solid-state culture."}
{"id": "10899618", "title": "A non-specific aminopeptidase from Aspergillus.", "content": "A non-specific aminopeptidase from Aspergillus. A fermentation broth supernatant of the Aspergillus oryzae strain ATCC20386 contains aminopeptidase activity that releases a wide variety of amino acids from natural peptides. The supernatant was fractionated by anion exchange chromatography. Based on the primary amino acid sequence data obtained from proteins in certain fractions, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers were made and a PCR product was generated. This PCR product was used to screen an A. oryzae cDNA library from which the full length gene was then obtained. Fusarium venenatum and A. oryzae were used as hosts for gene expression. Transformed strains of both F. venenatum and A. oryzae over-expressed an active aminopeptidase (E.C. 3.4.11), named aminopeptidase II. The recombinant enzyme from both fungal hosts appeared as smears on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. After deglycosylation of the N-linked sugars, both samples were a sharp band at approximately 56 kDa and had identical N-terminal amino acid sequences. Aminopeptidase II is a metalloenzyme with, presumably, Zn in the active site. Using various natural peptides and para-nitroanilides (pNAs) of amino acids as substrates, the aminopeptidase was found to be non-specific. Only X-Pro bonds demonstrated resistance to hydrolysis catalyzed by this aminopeptidase. The optimal enzyme activity was observed at pH 9.5 and 55 degrees C. Among amino acid pNAs, Leu-pNA appears to have the highest value of bimolecular constant of 40 min(-1) mM(-1) (k(cat) = 230 min(-1); K(m) = 5.8 mM) at pH 7.5 and 21 degrees C. Among Xaa-Ala-Pro-Tyr-Lys-amide pentapeptides, the velocity of catalytic hydrolysis at pH 7.5 and 21 degrees C was in a decreasing order: Pro, Ala, Leu, Gly and Glu."}
{"id": "10882536", "title": "Analysis of two Aspergillus nidulans genes encoding extracellular proteases.", "content": "Analysis of two Aspergillus nidulans genes encoding extracellular proteases. Characterization of prtADelta mutants, generated by gene disruption, showed that the prtA gene is responsible for the majority of extracellular protease activity secreted by Aspergillus nidulans at both neutral and acid pH. The prtA delta mutation was used to map the prtA gene to chromosome V. Though aspartic protease activity has never been reported in A. nidulans and the prtADelta mutants appear to lack detectable acid protease activity, a gene (prtB) encoding a putative aspartic protease was isolated from this species. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence of PrtB to the sequence of other aspergillopepsins suggests that the putative prtB gene product contains an eight-amino-acid deletion prior to the second active site Asp residue of the protease. RT-PCR experiments showed that the prtB gene is expressed, albeit at a low level."}
{"id": "10857929", "title": "The use of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for monitoring aflatoxin production in Aspergillus parasiticus 439.", "content": "The use of reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) for monitoring aflatoxin production in Aspergillus parasiticus 439. A detection system based on reverse transcription PCR (RT-PCR) has been developed to monitor aflatoxin gene expression in Aspergillus parasiticus. Total RNAs of aflatoxigenic A. parasiticus 439 grown in aflatoxin permissive and non-permissive media were amplified and monitored over time by RT-PCR with specific primers designed from two genes of the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway. Gene transcription in both media was assessed by monitoring the house keeping beta-tubulin gene and aflatoxin production was correlated with transcription by thin layer chromatography. This RT-PCR technique has the potential to be employed as a tool to investigate the effects of a variety of physiological factors on the transcription of the aflatoxin genes."}
{"id": "10855719", "title": "Genes encoding cytochrome P450 and monooxygenase enzymes define one end of the aflatoxin pathway gene cluster in Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Genes encoding cytochrome P450 and monooxygenase enzymes define one end of the aflatoxin pathway gene cluster in Aspergillus parasiticus. The identification of overlapping cosmids resulted in the discovery of the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway gene cluster in Aspergillus flavus and A. parasiticus. This finding led to the cloning and characterization of one regulatory and 16 structural genes involved in aflatoxin biosynthesis, including the most recent report on the gene, ordA, which has been identified to be involved in the formation of four aflatoxins (B1, B2, G1 and G2). However, these genes do not account for all the identified chemical/biochemical steps in aflatoxin synthesis and efforts are underway to identify the genes controlling the other steps. We are also attempting to define the outer boundaries of the aflatoxin pathway gene cluster in the Aspergillus genome. For this goal, we extended sequencing in both directions from the existing (60 kb) aflatoxin pathway gene cluster, beyond the pksA gene at one end and the omtA gene at the other. Within the 25-kb genomic DNA sequence determined at the omtA end of the cluster, several new gene sequences were identified. The recently reported genes, vbs and ordA, were found within this 25-kb region. Two additional genes were also found in this region, a cytochrome P450 monooxygenase encoding gene, tentatively named cypX, and a monooxygenase encoding gene, tentatively named moxY, and these are also reported in this study. The sequence beyond these genes showed a 5-kb non-coding region of DNA followed by the presence of a cluster of genes probably involved in sugar metabolism. Northern blot analysis and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) studies demonstrated that the genes, cypX and moxY, are expressed concurrently with genes involved in aflatoxin biosynthesis. Therefore, the two putative aflatoxin pathway genes cypX and moxY followed by a 5-kb non-coding region of DNA define one end of the boundary of the aflatoxin pathway gene cluster in A. parasiticus."}
{"id": "10853771", "title": "Cloning and heterologous expression of Solorina crocea pyrG.", "content": "Cloning and heterologous expression of Solorina crocea pyrG. A pyrG gene, encoding orotidine 5'-monophosphate decarboxylase, was cloned from a phage library derived from the lichen Solorina crocea. Phylogenetic analysis and a survey of geographically well-separated specimens were used to verify that the gene represented the fungal component of the lichen. Both coding and upstream sequences of S. crocea pyrG exhibited features typical of fungal genes. A 132-bp intron interrupting the coding region between nucleotides 157 and 288 was confirmed by RT-PCR and sequencing. Transformation of Aspergillus nidulans with S. crocea pyrG, controlled by either its native promoter or the A. nidulans trpC promoter, resulted in uridine-independent strains that exhibited appreciable growth only at 24 degrees C. Southern analysis indicated multiple integrations of S. crocea pyrG. These results demonstrate that heterologous expression may be used to investigate genes from lichens."}
{"id": "10852594", "title": "Transplantation of autologous and allogeneic bone marrow with liver from a cadaveric donor for primary liver cancer.", "content": "Transplantation of autologous and allogeneic bone marrow with liver from a cadaveric donor for primary liver cancer. In histocompatibility mismatched experimental animals, a combination of T-cell-depleted autologous and allogeneic marrow may induce mixed chimerism and tolerance. Patients with large primary liver tumors have a poor outcome. We investigated whether it were possible to induce mixed chimerism and obtain an antitumor effect in a patient with a large primary liver cancer after combined liver and bone marrow transplantation (BMT). A 46-year-old female with a primary non resectable liver cancer received a liver transplant from a cadaveric donor. Subsequently, she was conditioned with 4x2 Gy of total lymphoid irradiation, 120 mg/kg cyclophosphamide, and 7.5 Gy total body irradiation. Twelve days after liver transplantation, she received T-cell-depleted autologous:cadaveric 5/6 antigen HLA-mismatched marrow in a proportion of CD34+ cells of 0.5:3.0x10(6)/kg. Chimerism status was determined with polymerase chain reaction amplification of variable number tandem repeats from DNA obtained from CD3+, CD19+, and CD45+ magnetic-bead-separated cells. The early posttransplant period was uneventful; liver function was normal and the hematopoietic engraftment of donor and recipient origin was prompt. Alpha-fetoprotein levels dropped from 440 to 35 microg/l. One month after marrow transplantation, donor T-cells decreased markedly. Monoclonal antibody OKT-3 and 10(5)/kg donor T-cells were given. One month later, the patient developed diarrhea and abdominal pain. A colonoscopy showed moderate gastrointestinal acute graft-versus-host disease and a Cryptosporidium infection. Three months after BMT, she became a complete donor chimera. Chimera cells showed little, if any, reactivity in mixed lymphocyte cultures to recipient and donor cells, but reacted to third party. Five months after BMT, she developed progressive Aspergillus fumigatus pneumonia and died. No tumor was found at the autopsy. We obtained mixed donor-recipient hematopoietic chimerism without severe acute graft-versus-host-disease, after combined T-cell depleted autologous and allogeneic BMT and a transplantation of a liver from an HLA-mismatched cadaveric donor. Additional donor T-cells enhanced donor bone marrow engraftment, but rejected the autograft. On the basis of this first attempt, further clinical studies are warranted."}
{"id": "10849020", "title": "Fast, simple and highly sensitive double-rounded polymerase chain reaction assay to detect medically relevant fungi in dermatological specimens.", "content": "Fast, simple and highly sensitive double-rounded polymerase chain reaction assay to detect medically relevant fungi in dermatological specimens. Early detection of fungal infection is essential for beginning of prompt and specific therapy. In this study we describe a rapid and sensitive procedure to detect, by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assays, a wide range of medically important opportunistic and pathogenic fungi in dermal specimens from dermatomycoses-affected patients. Three primer pairs, amplifying fragments of the highly conserved gene coding for small ribosomal RNA (18S rDNA) and the adjacent internal transcribed spacer (ITS) rDNA, previously published by others, were probed on DNA from pure cultures of medically relevant human and animal fungal species. In order to evaluate the specificity of the assay, amplifications of control DNAs from other eukaryotes and prokaryotes were also carried out, and they gave negative results. These primer sets, in single amplification or double-rounded PCR assays, allowed specific amplification when applied to a wide number of fungal DNA from human and animal tissue specimens, including dermatophytes (genera Trichophyton, Microsporum), several yeast species (Candida, Saccharomyces, Cryptococcus, Malassezia) and moulds (Aspergillus, Penicillium). The PCR assay was able to detect as little as 10 pg of fungal DNA, corresponding to approximately 25 fungal genomes per sample specimen. A small-scale DNA extraction method was also developed. This simple, time-saving and sensitive procedure was successfully applied to 40 human and veterinary specimens, and the diagnosis was confirmed with cultural techniques, being shown to work even in the presence of other lesions or contaminating organisms. This method allows early recognition of fungal pathogen cells in clinical samples as an alternative tool to conventional detection techniques."}
{"id": "10846218", "title": "Structure-function analysis of NADPH:nitrate reductase from Aspergillus nidulans: analysis of altered pyridine nucleotide specificity in vivo.", "content": "Structure-function analysis of NADPH:nitrate reductase from Aspergillus nidulans: analysis of altered pyridine nucleotide specificity in vivo. Nitrate reductase (NaR) catalyses the reduction of nitrate to nitrite via a two-electron transfer. In fungi, the electron donor for NaR is NADPH whereas plants can have two enzymes, NADH:NaR and a bispecific NAD(P)H:NaR. PCR mutagenesis was employed to introduce mutations into the niaD gene of Aspergillus nidulans in order to identify residues involved in co-enzyme specificity. The niaD3000 mutation (NiaD T813D, K814Q) altered co-enzyme specificity: the new enzyme had high levels of NADH:NaR activity in vitro, whilst all NADPH-associated activity was lost. However, strains carrying this mutation did not grow on nitrate. Enzyme assays suggested that this was not due to inhibition of the mutant enzyme by NADPH. All revertants of the niaD3000 mutants had restored NADPH activity and lost NADH activity. Sequence analysis of these revertants showed that they all contained a single amino acid change at Asp-813, suggesting that this position is crucial to co-enzyme specificity. Further studies have shown that the mutant enzyme was not protected from deactivation by either co-factor in cell-free extracts (unlike the wild-type), and that induction of the glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase occurred independently of NADPH levels. These data highlight the importance of functional tests in vivo under physiological conditions."}
{"id": "10832025", "title": "A silent antifungal protein (AFP)-like gene lacking two introns in the mould Trichoderma viride.", "content": "A silent antifungal protein (AFP)-like gene lacking two introns in the mould Trichoderma viride. In cells of the mould Trichoderma viride, the existence of an antifungal protein (AFP)-like gene consisting of 285 bp was confirmed by Southern analysis that genomic DNA of T. viride could hybridize with the cDNA of mature AFP of Aspergillus giganteus MDH 18894. Except for the absence of two introns, the nucleotide sequence of the AFP-like gene was identical to that of the AFP gene of A. giganteus in positions 336-479, 568-649, and 706-765. The AFP-like gene could not be transcribed into its mRNA in T. viride cells as examined by RT-PCR using total RNAs of T. viride as template. Furthermore, AFP could not be detected either directly from the culture medium of T. viride or by Western analysis. However, the AFP-like gene could be actively expressed like the cDNA of AFP in Escherichia coli cell. Recombinant AFP exhibited similar antifungal activity as native AFP."}
{"id": "10823773", "title": "Early detection of aspergillus infection after allogeneic stem cell transplantation by polymerase chain reaction screening.", "content": "Early detection of aspergillus infection after allogeneic stem cell transplantation by polymerase chain reaction screening. Invasive aspergillosis (IA) has become a major cause of mortality in patients after allogeneic stem cell transplantation. To assess the potential of prospective polymerase chain reaction (PCR) screening for early diagnosis of IA, 84 recipients of an allogeneic stem cell transplant were analyzed with the investigators blinded to clinical and microbiologic data. Of 1193 blood samples analyzed, 169 (14.2%) were positive by PCR. In patients with newly diagnosed IA (n=7), PCR positivity preceded the first clinical signs by a median of 2 days (range, 1-23 days) and preceded clinical diagnosis of IA by a median of 9 days (range, 2-34 days). Pretransplantation IA (relative risk [RR], 2.37), acute graft-versus-host disease (RR, 2.75), and corticosteroid treatment (RR, 6.5) were associated with PCR positivity. The PCR assay revealed a sensitivity of 100% (95% confidence interval [CI], 48%-100%) and a specificity of 65% (95% CI, 53%-75%). None of the PCR-negative patients developed IA during the study period. Thus, prospective PCR screening allows for identification of patients at high risk for subsequent onset of IA."}
{"id": "10806361", "title": "Cloning and characterization of avfA and omtB genes involved in aflatoxin biosynthesis in three Aspergillus species.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of avfA and omtB genes involved in aflatoxin biosynthesis in three Aspergillus species. The biosynthesis of aflatoxins (B(1), G(1), B(2), and G(2)) is a multi-enzyme process controlled genetically by over 20 genes. In this study, we report the identification and characterization of the avfA gene, which was found to be involved in the conversion of averufin (AVF) to versiconal hemiacetal acetate (VHA), in Aspergillus parasiticus and A. flavus; a copy of avfA gene was also cloned from a non-aflatoxin producing strain A. sojae. Complementation of an averufin-accumulating, non-aflatoxigenic mutant strain of A. parasiticus, SRRC 165, with the avfA gene cloned from A. flavus, restored the ability of the mutant to convert AVF to VHA and to produce aflatoxins B(1), G(1), B(2), and G(2). Sequence analysis revealed that a single amino acid replacement from aspartic acid to asparagine disabled the function of the enzyme in the mutant strain SRRC 165. The A. parasiticus avfA was identified to be a homolog of previously sequenced, but functionally unassigned transcript, stcO, in A. nidulans based on sequence homology at both nucleotide (57%) and amino acid (55%) levels. In addition to avfA, another aflatoxin pathway gene, omtB, encoding for an O-methyltransferase involved in the conversion of demethylsterigmatocystin (DMST) to sterigmatocystin (ST) and dihydrodemethylsterigmatocystin (DHDMST) to dihydrosterigmatocystin (DHST), was cloned from A. parasiticus, A. flavus, and A. sojae. The omtB gene was found to be highly homologous to stcP from A. nidulans, which has been reported earlier to be involved in a similar enzymatic step for the sterigmatocystin formation in that species. RT-PCR data demonstrated that both the avfA and avfA1 as well as omtB genes in A. parasiticus were expressed only in the aflatoxin-conducive medium. An analysis of the degrees of homology for the two reported genes between the Aspergillus species A. parasiticus, A. flavus, A. nidulans and A. sojae was conducted."}
{"id": "10806226", "title": "Cloning, developmental, and tissue-specific expression of sucrose:sucrose 1-fructosyl transferase from Taraxacum officinale. Fructan localization in roots.", "content": "Cloning, developmental, and tissue-specific expression of sucrose:sucrose 1-fructosyl transferase from Taraxacum officinale. Fructan localization in roots. Sucrose:sucrose 1-fructosyl transferase (1-SST) is the key enzyme initiating fructan synthesis in Asteraceae. Using reverse transcriptase-PCR, we isolated the cDNA for 1-SST from Taraxacum officinale. The cDNA-derived amino acid sequence showed very high homology to other Asteracean 1-SSTs (Cichorium intybus 86%, Cynara scolymus 82%, Helianthus tuberosus 80%), but homology to 1-SST from Allium cepa (46%) and Aspergillus foetidus (18%) was much lower. Fructan concentrations, 1-SST activities, 1-SST protein, and mRNA concentrations were compared in different organs during vegetative and generative development of T. officinale plants. Expression of 1-SST was abundant in young roots but very low in leaves. 1-SST was also expressed at the flowering stages in roots, stalks, and receptacles. A good correlation was found between northern and western blots showing transcriptional regulation of 1-SST. At the pre-flowering stage, 1-SST mRNA concentrations and 1-SST activities were higher in the root phloem than in the xylem, resulting in the higher fructan concentrations in the phloem. Fructan localization studies indicated that fructan is preferentially stored in phloem parenchyma cells in the vicinity of the secondary sieve tube elements. However, inulin-like crystals occasionally appeared in xylem vessels."}
{"id": "10799502", "title": "Ornithine decarboxylase of Stagonospora (Septoria) nodorum is required for virulence toward wheat.", "content": "Ornithine decarboxylase of Stagonospora (Septoria) nodorum is required for virulence toward wheat. A knockout strain of Stagonospora (Septoria) nodorum lacking the single ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) allele has been created by targeted gene replacement. A central region of the S. nodorum ODC gene was isolated by polymerase chain reaction using degenerate oligonucleotides and used to probe a lambda genomic library. The gene was sequenced and the encoded ODC protein sequence was shown to be similar to those from other fungi. The functionality of the S. nodorum ODC was confirmed by complementation of an Aspergillus nidulans mutant (puA) strain devoid of ODC activity, restoring growth in the absence of exogenous polyamines. Sporulation of the transformants was reduced suggesting abberant regulation of the S. nodorum gene in A. nidulans. Transformation-mediated gene replacement was used to create strains which were auxotrophic for putrescine and lack ODC coding sequences. Pathogenicity studies on these mutants showed that they are greatly reduced in virulence compared with non-disrupted transformants. This confirms that the strains carrying an ODC disruption cannot obtain sufficient polyamines from the host plant for normal growth and, thus, that fungal ODC may be a suitable target for chemical intervention."}
{"id": "10778746", "title": "Cloning and characterization of oah, the gene encoding oxaloacetate hydrolase in Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of oah, the gene encoding oxaloacetate hydrolase in Aspergillus niger. The enzyme oxaloacetate hydrolase (EC 3.7.1.1), which is involved in oxalate formation, was purified from Aspergillus niger. The native enzyme has a molecular mass of 360-440 kDa, and the denatured enzyme has a molecular mass of 39 kDa, as determined by gel electrophoresis. Enzyme activity is maximal at pH 7.0 and 45 degrees C. The fraction containing the enzyme activity contained at least five proteins. The N-terminal amino acid sequences of four of these proteins were determined. The amino acid sequences were aligned with EST sequences from A. niger, and an EST sequence that showed 100% identity to all four sequences was identified. Using this EST sequence the gene encoding oxaloacetate hydrolase (oah) was cloned by inverse PCR. It consists of an ORF of 1227 bp with two introns of 92 and 112 bp, respectively. The gene encodes a protein of 341 amino acids with a molecular mass of 37 kDa. Under the growth conditions tested, the highest oah expression was found for growth on acetate as carbon source. The gene was expressed only at pH values higher than 4.0."}
{"id": "10777816", "title": "[Fungal infections in immunocompromised patients].", "content": "[Fungal infections in immunocompromised patients]. The number of immunocompromised patients is increasing due to the intensive therapy being administered those with cancer, organ transplant, and HIV infection. Fungal infections are one of the important opportunistic infections in immunocompromised patients. Early diagnosis is difficult, and the prognosis of these patinas is usually poor. Several methods of diagnosis for fungal infections have been developed: detection of antigens of the infected fungi from the sera is useful for early diagnosis; polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technology may be the most valuable method for the diagnosis of fungal infection in immunocompromised patients, and antifungal agents are the drugs used to the fungal infections in those patients. However, there are only five drugs available to fungal infections in Japan. Although amphotericin B is the recommended first choice for treatment of invasive aspergillosis, its use for immunocompromised patients is limited because of its adverse effects. Novel antifungal agents (azoles, amphotericin B drug deliver system, and 1,3-beta-D-glucan synthetase inhibitors) have been developed and some of these compounds undergoing clinical trials."}
{"id": "10775423", "title": "Aristolochene synthase: purification, molecular cloning, high-level expression in Escherichia coli, and characterization of the Aspergillus terreus cyclase.", "content": "Aristolochene synthase: purification, molecular cloning, high-level expression in Escherichia coli, and characterization of the Aspergillus terreus cyclase. Aristolochene synthase catalyzes the cyclization of farnesyl diphosphate (6) to (+)-aristolochene (1). The Aspergillus terreus enzyme has been purified 75-fold to homogeneity in six steps. Based on the sequence of 3 internal peptides obtained by Lys-C digestion of the native protein, a set of degenerate PCR primers was used to amplify a 550-bp segment of cDNA corresponding to a portion of the aristolochene synthase transcript. A second round of PCR using specific primers was used to prepare a (32)P-labeled 180-bp segment, which was used to screen an A. terreus cDNA library prepared using lambdaZapII, resulting in the identification and sequencing of the A. terreus aristolochene synthase cDNA. Aristolochene synthase was encoded by an open reading frame (ORF) of 960 bp, corresponding to a protein of 320 amino acids with a predicted M(D) of 36,480. Comparison of the A. terreus ORF with the sequence of the previously described aristolochene synthase from Penicillium roqueforti revealed a 66% of identity at the nucleic acid level and a 70% identity at the deduced amino acid level between the aristolochene synthases from the two different fungal sources. PCR was used to insert the A. terreus aristolochene synthase gene into the T7lac expression vector pET11a. Cloning of the resultant construct into Escherichia coli XL1-Blue and subcloning into the expression host E. coli BL21(DE3)/pLysS gave, after induction with IPTG, soluble aristolochene synthase as 5-10% of total protein. The recombinant aristolochene synthase, which was purified 13-fold to homogeneity, appeared to be identical in all respects with the native A. terreus enzyme, displaying essentially the same steady-state kinetic parameters, with a K(m) of 15 nM and k(cat) 0.015 s(-1). Using PCR to amplify the aristolochene synthase gene (Aril) from A. terreus genomic DNA revealed the presence of 2 introns, identical in relative location but different in both sequence and length compared to the corresponding Ari1 gene of P. roqueforti."}
{"id": "10772835", "title": "Molecular typing of Aspergillus terreus isolates by random amplification of polymorphic DNA.", "content": "Molecular typing of Aspergillus terreus isolates by random amplification of polymorphic DNA. Forty three isolates of Aspergillus terreus of environmental or clinical origin were typed by random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) with two different primers NS3 and NS7 from the fungal ribosomal 18S subunit gene. For the 31 epidemiologically unrelated isolates tested, the primers NS3 and NS7 gave rise to 23 and 24 different genotypes, respectively, and combining the results obtained with the two primers allowed the differentiation of all these isolates. No clustering was found in relation to pathogenicity, clinical signs, or geographic origin of the isolates. Five groups of related isolates of A. terreus were also typed. Analysis of sequential isolates from patients with cystic fibrosis or with invasive aspergillosis showed the clonality of the colonization or infection by A. terreus. Likewise, this straightforward typing method demonstrated the clonal origin of a massive contamination of the environment in a haematology unit. Therefore this RAPD typing method may constitute a valuable tool for the epidemiological follow-up of airway colonization in patients with cystic fibrosis or investigations of links between nosocomial outbreaks of invasive aspergillosis and environmental contamination."}
{"id": "10765040", "title": "Systemic infections with Candida sp. and Aspergillus sp. in immunocompromised patients with hematological malignancies: current serological and molecular diagnostic methods.", "content": "Systemic infections with Candida sp. and Aspergillus sp. in immunocompromised patients with hematological malignancies: current serological and molecular diagnostic methods. Within recent years, novel serological and molecular methods have been developed to improve the early diagnosis of invasive fungal infections especially in patients with malignant hematological diseases being at highest risk of developing these life-threatening infections. Early diagnosis is essential for adequate therapeutic management, which, however, often remains difficult since the diagnostic tools clinically used either lack specificity or sensitivity, or both at worst. The clinical value, the advantages and remaining problems of recently developed, more sensitive and specific serological assays and molecular methods are reviewed."}
{"id": "10755298", "title": "Cloning and disruption of pgx4 encoding an in planta expressed exopolygalacturonase from Fusarium oxysporum.", "content": "Cloning and disruption of pgx4 encoding an in planta expressed exopolygalacturonase from Fusarium oxysporum. Fusarium oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici, the causal agent of tomato vascular wilt, produces an array of pectinolytic enzymes, including at least two exo-alpha1,4-polygalacturonases (exoPGs). A gene encoding an exoPG, pgx4, was isolated with degenerate polymerase chain reaction primers derived from amino acid sequences conserved in two fungal exoPGs. pgx4 encodes a 454 amino acid polypeptide with nine potential N-glycosylation sites and a putative 21 amino acid N-terminal signal peptide. The deduced mature protein has a calculated molecular mass of 47.9 kDa, a pI of 8.0, and 51 and 49% identity with the exoPGs of Cochliobolus carbonum and Aspergillus tubingensis, respectively. The gene is present in a single copy in different formae speciales of F. oxysporum. Expression of pgx4 was detected during in vitro growth on pectin, polygalacturonic acid, and tomato vascular tissue and in roots and stems of tomato plants infected by F. oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici. Two mutants of F. oxysporum f. sp. lycopersici with a copy of pgx4 inactivated by gene replacement were as virulent on tomato plants as the wild-type strain."}
{"id": "10743566", "title": "Directed deletions in the aflatoxin biosynthesis gene homolog cluster of Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Directed deletions in the aflatoxin biosynthesis gene homolog cluster of Aspergillus oryzae. To investigate the structure of the aflatoxin gene cluster in Aspergillus oryzae, 39 strains belonging to this species were examined for the existence of pksA, fas1A, aflR and vbs, and the results compared with those for ver-1 obtained previously. These five genes are involved in aflatoxin biosynthesis in Aspergillus parasiticus. The strains examined were categorized into three groups; group 1, having the five homologs; 2, having ver-1 and vbs; and 3, having vbs homologs. Long-PCR analysis of the regions between the five homologs in A. oryzae IFO 4135, coupled with Southern-hybridization analysis, shows that those homologs are clustered with the same arrangement as in A. parasiticus. These results suggest that directed deletions of the cluster occur in A. oryzae strains. The possible breakpoints of the deletions in the strains of group 2 and 3 were estimated."}
{"id": "10742277", "title": "Efficient heterologous expression in Aspergillus oryzae of a unique dye-decolorizing peroxidase, DyP, of Geotrichum candidum Dec 1.", "content": "Efficient heterologous expression in Aspergillus oryzae of a unique dye-decolorizing peroxidase, DyP, of Geotrichum candidum Dec 1. Efficient expression of the dye-decolorizing peroxidase, DyP, from Geotrichum candidum Dec 1 in Aspergillus oryzae M-2-3 was achieved by fusing mature cDNA encoding dyp with the A. oryzae alpha-amylase promoter (amyB). The activity yield of the purified recombinant DyP (rDyP) was 42-fold compared with that of the purified native DyP from Dec 1. No exogenous heme was necessary for the expression of rDyP in A. oryzae. From the N-terminal amino acid sequence analyses of native DyP and rDyP, the absence of a histidine residue in both DyPs, which was considered to be important for heme binding of DyP, was confirmed. These results suggest that rDyP without a typical heme-binding region produced by A. oryzae exhibits a function similar to that of native DyP."}
{"id": "10739949", "title": "Mutational analysis of tyrosine-191 in the catalysis of Cephalosporium acremonium isopenicillin N synthase.", "content": "Mutational analysis of tyrosine-191 in the catalysis of Cephalosporium acremonium isopenicillin N synthase. Isopenicillin N synthase (IPNS) is a key enzyme responsible for the catalytic conversion of delta-(L-alpha-aminoadipoyl)-L-cysteinyl-D-valine (ACV) to isopenicillin N in the beta-lactam antibiotic biosynthetic pathway. The Aspergillus nidulans IPNS crystal structure implicated amino acid residues tyrosine-189, arginine-279, and serine-281 in the substrate-binding of the valine carboxylate portion of ACV via hydrogen bonds. In previous reports, we provided mutational evidence for the critical involvement of the corresponding arginine-281 and serine-283, which constitute a conserved R-X-S motif, for the catalysis of Cephalosporium acremonium IPNS (cIPNS). In this study, we report the site-directed mutagenesis of the corresponding tyrosine-191 in cIPNS to four amino acids from different amino acid groups, namely, phenylalanine, serine, histidine, and aspartate. The mutants Y191F, Y191H, and Y191R respectively yielded specific activities at levels of 3, 8.6, and 18.8% relative to the wild-type when enzyme bioassays were performed using purified protein fractions. These results were surprising, as previous mutational analyses involving arginine-281 and serine-283 resulted in non-measurable specific activities, thus suggesting that tyrosine-191 is important but not critical for the activity of cIPNS due to its involvement in ACV binding. Hence, it is likely that tyrosine-191 is the least critical of the three residues involved in binding the ACV valine carboxylate moiety."}
{"id": "10732844", "title": "Aspergillus fumigatus isolated from blood samples of a patient with pulmonary aspergilloma after embolization.", "content": "Aspergillus fumigatus isolated from blood samples of a patient with pulmonary aspergilloma after embolization. Aspergillus DNA was detected by PCR in the serum sample of a 78-year-old man and galactomannan antigen of Aspergillus by sandwich ELISA was found. However, the infiltrative hyphae were not detected by the histopathologic examination of the lung. He developed hemoptysis, which required embolization of bronchial arteries. Aspergillus fumigatus was isolated from blood samples after embolization by the lysis centrifugation method. To our knowledge, this is probably the first case in which Aspergillus spp. has been isolated from the systemic circulatory blood in a patient with pulmonary aspergilloma after embolization."}
{"id": "10710436", "title": "A new approach for the identification and cloning of genes: the pBACwich system using Cre/lox site-specific recombination.", "content": "A new approach for the identification and cloning of genes: the pBACwich system using Cre/lox site-specific recombination. With current plant transformation methods ( Agrobacterium, biolistics and protoplast fusion), insertion of DNA into the genome occurs randomly and in many instances at multiple sites. Associated position effects, copy number differences and multigene interactions can make gene expression experiments difficult to interpret and plant phenotypes less predictable. An alternative approach to random integration of large DNA fragments into plants is to utilize one of several site-specific recombination (SSR) systems, such as Cre/ lox. Cre has been shown in numerous instances to mediate lox site-specific recombination in animal and plant cells. By incorporating the Cre/ lox SSR system into a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) vector, a more precise evaluation of large DNA inserts for genetic complementation should be possible. Site-specific insertion of DNA into predefined sites in the genome may eliminate unwanted 'position effects' caused by the random integration of exogenously introduced DNA. In an effort to make the Cre/ lox system an effective tool for site-directed integration of large DNAs, we constructed and tested a new vector potentially capable of integrating large DNA inserts into plant and fungal genomes. In this study, we present the construction of a new BAC vector, pBACwich, for the system and the use of this vector to demonstrate SSR of large DNA inserts (up to 230 kb) into plant and fungal genomes."}
{"id": "10696882", "title": "Analysis of genetic variability within the genus Petromyces.", "content": "Analysis of genetic variability within the genus Petromyces. Phenotypic and genotypic features of three teleomorphic species, Petromyces alliaceus, P. albertensis and P. muricartus and some related anamorphic Aspergillus species were compared. The dendrogram based on carbon source utilisation data revealed a close relationship between P. muricarus and the A. ochraceus strains examined. P. alliaceus and P. albertensis strains were very closely related to each other. A dendrogram with similar topology was obtained by analysing sequences of the intergenic transcribed spacer regions of representatives of these species. P. alliaceus and P. albertensis strains could only be distinguished by the random amplified polymorphic DNA technique. These strains possibly represent a single species closely related to Aspergillus section Flavi, while the anamorph of P. turicatus is a member of Aspergillus section Circumdati. Our results indicate that Aspergillus section Circumdati is in need of taxonomic revision."}
{"id": "10684633", "title": "Cloning of amadoriase I isoenzyme from Aspergillus sp.: evidence of FAD covalently linked to Cys342.", "content": "Cloning of amadoriase I isoenzyme from Aspergillus sp.: evidence of FAD covalently linked to Cys342. Amadoriases are a novel class of FAD enzymes which catalyze the oxidative deglycation of glycated amino acids to yield corresponding amino acids, glucosone, and H(2)O(2). We previously reported the purification and characterization of two amadoriase isoenzymes from Aspergillus fumigatus and the molecular cloning of amadoriase II. To identify the primary structure of amadoriase I, we prepared a cDNA library from Aspergillus fumigatus and isolated a clone using a probe amplified by polymerase chain reaction with primers designed according to the partial amino acid sequences from peptide mapping. The primary structure of the enzyme deduced from the nucleotide sequence comprises 445 amino acid residues. The enzyme contains 1 mol of FAD as a cofactor, which is covalently linked to Cys342, as determined by mutagenesis analysis, matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass spectrometry, and electrospray ionization-collisional-activated dissociation tandem mass spectrometry. Sequence alignment studies show that amadoriase I has 22% homology with monomeric sarcosine oxidase in which FAD is also linked to a homologous Cys residue. Amadoriases are of potential importance as tools for uncoupling hyperglycemia and glycation reactions that are thought to play a role in diabetic complications."}
{"id": "10671536", "title": "Cloning, expression, characterization, and nucleophile identification of family 3, Aspergillus niger beta-glucosidase.", "content": "Cloning, expression, characterization, and nucleophile identification of family 3, Aspergillus niger beta-glucosidase. The beta-glucosidase from Aspergillus niger (CMI CC 324262) was purified, and an N-terminal sequence and two internal sequences were determined. BglI genomic gene and the cDNA were cloned from a genomic library and by reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, respectively. The cDNA was successfully expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Pichia pastoris. Sequence analysis revealed that the gene encodes a 92-kDa enzyme that is a member of glycosidase family 3. (1)H-NMR analysis of the reaction catalyzed by this enzyme confirmed that, in common with other family 3 glycosidases, this enzyme hydrolyzes with net retention of anomeric configuration. Accordingly, the enzyme was inactivated by 2-deoxy-2-fluoro beta-glucosyl fluoride, with kinetic parameters of k(i) = 4.5 min(-1), K(I) = 35.4 mM, through the trapping of a covalent glycosyl enzyme intermediate. The catalytic competence of this intermediate was demonstrated by the fact that incubation with linamarin resulted in reactivation, presumably via a transglycosylation mechanism. Peptic digestion of the 2-deoxy-2-fluoroglucosyl enzyme and subsequent analysis of high pressure liquid chromatography eluates by electrospray ionization triple quadrupole mass spectrometry in the neutral loss mode allowed the localization of a 2-deoxy-2-fluoroglucosyl-peptide. Sequence determination of this labeled peptide by tandem mass spectrometry in the daughter ion scan mode permitted the identification of Asp-261 as the catalytic nucleophile within the sequence VMSDW. Asp-261 is fully conserved within this family, consistent with its key role, and aligns with the aspartic acid residue previously identified in the Aspergillus wentii enzyme by labeling with conduritol B epoxide (Bause, E., and Legler, G. (1974) Hoppe-Seyler's Z. Physiol. Chem. 355, 438-442)."}
{"id": "10655350", "title": "Quantification of fungal DNA by using fluorescence resonance energy transfer and the light cycler system.", "content": "Quantification of fungal DNA by using fluorescence resonance energy transfer and the light cycler system. The Light Cycler technique combines rapid in vitro amplification of DNA in glass capillaries with real-time species determination and quantification of DNA load. We have established a quantitative PCR protocol for two clinically important pathogens, Candida albicans and Aspergillus fumigatus. The sensitivity of the assay was comparable to those of previously described PCR protocols (5 CFU/ml). Specific detection of C. albicans and A. fumigatus could be achieved. The assay showed a high reproducibility of 96 to 99%. The assay was linear in a range between 10(1) and 10(4) Aspergillus conidia. As capillaries do not have to be reopened for post-PCR analysis, the risk of carryover contaminations could be minimized. The Light Cycler allowed quantification of the fungal loads in a limited number of clinical specimens from patients with hematological malignancies and histologically proven invasive fungal infections. Five of nine positive samples had fungal loads between 5 and 10 CFU/ml of blood, two of nine positive samples had fungal loads between 10 and 100 CFU/ml of blood, and two of nine samples had fungal loads of more than 100 CFU/ml of blood. All samples were also found to be PCR positive by PCR-enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay analysis."}
{"id": "10653148", "title": "Stress mediated changes in expression of the pkaC gene, encoding the catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase, in Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Stress mediated changes in expression of the pkaC gene, encoding the catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase, in Aspergillus niger. The transcriptional regulation of the pkaC gene, encoding the catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase from Aspergillus niger, was analysed under different environmental conditions. Quantitative determination of pkaC transcript showed a significant decrease in concentration of specific mRNA immediately after a temperature, hypoosmotic and hyperosmotic shock followed by stimulated synthesis. The amount of pkaC mRNA as well as PKA enzymatic activity steadily decreased during the initial phase of growth in 15% sucrose medium while a slight increase was observed at the time of a change in morphology from bulbous cells to filamentous growth. Transcriptional alternation might be mediated by multiple putative stress elements in the promoter region of pkaC gene."}
{"id": "10651736", "title": "Diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in bone marrow transplant recipients by polymerase chain reaction.", "content": "Diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in bone marrow transplant recipients by polymerase chain reaction. A nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) test targeting Aspergillus spp. large ribosomal subunit genes was evaluated retrospectively on 175 serum samples from 37 bone marrow transplant recipients, 70% of whom received grafts from unrelated donors. Six patients had proven infection, seven had probable infection, and three had possible infection, using the revised EORTC case definitions. These 16 patients were all PCR positive (57 out of 93 samples tested). Two additional patients who did not fulfil current diagnostic criteria, but in whom invasive aspergillosis (IA) was thought clinically probable, were also PCR positive (five out of nine samples). Invasive aspergillosis was unlikely in the remaining 19 patients, four of whom were PCR positive on a single occasion (four out of 70 samples). Three samples were inhibitory to PCR. Sensitivity of PCR in diagnosing patients with IA was 100%, specificity was 79% and positive predictive value was 80%, using the criterion of a single positive result. If two positive results were required, these values were 81%, 100% and 100% respectively. The median duration of infection documented by PCR was 36 days (range 3-248 days) in 17 out of 18 patients (94%) who did not survive. Positive PCR results predated the institution of antifungal therapy in two-thirds of patients. Four patients became PCR positive during pretransplant conditioning therapy."}
{"id": "10636904", "title": "Biochemical analysis of recombinant fungal mutanases. A new family of alpha1,3-glucanases with novel carbohydrate-binding domains.", "content": "Biochemical analysis of recombinant fungal mutanases. A new family of alpha1,3-glucanases with novel carbohydrate-binding domains. Nucleotide sequence analysis shows that Trichoderma harzianum and Penicillium purpurogenum alpha1,3-glucanases (mutanases) have homologous primary structures (53% amino acid sequence identity), and are composed of two distinct domains: a NH(2)-terminal catalytic domain and a putative COOH-terminal polysaccharide-binding domain separated by a O-glycosylated Pro-Ser-Thr-rich linker peptide. Each mutanase was expressed in Aspergillus oryzae host under the transcriptional control of a strong alpha-amylase gene promoter. The purified recombinant mutanases show a pH optimum in the range from pH 3.5 to 4.5 and a temperature optimum around 50-55 degrees C at pH 5.5. Also, they exhibit strong binding to insoluble mutan with K(D) around 0.11 and 0.13 microM at pH 7 for the P. purpurogenum and T. harzianum mutanases, respectively. Partial hydrolysis showed that the COOH-terminal domain of the T. harzianum mutanase binds to mutan. The catalytic domains and the binding domains were assigned to a new family of glycoside hydrolases and to a new family of carbohydrate-binding domains, respectively."}
{"id": "10629598", "title": "New developments in the diagnosis and management of invasive fungal infections.", "content": "New developments in the diagnosis and management of invasive fungal infections. Invasive fungal infections in cancer patients are on the increase. Candidemia is now the fourth leading cause of bloodstream infections in many intensive care units (ICUs). Although a number of risk factors have been identified, antifungal therapy should not be started in non-neutropenic patients until a diagnosis of invasive candidiasis or candidemia is made or presumed in order to avoid the development of resistance. Even a single positive blood culture should be treated, and requires removal of intravascular lines. Fluconazole is the first line agent for treatment candidemia other than that caused by Candida glabrata or C. krusei. High-resolution CT scan pictures showing a halo sign or crescent air sign are helpful for establishing the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. Sandwich ELISA can be used to detect circulating galactomannan in serial serum samples. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of blood samples may also be used. There are only a few randomized studies of newly developed antifungal drugs compared to conventional amphotericin B (AmB). So far, both AmB colloidal dispersion and AmB lipid complex have failed to show more favorable efficacy or lesser toxicity rates, except for nephrotoxicity. Liposomal AmB, used during febrile neutropenia, did have a significantly lower toxicity rate. In neutropenic patients with invasive fungal infections liposomal AmB proved to be better than conventional AmB in terms of clinical efficacy, mortality and nephrotoxicity rates. The use of tests to achieve an earlier diagnosis combined with more potent treatment formulations such as liposomal AmB may be significant steps towards successful management of invasive fungal infections."}
{"id": "10610703", "title": "Cloning stress-induced genes from aspergillus niger using polymerase chain reaction-augmented subtractive hybridization.", "content": "Cloning stress-induced genes from aspergillus niger using polymerase chain reaction-augmented subtractive hybridization."}
{"id": "10564728", "title": "Inositol phosphoryl transferases from human pathogenic fungi.", "content": "Inositol phosphoryl transferases from human pathogenic fungi. The IPC1 gene from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which encodes inositolphosphorylceramide (IPC) synthase, was first identified as a novel and essential gene encoding resistance to the natural product antifungal aureobasidin A (AUR1). The formation of IPC in fungi is essential for viability, suggesting inhibitors of IPC1p function would make ideal antifungal drug candidates. Homologs of the AUR1/IPC1 gene were identified from a number of human pathogenic fungi, Candida glabrata, Candida krusei, Candida parapsilosis, Candida tropicalis and Cryptococcus neoformans. Comparison of these genes with other homologous genes from Candida albicans, Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus nidulans, Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Schizosaccharomyces pombe reveals a conserved structural motif for inositolphosphoryl transferases which is similar to a motif recently described for lipid phosphatases, but with unique characteristics."}
{"id": "10997132", "title": "Use of the 6-methylsalicylic-acid-synthase gene as a discriminating marker between Aspergillus terreus and Aspergillus flavipes.", "content": "Use of the 6-methylsalicylic-acid-synthase gene as a discriminating marker between Aspergillus terreus and Aspergillus flavipes. In nineteen pathogenic and saprophytic isolates denoted as Aspergillus terreus the presence and restriction pattern of the gene pksM (6-methylsalicylic acid synthase) was determined. Five patterns (A-E) were found and in three isolates the gene was missing. The RAPD (Random Amplified Polymorphic DNA) patterns with three primers were analyzed. The strains with pksM pattern possibly derived from the most common pattern A by single mutation (patterns B-D) were also related by RAPD. Among them, three clades were found. The first one contained saprophytes from Asia, the other two clades contained both European and American pathogens and each of them one saprophyte. The sequences of rDNA region containing 5.8S rDNA and spacers ITS1 and ITS2 were established for representatives of each group and the strains missing the pksM gene. The isolates possessing pksM (although with different restriction patterns) grouped as A. terreus group, whereas the isolates lacking this gene were close to Fennellia flavipes."}
{"id": "10865899", "title": "Disseminated Penicillium marneffei infection in an HIV-positive female from Thailand in Germany.", "content": "Disseminated Penicillium marneffei infection in an HIV-positive female from Thailand in Germany. We report the case of a 33 year old Thai female, who was married in Germany for eight years and used to travel to Thailand every year for several weeks. She presented with abdominal and back pain, prolonged fever, generalized lymphadenopathy, and a recent history of oral thrush. She was diagnosed HIV positive with initial CD4 counts of 18/microliter and an HI virus load of 59,000 copies/ml. Antiviral therapy was installed with zidovudin, lamivudin, and efavirenz. Abdominal CT scans revealed greatly enlarged abdominal lymph nodes. Fine needle aspirates of cervical and retroperitoneal lymph nodes, sputum samples, blood samples, and a bone marrow biopsy were microscopically positive for Penicillium marneffei and grew P. marneffei. The isolates were sensitive to amphotericin B, flucytosine, itraconazole, and fluconazole. Both universal and specific fungal polymerase chain reaction assays were positive in various samples. Serum Aspergillus galactomannan antigen, which is known to crossreact with P. marneffei, was elevated and subsequently used for monitoring of therapy. With antifungal treatment (intravenous amphotericin B 0.6 mg/kg/d for two weeks, oral itraconazole 400 mg/d for 10 weeks and 200 mg/d as maintenance therapy), the fever declined in 6 days, the size of the enlarged lymph nodes gradually decreased in the CT scans, and the initial abdominal and back pain vanished."}
{"id": "10865896", "title": "Molecular approaches for the diagnosis and epidemiological investigation of Aspergillus infection.", "content": "Molecular approaches for the diagnosis and epidemiological investigation of Aspergillus infection. Molecular techniques have been applied to the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis and to investigate the ecology and epidemiology of Aspergillus. Recent advances in diagnosis include the development of PCRs targeting either panfungal or Aspergillus-specific sequences, using whole blood or serum samples. When a sensitive PCR is used, invasive aspergillosis in bone marrow transplant patients can be detected several weeks before antigen tests become positive, and a positive PCR often pre-dates the institution of antifungal therapy. The role of PCR in monitoring response to therapy in immunocompromised patients is unclear. No prospective studies have yet demonstrated that management incorporating PCR alters the poor outcome of invasive aspergillosis in immunocompromised patients. Molecular typing of Aspergillus fumigatus has shown wide geographical dispersal of indistinguishable strains. This, combined with the observation that multiple strains may be isolated from individual colonised patients with cystic fibrosis and from immunocompromised patients with disseminated disease, makes the elucidation of the epidemiology of aspergillosis relatively complex."}
{"id": "10628875", "title": "Wild-type and mutant alleles of the Aspergillus nidulans developmental regulator gene brlA: correlation of variant sites with protein function.", "content": "Wild-type and mutant alleles of the Aspergillus nidulans developmental regulator gene brlA: correlation of variant sites with protein function. The DNA sequences of two wild-type and eleven mutant alleles of the developmental regulator gene brlA from Aspergillus nidulans, which encodes a zinc-finger protein, were characterized. Variant sites were located on rescued plasmids or PCR products based either on their meiotic map position or the use of denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. Mutations in three null mutants, one of which is partially suppressible, encode premature stop codons. Two environmentally sensitive mutants were characterised by substitution of leucines required for stabilisation of alpha-helices in each of the two putative zinc-finger domains. A third zinc-finger substitution is predicted to disrupt recognition of a guanine residue in the DNA target. The mutations in four other leaky mutants map C-terminal to the zinc fingers; one minimally leaky mutant has a premature stop codon, which results in the removal of the last 38 residues of the protein product."}
{"id": "10614966", "title": "Molecular typing of Aspergillus terreus by random amplification of polymorphic DNA.", "content": "Molecular typing of Aspergillus terreus by random amplification of polymorphic DNA."}
{"id": "10592693", "title": "A polymerase chain reaction 'PCR' for a quick diagnosis of aspergillosis.", "content": "A polymerase chain reaction 'PCR' for a quick diagnosis of aspergillosis. A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was developed from sequencing data generated from a specific target band that is unique for Aspergillus fumigatus DNA digested with EcoR1. The target band was detected through Southern blot hybridization of a non-radioactive probe labelled with DIG-dUTP and DNAs of different aspergilli. The DNA of the target band was purified, concentrated and subjected to sequencing. The size of the sequenced band was approximately 445 bp. One pair of primers was designed and synthesized from the sequencing data of the band. The oligonucleotide primers were specific in amplifying an identical band of A. fumigatus in a population mix containing DNAs of different Aspergillus spp.; Pencillium spp.; yeasts; bacterial and viral organisms that are commonly encountered in clinical specimens of respiratory origin. The reaction proved highly sensitive and as little as 0.0001 microgram of A. fumigatus DNA was detected in the reaction."}
{"id": "10574505", "title": "New perspectives in the diagnosis of systemic fungal infections.", "content": "New perspectives in the diagnosis of systemic fungal infections. Profound and prolonged neutropenia following chemotherapy is a major risk factor for systemic fungal infections. Mortality associated with disseminated fungal infection is high, and treatment with conventional amphotericin B is complicated by renal toxicity. Candida and Aspergillus are among the major pathogens in these patients. Many patients remaining neutropenic over a prolonged period of time will receive empirical antifungal therapy. The clinical and laboratory diagnoses of these infections are neither sensitive nor specific and are generally limited in the early detection of invasive fungal infection. However, several new approaches to diagnosis are being developed, which should be translated into routine practice, based on a greater understanding of the pathogenesis of systemic fungal infection and virulence determinants of fungal pathogens. These include antigen detection and polymerase chain reaction. Patients with presumed fungal infection require more intense and accurate monitoring for signs of disseminated infection. Early diagnosis may guide appropriate treatment and prevent mortality. Continued development of commercial tests should help achieve the objective of definitive diagnostic tests for systemic fungal infections."}
{"id": "10572125", "title": "Sulfate transport in Penicillium chrysogenum: cloning and characterization of the sutA and sutB genes.", "content": "Sulfate transport in Penicillium chrysogenum: cloning and characterization of the sutA and sutB genes. In industrial fermentations, Penicillium chrysogenum uses sulfate as the source of sulfur for the biosynthesis of penicillin. By a PCR-based approach, two genes, sutA and sutB, whose encoded products belong to the SulP superfamily of sulfate permeases were isolated. Transformation of a sulfate uptake-negative sB3 mutant of Aspergillus nidulans with the sutB gene completely restored sulfate uptake activity. The sutA gene did not complement the A. nidulans sB3 mutation, even when expressed under control of the sutB promoter. Expression of both sutA and sutB in P. chrysogenum is induced by growth under sulfur starvation conditions. However, sutA is expressed to a much lower level than is sutB. Disruption of sutB resulted in a loss of sulfate uptake ability. Overall, the results show that SutB is the major sulfate permease involved in sulfate uptake by P. chrysogenum."}
{"id": "10570972", "title": "Delta6-fatty acid desaturase from an arachidonic acid-producing Mortierella fungus. Gene cloning and its heterologous expression in a fungus, Aspergillus.", "content": "Delta6-fatty acid desaturase from an arachidonic acid-producing Mortierella fungus. Gene cloning and its heterologous expression in a fungus, Aspergillus. A DNA fragment was cloned from the fungal strain, Mortierella alpina 1S-4 (which is used industrially to produce arachidonic acid), after PCR amplification with oligonucleotide primers designed based on the sequence information for delta6-desaturase genes (from borage and Caenorhabditis elegans), which are involved in the desaturation of linoleic acid (delta9, delta12-18:2) to gamma-linolenic acid (delta6, delta9, delta12-18:3). This fragment was used as a probe to isolate a cDNA clone with an open reading frame encoding 457 amino acids from a M. calpina 1S-4 library. The predicted amino-acid sequence showed similarity to those of the above delta6-desaturases, and contained a cytochrome b5-like domain at the N-terminus, being different from the yeast delta9-desaturase which has the corresponding domain at the C-terminus. The full-length cDNA clone was expressed under the control of the amyB promoter in a filamentous fungus, Aspergillus oryzae, resulting in the accumulation of gamma-linolenic acid (which was not detected in the control Aspergillus) to the level of 25.2% of the total fatty acids. These findings revealed that the recombinant product has delta6-desaturase activity. The Mortierella delta6-desaturase is the first to be reported in fungi."}
{"id": "10565898", "title": "Specific detection of Aspergillus species in blood and bronchoalveolar lavage samples of immunocompromised patients by two-step PCR.", "content": "Specific detection of Aspergillus species in blood and bronchoalveolar lavage samples of immunocompromised patients by two-step PCR. The increasing incidence of aspergillosis, a life-threatening infection in immunocompromised patients, emphasizes the need to improve the currently limited diagnostic tools. We developed a two-step PCR assay that specifically amplifies a region of the 18S rRNA gene that is highly conserved in Aspergillus species. A number of primers with the least homology to equivalent human or Candida gene sequences were screened for the pairs that gave the highest sensitivity and specificity. No cross-reaction with the wide range of fungal and bacterial pathogens so far tested was observed. This assay allows direct and rapid detection of down to 10 fg of Aspergillus DNA corresponding to 1 to 5 CFU per ml of blood. A total of 315 blood and bronchoalveolar lavage samples from 140 subjects, including 93 patients at risk for invasive fungal disease, were screened. The result was a 100% correlation between positive histology, culture, or high-resolution computed tomography findings and PCR results. The test specificity was 89%. Our data point to the considerable potential clinical value of this simple, specific, rapid, and inexpensive PCR assay for improving the means of early diagnosis of systemic aspergillosis in high-risk patients."}
{"id": "10562808", "title": "A polymerase chain reaction enzyme immunoassay for diagnosing infection caused by Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "A polymerase chain reaction enzyme immunoassay for diagnosing infection caused by Aspergillus fumigatus. To develop a polymerase chain reaction enzyme immunoassay (PCR-EIA) to measure levels of circulating aspergillus DNA in invasive aspergillosis caused by Aspergillus fumigatus. The PCR reaction was based on primers from the 18s rRNA gene. Binding of the product to a streptavidin coated microtitration plate was mediated by a biotinylated capture probe. The product was digoxigenylated during PCR and this was the tag to which antibody was bound in the subsequent EIA. The optical density (OD) endpoint was < 0.1 in 10 sera from neutropenic patients with no evidence of invasive aspergillosis, and in 10 sera from nonneutropenic patients with bacterial pneumonia (group 1). The OD from five of 12 patients with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA) (group 2), three with an aspergilloma (group 3), and five with possible invasive aspergillosis (group 4) was > or = 0.1. In 63 sera from 33 cases of proven invasive aspergillosis (group 5) an OD > or = 0.1 was achieved in 48 sera from 30 patients. The maximum OD was 0.510. The level fell in survivors and gradually rose in fatal cases. This assay validated the concept of diagnosing invasive aspergillosis by measuring levels of circulating fungal DNA in serum."}
{"id": "10556711", "title": "New PCR method to differentiate species in the Aspergillus niger aggregate.", "content": "New PCR method to differentiate species in the Aspergillus niger aggregate. The DNA that encodes the 5.8S gene of the ribosomal RNA and the two intergenic spacers ITS1 and ITS2 of the two proposed type strains of the Aspergillus niger aggregate (A. niger and Aspergillus tubingensis) have been sequenced. By comparison of sequences we have found that both species could be differentiated by RsaI digestion of the PCR products of the mentioned regions. This method could be a useful tool in the identification of strains of the A. niger aggregate, especially in studies that involve a large number of isolates."}
{"id": "10543813", "title": "Cloning and characterization of the O-methyltransferase I gene (dmtA) from Aspergillus parasiticus associated with the conversions of demethylsterigmatocystin to sterigmatocystin and dihydrodemethylsterigmatocystin to dihydrosterigmatocystin in aflatoxin biosynthesis.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of the O-methyltransferase I gene (dmtA) from Aspergillus parasiticus associated with the conversions of demethylsterigmatocystin to sterigmatocystin and dihydrodemethylsterigmatocystin to dihydrosterigmatocystin in aflatoxin biosynthesis. O-Methyltransferase I catalyzes both the conversion of demethylsterigmatocystin to sterigmatocystin and the conversion of dihydrodemethylsterigmatocystin to dihydrosterigmatocystin during aflatoxin biosynthesis. In this study, both genomic cloning and cDNA cloning of the gene encoding O-methyltransferase I were accomplished by using PCR strategies, such as conventional PCR based on the N-terminal amino acid sequence of the purified enzyme, 5' and 3' rapid amplification of cDNA ends PCR, and thermal asymmetric interlaced PCR (TAIL-PCR), and genes were sequenced by using Aspergillus parasiticus NIAH-26. A comparison of the genomic sequences with the cDNA of the dmtA region revealed that the coding region is interrupted by three short introns. The cDNA of the dmtA gene is 1,373 bp long and encodes a 386-amino-acid protein with a deduced molecular weight of 43,023, which is consistent with the molecular weight of the protein determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis. The C-terminal half of the deduced protein exhibits 76.3% identity with the coding region of the Aspergillus nidulans StcP protein, whereas the N-terminal half of dmtA exhibits 73.0% identity with the 5' flanking region of the stcP gene, suggesting that translation of the stcP gene may start at a site upstream from methionine that is different from the site that has been suggested previously. Also, an examination of the 5' and 3' flanking regions of the dmtA gene in which TAIL-PCR was used demonstrated that the dmtA gene is located in the aflatoxin biosynthesis cluster between (and in the same orientation as) the omtA and ord-2 genes. Northern blotting revealed that expression of the dmtA gene is influenced by both medium composition and culture temperature and that the pattern correlates with the patterns observed for other genes in the aflatoxin gene cluster. Furthermore, Southern blotting and PCR analyses of the dmtA gene showed that a dmtA homolog is present in Aspergillus oryzae SYS-2."}
{"id": "10543807", "title": "Molecular characterization of laccase genes from the basidiomycete Coprinus cinereus and heterologous expression of the laccase lcc1.", "content": "Molecular characterization of laccase genes from the basidiomycete Coprinus cinereus and heterologous expression of the laccase lcc1. A laccase from Coprinus cinereus is active at alkaline pH, an essential property for some potential applications. We cloned and sequenced three laccase genes (lcc1, lcc2, and lcc3) from the ink cap basidiomycete C. cinereus. The lcc1 gene contained 7 introns, while both lcc2 and lcc3 contained 13 introns. The predicted mature proteins (Lcc1 to Lcc3) are 58 to 80% identical at the amino acid level. The predicted Lcc1 contains a 23-amino-acid C-terminal extension rich in arginine and lysine, suggesting that C-terminal processing may occur during its biosynthesis. We expressed the Lcc1 protein in Aspergillus oryzae and purified it. The Lcc1 protein as expressed in A. oryzae has an apparent molecular mass of 66 kDa on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and absorption maxima at 278 and 614 nm. Based on the N-terminal protein sequence of the laccase, a 4-residue propeptide was processed during the maturation of the enzyme. The dioxygen specificity of the laccase showed an apparent K(m) of 21 +/- 2 microM and a catalytic constant of 200 +/- 10 min(-1) for O(2) with 2, 2'-azinobis(3-ethylbenzothiazoline-6-sulfonic acid) as the reducing substrate at pH 5.5. Lcc1 from A. oryzae may be useful in industrial applications. This is the first report of a basidiomycete laccase whose biosynthesis involves both N-terminal and C-terminal processing."}
{"id": "10482390", "title": "Ribotoxins are a more widespread group of proteins within the filamentous fungi than previously believed.", "content": "Ribotoxins are a more widespread group of proteins within the filamentous fungi than previously believed. Alpha-sarcin, restrictocin and mitogillin are the best known members of the family of fungal ribotoxins. In recent years, new members of this family have been discovered and characterised. In this work, we study the occurrence of ribotoxins among different species of fungi. The presence of ribotoxins has been identified in some new species by means of genetic studies, as well as expression and activity assays. The ribotoxin genes have been partially sequenced, and demonstrate a high degree of similarity. These studies demonstrate that these toxins are more widespread than previously considered. This is surprising, considering the ribotoxins are such specific and potent toxins, of unknown biological function. These studies confirm the hypothesis that these proteins are naturally engineered toxins derived from ribonucleases of broad substrate specificity."}
{"id": "10480308", "title": "Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis diagnosed early by polymerase chain reaction assay.", "content": "Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis diagnosed early by polymerase chain reaction assay. We compared the usefulness of a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay for the early diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis with the serodiagnosis of sufficient concentrations of galactomannan using the same serum samples. A patient was treated with prednisolone for the management of hepatitis. Computed tomography (CT) scan of the chest showed the nodular shadow with a cavity containing a clear fungus ball. DNA of Aspergillus spp. from a serum sample was detected and using the same serum sample, both latex agglutination and sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) of galactomannan were negative. PCR assay provides an early diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis compared with ELISA of galactomannan."}
{"id": "10479157", "title": "Proteases from Aspergillus fumigatus induce interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-8 production in airway epithelial cell lines by transcriptional mechanisms.", "content": "Proteases from Aspergillus fumigatus induce interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-8 production in airway epithelial cell lines by transcriptional mechanisms. Proteases secreted by Aspergillus fumigatus induce the production of cytokines by epithelial cells, including interleukin (IL)-6 and IL-8. In the present study, we focused on the mechanism(s) by which A. fumigatus-derived proteases elicit cytokine production in epithelial cells. In the epithelial cell line A549, IL-6 and IL-8 mRNA levels were enhanced by proteases as a result of transcriptional induction of the respective genes. Transcriptional induction of both genes coincided with enhanced DNA binding of nuclear factor (NF)-kappaB and NF-IL6, whereas activator protein-1 was unlikely to be involved. The enhanced transcriptional activity could be inhibited by the addition of chymostatin, showing serine protease dependency. Posttranscriptional mechanisms affecting the stability of IL-6 and IL-8 mRNAs were not involved in protease-induced IL-6 and IL-8 production. These data show that after exposure to A. fumigatus-derived proteases, IL-6 and IL-8 gene expressions are up-regulated as a result of transcriptional mechanisms."}
{"id": "10473389", "title": "Identification of an NADH-cytochrome b(5) reductase gene from an arachidonic acid-producing fungus, Mortierella alpina 1S-4, by sequencing of the encoding cDNA and heterologous expression in a fungus, Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Identification of an NADH-cytochrome b(5) reductase gene from an arachidonic acid-producing fungus, Mortierella alpina 1S-4, by sequencing of the encoding cDNA and heterologous expression in a fungus, Aspergillus oryzae. Based on the sequence information for bovine and yeast NADH-cytochrome b(5) reductases (CbRs), a DNA fragment was cloned from Mortierella alpina 1S-4 after PCR amplification. This fragment was used as a probe to isolate a cDNA clone with an open reading frame encoding 298 amino acid residues which show marked sequence similarity to CbRs from other sources, such as yeast (Saccharomyces cerevisiae), bovine, human, and rat CbRs. These results suggested that this cDNA is a CbR gene. The results of a structural comparison of the flavin-binding beta-barrel domains of CbRs from various species and that of the M. alpina enzyme suggested that the overall barrel-folding patterns are similar to each other and that a specific arrangement of three highly conserved amino acid residues (i.e., arginine, tyrosine, and serine) plays a role in binding with the flavin (another prosthetic group) through hydrogen bonds. The corresponding genomic gene, which was also cloned from M. alpina 1S-4 by means of a hybridization method with the above probe, had four introns of different sizes. These introns had GT at the 5' end and AG at the 3' end, according to a general GT-AG rule. The expression of the full-length cDNA in a filamentous fungus, Aspergillus oryzae, resulted in an increase (4.7 times) in ferricyanide reduction activity involving the use of NADH as an electron donor in the microsomes. The M. alpina CbR was purified by solubilization of microsomes with cholic acid sodium salt, followed by DEAE-Sephacel, Mono-Q HR 5/5, and AMP-Sepharose 4B affinity column chromatographies; there was a 645-fold increase in the NADH-ferricyanide reductase specific activity. The purified CbR preferred NADH over NADPH as an electron donor. This is the first report of an analysis of this enzyme in filamentous fungi."}
{"id": "10467546", "title": "Usefulness of genotyping with microsatellite markers to investigate hospital-acquired invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Usefulness of genotyping with microsatellite markers to investigate hospital-acquired invasive aspergillosis. To assess whether invasive aspergillosis (IA) was hospital acquired, Aspergillus fumigatus isolates, obtained during a one-year study from inpatients with haematological diseases and IA and from their environment, were genotyped using microsatellite markers. The analysis of 62 environmental isolates showed an extremely diverse A. fumigatus population with 43 genotypes represented only once. Eight genotypes were found more than twice at different times and/or at different locations showing that a given isolate can persist over time and is not dependent on a specific location. Twenty-seven isolates were obtained from 12 patients with IA. Of eight patients with multiple isolates, four were infected with isolates of different genotypes. Five patients (42%) had hospital-acquired IA according to the following definitions: patients infected with an isolate found in the environment, or patients infected with the same genotype. Although genotyping results are highly suggestive of hospital-acquired IA, this cannot be proved definitively because of the high diversity of the A. fumigatus population and the limited environmental sampling. A better knowledge of the A. fumigatus population outside hospitals is needed. For this purpose, genotyping using microsatellite markers seems appropriate."}
{"id": "10460619", "title": "Early diagnosis of central nervous system aspergillosis using polymerase chain reaction, latex agglutination test, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay.", "content": "Early diagnosis of central nervous system aspergillosis using polymerase chain reaction, latex agglutination test, and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. To investigate the usefulness of examination of cerebrospinal fluids (CSF) in the diagnosis of central nervous system (CNS) aspergillosis, we examined five patients with either brain abscesses or cerebral infarctions and 11 control patients. CSF samples were subjected to enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (EIA), latex agglutination test (LA) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Cultures of CSF samples were negative in all the patients, but PCR, EIA and LA were positive in five, four and four patients with CNS aspergillosis, respectively. None of these tests were positive in the control patients. CSF examination may be beneficial in the diagnosis of CNS aspergillosis."}
{"id": "10459580", "title": "Sequences from the aspergillopepsin PEP gene of Aspergillus fumigatus: evidence on their use in selective PCR identification of Aspergillus species in infected clinical samples.", "content": "Sequences from the aspergillopepsin PEP gene of Aspergillus fumigatus: evidence on their use in selective PCR identification of Aspergillus species in infected clinical samples. In immunodeficient patients, Aspergillus species emerge as circumstantial pathogens. Aspergillus fumigatus is a distant first among the pathogenic aspergilli, which cause deep-seated mycoses. Sequences of the pep gene of A. fumigatus as potential PCR primers, which have not been tested before, were used to identify this species and if possible, differentiate it from other, co-identified, clinically important species of the genus. We present results of the three most promising primer pairs, pep-1/pep-22, pep-15/pep-22 and pep-21/pep32. The second pair was of better specificity when tested with DNA extracted from pure cultures of a multitude of aspergilli, whereas the first co-amplified four clinically significant Aspergillus species. The compatibility of the PCR method with the CTAB DNA extraction protocol varied according to the biological fluid tested and the primer pair used. The first two pairs showed moderate adaptability to the different commercial DNA extraction kits, which were tested in whole blood, spiked with Aspergillus fumigatus hyphae and conidia - as were all the biological fluids used. Restriction of the amplification products with MspI produced distinct patterns for different Aspergillus spp. This approach, as a potential diagnostic tool, seems reliable and sensitive due to its flexibility, speed, low cost, ease of application and selectable breadth of detection."}
{"id": "10452949", "title": "Cloning and characterization of the gene encoding Aspergillus nidulans DNA topoisomerase II.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of the gene encoding Aspergillus nidulans DNA topoisomerase II. We have determined the complete nucleotide sequence of a 5544bp genomic DNA fragment from Aspergillus nidulans that encodes DNA topoisomerase II (topo II). It contains a single open reading frame of 4740bp that codes for 1579 amino acid residues with a molecular weight of 178kDa; when expressed in Escherichia coli and Saccharomyces cerevisiae the molecular weight was 180kDa. The gene (TOP2) is divided into three exons. Two introns, 54bp and 60bp in length, are located at nucleotide positions 187 and 3214 respectively. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence with other eukaryotic topo II sequences showed a higher degree of identity with other fungal enzymes than the human topo IIalpha. One of monoclonal antibodies raised against human topo II, 6H8, can cross-react with Aspergillus topo II."}
{"id": "10452338", "title": "Lung allograft dysfunction correlates with gamma-interferon gene expression in bronchoalveolar lavage.", "content": "Lung allograft dysfunction correlates with gamma-interferon gene expression in bronchoalveolar lavage. Preceding episodes of acute cellular rejection (ACR) may predispose lung allografts to the subsequent development of irreversible dysfunction or bronchiolitis obliterans syndrome (BOS). Other histologic patterns such as bronchiolitis obliterans with organizing pneumonia (BOOP), organizing pneumonia, lymphocytic bronchiolitis and diffuse alveolar damage (DAD) may also adversely affect allograft function. We have previously reported the predominant expression of Th1 cytokines (IL-2 and interferon gamma) in rejecting and Th2 (IL-10) in a tolerant model of rat lung transplantation. Here we correlate the \"Th1/Th2 paradigm\" in clinical lung transplantation with histologic findings and assess the effect on serial spirometric function. We examined the mRNA expression of IL-2, interferon gamma, IL-10 and ICAM-1 in 53 bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) specimens from 23 lung transplant (LT) recipients utilizing qualitative \"nested\" reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR). We also measured IgG1 and IgG2 levels in 44 BAL specimens by ELISA. The mRNA expression for cytokines, ICAM-1 and the IgG2/IgG1 ratios were correlated with the presence or absence of ACR and alternate \"histologic patterns\". Serial spirometry were analyzed for the 2-3 month interval before bronchoscopic (FOB) assessment to derive \"baseline\" forced expiratory volume-one second (FEV1) values. The change in FEV1 coincident with (deltaFEV1 pre) and for the 2-3 month interval subsequent to (deltaFEV1 post) FOB were expressed relative to \"baseline\" spirometric indexes. Detection of mRNA for interferon gamma and ICAM-1 correlated significantly with ACR, whereas IL-2 and IL-10 expression did not correlate. IL-10 was virtually \"ubiquitous\" in most BAL samples irrespective of the presence or absence of ACR. The highest correlation was observed with interferon gamma for acute cellular rejection whereupon the sensitivity was 77.7%, specificity 87.7%, positive predictive value 73.6% and negative predictive value 88.2%, although for ICAM-1 these values were 75%, 65.7%, 50.0% and 85.0%, respectively. Nevertheless, 4 of 5 episodes of respiratory tract infection (bacterial, CMV, Aspergillus spp.) were similarly associated with cytokine mRNA. The ratios of IgG2 to IgG1, a reflection of Th1/Th2 influence, were not statistically different when analyzed for the presence or absence of ACR (0.91+/-0.53 vs. 1.02+/-0.70, respectively; p = NS). By analysis of FEV1 trends, expression of interferon gamma was associated with a greater and persistent decrement (deltaFEV1 pre: -0.265+/-0.78 liters, and post: -0.236+/-0.1161; mean +/- SE) than ACR in the absence of interferon gamma expression (+0.158 +/- +0.065 and +0.236+/-0.007 liters, respectively) (Student-Newman-Keuls, p<.05). Our findings suggest that interferon gamma mRNA expression and ICAM-1 may be valuable in both the diagnosis and prognosis for lung allograft ACR. IL-10, a Th2 cytokine, was locally expressed both in the presence and absence of ACR. Expression of mRNA for interferon y in BAL and, to a lesser extent ICAM-1, were associated with increased lung allograft dysfunction. Whether BAL cytokine \"immunosurveillance\" would complement or possibly supplant a specific \"histologic pattern\" and thereby direct different therapies after lung transplantation, may be potentially rewarding areas of further investigation."}
{"id": "10445315", "title": "Evaluation of different methods for the extraction of DNA from fungal conidia by quantitative competitive PCR analysis.", "content": "Evaluation of different methods for the extraction of DNA from fungal conidia by quantitative competitive PCR analysis. Five different DNA extraction methods were evaluated for their effectiveness in recovering PCR templates from the conidia of a series of fungal species often encountered in indoor air. The test organisms were Aspergillus versicolor, Penicillium chrysogenum, Stachybotrys chartarum, Cladosporium herbarum and Alternaria alternata. The extraction methods differed in their use of different cell lysis procedures. These included grinding in liquid nitrogen, grinding at ambient temperature, sonication, glass bead milling and freeze-thawing. DNA purification and recovery from the lysates were performed using a commercially available system based on the selective binding of nucleic acids to glass milk. A simple quantitative competitive polymerase chain reaction (QC-PCR) assay was developed for use in determining copy numbers of the internal transcribed spacer (ITS) regions of the ribosomal RNA operon (rDNA) in the total DNA extracts. These quantitative analyses demonstrated that the method using glass bead milling was most effective in recovering PCR templates from each of the different types of conidia both in terms of absolute copy numbers recovered and also in terms of lowest extract to extract variability. Calculations of average template copy yield per conidium in this study indicate that the bead milling method is sufficient to support the detection of less than ten conidia of each of the different organisms in a PCR assay."}
{"id": "10437828", "title": "A group of alpha-1,4-glucan lyase genes from the fungi Morchella costata, M. vulgaris and Peziza ostracoderma. Cloning, complete sequencing and heterologous expression.", "content": "A group of alpha-1,4-glucan lyase genes from the fungi Morchella costata, M. vulgaris and Peziza ostracoderma. Cloning, complete sequencing and heterologous expression. We here report genes encoding a newly discovered class of starch- and glycogen-degrading enzyme, alpha-1,4-glucan lyase (EC 4.2.2.13), which degrades starch and glycogen to 1,5-anhydro-D-fructose. Two lyases were purified and partially sequenced from the macrofungi Morchella costata and M. vulgaris. The obtained lyase amino acid sequences were used to generate PCR primers, which were further used to probe the fungal genomic libraries. Two lyase genes (Agll1;Mo.cos and Agll1;Mo.vul) from the two fungi were fully sequenced and found to contain a coding region of 3201 bp and 3213 bp, respectively. A total of 13 small introns were found in each of the two genes with identical positions. The two lyase genes share 86% identity at the amino acid level. They encode mature lyases with 1066 and 1070 amino acids, respectively. The deduced molecular masses of 121,530 and 121,971 Da agree with the values found for the two purified lyases. A structure analysis of the promoter regions of the lyase genes revealed a number of putative regulatory DNA elements, such as the AREA and CREA sites, which are related to nitrogen and carbon metabolism, respectively, and the CCAAT/CAAT boxes, which are related to basal expression of genes. A third lyase gene (Agll1;Pe.ost) from the fungus Peziza ostracoderma was partially sequenced to 557 bp. The amino acid sequence deduced from this nucleotide fragment shares 76% identity with the M. costata lyase. Heterologous expression of the M. costata lyase gene was achieved intracellularly in Pichia pastoris and Aspergillus niger."}
{"id": "10435362", "title": "In situ detection of Aspergillus 18S ribosomal RNA in invasive pulmonary aspergillosis.", "content": "In situ detection of Aspergillus 18S ribosomal RNA in invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. We attempted to evaluate the usefulness of in situ hybridization (ISH) in the specific diagnosis of Aspergillus pulmonary infection. We used an ISH technique using a multiple digoxigenin-incorporating probe, which was constructed by means of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) from the 18S ribosomal RNA of Aspergillus fumigatus. We studied twelve formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded lung tissue sections from autopsy-confirmed invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) (5 acute myelocytic leukemias, 2 acute lymphocytic leukemias, 2 chronic myelocytic leukemias, 1 adult T-cell leukemia, 1 non-Hodgkin's lymphoma and 1 chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.), and 18 sections from other pulmonary infections as control. ISH using the probe and a low-viscosity hybridization buffer solution (LV) positively stained hyphal elements in 12 of 12 autopsy lung tissue specimens from subjects with IPA, while ISH using the probe and a high viscosity hybridization buffer solution (HV) positively stained the hyphal elements in 6 of 12. Specifically, ISH (LV) demonstrates hyphal elements of Aspergillus spp. in the center of Aspergillus abscess. While, ISH (HV) can detect hyphal elements located in the periphery of a suppurative abscess as well as those in the blood vessel. Conversely, ISH did not show positive results for any of the autopsy tissue specimens from subjects with other fungal pneumonia infections (Candida n=5, Mucor n=2, Cryptococcus n=2, and Pseudallescheria n=1), Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia (n=5), and cytomegalovirus pneumonia (n=3). Dual staining by means of ISH and immunohistochemistry (IHC) using anti-neutrophil elastase (NE) and anti-CD68 monoclonal antibodies showed that NE positive cells were localized at the edge of the radial growth of the organism, but CD68 positive cells were located around the center of the abscess. The accumulation of NE positive cells was rarely seen in half of the cases (6/12). In contrast, CD68 positive cells were routinely present in the center of the abscess (12/12). ISH in conjunction with IHC is a useful tool for differentiating Aspergillus spp. from other fungal genera in tissue sections from patients with IPA and may have a certain role in the evaluation of the interactions between organisms and recruiting inflammatory cells."}
{"id": "10427010", "title": "Purification, characterization, and heterologous expression in Fusarium venenatum of a novel serine carboxypeptidase from Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Purification, characterization, and heterologous expression in Fusarium venenatum of a novel serine carboxypeptidase from Aspergillus oryzae. A novel serine carboxypeptidase (EC 3.4.16.1) was found in an Aspergillus oryzae fermentation broth and was purified to homogeneity. This enzyme has a molecular weight of ca. 67,000, as determined by sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and its specific activity is 21 U/mg for carbobenzoxy (Z)-Ala-Glu at pH 4.5 and 25 degrees C. It has a ratio of bimolecular constants for Z-Ala-Lys and Z-Ala-Phe of 3.75. Optimal enzyme activity occurs at pH 4 to 4.5 and 58 to 60 degrees C for Z-Ala-Ile. The N terminus of this carboxypeptidase is blocked. Internal fragments, obtained by cyanogen bromide digestion, were sequenced. PCR primers were then made based on the peptide sequence information, and the full-length gene sequence was obtained. An expression vector that contained the recombinant carboxypeptidase gene was used to transform a Fusarium venenatum host strain. The transformed strain of F. venenatum expressed an active recombinant carboxypeptidase. In F. venenatum, the recombinant carboxypeptidase produced two bands which had molecular weights greater than the molecular weight of the native carboxypeptidase from A. oryzae. Although the molecular weights of the native and recombinant enzymes differ, these enzymes have very similar kinetic parameters."}
{"id": "10424090", "title": "PCR and other non-culture methods for diagnosis of invasive Candida infections in allogeneic bone marrow and solid organ transplant recipients.", "content": "PCR and other non-culture methods for diagnosis of invasive Candida infections in allogeneic bone marrow and solid organ transplant recipients. In this prospective study 197 serum and 152 urine samples were collected from 40 bone marrow and solid organ transplant recipients with clinically suspected invasive fungal infection before, during and after empirical treatment with lipid formulation of amphotericin B or fluconazole. Serum was analysed by Candida polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and urine by measurement of D/L-arabinitol ratio. One serum from each patient was also tested for concentration of (1-->3)-beta-glucan and two commercial Candida antigens. Invasive fungal infection was diagnosed in four candidosis and one aspergillosis patients (13%). Positive PCR, elevated D/L-arabinitol ratio, (1-->3)-beta-glucan concentration and antigens were detected in nine, 15, 17, and seven patients, respectively. The agreement between PCR and D/L-arabinitol assays was poor. However, 56% agreement was observed between positive PCR and beta-glucan and/or antigen assays, and 60% agreement between positive D/L-arabinitol and beta-glucan and/or antigen assays. Combination of several non-culture assays is needed to diagnose invasive fungal infection in high-risk transplant recipients. No single test was sufficient for diagnosis."}
{"id": "10422228", "title": "Isolation and characterization of experimentally induced, aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway deletion mutants of Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Isolation and characterization of experimentally induced, aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway deletion mutants of Aspergillus parasiticus. A plasmid vector (pDEL2) was engineered for the purpose of introducing a deletion within the aflatoxin (AF) biosynthetic gene cluster of Aspergillus parasiticus. The vector was constructed by PCR amplification of a region of the AF gene cluster from an A. parasiticus isolate that had undergone an aberrant recombinational event during transformation with a nor A-niaD gene disruption vector. This recombinational event resulted in the deletion of an approximately 6-kb region of the AF gene cluster and accumulation of the AF precursor averantin (AVN). Northern hybridization analysis confirmed that the deletion event resulted in no detectable transcription of the norA gene or the AF biosynthetic genes, avnA, verA, and ver-1. Transformation of A. parasiticus RHN1 with pDEL2 resulted in 16% of the transformants accumulating AVN. Southern hybridization analysis of randomly selected AVN-accumulating transformants indicated that all had undergone a double-crossover homologous, recombinational event resulting in the 6-kb norA to avnA deletion within the AF gene cluster. Aflatoxin precursor feeding studies performed on one of the AVN-accumulating, RHN1(pDEL2) transformants confirmed that the enzyme activities associated with the deleted genes were no longer present."}
{"id": "10411383", "title": "The evolving role of direct amplification tests in diagnosing osteoarticular infections caused by mycobacteria and fungi.", "content": "The evolving role of direct amplification tests in diagnosing osteoarticular infections caused by mycobacteria and fungi. Polymerase chain reaction-based direct amplification tests have been developed for many species of mycobacteria and fungi. Their applications in clinical medicine are evolving rapidly but are still not fully defined. Uncritical use of direct amplification tests for individual patients without a clear understanding of their limitations and how to integrate their results with other clinical and laboratory data may lead to incorrect patient management. Although presently available tests seem to be clinically useful when properly applied, further technical development and clinical studies are needed before these powerful diagnostic tools achieve their full value."}
{"id": "10380624", "title": "Molecular cloning and expression of the gene encoding a phospholipase A1 from Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Molecular cloning and expression of the gene encoding a phospholipase A1 from Aspergillus oryzae. Phospholipase A1 (PLA1) is a hydrolytic enzyme that catalyzes removal of the acyl group from position 1 of lecithin to form lysolecithin. The genomic DNA and cDNA encoding PLA1 from Aspergillus oryzae were cloned with the mixed deoxyribonucleotide-primed polymerase chain reaction. The PLA1 gene is composed of 1,056 bp and has four exons and three short introns (63, 54, and 51 bp). The deduced amino acid sequence of PLA1 contained the N-terminal sequence of the mature PLA1 analyzed by Edman degradation. PLA1 cDNA has an open reading frame of 885 bp encoding the PLA1 precursor of 295 amino acid residues. The mature PLA1 is composed of 269 amino acid residues, and a prepro-sequence of 26 amino acid residues is at the N-terminal region of the PLA1 precursor. PLA1 has two possible N-glycosylation sites (Asn27 and Asn55). PLA1 has a consensus pentapeptide (-Gly-His-Ser-Xaa-Gly-), which is conserved in lipases. The amino acid sequence of PLA1 showed 47% identity with that of mono- and diacylglycerol lipase from Penicillium camembertii. The PLA1 cDNA was expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae KS58-2D, indicating the cloned gene to be functional."}
{"id": "10377251", "title": "Molecular cloning of aryl-alcohol oxidase from the fungus Pleurotus eryngii, an enzyme involved in lignin degradation.", "content": "Molecular cloning of aryl-alcohol oxidase from the fungus Pleurotus eryngii, an enzyme involved in lignin degradation. Aryl-alcohol oxidase (AAO), an extracellular enzyme characteristic of fungi from the genus Pleurotus, constitutes a source for H2O2 required in lignin biodegradation. The gene aao has been cloned, sequenced and characterized for the first time in Pleurotus eryngii. Both cDNA and genomic libraries were screened with probes obtained by PCR using as primers oligonucleotides corresponding to the N-terminus and internal sequences of AAO. DNA sequences from positive clones showed a unique open reading frame of 1779 nucleotides interrupted by 12 introns. The conceptual translation of the protein agrees with the partial amino acid sequences obtained from protein sequencing. A search for proteins with related amino-acid sequences revealed that glucose oxidase from Aspergillus niger has 33% identity and 51% similarity. A comparison with other oxidoreductases showed common motifs in both N- and C-terminal regions corresponding, respectively, to the FAD-binding region and the enzyme active site. However, AAO probably has structural differences with other oxidases, as deduced from its unique ability to generate H2O2 from the oxidation of aromatic alcohols."}
{"id": "10376827", "title": "Changes in Aspergillus nidulans gene expression induced by bafilomycin, a Streptomyces-produced antibiotic.", "content": "Changes in Aspergillus nidulans gene expression induced by bafilomycin, a Streptomyces-produced antibiotic. In natural environments bacteria and filamentous fungi often compete for the same resources. Consequently, production of antibiotic secondary metabolites and defence mechanisms against these compounds have evolved in these organisms. An experimental model has been developed to study the response in fungi exposed to one such antibiotic. The filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans was treated with bafilomycin B1, a Streptomyces-produced antibiotic which reduces radial growth rate and induces morphological changes in fungi. mRNA differential display was used to study changes in fungal gene expression. For five genes, changes in abundance of the corresponding mRNAs, directly or indirectly caused by bafilomycin, were observed. Of these, three were up-regulated and two repressed. With four of these the change in mRNA abundance measured ranged from 10- to 60-fold. However, for one gene the mRNA was only detected after bafilomycin treatment. One of the down-regulated mRNAs encodes ASPND1, a glycoprotein that belongs to a known family of antigens identified in aspergilloma patients. One up-regulated mRNA shows sequence similarities, at the amino acid level, with a cell-wall protein of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The remaining three genes were also cloned and sequenced; their sequences do not correspond to known genes in A. nidulans, and no similarities with published nucleotide or protein sequences in other organisms were found. These results indicate the feasibility of using mRNA differential display to study interactions between bacteria and filamentous fungi."}
{"id": "10361035", "title": "Ketosynthase domain probes identify two subclasses of fungal polyketide synthase genes.", "content": "Ketosynthase domain probes identify two subclasses of fungal polyketide synthase genes. Analysis of fungal polyketide synthase gene sequences suggested that these might be divided into two subclasses, designated WA-type and MSAS-type. Two pairs of degenerate PCR primers (LC1 and LC2c, LC3 and LC5c) were designed for the amplification of ketosynthase domain fragments from fungal PKS genes in each of these subclasses. Both primer pairs were shown to amplify one or more PCR products from the genomes of a range of ascomycetous Deuteromycetes and Southern blot analysis confirmed that the products obtained with each pair of primers emanated from distinct genomic loci. PCR products obtained from Penicillium patulum and Aspergillus parasiticus with the LC1/2c primer pair and from Phoma sp. C2932 with both primer pairs were cloned and sequenced; the deduced protein sequences were highly homologous to the ketosynthase domains of other fungal PKS genes. Genes from which LC1/2c fragments were amplified (WA-type) were shown by a phylogenetic analysis to be closely related to fungal PKS genes involved in pigment and aflatoxin biosynthetic pathways, whereas the gene from which the LC3/5c fragment was amplified (MSAS-type) was shown to be closely related to genes encoding 6-methylsalicylic acid synthase (MSAS). The phylogenetic tree strongly supported the division of fungal PKS genes into two subclasses. The LC-series primers may be useful molecular tools to facilitate the cloning of novel fungal polyketide synthase genes."}
{"id": "10347026", "title": "Differential expression of three alpha-galactosidase genes and a single beta-galactosidase gene from Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Differential expression of three alpha-galactosidase genes and a single beta-galactosidase gene from Aspergillus niger. A gene encoding a third alpha-galactosidase (AglB) from Aspergillus niger has been cloned and sequenced. The gene consists of an open reading frame of 1,750 bp containing six introns. The gene encodes a protein of 443 amino acids which contains a eukaryotic signal sequence of 16 amino acids and seven putative N-glycosylation sites. The mature protein has a calculated molecular mass of 48,835 Da and a predicted pI of 4.6. An alignment of the AglB amino acid sequence with those of other alpha-galactosidases revealed that it belongs to a subfamily of alpha-galactosidases that also includes A. niger AglA. A. niger AglC belongs to a different subfamily that consists mainly of prokaryotic alpha-galactosidases. The expression of aglA, aglB, aglC, and lacA, the latter of which encodes an A. niger beta-galactosidase, has been studied by using a number of monomeric, oligomeric, and polymeric compounds as growth substrates. Expression of aglA is only detected on galactose and galactose-containing oligomers and polymers. The aglB gene is expressed on all of the carbon sources tested, including glucose. Elevated expression was observed on xylan, which could be assigned to regulation via XlnR, the xylanolytic transcriptional activator. Expression of aglC was only observed on glucose, fructose, and combinations of glucose with xylose and galactose. High expression of lacA was detected on arabinose, xylose, xylan, and pectin. Similar to aglB, the expression on xylose and xylan can be assigned to regulation via XlnR. All four genes have distinct expression patterns which seem to mirror the natural substrates of the encoded proteins."}
{"id": "10325335", "title": "Rapid identification of fungi by using the ITS2 genetic region and an automated fluorescent capillary electrophoresis system.", "content": "Rapid identification of fungi by using the ITS2 genetic region and an automated fluorescent capillary electrophoresis system. Invasive fungal disease often plays an important role in the morbidity and mortality of immunocompromised patients. The poor sensitivity of current fungal blood culture and histological practices has led to the development of highly sensitive and specific molecular techniques, such as the PCR. Sequence variability of the internal transcribed spacer 2 (ITS2) region of fungi is potentially useful in rapid and accurate diagnosis of clinical fungal isolates. PCR with fungus-specific primers targeted toward conserved sequences of the 5.8S and 28S ribosomal DNA (rDNA) results in amplification of the species-specific ITS2 regions, which are variable in amplicon length. We have made use of the ABI PRISM 310 genetic analyzer and the ABI PRISM 310 GeneScan analysis software for the determination of variable size differences of the ITS2 region of clinically important fungi, including Candida and non-Candida yeasts, Aspergillus species, and a variety of dermatophytes. No cross-reaction occurred when samples were tested against human and bacterial genomic DNA. We have found that most clinically significant fungal isolates can be differentiated by this method, and it therefore serves to be a promising tool for the rapid (<7 h) diagnosis of fungemia and other invasive fungal infections."}
{"id": "10325319", "title": "Density and molecular epidemiology of Aspergillus in air and relationship to outbreaks of Aspergillus infection.", "content": "Density and molecular epidemiology of Aspergillus in air and relationship to outbreaks of Aspergillus infection. After five patients were diagnosed with nosocomial invasive aspergillosis caused by Aspergillus fumigatus and A. flavus, a 14-month surveillance program for pathogenic and nonpathogenic fungal conidia in the air within and outside the University Hospital in Rotterdam (The Netherlands) was begun. A. fumigatus isolates obtained from the Department of Hematology were studied for genetic relatedness by randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis. This was repeated with A. fumigatus isolates contaminating culture media in the microbiology laboratory. The density of the conidia of nonpathogenic fungi in the outside air showed a seasonal variation: higher densities were measured during the summer, while lower densities were determined during the fall and winter. Hardly any variation was found in the numbers of Aspergillus conidia. We found decreasing numbers of conidia when comparing air from outside the hospital to that inside the hospital and when comparing open areas within the hospital to the closed department of hematology. The increase in the number of patients with invasive aspergillosis could not be explained by an increase in the number of Aspergillus conidia in the outside air. The short-term presence of A. flavus can only be explained by the presence of a point source, which was probably patient related. Genotyping A. fumigatus isolates from the department of hematology showed that clonally related isolates were persistently present for more than 1 year. Clinical isolates of A. fumigatus obtained during the outbreak period were different from these persistent clones. A. fumigatus isolates contaminating culture media were all genotypically identical, indicating a causative point source. Knowledge of the epidemiology of Aspergillus species is necessary for the development of strategies to prevent invasive aspergillosis. RAPD fingerprinting of Aspergillus isolates can help to determine the cause of an outbreak of invasive aspergillosis."}
{"id": "10320571", "title": "Neutral trehalases catalyse intracellular trehalose breakdown in the filamentous fungi Aspergillus nidulans and Neurospora crassa.", "content": "Neutral trehalases catalyse intracellular trehalose breakdown in the filamentous fungi Aspergillus nidulans and Neurospora crassa. A cAMP-activatable Ca2+-dependent neutral trehalase was identified in germinating conidia of Aspergillus nidulans and Neurospora crassa. Using a PCR approach, A. nidulans and N. crassa genes encoding homologues of the neutral trehalases found in several yeasts were cloned and sequenced. Disruption of the AntreB gene encoding A. nidulans neutral trehalase revealed that it is responsible for intracellular trehalose mobilization at the onset of conidial germination, and that this phenomenon is partially involved in the transient accumulation of glycerol in the germinating conidia. Although trehalose mobilization is not essential for the completion of spore germination and filamentous growth in A. nidulans, it is required to achieve wild-type germination rates under carbon limitation, suggesting that intracellular trehalose can partially contribute the energy requirements of spore germination. Furthermore, it was shown that trehalose accumulation in A. nidulans can protect germinating conidia against an otherwise lethal heat shock. Because transcription of the treB genes is not increased after a heat shock but induced upon heat shock recovery, it is proposed that, in filamentous fungi, mobilization of trehalose during the return to appropriate growth is promoted by transcriptional and post-translational regulatory mechanisms, in particular cAMP-dependent protein kinase-mediated phosphorylation."}
{"id": "10228742", "title": "Respiratory infections in immunocompromised patients.", "content": "Respiratory infections in immunocompromised patients. HIV disease has been dramatically reduced in the developed world by the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy, with implications that prophylactic therapy against opportunistic infections may be stopped; however, tuberculosis is an escalating problem in the HIV-infected and HIV-noninfected populations worldwide. Compliance with effective treatment regimens, especially through directly observed therapy, remains the cornerstone of tuberculosis control strategies. Although tuberculosis prophylaxis is of benefit for tuberculin skin reactors with HIV in the developed world, several reservations are voiced about this approach in resource-poor settings. Recent advances in technology, particularly in antigen-specific systems, have revolutionized the understanding of HIV immunology and helped to elucidate the mechanisms of pathogenesis in diseases such as cytomegalovirus. In bone marrow transplantation and solid-organ transplantation patients, quantitative polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to predict cytomegalovirus disease is an important advance, and patients who undergo bone marrow transplantation, CT scanning has proven useful in the diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis."}
{"id": "10225290", "title": "Identification of medically significant fungal genera by polymerase chain reaction followed by restriction enzyme analysis.", "content": "Identification of medically significant fungal genera by polymerase chain reaction followed by restriction enzyme analysis. Rapid non-culture-dependent assays for identification of fungi quicken diagnosis and prompt treatment of invasive fungal disease. Fungal DNA extracts from pure cultures of the most frequently isolated fungal pathogens belonging to the Genera Aspergillus, Candida and Cryptococcus along with less common pathogenic Genera were amplified with the general fungal primer pair internal transcribed spacer-1/4. Subsequently, the amplicon was digested with the restriction endonucleases MspI, HaeIII, HinfI and EcoRI in order to generate genus- or species-specific patterns for identification of the fungus. HinfI produced indistinguishable fingerprints for all Aspergillus species tested. MspI produced species-specific patterns for: Cryptococcus neoformans, Cryptococcus non-neoformans, Candida albicans and Candida tropicalis. EcoRI succeeded in differentiating penicillia from aspergilli and cryptococci from Candida spp. It is concluded that this procedure can differentiate genera and occasionally species of medically important fungi and that following the necessary validation experiments, it can be used directly on clinical samples to assist prompt diagnosis of systemic fungal infections."}
{"id": "10224375", "title": "IgE-mediated reactions to autoantigens in allergic diseases.", "content": "IgE-mediated reactions to autoantigens in allergic diseases. There is increasing evidence that IgE-mediated reactivity against autoantigens could play a role in the pathology of severe chronic atopic diseases. Human mitochondrial managenese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD), acidic ribosomal P2 protein and cyclophilins were cloned by PCR, expressed as inclusion body proteins in Escherichia coli, purified by Ni2+-chelate affinity chromatography, refolded in vitro and used for further experiments. Human MnSOD, P2 ribosomal protein and cyclophilins respectively, show sequence identity and similarity of >50% and 70% to the corresponding allergens of Aspergillus fumigatus. The human proteins were able to bind IgE from sera of individuals sensitized to the mould proteins and to elicit strong skin reactions of the immediate type in these individuals. These observations provide evidence for autoreactivity to human proteins in allergic persons chronically sensitized to environmental allergens from A. fumigatus which share a high degree of sequence homology to the corresponding human proteins."}
{"id": "10210332", "title": "A homolog of the fungal nuclear migration gene nudC is involved in normal and malignant human hematopoiesis.", "content": "A homolog of the fungal nuclear migration gene nudC is involved in normal and malignant human hematopoiesis. The filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans nudC gene has an essential function in movement of nuclei following mitosis and is required for normal colony growth. Here, the molecular cloning and role in hematopoiesis of a human gene (designated HnudC) homologous to A. nidulans nudC is reported. The amino terminus of the larger human protein (HNUDC = 45 kDa) does not overlap with A. nidulans NUDC (22 kDa). However, NUDC and the C-terminal 94 amino acids of HNUDC are 67% identical. The C-terminal region of the HnudC gene fully complements the A. nidulans temperature-sensitive nudC3 mutation, suggesting that nudC has an essential function in cell growth that is conserved from filamentous fungi to humans. In initial studies, HNUDC levels were much higher in erythroid precursors compared to most other human tissues. Therefore, the potential role of HnudC in hematopoiesis was explored. In normal human bone marrow, HNUDC protein and mRNA are highly expressed in early myeloid and erythroid precursors and decline as these cells terminally differentiate. To determine whether hematopoietic growth factors induce HnudC expression, TF-1 cells were stimulated by granulocyte-macrophage colony-stimulating factor. This induced a significant increase in HNUDC protein and HnudC mRNA, suggesting that enhancement of HnudC expression in response to growth factor stimulation may be mediated at the transcription level. Furthermore, HNUDC was significantly enhanced in lysates of bone marrow aspirates from patients with acute myelogenous and acute lymphoblastic leukemia compared to aspirates from normal controls, suggesting that HnudC is involved in malignant hematopoietic cell growth as well. These data demonstrate that HNUDC is highly expressed in normal and malignant human hematopoietic precursors and suggest it is of functional importance in the proliferation of these cells."}
{"id": "10200936", "title": "Molecular cloning of a second phospholipase B gene, caPLB2 from Candida albicans.", "content": "Molecular cloning of a second phospholipase B gene, caPLB2 from Candida albicans. Accumulating evidence suggests that phospholipase B, secreted by pathogenic fungi such as Candida albicans, Cryptococcus neoformans and Aspergillus fumigatus, functions as one of the virulence factors. In the present study, we have attempted to clone phospholipase B gene from C. albicans. By RT-PCR analysis with degenerate primers based on conserved regions of phospholipase B from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Penicillium notatum and Torulaspora delbrueckii two similar but different cDNA fragments were obtained. One corresponded to the partial sequence of caPLB1, recently cloned phospholipase B gene from C. albicans by a different approach (Leidich et al.: J Biol Chem 1998; 273: 26078-86). The other fragments contained sequences similar to the corresponding sequences of phospholipase B from other fungi. The presence of two related genes was confirmed by Southern and Northern blot analyses. The full length of the second C. albicans phospholipase B gene (caPLB2) encoded a putative protein with 608 amino acids and contained a potential signal peptide sequence and a putative catalytic region, which are found in phospholipase B from other fungi. Consistent with the findings of caPLB1, caPLB2 also lacks a cluster of hydrophobic amino acids at the COOH-terminal, which may function as a signal of glycosylphosphatidylinositol anchor."}
{"id": "10200937", "title": "Rapid extraction of fungal DNA from clinical samples for PCR amplification.", "content": "Rapid extraction of fungal DNA from clinical samples for PCR amplification. A hexadecyltrimethylammonium bromide (CTAB) method for isolating fungal DNA from clinical samples, suitable for PCR amplification is described. Yeast and filamentous fungi DNA from clinical samples was amplified with primers complementary to the genes coding for rRNA, amplifying a 105 bp fragment and internal transcribed spacer primers amplifying fragments between 242 and 622 bp. The level of sensitivity was 10 +/- 5 yeast and 28 Aspergillus fumigatus CFU ml-1 of biological fluid."}
{"id": "10074553", "title": "Contaminations occurring in fungal PCR assays.", "content": "Contaminations occurring in fungal PCR assays. Successful in vitro amplification of fungal DNA in clinical specimens has been reported recently. In a collaboration among five European centers, the frequency and risk of contamination due to airborne spore inoculation or carryover contamination in fungal PCR were analyzed. The identities of all contaminants were specified by cycle sequencing and GenBank analysis. Twelve of 150 PCR assays that together included over 2,800 samples were found to be contaminated (3.3% of the negative controls were contaminated during the DNA extraction, and 4.7% of the PCR mixtures were contaminated during the amplification process). Contaminants were specified as Aspergillus fumigatus, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, and Acremonium spp. Further analysis showed that commercially available products like zymolyase powder or 10x PCR buffer may contain fungal DNA. In conclusion, the risk of contamination is not higher in fungal PCR assays than in other diagnostic PCR-based assays if general precautions are taken."}
{"id": "10074549", "title": "Aspergillus meningitis: diagnosis by non-culture-based microbiological methods and management.", "content": "Aspergillus meningitis: diagnosis by non-culture-based microbiological methods and management. The performance of antibody detection, antigen detection, and Aspergillus genus-specific PCR for diagnosing Aspergillus meningitis was investigated with 26 cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples obtained from a single patient with proven infection caused by Aspergillus fumigatus. Immunoglobulin G antibodies directed against Aspergillus were not detected by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in CSF or serum. The antigen galactomannan was detected in the CSF 45 days before a culture became positive, and Aspergillus DNA was detected 4 days prior to culture. Decline of the galactomannan antigen titer in the CSF during treatment with intravenous and intraventricular amphotericin B and intravenous voriconazole corresponded with the clinical response to treatment."}
{"id": "10074081", "title": "Rapid hypothesis testing with Candida albicans through gene disruption with short homology regions.", "content": "Rapid hypothesis testing with Candida albicans through gene disruption with short homology regions. Disruption of newly identified genes in the pathogen Candida albicans is a vital step in determination of gene function. Several gene disruption methods described previously employ long regions of homology flanking a selectable marker. Here, we describe disruption of C. albicans genes with PCR products that have 50 to 60 bp of homology to a genomic sequence on each end of a selectable marker. We used the method to disrupt two known genes, ARG5 and ADE2, and two sequences newly identified through the Candida genome project, HRM101 and ENX3. HRM101 and ENX3 are homologous to genes in the conserved RIM101 (previously called RIM1) and PacC pathways of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Aspergillus nidulans. We show that three independent hrm101/hrm101 mutants and two independent enx3/enx3 mutants are defective in filamentation on Spider medium. These observations argue that HRM101 and ENX3 sequences are indeed portions of genes and that the respective gene products have related functions."}
{"id": "10052742", "title": "Early diagnosis of central nervous system aspergillosis with combination use of cerebral diffusion-weighted echo-planar magnetic resonance image and polymerase chain reaction of cerebrospinal fluid.", "content": "Early diagnosis of central nervous system aspergillosis with combination use of cerebral diffusion-weighted echo-planar magnetic resonance image and polymerase chain reaction of cerebrospinal fluid. We treated a patient diagnosed as central nervous system (CNS) aspergillosis with the combined use of cerebral diffusion-weighted echo-planar magnetic resonance imaging (DWI) and polymerase chain reaction of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF-PCR). DWI, a cutting-edge imaging modality to reveal the earliest changes of cerebral infarction, detected cerebral fungal embolization when the conventional computed tomographic scan and magnetic resonance imaging failed to reveal it. CSF-PCR demonstrated the presence of Aspergillus-specific DNA in the specimen, when the conventional examination and culture of CSF were nonspecific or negative. These diagnostic methods could be useful in the early diagnosis of CNS aspergillosis."}
{"id": "10023082", "title": "Characterization and expression of the cDNA encoding a new kind of phospholipid transfer protein, the phosphatidylglycerol/phosphatidylinositol transfer protein from Aspergillus oryzae: evidence of a putative membrane targeted phospholipid transfer protein in fungi.", "content": "Characterization and expression of the cDNA encoding a new kind of phospholipid transfer protein, the phosphatidylglycerol/phosphatidylinositol transfer protein from Aspergillus oryzae: evidence of a putative membrane targeted phospholipid transfer protein in fungi. The full-length cDNA of a phospholipid transfer protein (PLTP) was isolated from Aspergillus oryzae by a RACE-PCR procedure using degenerated primer pool selected from the N-terminal sequence of the purified phosphatidylinositol/phosphatidylglycerol transfer protein (PG/PI-TP). The cDNA encodes a 173 amino acid protein of 18823 Da. The deduced amino acid sequence from position 38 to 67 is 100% identical to the N-terminal sequence (first 30 amino acids) of the purified PG/PI-TP. This amino acid sequence is preceded by a leader peptide of 37 amino acids which is predicted to be composed of a signal peptide of 21 amino acids followed by an extra-sequence of 16 amino acids, or a membrane anchor protein signal (amino acid 5-29). This strongly suggests that the PG/PI-TP is a targeted protein. The deduced mature protein is 138 amino acids long with a predicted molecular mass of 14933 Da. Comparison of the deduced PG/PI-TP sequence with other polypeptide sequences available in databases revealed a homology with a protein deduced from an open reading frame coding for an unknown protein in Saccharomyces cerevisiae (36% identity and 57% similarity). Apart from this homology, the PG/PI-TP is unique and specific to the filamentous fungi on the basis of comparison of PLTP protein sequences. Northern blot analysis of RNA isolated from A. oryzae cultures grown on glucose or glucose supplemented with phospholipids suggests that the PG/PI-TP is transcribed by only one RNA species and allows us to show that expression of the protein is regulated at the messenger RNA level."}
{"id": "9989647", "title": "Combination of three typing methods for the molecular epidemiology of Aspergillus fumigatus infections. European Research Group on Biotype and Genotype of Aspergillus.", "content": "Combination of three typing methods for the molecular epidemiology of Aspergillus fumigatus infections. European Research Group on Biotype and Genotype of Aspergillus. This study investigated the source of infection and strain relatedness of Aspergillus fumigatus isolates from bronchial colonisation and invasive aspergillosis (IA) in four transplant patients. Environmental isolates from the patient's home and from the hospital and infecting isolates were obtained for patient A who developed IA. Clinic environmental and colonising isolates were obtained for patient B. Sequential isolates were obtained from various organs from patient C who developed IA and also from patient D who had a bronchitic aspergillosis that developed into IA. Ninety-one A. fumigatus isolates were analysed by three typing methods: multi-locus enzyme electrophoresis (MLEE), random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) and sequence-specific DNA primers (SSDP). The three combined typing methods demonstrated a greater differentiation of isolates than the typing methods used separately or in pairs. This demonstrated the genotypic variability of A. fumigatus and facilitated better epidemiological analysis. Large polymorphisms were demonstrated for each patient isolate between and colonies within various samples. The relatedness of the isolates suggested nosocomially acquired aspergillosis for patient B, but the source of infection for patient A remained unclear. The results suggested at least three multiple infections among the four patients. This study enabled the identification of the source of infection and strain relatedness, which in turn facilitates the development of preventive measures for patient management in the future."}
{"id": "9989644", "title": "Value of different methods for the characterisation of Aspergillus terreus strains.", "content": "Value of different methods for the characterisation of Aspergillus terreus strains. To evaluate different methods for strain differentiation, 10 isolates of Aspergillus terreus from Germany and two epidemiologically unrelated strains were investigated. The sources of the isolates were patients with cystic fibrosis (4), immunosuppression (2), otitis externa (2), sinusitis (1) and endocarditis (1). Environmental isolates were obtained from a contaminated cell culture and from soil. The isolates did not differ in their macroscopic and microscopic morphology, in their protein patterns analysed by SDS-PAGE and in their susceptibility to amphotericin B and itraconazole. The RFLP analysis of total genomic DNA digested by EcoRI resulted in patterns that were too faint for interpretation. However, after hybridisation of the digested DNA with a short DNA probe of repetitive sequence, six different patterns were found. Based on the patterns of the randomly amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) with three primers, nine different genotypes were discriminate. RAPD patterns discriminated the epidemiologically unrelated reference strains (endocarditis isolate from Thailand, soil isolate from the USA) and the isolates from Germany. It is concluded that, in contrast to the phenotypic methods, the analysis of RAPD patterns is useful for strain differentiation of A. terreus."}
{"id": "9933358", "title": "The Aspergillus nidulans gltA gene encoding glutamate synthase is required for ammonium assimilation in the absence of NADP-glutamate dehydrogenase.", "content": "The Aspergillus nidulans gltA gene encoding glutamate synthase is required for ammonium assimilation in the absence of NADP-glutamate dehydrogenase. Mutants of Aspergillus nidulans lacking NADP-glutamate dehydrogenase activity grow more poorly than wild-type strains on ammonium as a sole nitrogen source. The leaky growth of these mutants is indicative of an alternative pathway of ammonium assimilation and glutamate biosynthesis. We have PCR-amplified a portion of the A. nidulans gene encoding glutamate synthase and used this sequence to inactivate the genomic copy. This gene, designated gltA, was found to be dispensable for growth on ammonium in the presence of NADP-glutamate dehydrogenase activity. However, a strain carrying the gltA inactivation together with an NADP-glutamate dehydrogenase structural gene mutation (gdhA) was unable to grow on ammonium or on nitrogen sources metabolized via ammonium. The gltA gene was located to linkage group V of the A. nidulans genetic map."}
{"id": "9933359", "title": "Cloning and expression of the cDNA encoding an alternative oxidase gene from Aspergillus niger WU-2223L.", "content": "Cloning and expression of the cDNA encoding an alternative oxidase gene from Aspergillus niger WU-2223L. A cDNA fragment encoding the mitochondrial alternative oxidase, the enzyme responsible for cyanide-insensitive and salicylhydroxamic acid (SHAM)-sensitive respiration, from the citric acid-producing fungus Aspergillus niger WU-2223L was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli as a host strain. Synthetic primers were designed from the conserved nucleotide sequences of the alternative oxidase genes from higher plants and a yeast. The 210-bp DNA fragment was amplified by PCR with these primers using chromosomal DNA of WU-2223L as a template, and was employed to screen a cDNA library of A. niger. One full-length cDNA clone of 1.2 kb was obtained, and was sequenced to reveal that the clone contained an open reading frame (ORF-AOX1) encoding a polypeptide of 351 amino acids. The predicted amino-acid sequence exhibited 50%, 55%, and 52% homology to the alternative oxidases of Hansenula anomala, Neurospora crassa and Sauromatum guttatum, respectively. In the 5'-terminus region of the ORF-AOX1, a mitochondrial targeting motif was found. The whole open reading frame of ORF-AOX1 was ligated to plasmid pKK223-3 to construct the expression vector pKAOX1. The E. coli transformant harboring pKAOX1 showed cyanide-insensitive and SHAM-sensitive respiration, and expression was increased approximately two-fold by the addition of IPTG. These results indicated that the ORF-AOX1 encodes an alternative oxidase of A. niger."}
{"id": "9919661", "title": "Isolation of csm1 encoding a class V chitin synthase with a myosin motor-like domain from the rice blast fungus, Pyricularia oryzae.", "content": "Isolation of csm1 encoding a class V chitin synthase with a myosin motor-like domain from the rice blast fungus, Pyricularia oryzae. A gene encoding a chitin synthase with a myosin motor-like domain (csm1) was isolated from Pyricularia oryzae using a PCR fragment amplified from a fungal chitin synthase conserved region. The deduced amino acid sequence of csm1 is homologous to that of CsmA of Aspergillus nidulans (65% identity). The putative gene product of csm1 is consisted of the myosin motor-like domain and a chitin synthase domain as in A. nidulans csmA. The chitin synthase domain of its C-terminus was also homologous to Aspergillus fumigatus ChsE (61.4% identity) and Ustilago maydis Chs6 (48.6% identity) that encode class V chitin synthases. Northern analysis demonstrated that the csm1 was expressed throughout the mycelial growth of P. oryzae. This is the first report on the isolation of the gene encoding a class V chitin synthase with the myosin motor-like domain from P. oryzae."}
{"id": "9895285", "title": "A novel 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase in the fungus Cochliobolus lunatus: new insights into the evolution of steroid-hormone signalling.", "content": "A novel 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase in the fungus Cochliobolus lunatus: new insights into the evolution of steroid-hormone signalling. 17beta-Hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (17beta-HSD) from the filamentous fungus Cochliobolus lunatus (17beta-HSDcl) catalyses the reduction of steroids and of several o- and p-quinones. After purification of the enzyme, its partial amino acid sequence was determined. A PCR fragment amplified with primers derived from peptide sequences was generated for screening the Coch. lunatus cDNA library. Three independent full-length cDNA clones were isolated and sequenced, revealing an 810-bp open reading frame encoding a 270-amino-acid protein. After expression in Escherichia coli and purification to homogeneity, the enzyme was found to be active towards androstenedione and menadione, and was able to form dimers of Mr 60000. The amino acid sequence of the novel 17beta-HSD demonstrated high homology with fungal carbonyl reductases, such as versicolorin reductase from Emericella nidulans (Aspergillus nidulans; VerA) and Asp. parasiticus (Ver1), polyhydroxynaphthalene reductase from Magnaporthe grisea, the product of the Brn1 gene from Coch. heterostrophus and a reductase from Colletotrichum lagenarium, which are all members of the short-chain dehydrogenase/reductase superfamily. 17beta-HSDcl is the first discovered fungal 17beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase belonging to this family. The primary structure of this enzyme may therefore help to elucidate the evolutionary history of steroid dehydrogenases."}
{"id": "9882657", "title": "A glucan synthase FKS1 homolog in cryptococcus neoformans is single copy and encodes an essential function.", "content": "A glucan synthase FKS1 homolog in cryptococcus neoformans is single copy and encodes an essential function. Cryptococcal meningitis is a fungal infection, caused by Cryptococcus neoformans, which is prevalent in immunocompromised patient populations. Treatment failures of this disease are emerging in the clinic, usually associated with long-term treatment with existing antifungal agents. The fungal cell wall is an attractive target for drug therapy because the syntheses of cell wall glucan and chitin are processes that are absent in mammalian cells. Echinocandins comprise a class of lipopeptide compounds known to inhibit 1,3-beta-glucan synthesis, and at least two compounds belonging to this class are currently in clinical trials as therapy for life-threatening fungal infections. Studies of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Candida albicans mutants identify the membrane-spanning subunit of glucan synthase, encoded by the FKS genes, as the molecular target of echinocandins. In vitro, the echinocandins show potent antifungal activity against Candida and Aspergillus species but are much less potent against C. neoformans. In order to examine why C. neoformans cells are less susceptible to echinocandin treatment, we have cloned a homolog of S. cerevisiae FKS1 from C. neoformans. We have developed a generalized method to evaluate the essentiality of genes in Cryptococcus and applied it to the FKS1 gene. The method relies on homologous integrative transformation with a plasmid that can integrate in two orientations, only one of which will disrupt the target gene function. The results of this analysis suggest that the C. neoformans FKS1 gene is essential for viability. The C. neoformans FKS1 sequence is closely related to the FKS1 sequences from other fungal species and appears to be single copy in C. neoformans. Furthermore, amino acid residues known to be critical for echinocandin susceptibility in Saccharomyces are conserved in the C. neoformans FKS1 sequence."}
{"id": "9854096", "title": "Comparison between PCR and detection of antigen in sera for diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis.", "content": "Comparison between PCR and detection of antigen in sera for diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis. We evaluated the usefulness of PCR and antigen detection for the diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis. Forty-four serum samples from patients with pulmonary aspergillosis (33 with pulmonary aspergilloma, 4 with allergic bronchopulmonary aspergillosis, 4 with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis, and 3 with aspergillus pyothorax) were used in this study. PCR detection of Aspergillus DNA in serum samples was successful in 39 patients. Galactomannan antigen was detected by sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay in 25 patients and by latex agglutination test in 13 patients. Detection of Aspergillus DNA in serum samples by nested PCR had the highest sensitivity of the three methods tested for the diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis."}
{"id": "12549330", "title": "[The intergeneric compatibility of heredity and expression for cellulase genomes between Aspergillus niger and Trichoderma reesei].", "content": "[The intergeneric compatibility of heredity and expression for cellulase genomes between Aspergillus niger and Trichoderma reesei]. By using the developed display techniques of cellulase isozymes and the RAPD-PCR analysis guided by a deduced universal sequence of cellulase genes, the polymorphisms of genomic DNA fingerprints and cellulase isozymes were compared among three typical stable recombinants (3a, 3b, A7-1) and their two parents (Aspergillus niger AMS11, Trichoderma reesei QM9414) in order to provide the molecular evidence of gene recombination, to demonstrate the compatibility of heredity and expression of intergeneric genomes, and to assay on the molecular fundamentals of hybridization dominance. The results showed that in these recombinant strains the recombinantal fingerprints of genomic DNA could be stablly hereditary and the expression of recombinantal CMCase (carboxymethylcellulase) and beta GLase (beta-glucosidase) could be compatibly enhanced. The diversity of molecular fundamentals of cellulase hybridization dominance were (1) the compatible co-existence and enhanced expression of some hereditary beta GLase-coding genes from two parents in recombinant 3b; and (2) the compatibly enhancement of expression between the hereditary genes encoding beta GLase and CMCase from two parents, resulting in the dramatic increase of proteins of corresponding isozymes in recombinants 3a and A7-1. Based on these, a proposal model for the double synergism on cellulase activity in vitro and on its biosynthesis in vivo mediated by beta GLase was suggested. A practical method for assaying on the molecular fundamentals and the stability of hybridization dominance of recombinants was thereby established in this study."}
{"id": "10085690", "title": "[Fungal nucleic acid detection for invasive aspergillosis].", "content": "[Fungal nucleic acid detection for invasive aspergillosis]. A universal PCR-assay for the detection of fungal DNA was compared with microscopy and culture for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis using 78 samples from 42 patients. Eighteen patients were suffering from invasive aspergillosis, 5 patients were colonized with Aspergillus in the respiratory tract, 19 patients did not show any sign of aspergillosis. Samples from 6 of the 18 patients with invasive aspergillosis were microscopically positive with true mycelia, 15 of 18 grew Aspergillus in culture, 16 of 18 were PCR-positive. The combination of microscopy and culture led to the diagnosis in 17 of 18 patients, the combination of microscopy and PCR in 16 of 18 and the combination of culture and PCR in all the 18 patients. For 3 of 18 patients, PCR was the diagnostic key: in 2 biopsies the histologically detected fungal elements were identified as Aspergillus, in 3 bronchial lavages from 1 patients nothing but PCR was positive for Aspergillus. Four out of 5 culture positive patients with Aspergillus colonization were also PCR positive; one out of 19 patients without aspergillosis was culture positive, 3 out of 19 were falsely PCR positive. Candida colonization in the upper respiratory tract or Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia did not lead to false positive Aspergillus-PCR results. In conclusion, the evaluated fungal PCR-assay can supplement conventional methods for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis."}
{"id": "10075496", "title": "Detection of PCR-amplified fungal DNA by using a PCR-ELISA system.", "content": "Detection of PCR-amplified fungal DNA by using a PCR-ELISA system. In order to speed up and standardize polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based detection of medically important fungi in clinical samples we established a combination of commercially available kits for DNA extraction, PCR amplification and detection of the amplicons. The PCR plate assay proved to be as sensitive and specific as our previously published assay (5 cfu ml(-1) blood). Moreover, in a selected group of patients, all patients with proven and probable invasive fungal infection were found to be PCR-positive. Thus the PCR plate assay was found to be a sensitive, technically simplified and standardized method with potential for adaptation to automation."}
{"id": "10028811", "title": "[The causes of death of pulmonary tuberculosis: late sequelae of pulmonary tuberculosis].", "content": "[The causes of death of pulmonary tuberculosis: late sequelae of pulmonary tuberculosis]. We investigated the causes of death of late sequelae of pulmonary tuberculosis. Chronic respiratory failure is one of the most frequent cause of death in the patients of late sequelae of pulmonary tuberculosis. We compared the long term prognosis of chronic respiratory failure in case of emphysema and pulmonary tuberculosis. In the patients with chronic respiratory failure by pulmonary emphysema, the prognosis was poor in those with pulmonary hypertension. But in case of late sequelae of pulmonary tuberculosis, prognosis was not affected by presence or absence of pulmonary hypertension. The determinants of prognosis of late sequelae of pulmonary tuberculosis are the indication of home oxygen therapy, malnutrition, and hypoxemia. Fungal infection, especially aspergilloma, is a common secondary infection of late sequelae of pulmonary tuberculosis. We investigated forty-two cases of aspergilloma as late sequelae of pulmonary tuberculosis, and of those 15 patients died. The causes of death were pneumonia and respiratory failure. Measurement of galactomannan antigen of aspergillus in serum using ELISA or PCR, it was apparent that the outcome was poor in the patients positive for antigen. It suggested that the prognosis of the patients with aspergilloma related with some degree of invasion of Aspergillus in parenchyma. It was reported that neoplasm is closely related to chronic tuberculous empyema. Lymphoma is most frequently complicated with chronic tuberculous empyema, and squamous cell carcinoma, adenocarcinoma, sarcoma and carcinoid were reported as complication of chronic empyema. We reported the case of angiosarcoma, originated from chronic empyema in left thoracic cavity formed after being treated for tuberculosis with artificial pneumothorax. Recently, the number of patients with late sequelae of pulmonary tuberculosis have been decreased, but some severe cases of patients of pulmonary tuberculosis will suffer from late sequelae of pulmonary tuberculosis, and that is still a great problem of the clinical course of pulmonary tuberculosis."}
{"id": "9988514", "title": "Molecular diagnosis and epidemiology of fungal infections.", "content": "Molecular diagnosis and epidemiology of fungal infections. A variety of methods are utilized for DNA strain subtyping of Candida spp. because no 'gold standard' exists. Random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) or restriction enzyme analysis (REA) are useful to determine the source of an outbreak, but more reproducible and discriminatory methods such as Southern hybridization and pulsed field gel electrophoresis (PFGE) may be required. When applied to some nosocomial Candida infections, multiple strains and species have been identified. Microevolution of yeast species occurs and epidemiologically related isolates may show minor pattern differences, creating uncertainty as to whether they are distinct strains. Approximately 1000 isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus from environmental and clinical sources were typed by REA probed with an A. fumigatus-specific retrotransposon-like sequence. Patients with no symptom of aspergillosis may carry several strains, whereas patients with pulmonary aspergillosis may carry one or two strains; nocosomial transmission of aspergillosis was proven in 39% of the patients studied; any given environmental strain can be infectious; the environmental population of A. fumigatus is extremely diverse and no specific niche was found in the hospital. A PCR assay was designed to target conserved 18S-ribosomal DNA (rDNA) sequences shared by most fungi and a 687 bp product was amplified from 25 medically important fungal species. Studies with blood, cerebrospinal fluid and sputum specimens from patients with mycoses indicated that the PCR assay is more sensitive in diagnosing invasive fungal infections than blood culture methods. More specific identification is obtainable with genus/species-specif c probes designed from within the PCR-amplified sequences for C. albicans, C. krusei, C. lusitaniae, Pneumocystis carinii, Cryptococcus neoformans, Aspergillus/Penicillium spp. and C. glabrata/Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A. fumigatus and A. niger were differentiated by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis. In situ hybridization (ISH) detected a 648 bp fragment of the 18S rDNA of C. neoformans and a 568 bp fragment of the alkaline proteinase gene of A. fumigatus in tissues from experimentally infected animals. In ISH, the entire process can be automated, making this procedure rapid and easy. The difficulty in establishing a diagnosis of invasive candidiasis has prompted the quest for a clinically useful PCR test for candidaemia. The universal fungal oligonucleotide primer pair, ITS3 and ITS4, amplifies portions of the 5.8S ad 28S rDNA subunits, and the ITS2 region. Although rRNA genes are highly conserved, the ITS regions are distinctive. DNA probes were designed from ITS2 that were specific for 16 different Candida species. Simple, rapid sample preparation was suitable for PCR analysis of BacT/Alert blood culture bottles. Sample preparation, PCR, and EIA detection of the amplicon from five different Candida species was accomplished in 7 h, 2.5 days sooner than by conventional culture methods. As well as saving time, minor yeast species among a major species, or among bacteria, were simultaneously detected. PCR-EIA using a microtitration plate format had sensitivity 10-times greater than that obtained with ethidium bromide-stained agarose gels. Taqman combines in one step PCR, probe hybridization, and fluorescent signal generation. Taqman PCR had sensitivity equivalent to PCR-EIA and required only 5 h, including sample preparation."}
{"id": "9950095", "title": "Diagnosis and prevention of fungal infection in the immunocompromized patient.", "content": "Diagnosis and prevention of fungal infection in the immunocompromized patient. Profound and prolonged neutropenia following chemotherapy is a major risk factor for systemic fungal infections. Mortality associated with disseminated fungal infection is high and treatment with conventional amphotericin B is complicated by renal toxicity. Candida and Aspergillus are among the major pathogens in this patient population. Many patients remaining neutropenic over a prolonged period of time will receive empirical antifungal therapy. The clinical and laboratory diagnosis of these infections are neither sensitive nor specific and are generally limited in the early detection of invasive fungal infection. However, several new approaches to diagnosis are being developed which should be translated into routine practice. These include antigen detection and PCR. It is still unclear how effective the various measures that are currently being used are in preventing serious fungal infection. Refinements in the prophylactic use of fluconazole, itraconazole and aerosolized amphoteric in B, and the introduction of new formulations of existing antifungals may reduce the incidence of systemic fungal infections in some patient groups. Patients with presumed fungal infection require more intense and accurate monitoring for signs of disseminated infection. Early diagnosis may guide appropriate treatment and prevent mortality."}
{"id": "9930067", "title": "PCR-ELISA for the early diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillus infection in neutropenic patients.", "content": "PCR-ELISA for the early diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillus infection in neutropenic patients. To evaluate a newly developed aspergillus mitochondrial gene PCR-ELISA assay for the early diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) in neutropenic patients. The aspergillus mitochondrial gene was chosen for the amplification target for use with a solution hybridisation assay with colorimetric end stage detection in microtitre plate format (PCR-ELISA). The study group comprised neutropenic patients undergoing febrile episodes not responding to standard antibacterial antibiotics. Patients underwent computed tomography and bronchoscopy. Bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluids were examined by culture and PCR. The aspergillus mitochondrial gene PCR-ELISA was both sensitive (100%) and specific (100%) for IPA in neutropenic patients. All 12 patients with definite or probable IPA had PCR positive BAL fluids. None of the patients with undiagnosed or confirmed infections of other aetiologies were mitochondrial PCR positive. Speciation based upon amplicon size difference was possible. Aspergillus mitochondrial DNA PCR-ELISA on BAL fluid is useful in the early diagnosis of IPA in neutropenic patients alone or, potentially, as an indication for thoracic computed tomography."}
{"id": "9885732", "title": "Chronic granulomatous disease: six new cases.", "content": "Chronic granulomatous disease: six new cases. We report six new cases of chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) diagnosed at our service. The cases represent 1.1% of all primary immunodeficiencies diagnosed. Four of the children were boys and two were girls. The hereditary mechanism was X-linked in three cases and autosomal recessive in the other three. Clinical manifestations appeared before the age of 2 years in all cases; the illness appeared earlier in males, and was more severe, consisting of bacterial infections such as abscesses in the liver, lungs or skin, suppurating lymphadenitis and mastoiditis. None of the patients had osteomyelitis. The germs isolated were bacteria (Staphylococcus, Salmonella, Serratia, Pseudomonas, Enterococcus) and fungi (Candida, Aspergillus, Trichopyton). Orientative complementary evidence was intense leukocytosis, high levels of acute phase reactants (PCR and VSG), polyclonal hypergammaglobulinemia and high LB ant LT4 levels. Definitive diagnosis was provided by the NBT test and chemiluminescence in all cases."}
{"id": "9871120", "title": "Isolation and characterisation of the acetyl-CoA carboxylase gene from Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Isolation and characterisation of the acetyl-CoA carboxylase gene from Aspergillus nidulans. The putative gene encoding acetyl-CoA carboxylase, accA, has been isolated from Aspergillus nidulans. This single-copy gene has an open reading frame (ORF) of 6864 bp and contains two small introns near the 5'-end. A short ORF upstream of the ATG start codon has been identified in this gene by RT-PCR. Based on sequence homology to acetyl-CoA carboxylases from other organisms, putative biotin-, ATP-, HCO3-- and acetyl-CoA- binding sites have been assigned. Northern data and ACC enzyme-activity measurements from A. nidulans suggested that expression of accA was higher in media containing nitrate than ammonia as a sole nitrogen source. Deletion of accA in A. nidulans was unsuccessful. The failure of A. nidulans to grow in the presence of the ACC-specific inhibitor, soraphen A, supplemented with C16-18 fatty acids suggested that ACC is an essential enzyme."}
{"id": "9868774", "title": "Transcript of a homolog of aflR, a regulatory gene for aflatoxin synthesis in Aspergillus parasiticus, was not detected in Aspergillus oryzae strains.", "content": "Transcript of a homolog of aflR, a regulatory gene for aflatoxin synthesis in Aspergillus parasiticus, was not detected in Aspergillus oryzae strains. Some strains of Aspergillus oryzae were shown to have homologs of aflR, a regulatory gene for aflatoxin synthesis in Aspergillus parasiticus. Transcription of an aflR homolog was examined in six strains of A. oryzae having the homologs, using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) coupled with reverse transcription. No PCR product was obtained when the RNA prepared from the A. oryzae strains cultivated under aflatoxin-producing condition was used as template for amplification of the aflR cDNA. By contrast, a PCR product of the expected size was obtained with RNA from A. parasiticus NIAH-26 processed by the same procedure. From genomic DNA of these strains, PCR products of the same size as above were obtained. Possible degradation of the aflR mRNA in the RNA preparation of the A. oryzae strains was negligible, because the calmodulin transcript was detected by PCR from the same RNA samples. Thus, the aflR homologs in the non-aflatoxigenic A. oryzae strains examined are not expressed even under aflatoxin-producing condition."}
{"id": "9852945", "title": "Isolation of a nitrogen response regulator gene (nrr1) from Metarhizium anisopliae.", "content": "Isolation of a nitrogen response regulator gene (nrr1) from Metarhizium anisopliae. Attempts to improve the effectiveness of entomopathogenic fungi as biological control agents require a clear understanding of the pathogenicity determinants at both the biochemical and molecular level. Proteases play a key role in entomopathogenicity, allowing the fungus to penetrate the insect cuticle and rapidly invade the host. The most extensively studied of these protease activities, PR1A and PR2, are both subject to nitrogen derepression. The Metarhizium anisopliae nrr1 (nitrogen response regulator 1) gene was identified using a PCR-based strategy; it encodes a putative DNA-binding protein with a single zinc finger motif defined by the C-X2-C-X17-C-X2-C sequence. M. anisopliae NRR1 shows a significant sequence similarity to Neurospora crassa NIT2. Sequence analysis identified the presence of two introns, suggesting a greater degree of similarity to N. crassa nit2 than to the areA-like genes that have been identified. However, functional equivalence of nrr1 to areA was demonstrated, by co-transformation and complementation of an A. nidulans areA loss-of-function mutant (areA18 argB2 pabaA1 inoB2) with the M. anisopliae nrr1 gene. The areA-/nrr1+ Aspergillus transformants were able to grow on media with nitrate and glutamate as the sole nitrogen source, whereas the areA- strain is unable to grow under these conditions. The possible relevance of nitrogen regulation to pathogenicity is discussed."}
{"id": "9839319", "title": "Molecular methods for epidemiological and diagnostic studies of fungal infections.", "content": "Molecular methods for epidemiological and diagnostic studies of fungal infections. Over the past two decades there has been a remarkable increase in the incidence of invasive fungal infections. Molecular methods, such as karyotyping, restriction analysis and polymerase chain reaction (PCR), have now been applied to improve our current understanding of the epidemiology of these fungal infections. For example, investigations on nosocomial outbreaks of fungal infections have been greatly facilitated by molecular methods. In addition, the ability to diagnose and identify deep-seated mycoses may be enhanced by the use of molecular techniques. In the near future it is possible that PCR-based methods will supplement, or perhaps even replace, traditional methods for detection of Candida albicans blood stream infections, invasive aspergillosis and Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia. This review examines the progress of molecular biology into the clinical arena of fungal epidemiology, laboratory identification and diagnosis."}
{"id": "9835571", "title": "Characterization of the critical amino acids of an Aspergillus parasiticus cytochrome P-450 monooxygenase encoded by ordA that is involved in the biosynthesis of aflatoxins B1, G1, B2, and G2.", "content": "Characterization of the critical amino acids of an Aspergillus parasiticus cytochrome P-450 monooxygenase encoded by ordA that is involved in the biosynthesis of aflatoxins B1, G1, B2, and G2. The conversion of O-methylsterigmatocystin (OMST) and dihydro-O-methylsterigmatocystin to aflatoxins B1, G1, B2, and G2 requires a cytochrome P-450 type of oxidoreductase activity. ordA, a gene adjacent to the omtA gene, was identified in the aflatoxin-biosynthetic pathway gene cluster by chromosomal walking in Aspergillus parasiticus. The ordA gene was a homolog of the Aspergillus flavus ord1 gene, which is involved in the conversion of OMST to aflatoxin B1. Complementation of A. parasiticus SRRC 2043, an OMST-accumulating strain, with the ordA gene restored the ability to produce aflatoxins B1, G1, B2, and G2. The ordA gene placed under the control of the GAL1 promoter converted exogenously supplied OMST to aflatoxin B1 in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. In contrast, the ordA gene homolog in A. parasiticus SRRC 2043, ordA1, was not able to carry out the same conversion in the yeast system. Sequence analysis revealed that the ordA1 gene had three point mutations which resulted in three amino acid changes (His-400-->Leu-400, Ala-143-->Ser-143, and Ile-528-->Tyr-528). Site-directed mutagenesis studies showed that the change of His-400 to Leu-400 resulted in a loss of the monooxygenase activity and that Ala-143 played a significant role in the catalytic conversion. In contrast, Ile-528 was not associated with the enzymatic activity. The involvement of the ordA gene in the synthesis of aflatoxins G1, and G2 in A. parasiticus suggests that enzymes required for the formation of aflatoxins G1 and G2 are not present in A. flavus. The results showed that in addition to the conserved heme-binding and redox reaction domains encoded by ordA, other seemingly domain-unrelated amino acid residues are critical for cytochrome P-450 catalytic activity. The ordA gene has been assigned to a new cytochrome P-450 gene family named CYP64 by The Cytochrome P450 Nomenclature Committee."}
{"id": "9835566", "title": "Characterization of the prolyl dipeptidyl peptidase gene (dppIV) from the koji mold Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Characterization of the prolyl dipeptidyl peptidase gene (dppIV) from the koji mold Aspergillus oryzae. The koji mold Aspergillus oryzae secretes a prolyl dipeptidyl peptidase (DPPIV) when the fungus is cultivated in a medium containing wheat gluten as the sole nitrogen and carbon source (MMWG). We cloned and sequenced the DPPIV gene from an A. oryzae library by using the A. fumigatus dppIV gene as a probe. Reverse transcriptase PCR experiments showed that the A. oryzae dppIV gene consists of two exons, the first of which is only 6 bp long. The gene encodes an 87.2-kDa polypeptide chain which is secreted into the medium as a 95-kDa glycoprotein. Introduction of this gene into A. oryzae leads to overexpression of prolyl dipeptidyl peptidase activity, while disruption of the gene abolishes all prolyl dipeptidyl peptidase activity in MMWG. The dppIV null mutants did not exhibit any change in phenotype other than the absence of prolyl dipeptidyl peptidase activity, suggesting that this activity is not essential. This loss of activity diminished the number of dipeptides and increased the number of larger peptides present in the MMWG culture broth. These effects were reversed by the addition of purified, recombinant DPPIV from the methylotrophic yeast expression vector Pichia pastoris. Our results suggest that the DPPIV enzyme may be of importance in industrial hydrolysis of what gluten-based substrates, which are rich in Pro residues."}
{"id": "9828823", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus fumigatus PCR products by a microtitre plate based DNA hybridisation assay.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus fumigatus PCR products by a microtitre plate based DNA hybridisation assay. To develop a DNA based plate hybridisation assay for the detection of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) products amplified from Aspergillus fumigatus DNA; and to determine the sensitivity of this technique and compare it with Southern blotting. A half-log dilution series of DNA extracted from A fumigatus was amplified with specific primers, one of which was 5' end labelled with biotin. PCR products were subsequently detected by agarose gel electrophoresis, Southern blotting, and binding of the products to a streptavidin coated microtitre well, followed by non-radioactive colorimetric detection. Amplification was carried out 10 times for each DNA dilution and a plot of initial DNA concentration against signal intensity was made. A DNA concentration of 1.5 pg could be detected by agarose gel electrophoresis and Southern blotting with a non-radioactively labelled aspergillus specific probe; 1.5 pg was detectable by streptavidin binding of the PCR products to a microtitre plate. The signal from the microtitre plate detection was proportional to the amount of DNA in the PCR reaction on a log-log scale between 100 and 1 pg of DNA. A DNA based plate hybridisation assay for the detection of A fumigatus PCR products is as sensitive as Southern blotting. However, results are obtained in three hours rather than the three days required for agarose gel electrophoresis, blotting, hybridisation, and detection."}
{"id": "9818093", "title": "Aspergillus fumigatus strains recovered from immunocompromised patients (ICP): subtyping of strains by RAPD analysis.", "content": "Aspergillus fumigatus strains recovered from immunocompromised patients (ICP): subtyping of strains by RAPD analysis. Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in immunocompromised patients (ICP) is the second most frequent opportunistic fungal infection. The causative organism includes 16 species of Aspergillus, of which A. fumigatus dominates the ubiquitous incidence of invasive or allergic broncho-pulmonary aspergillosis (ABPA). The definitive diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis is difficult. We have analyzed 24 strains of A. fumigatus recovered from ICP using the RAPD technique. The profiles generated with the 20 primers tested were mostly unique. These results may have a profound impact on the management of aspergillosis, especially in the ICP."}
{"id": "9817884", "title": "Evaluation of PCR for detection of DNA specific for Aspergillus species in sera of patients with various forms of pulmonary aspergillosis.", "content": "Evaluation of PCR for detection of DNA specific for Aspergillus species in sera of patients with various forms of pulmonary aspergillosis. Pulmonary aspergillosis is classified into invasive, saprophytic, and allergic forms. In this study, we evaluated the usefulness of PCR for differentiating between different forms of aspergillosis or in monitoring disease activity during treatment by detecting DNA specific for Aspergillus species in the serum. Nested PCR was used to detect Aspergillus DNA in the sera of 30 patients with various forms of pulmonary aspergillosis. The results were compared with those of latex agglutination tests for detecting galactomannan antigen. We also examined the serial changes in the results of nested PCR during and after treatment of a subgroup of patients with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis with amphotericin B. The highest proportion of positive nested PCR results were in patients with invasive aspergillosis (10 of 12; 83%), while patients with pulmonary aspergilloma had the lowest frequency of positive tests (1 of 9; 11%). These results suggested that the sensitivity of the nested PCR depends on the extent of invasion by Aspergillus species. Serial assays showed that the results of nested PCR became negative shortly after commencement of antifungal treatment and that such changes did not correlate with clinical responsiveness to treatment. Our results indicate the potential usefulness of nested PCR with serum samples for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis and the detection of a shift in the status of infection from a noninvasive type to invasive aspergillosis. However, the results of the nested PCR did not correlate with the response to antifungal treatment."}
{"id": "9807997", "title": "Prediction of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis from colonisation of lower respiratory tract before marrow transplantation.", "content": "Prediction of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis from colonisation of lower respiratory tract before marrow transplantation."}
{"id": "9797301", "title": "Molecular characterization and expression of a phytase gene from the thermophilic fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus.", "content": "Molecular characterization and expression of a phytase gene from the thermophilic fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus. The phyA gene encoding an extracellular phytase from the thermophilic fungus Thermomyces lanuginosus was cloned and heterologously expressed, and the recombinant gene product was biochemically characterized. The phyA gene encodes a primary translation product (PhyA) of 475 amino acids (aa) which includes a putative signal peptide (23 aa) and propeptide (10 aa). The deduced amino acid sequence of PhyA has limited sequence identity (ca. 47%) with Aspergillus niger phytase. The phyA gene was inserted into an expression vector under transcriptional control of the Fusarium oxysporum trypsin gene promoter and used to transform a Fusarium venenatum recipient strain. The secreted recombinant phytase protein was enzymatically active between pHs 3 and 7.5, with a specific activity of 110 micromol of inorganic phosphate released per min per mg of protein at pH 6 and 37 degrees C. The Thermomyces phytase retained activity at assay temperatures up to 75 degrees C and demonstrated superior catalytic efficiency to any known fungal phytase at 65 degrees C (the temperature optimum). Comparison of this new Thermomyces catalyst with the well-known Aspergillus niger phytase reveals other favorable properties for the enzyme derived from the thermophilic gene donor, including catalytic activity over an expanded pH range."}
{"id": "9795261", "title": "[Evaluation of new method for diagnosis of opportunistic fungal infection].", "content": "[Evaluation of new method for diagnosis of opportunistic fungal infection]. New methods for the possible presence DNA specific for Aspergillus or Trichosporon species were developed. In aspergillus PCR, Aspergillus l8S rRNA encoding gene was amplified from five strains of Aspergillus species by the nested PCR but not from other microorganisms. Results of preliminary investigation of this method demonstrated efficient detections of Aspergillus species in serum samples of rats model of aspergillosis and 29 patients with invasive aspergillosis. In trichosporon PCR, Trichosporon 26S rRNA encoding gene was amplified from two strains of Trichosporon species, and detected by the nested PCR in 64 % of serum samples of patients with trichosporonosis, while glucuronoxylomannan antigen was detected in 55 % of samples. The high sensitivity and specificity of the nested PCR indicate that the assay can provide early diagnosis with sufficient accuracy to be clinically useful for patients with opportunistic fungal infection."}
{"id": "9779353", "title": "Diagnosis of invasive fungal infections: advances in nonculture systems.", "content": "Diagnosis of invasive fungal infections: advances in nonculture systems."}
{"id": "9778740", "title": "[Characterization of aldehyde dehydrogenase gene fragment from mung bean Vigna radiata using the polymerase chain reaction].", "content": "[Characterization of aldehyde dehydrogenase gene fragment from mung bean Vigna radiata using the polymerase chain reaction]. Two degenerate oligonucleotide sequence primers and polymerase chain reactions on total DNA have been utilized to clone on 651--bp gene fragment coding the central part of amino acid sequence of an earlier unknown aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH) from mung bean. The deduced partial amino acid sequence for this aldehyde dehydrogenase shows about 65% sequence identity to ALDHs of Vibrio cholerae Rhodococcus sp., Alcaligenes eutrophus and about 45% sequence identity to mammalian ALDHs 1 and 2, ALDHs of Aspergillus niger and A, nidulans, the betain aldehyde dehydrogenase from spinach. Alignment of the mung bean aldehyde dehydrogenase partial amino acid sequence with the sequence of 16 NAD(P)(+)-dependent aldehyde dehydrogenases has demonstrated that all strictly conserved amino acid residues and all three conservative regions are identical."}
{"id": "9776830", "title": "Specific identification of Penicillium marneffei by a polymerase chain reaction/hybridization technique.", "content": "Specific identification of Penicillium marneffei by a polymerase chain reaction/hybridization technique. Penicillium marneffei has been described recently as a cause of an emerging mycotic infection in HIV-infected patients. A PCR/hybridization assay was developed to rapidly identify this pathogen. The nucleotide sequence of the 631-bp region of 18S ribosomal DNA of P. marneffei was determined using the standard dideoxy chain termination method. An oligonucleotide probe was designed on the basis of the analysed sequences of P. marneffei and 18S rDNA sequences of other fungi in the GenBank database. A 631-bp PCR product was amplified using primers RRF1 and RRH1 from P. marneffei and seven other fungi, Penicillium spp., Aspergillus fumigatus, A. flavus, Histoplasma capsulatum, Cryptococcus neoformans, Candida albicans and C. krusei. A 15 oligonucleotide segment (Pm3) which was specific for P. marneffei was synthesized and used as a probe. Only the PCR products of P. marneffei isolates hybridized with the Pm3 oligonucleotide probe. The sensitivity of the assay was approximately 0.5 pg/microl and 0.1 pg/microl of DNA by PCR and Southern hybridization, respectively. The usefulness of this method as a diagnostic tool will require further studies."}
{"id": "9776828", "title": "The identification and phylogenetic relationship of pathogenic species of Aspergillus based on the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene.", "content": "The identification and phylogenetic relationship of pathogenic species of Aspergillus based on the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene. To study the identification and phylogeny of pathogenic isolates of Aspergillus, we designed primers from known cytochrome b amino acid sequences. Using these primers, 426 bp fragments of a mitochondrial (mt) cytochrome b gene were amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), directly sequenced, and compared among Aspergillus fumigatus, A. flavus, A. niger, A. terreus and Emericella nidulans. Except for E. nidulans, all strains produced the 426 bp fragment by PCR. The E. nidulans strains demonstrated both an intron-presence fragment ( approximately 1500 bp) and intron-absence fragment (426 bp). Species-specific nucleotides were found in each of the five species. Based on sequence analysis, the strains were further divided into several groups within each species. When a 142-amino-acid sequence was estimated from the 426 bp nucleotide sequence using the yeast mt genetic code, the amino acid sequences showed no difference among strains of the individual species. DNA-based phylogenetic and amino acid-based trees were constructed. In conclusion, the DNA sequences of the cytochrome b gene may be of use in identification of pathogenic Aspergillus species and the amino acid-based tree suitable for discussing their phylogenetic relationships."}
{"id": "9773270", "title": "Sequencing of a gene encoding a member of the mitochondrial carrier family of transport proteins from Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Sequencing of a gene encoding a member of the mitochondrial carrier family of transport proteins from Aspergillus nidulans. Mitochondrial carrier proteins comprise a superfamily of evolutionarily conserved proteins that regulate the specific transport of essential metabolites across the mitochondrial membranes. In this report we describe the cloning and sequencing of a gene from Aspergillus nidulans, amc-1, that encodes the first reported example of a mitochondrial carrier protein in Aspergillus species. The amc-1 gene is located on chromosome 7, and is transcribed as a 1.6 kb unspliced polyadenylated RNA. The predicted translation product of the amc-1. cDNA displays three tandemly repeated domains which possess protein signature motifs that are characteristic of mitochondrial carrier proteins that localize to the inner mitochondrial membrane. amc-1 shares the greatest similarity with a Neurospora mitochondrial carrier protein that is implicated in basic amino acid transport, suggesting that the amc-1 protein may provide a related function."}
{"id": "9756714", "title": "In vivo addition of telomeric repeats to foreign DNA generates extrachromosomal DNAs in the taxol-producing fungus Pestalotiopsis microspora.", "content": "In vivo addition of telomeric repeats to foreign DNA generates extrachromosomal DNAs in the taxol-producing fungus Pestalotiopsis microspora. Transformation of the taxol-producing filamentous fungus Pestalotiopsis microspora with a plasmid containing the bacterial hygromycin resistance gene fused to Aspergillus regulatory sequences resulted in the in vivo formation of extrachromosomal DNAs with telomeric repeats in the majority of transformants. Repeats of the telomeric sequence 5'-TTAGGG-3' were appended to nontelomeric transforming DNA termini. No fungal sequences other than telomeric repeats were detected in extrachromosomal DNAs. Transformants contained three to six different sizes or conformational forms of extrachromosomal DNAs. The DNAs showed no change in size or internal structure during 6 months of growth with selection, but were lost after 20 days of growth without selection. Transformation of wild-type P. microspora with a PCR-amplified extrachromosomal DNA having terminal telomeric repeats produced up to 50-fold more transformants than the original transformation vector. The addition of telomeric repeats to foreign DNA is unusual among fungi and may have important adaptive or developmental implications."}
{"id": "9736163", "title": "Molecular probes for the detection of pathogenic fungi in the presence of human tissue.", "content": "Molecular probes for the detection of pathogenic fungi in the presence of human tissue. Four primer systems, amplifying fragments of the gene coding for the small ribosomal subunit (18S rRNA) were characterised with pure cultures of 65 medically relevant fungal species plus two mushrooms. A primer cocktail (TR1/CA1-TR2/AF2) amplified 59 of 67 fungal species; the universal fungal primer 1 (UF1) in combination with the eukaryotic primers S3 or EU1 amplified 64 and 65 of 67 fungal species, respectively. The design of an additional primer (RZY1) enabled the amplification of the missing members of the zygomycetes. The primer systems amplified all the medically relevant fungi tested. These included eight Candida spp. and seven other yeast species, 13 dermatophytes, 32 moulds (including six zygomycetes and five dimorphic fungi) and two mushrooms. Eleven controls including DNA from Schistosoma mansoni, Escherichia coli, Mycobacterium tuberculosis and man were not amplified. The oligonucleotide CA hybridised with C. albicans, C. tropicalis and C. parapsilosis; the oligonucleotide TR hybridised with the 13 dermatophytes; the oligonucleotide AF hybridised with Aspergillus fumigatus, A. flavus, A. terreus, A. nidulans, A. versicolor, A. tamarii, A. clavatus, A. fischeri, but not with A. niger or A. versicolor; and the oligonucleotide HC hybridised with three varieties of Histoplasma capsulatum. These oligonucleotides did not hybridise with the other fungi nor the controls. The specificity of the newly designed primer systems was confirmed by selective amplification of fungal DNA from human lung tissue spiked with fungal biomass and from vitrectomy fluid of a patient with candida endophthalmitis."}
{"id": "9720206", "title": "Aspergillus oryzae with and without a homolog of aflatoxin biosynthetic gene ver-1.", "content": "Aspergillus oryzae with and without a homolog of aflatoxin biosynthetic gene ver-1. Part of the nucleotide sequence of the ver-1 homolog in each of two strains of Aspergillus oryzae, Aspergillus sojae, and Aspergillus flavus were compared with two homologs in Aspergillus parasiticus. The homologs in A. oryzae and A. sojae (non-aflatoxin-producers) exhibited an extremely high degree (93.8-99.8% for A. oryzae, and 96.0-99.5% for A. sojae) of sequence identify with that of A. flavus and A. parasiticus. No two strains within the same species, except A. sojae, were identical. No sequence fingerprint was found to distinguish between A. oryzae and A. flavus, or between A. sojae and A. parasiticus. The predicted partial amino acid sequences (181 amino acids) of the ver-1 homologs had at most two amino acid changes relative to A. parasiticus SYS-4 ver-1. Transcripts of ver-1 homologs in the strains of A. oryzae and A. sojae examined were not detected by the polymerase chain reaction coupled with reverse transcription. By Southern analysis, a total of 46 strains of A. oryzae were examined for the presence of the ver-1 homolog. The homolog was detected in 38 strains, but not in 8 strains. Morphologically, strains with and without the ver-1 homolog were indistinguishable. Thus, A. oryzae contains strains with and without a homolog of the aflatoxin biosynthetic gene ver-1."}
{"id": "9720204", "title": "Utilization of the TEF1-alpha gene (TEF1) promoter for expression of polygalacturonase genes, pgaA and pgaB, in Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Utilization of the TEF1-alpha gene (TEF1) promoter for expression of polygalacturonase genes, pgaA and pgaB, in Aspergillus oryzae. For the development of an efficient gene expression system in a shoyu koji mold Aspergillus oryzae KBN616, the TEF1 gene, encoding translation-elongation factor 1 alpha, was cloned from the same strain and used for expression of polygalacturonase genes. The TEF1 gene comprised 1647 bp with three introns. The TEF1-alpha protein consisted of 460 amino acids possessing high identify to other fungal TEF proteins. Two nucleotide sequences homologous to the upstream activation sequence, characterized for the ribosomal protein genes in Saccharomyces cerevisiae, as well as the pyrimidine-rich sequences were present in the TEF1 gene promoter region, suggesting that the A, oryzae TEF1 gene has a strong promoter activity. Two expression vectors, pTFGA300 and pTFGB200 for production of polygalacturonases A and B respectively, were constructed by using the TEF1 gene promoter. A polygalacturonase (PGB) gene cloned from the same strain comprised 1226 bp with two introns and encoded a protein of 367 amino acids with high similarity to other fungal polygalacturonases. PGA and PGB were secreted at approximately 100 mg/l in glucose medium and purified to homogeneity. PGA had a molecular mass of 41 kDa, a pH optimum of 5.0 and temperature optimum of 45 degrees C. PGB had a molecular mass of 39 kDa, a pH optimum of 5.0 and temperature optimum of 55 degrees C."}
{"id": "9705365", "title": "Microsatellite markers for typing Aspergillus fumigatus isolates.", "content": "Microsatellite markers for typing Aspergillus fumigatus isolates. The use of microsatellites as highly polymorphic DNA markers for the typing of isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus was investigated. Four CA repeats were selected by screening an A. fumigatus DNA library with a (CA)10 oligonucleotide. Primers flanking these CA repeats were designed to amplify each locus. One primer of each pair was labeled with a fluorophore, and the PCR products were analyzed with an automatic sequencer and the GeneScan software. For each primer set and for a given isolate, one band was detected and was assigned to an allele because A. fumigatus is haploid. With 50 clinical isolates, 50 environmental isolates, and 2 reference strains we obtained 12, 11, 10, and 23 different alleles for the four CA microsatellites, respectively (discriminatory power, 0.994). The results were identical by whatever DNA extraction technique was used. Interestingly, no clustering between environmental and clinical isolates was observed, suggesting that every isolate is potentially pathogenic. Microsatellite markers appear suitable for use in large epidemiological studies of invasive aspergillosis."}
{"id": "9685506", "title": "In situ detection of protein-DNA interactions in filamentous fungi by in vivo footprinting.", "content": "In situ detection of protein-DNA interactions in filamentous fungi by in vivo footprinting. The method described here allows the detection of protein-DNA interactions in vivo in filamentous fungi. We outline culture conditions and conditions of in vivo methylation that permit uniform modification of all cells in an apically growing, non-uniform organism, and subsequent visualization of protected areas by ligation-mediated PCR."}
{"id": "9650962", "title": "Utility of random amplified polymorphic DNA PCR and TaqMan automated detection in molecular identification of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Utility of random amplified polymorphic DNA PCR and TaqMan automated detection in molecular identification of Aspergillus fumigatus. We developed a method for the identification of Aspergillus fumigatus fungal isolates by using random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) PCR (RAPD-PCR) cloning and the TaqMan LS50B fluorogenic detection system (Perkin-Elmer Corp., Applied Biosystems, Foster City, Calif.). DNA from seven clinically important Aspergillus species was screened by RAPD-PCR to identify section- or species-specific amplicons. With the OPZ19 RAPD primer a 1,264-bp product was amplified from all A. fumigatus strains initially examined but not from other species. A partial DNA sequence of this product was used to design a specific primer pair, which generated a single 864-bp fragment with DNA from 90 of 100 A. fumigatus isolates when a \"touchdown\" (65-->55 degrees C) annealing protocol was used. The TaqMan system, a fluorogenic assay which uses the 5'-->3' endonuclease activity of Taq DNA polymerase, detected this 864-bp product with DNA from 89 of these 90 A. fumigatus strains; 1 DNA sample generated an indeterminate result. With DNA from three morphologically typical A. fumigatus isolates, six white (\"albino\") A. fumigatus isolates, and five of six Neosartorya species (non-A. fumigatus members of the section Fumigati), the 864-bp product was amplified differentially at an annealing temperature of 56 degrees C but not with the touchdown annealing format. No amplicon was detected with DNA from 56 isolates of heterologous Aspergillus, Penicillium, and Paecilomyces species or from Neosartorya fennelliae; TaqMan assay results were either negative (51 isolates) or indeterminate (5 isolates) for all isolates. This RAPD-PCR and TaqMan assay offers promise as a nucleic acid-based system that can be used for the identification of filamentous fungal isolates and that requires no postamplification sample manipulations."}
{"id": "9636871", "title": "Comparison of serum galactomannan antigen detection and competitive polymerase chain reaction for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "Comparison of serum galactomannan antigen detection and competitive polymerase chain reaction for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis. To improve the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis (IA), we retrospectively compared competitive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sandwich ELISA for detection of serum galactomannan (GM) antigen. We studied 281 serum samples collected weekly during the period at risk for IA from 41 selected hematology patients. Twenty-two patients had confirmed, probable, or suspected IA, according to clinical and mycologic data. Fifteen of them had positive GM titers (87 samples) and 12 had positive PCRs (20 samples). Nineteen of the 20 PCR-positive samples were also GM-positive. Of the 19 patients without IA (83 samples), one had 3 GM-false-positive samples. Neither test anticipated the initiation of antifungal therapy on the basis of clinical suspicion. Both tests were more likely to be positive before death. This study suggests that PCR on serum samples is not more sensitive than GM detection. However, PCR can improve the specificity of the GM test. Together, these noninvasive tests should improve the diagnosis of IA."}
{"id": "9625689", "title": "Polygalacturonase gene expression in ripe melon fruit supports a role for polygalacturonase in ripening-associated pectin disassembly.", "content": "Polygalacturonase gene expression in ripe melon fruit supports a role for polygalacturonase in ripening-associated pectin disassembly. Ripening-associated pectin disassembly in melon is characterized by a decrease in molecular mass and an increase in the solubilization of polyuronide, modifications that in other fruit have been attributed to the activity of polygalacturonase (PG). Although it has been reported that PG activity is absent during melon fruit ripening, a mechanism for PG-independent pectin disassembly has not been positively identified. Here we provide evidence that pectin disassembly in melon (Cucumis melo) may be PG mediated. Three melon cDNA clones with significant homology to other cloned PGs were isolated from the rapidly ripening cultivar Charentais (C. melo cv Reticulatus F1 Alpha) and were expressed at high levels during fruit ripening. The expression pattern correlated temporally with an increase in pectin-degrading activity and a decrease in the molecular mass of cell wall pectins, suggesting that these genes encode functional PGs. MPG1 and MPG2 were closely related to peach fruit and tomato abscission zone PGs, and MPG3 was closely related to tomato fruit PG. MPG1, the most abundant melon PG mRNA, was expressed in Aspergillus oryzae. The culture filtrate exponentially decreased the viscosity of a pectin solution and catalyzed the linear release of reducing groups, suggesting that MPG1 encodes an endo-PG with the potential to depolymerize melon fruit cell wall pectin. Because MPG1 belongs to a group of PGs divergent from the well-characterized tomato fruit PG, this supports the involvement of a second class of PGs in fruit ripening-associated pectin disassembly."}
{"id": "9620390", "title": "Rapid extraction of genomic DNA from medically important yeasts and filamentous fungi by high-speed cell disruption.", "content": "Rapid extraction of genomic DNA from medically important yeasts and filamentous fungi by high-speed cell disruption. Current methods of DNA extraction from different fungal pathogens are often time-consuming and require the use of toxic chemicals. DNA isolation from some fungal organisms is difficult due to cell walls or capsules that are not readily susceptible to lysis. We therefore investigated a new and rapid DNA isolation method using high-speed cell disruption (HSCD) incorporating chaotropic reagents and lysing matrices in comparison to standard phenol-chloroform (PC) extraction protocols for isolation of DNA from three medically important yeasts (Candida albicans, Cryptococcus neoformans, and Trichosporon beigelii) and two filamentous fungi (Aspergillus fumigatus and Fusarium solani). Additional extractions by HSCD were performed on Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Pseudallescheria boydii, and Rhizopus arrhizus. Two different inocula (10(8) and 10(7) CFU) were compared for optimization of obtained yields. The entire extraction procedure was performed on as many as 12 samples within 1 h compared to 6 h for PC extraction. In comparison to the PC procedure, HSCD DNA extraction demonstrated significantly greater yields for 10(8) CFU of C. albicans, T. beigelii, A. fumigatus, and F. solani (P < or = 0.005), 10(7) CFU of C. neoformans (P < or = 0.05), and 10(7) CFU of A. fumigatus (P < or = 0.01). Yields were within the same range for 10(8) CFU of C. neoformans and l0(7) CFU of C. albicans for both HSCD extraction and PC extraction. For 10(7) CFU of T. beigelii, PC extraction resulted in a greater yield than did HSCD (P < or = 0.05). Yields obtained from 10(8) and 10(7) CFU were significantly greater for filamentous fungi than for yeasts by the HSCD extraction procedure (P < 0.0001). By the PC extraction procedure, differences were not significant. For all eight organisms, the rapid extraction procedure resulted in good yield, integrity, and quality of DNA as demonstrated by restriction fragment length polymorphism, PCR, and random amplified polymorphic DNA. We conclude that mechanical disruption of fungal cells by HSCD is a safe, rapid, and efficient procedure for extracting genomic DNA from medically important yeasts and especially from filamentous fungi."}
{"id": "9618589", "title": "Development of a homologous transformation system for the human pathogenic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus based on the pyrG gene encoding orotidine 5'-monophosphate decarboxylase.", "content": "Development of a homologous transformation system for the human pathogenic fungus Aspergillus fumigatus based on the pyrG gene encoding orotidine 5'-monophosphate decarboxylase. A homologous transformation system for the opportunistic fungal pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus was developed. It is based on the A. fumigatus pyrG gene, encoding orotidine 5'-monophosphate decarboxylase, which was cloned and sequenced. Transformation of both Aspergillus (Emericella) nidulans and A. fumigatus pyrG mutant strains by the use of protoplasts or electroporation established the functionality of the cloned gene. DNA sequencing of the A. fumigatus pyrG1 mutant allele revealed that it encodes a truncated, non-functional, PyrG protein. Transformation of an A. fumigatus pyrG1 mutant with a plasmid carrying the novel pyrG2 allele constructed by in vitro mutagenesis yielded prototrophic transformants following recombination between both mutation sites. Analysis of transformants carrying the entire plasmid showed that up to 45% of integration had occurred at the pyrG locus. This provides a tool to target defined genetic constructs at a specific locus in the A. fumigatus genome in order to study gene regulation and function."}
{"id": "9615480", "title": "Secretion of the sweet-tasting protein thaumatin by recombinant strains of Aspergillus niger var. awamori.", "content": "Secretion of the sweet-tasting protein thaumatin by recombinant strains of Aspergillus niger var. awamori. A recombinant form of the sweet-tasting protein thaumatin has been produced in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger var. awamori. Expression cassettes containing a synthetic gene encoding thaumatin II were prepared and used to transform Aspergillus niger var. awamori strain NRRL312. Several fungal strains capable of synthesizing and secreting thaumatin into the culture medium were generated, and their production capabilities were determined, first in shake flasks and later in a laboratory fermentor. We report the expression and secretion of thaumatin in concentrations of 5-7 mg/l. This recombinant thaumatin is sweet."}
{"id": "9615479", "title": "Secretion, purification, and characterisation of barley alpha-amylase produced by heterologous gene expression in Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Secretion, purification, and characterisation of barley alpha-amylase produced by heterologous gene expression in Aspergillus niger. Efficient production of recombinant barley alpha-amylase has been achieved in Aspergillus niger. The cDNA encoding alpha-amylase isozyme 1 (AMY1) and its signal peptide was placed under the control of the Aspergillus nidulans glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (gpd) promoter and the A. nidulans trpC gene terminator. Secretion yields up to 60 mg/l were obtained in media optimised for alpha-amylase activity and low protease activity. The recombinant AMY1 (reAMY1) was purified to homogeneity and found to be identical to native barley AMY1 with respect to size, pI, and immunoreactivity. N-terminal sequence analysis of the recombinant protein indicated that the endogenous plant signal peptide is correctly processed in A. niger. Electrospray ionisation/mass spectrometry gave a molecular mass for the dominant form of 44,960 Da, in accordance with the loss of the LQRS C-terminal residues; glycosylation apparently did not occur. The activities of recombinant and native barley alpha-amylases are very similar towards insoluble and soluble starch as well as 2-chloro-4-nitrophenol beta-D-maltoheptaoside and amylose (degree of polymerisation = 17). Barley alpha-amylase is the first plant protein efficiently secreted and correctly processed by A. niger using its own signal sequence."}
{"id": "9579465", "title": "Polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism mediated detection and speciation of Candida spp causing intraocular infection.", "content": "Polymerase chain reaction and restriction fragment length polymorphism mediated detection and speciation of Candida spp causing intraocular infection. To determine the usefulness of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis in the identification and speciation of Candida spp that causes ocular infection. Oligonucleotide primers based on the cytochrome P450 L1 A1 demethylase gene were used to successfully amplify by PCR a single 1.0-kb and a single 500-bp DNA fragment from C. albicans, C. tropicalis, C. krusei, C. glabrata, C. parapsilosis, and C. pelliculosa genomic DNA. RFLPs within the PCR product were identified after restriction enzyme digestion. The sensitivity of the amplification reaction after two rounds of PCR was 10 fg genomic C. albicans DNA or one copy of the gene. No amplification product was obtained when DNA from C. guilliermondii, Aspergillus fumigatus, Fusarium solani, human leukocytes, or 10 species of bacteria was used as a template. Experiments with spiked normal vitreous demonstrated equal sensitivity as long as the volume of vitreous did not exceed 20% of the total PCR volume. RFLP analysis of the PCR product generated from each species obtained from the first- and second-round amplification products enabled species identification after digestion with specific endonucleases. Application of the technique to four clinical samples was successful. It is expected that the simplicity of the DNA extraction technique allied with the broad specificity of the outer primers for all ophthalmically relevant Candida spp and the sensitivity of the second-round PCR will aid in the detection of fungal DNA in small intraocular samples. PCR-RFLP analysis has great potential in the rapid detection and identification of Candida spp and in the provision of a useful laboratory tool for the future."}
{"id": "9574694", "title": "Molecular epidemiological study of Aspergillus fumigatus in a bone marrow transplantation unit by PCR amplification of ribosomal intergenic spacer sequences.", "content": "Molecular epidemiological study of Aspergillus fumigatus in a bone marrow transplantation unit by PCR amplification of ribosomal intergenic spacer sequences. We have developed a PCR-based method for the subspecific discrimination of Aspergillus fumigatus types by using two primers designed to amplify the intergenic spacer regions between ribosomal DNA transcription units. The method permitted the reproducible discrimination of 11 distinct DNA types among a total of 119 isolates of A. fumigatus collected from patients and from the environment of a bone marrow transplantation (BMT) unit over a three-year period. Ten DNA types of A. fumigatus were isolated from patients in the BMT unit; eight of these types were also found in the hospital environment, and six of these were present in the unit itself. Thirteen BMT patients developed infection with one of three DNA types some months after these had first been found in the environment of the unit. In other instances, the same DNA types of A. fumigatus were isolated from BMT patients that were later recovered from the environment of the unit. Several DNA types of A. fumigatus were found in the hospital environment over an 18-month period. Molecular typing of multiple isolates of A. fumigatus, obtained from postmortem tissue samples, showed that one patient was infected with a single DNA type, but two others had up to three different DNA types. Our findings suggest that A. fumigatus infection in BMT recipients may be nosocomial in origin and underline the need for careful environmental monitoring of units in which high-risk patients are housed."}
{"id": "9574670", "title": "Panfungal PCR assay for detection of fungal infection in human blood specimens.", "content": "Panfungal PCR assay for detection of fungal infection in human blood specimens. A novel panfungal PCR assay which detects the small-subunit rRNA gene sequence of the two major fungal organism groups was used to test whole-blood specimens obtained from a series of blood or bone marrow transplant recipients. The 580-bp PCR product was identified after amplification by panfungal primers and hybridization to a 245-bp digoxigenin-labeled probe. The lower limit of detection of the assay was approximately four organisms per milliliter of blood. Multiple whole-blood specimens from five patients without fungal infection or colonization had negative PCR results. Specimens from 11 infected patients had positive PCR results. Blood from three patients with pulmonary aspergillosis had positive PCR results: one patient's blood specimen obtained in the week prior to the diagnosis of infection by a positive bronchoalveolar lavage fluid culture result was positive by PCR, and blood specimens obtained from two patients 1 to 2 days after lung biopsy and which were sterile by culture were positive by PCR. The blood of four patients with candidemia, three patients with mixed fungal infections, and one patient with fusariosis also had positive PCR signals. The panfungal PCR assay can detect multiple fungal genera and may be used as an adjunct to conventional methods for the detection of fungal infection or for describing the natural history of fungal infection. Further studies are needed to define the sensitivity and specificity of this assay for the diagnosis of fungal infection prior to the existence of other clinical or laboratory indications of invasive fungal infection."}
{"id": "9546185", "title": "Targeted mutants of Cochliobolus carbonum lacking the two major extracellular polygalacturonases.", "content": "Targeted mutants of Cochliobolus carbonum lacking the two major extracellular polygalacturonases. The filamentous fungus Cochliobolus carbonum produces endo-alpha 1,4-polygalacturonase (endoPG), exo-alpha 1,4-polygalacturonase (exoPG), and pectin methylesterase when grown in culture on pectin. Residual activity in a pgn1 mutant (lacking endoPG) was due to exoPG activity, and the responsible protein has now been purified. After chemical deglycosylation, the molecular mass of the purified protein decreased from greater than 60 to 45 kDa. The gene that encodes exoPG, PGX1, was isolated with PCR primers based on peptide sequences from the protein. The product of PGX1, Pgx1p, has a predicted molecular mass of 48 kDa, 12 potential N-glycosylation sites, and 61% amino acid identity to an exoPG from the saprophytic fungus Aspergillus tubingensis. Strains of C. carbonum mutated in PGX1 were constructed by targeted gene disruption and by gene replacement. Growth of pgx1 mutant strains on pectin was reduced by ca. 20%, and they were still pathogenic on maize. A double pgn1/pgx1 mutant strain was constructed by crossing. The double mutant grew as well as the pgx1 single mutant on pectin and was still pathogenic despite having less than 1% of total wild-type PG activity. Double mutants retained a small amount of PG activity with the same cation-exchange retention time as Pgn1p and also pectin methylesterase and a PG activity associated with the mycelium. Continued growth of the pgn1/pgx1 mutant on pectin could be due to one or more of these residual activities."}
{"id": "9535817", "title": "Isolation and characterization of an invertase and its repressor genes from Schizosaccharomyces pombe.", "content": "Isolation and characterization of an invertase and its repressor genes from Schizosaccharomyces pombe. PCR was used to isolate an invertase homolog gene from the fission yeast Schizosaccharomyces pombe. The cloned inv1(+) gene encodes a protein of 581 amino acids with 16 potential asparagine-linked glycosylation sites, and has 39% and 38% identity to the Schwanniomyces occidentalis and Saccharomyces cerevisiae SUC2 invertases. When the inv1(+) gene was disrupted, S. pombe strains lacked detectable invertase activity. This result showed that the inv1(+) gene encodes only one active invertase in S. pombe cells. The transcription of inv1(+) is repressed in the presence of glucose. The transcription of inv1(+) was not affected in cyr1Delta strain which lacks adenylate cyclase activity, unlike transcription of S. pombe fbp1(+) gene. We have identified an S. pombe gene (scr1(+)) that encodes a homolog of the Aspergillus nidulans CREA which is required for glucose repression of the glyconeogenic pathway. Although the deletion of scr1(+) did not influence the transcription of fbp1(+) gene, glucose repression of the inv1(+) gene was severely affected. These results showed that glucose repression of inv1(+) gene is dependent on scr1(+) gene, and S. pombe cAMP signalling pathway may not be essential for glucose repression of inv1(+) gene."}
{"id": "9532788", "title": "Overproduction of 1,2-alpha-mannosidase, a glycochain processing enzyme, by Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Overproduction of 1,2-alpha-mannosidase, a glycochain processing enzyme, by Aspergillus oryzae. A recombinant strain of Aspergillus oryzae has been constructed in which 1,2-alpha-mannosidase, an intracellular glycochain processing enzyme with specificity toward 1,2-alpha-mannosidic linkages, has been overexpressed. For the construction, the N-terminal signal-encoding sequence of the 1,2-alpha-mannosidase gene (msdC) from Penicillium citrinum was replaced with that of the aspergillopepsin I signal, and the fused gene was inserted between amyB promoter-terminator elements in the expression plasmid pTAPM1. A transformant of A. oryzae (the strain PM-1) secreted a great deal of heterogeneous 1,2-alpha-mannosidase into the culture media, which was purified by CM ion-exchange chromatography. Approximately 21 mg of the purified enzyme was obtained per liter of culture. N-terminal amino acid analysis indicated that the signal peptide was removed from the secreted enzyme. The Penicillium 1,2-alpha-mannosidase expressed in A. oryzae did not show any notable difference from the enzyme from P. citrinum in such properties as M(r), specific activity, CD spectra, or kinetic parameters. Man7GlcNAc2 accumulated temporarily during the degradation of Man9GlcNAc2 to Man5GlcNAc2 by fungal 1,2-alpha-mannosidase."}
{"id": "9523381", "title": "Localization of the centromere protein CENP-B using scleroderma sera and evidence for a role in centromere survival.", "content": "Localization of the centromere protein CENP-B using scleroderma sera and evidence for a role in centromere survival. To determine whether centromeric CENP A, B and C proteins play a role in centromere survival. Sixteen anti-centromere sera from scleroderma patients were used. The most common reactivity demonstrated by Western blot was anti-CENP-A, followed by anti-CENP-B and -C, in that order. The reactivity of these sera with HEp-2 cells was studied using an indirect immunofluorescence assay with and without prior digestion by a DNase, Aspergillus nuclease and the restriction endonucleases Bam HI, Hind III, and Eco RI. CENP-B was purified using affinity chromatography and anti-CENP-B antibody. The interaction between CENP-B and the CENP-B box was evaluated using immunoprecipitation. Precipitates containing alphaDNA were amplified using a PCR method with specific primers for the CENP-B box. None of the nucleases altered the fluorescence pattern. PCR amplification showed that CENP-B adsorbed on a Sepharose-4B/anti-CENP-B antibody column retained alphaDNA satellites. No retention was seen in the absence of CENP-B. CENP-B protects alphaDNA from digestion by nucleases and prevents DNase or restriction enzyme digestion from affecting the morphology and location of centromeres. CENP-B may promote and maintain joining of DNA satellites in the centromere."}
{"id": "9508794", "title": "Recombination of mitochondrial DNA without selection pressure among compatible strains of the Aspergillus niger species aggregate.", "content": "Recombination of mitochondrial DNA without selection pressure among compatible strains of the Aspergillus niger species aggregate. Previous mitochondrial transmission experiments between oligomycin-resistant and oligomycin-sensitive incompatible strains of the A. niger aggregate bearing various mtDNA RFLP profiles resulted in a great variety of mitochondrial recombinants under selection pressure. Apart from the recombinant mtDNAs, resistant clones harbouring unchanged RFLP profiles of resistant donor mtDNAs with the recipient nuclear backgrounds were rarely isolated. These strains were anastomosed with nuclearly isogenic oligomycin-sensitive recipient partners and the mitochondria of the resulting progeny were examined under non-selective conditions. These experiments provide insights into events which are possibly similar to those occurring in nature. The heterokaryons obtained formed both oligomycin-resistant and -sensitive sectors, most of which were found to be homoplasmons. Progenies harbouring oligomycin-resistant and -sensitive mtDNAs may originate either from individual recombination events or be due to parental segregation. MtDNA recombination might take place in the heterokaryons without selection by oligomycin. The most frequent recombinant types of mtDNA RFLP profiles were indistinguishable from those recombinant mtDNAs which were frequently obtained under selection pressure from directed transfer experiments between incompatible strains. We present evidence that mixed mitochondrial populations may influence the compatibility reactions in the presence of an isogenic nuclear background, that recombination may take place without selection pressure, and that the process does not require specific nuclear sequences of both parental strains."}
{"id": "9501518", "title": "Cloning and characterization of a chitinase-encoding gene (chiA) from Aspergillus nidulans, disruption of which decreases germination frequency and hyphal growth.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of a chitinase-encoding gene (chiA) from Aspergillus nidulans, disruption of which decreases germination frequency and hyphal growth. We cloned a chitinase-encoding gene from Aspergillus nidulans by polymerase chain reaction using degenerated oligonucleotide primers designed from the conserved amino acid sequences among chitinases from yeasts and Rhizopus spp. The cloned gene, named chiA, encoded a polypeptide consisting of 660 amino acids. Disruption of chiA had no effect on hyphal or conidiophore morphology, but germination frequency and hyphal growth rate decreased substantially. Expression of chiA was investigated using Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase as a reporter enzyme. The beta-galactosidase activity was present during hyphal growth and increased twice as the conidiophores developed. In situ staining of beta-galactosidase activity found high expression in metulae, phialides, and conidia during conidiophore development, indicating that the expression of chiA is developmentally regulated. This is the first report to isolate a chitinase gene from A. nidulans and investigate its functions using the gene disruption technique and gene fusion methods in filamentous fungi."}
{"id": "9519482", "title": "An improved colony-PCR method for filamentous fungi for amplification of PCR-fragments of several kilobases.", "content": "An improved colony-PCR method for filamentous fungi for amplification of PCR-fragments of several kilobases. A method was developed to perform PCR directly on mycelial pellets or colonies treated with NOVOzym 234. The method allows rapid screening of large numbers of transformants of both sporulating and non-sporulating fungi for the presence of (co)transforming plasmid copies or for specific genetic modifications such as gene disruption and site specific integration. PCR fragments of at least 3.2 kb can be obtained. Using this method the identification of specific disruption mutants from Aspergillus niger and Beauveria bassiana was carried out."}
{"id": "9467106", "title": "Applicability of random primer R143 for determination of Aspergillus fumigatus DNA.", "content": "Applicability of random primer R143 for determination of Aspergillus fumigatus DNA. The specificity of random primer R143 for Aspergillus fumigatus DNA was determined in order to test its usefulness in establishing the presence of A. fumigatus DNA in fungal cultures. When PCR reaction products of these cultures were compared with those of 21 other bacterial and fungal DNA samples, R143 proved to produce a 1346 bp band with only A. fumigatus. This band has been sequenced completely and the EcoRI restriction site was used for subsequent confirmation of PCR products. The specificity for A. fumigatus DNA was also confirmed by Southern blotting. Comparison of morphological typing of Aspergillus species in cultures with PCR using R143 on DNA isolated from these cultures showed concordance in 22 of 24 cases. In two cases there was discordance: both times PCR results showed correctly the presence of A. fumigatus, initially not detected by culture. R143 is an A. fumigatus specific random primer, with potential for use in detection of A. fumigatus DNA in clinical specimens."}
{"id": "9454647", "title": "Umchs5, a gene coding for a class IV chitin synthase in Ustilago maydis.", "content": "Umchs5, a gene coding for a class IV chitin synthase in Ustilago maydis. A fragment corresponding to a conserved region of a fifth gene coding for chitin synthase in the plant pathogenic fungus Ustilago maydis was amplified by means of the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The amplified fragment was utilized as a probe for the identification of the whole gene in a genomic library of the fungus. The predicted gene product of Umchs5 has highest similarity with class IV chitin synthases encoded by the CHS3 genes from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Candida albicans, chs-4 from Neurospora crassa, and chsE from Aspergillus nidulans. Umchs5 null mutants were constructed by substitution of most of the coding sequence with the hygromycin B resistance cassette. Mutants displayed significant reduction in growth rate, chitin content, and chitin synthase activity, specially in the mycelial form. Virulence to corn plantules was also reduced in the mutants. PCR was also used to obtain a fragment of a sixth chitin synthase, Umchs6. It is suggested that multigenic control of chitin synthesis in U. maydis operates as a protection mechanism for fungal viability in which the loss of one activity is partially compensated by the remaining enzymes."}
{"id": "9442274", "title": "Molecular and phenotypic characterization of Aspergillus japonicus and Aspergillus aculeatus strains with special regard to their mitochondrial DNA polymorphisms.", "content": "Molecular and phenotypic characterization of Aspergillus japonicus and Aspergillus aculeatus strains with special regard to their mitochondrial DNA polymorphisms. Forty Aspergillus japonicus and A. aculeatus strains, most of them wild-type isolates, were examined using various molecular and phenotypic techniques. The rDNAs proved to be invariable (even strains of the species A. aculeatus exhibited the same restriction profile), while the strains could be classified into seven different mtDNA RFLP groups. Hybridisation data suggest that six of these mtDNA types have certain common restriction sites, while mtDNA type 7, which was exhibited by some A. aculeatus strains, probably has quite different mtDNA organisation and their size was smallest among the strains studied. The RAPD technique and isoenzyme analysis revealed some variabilities within these RFLP groups and strain specific features could also be recognised. Carbon source assimilation spectra were found to be very distinctive for strains of A. japonicus, A. aculeatus and A. niger, providing a useful tool for pre-characterising new wild-type isolates of black Aspergilli. Only a limited correlation was observed between the dendrograms based on genotypic and phenotypic characters."}
{"id": "9438344", "title": "Polyketide synthase gene pksM from Aspergillus terreus expressed during growth phase.", "content": "Polyketide synthase gene pksM from Aspergillus terreus expressed during growth phase. The polyketide synthase gene pksM was detected in the genomic DNA library of Aspergillus terreus by hybridization with the 6-methylsalicylic acid synthase (6-MSAS) gene of Penicillium patulum as a probe. 9524 bp of the cloned DNA were sequenced and a 5.5 kb open reading frame was revealed. A single intron (62 bp) was identified in the conserved position. Two transcription start points were determined within the 5'-flanking region at 50 and 72 (major) bp upstream from the putative translation initiation codon ATG. The conserved active site motifs for ketosynthase, acyltransferase, dehydratase, ketoreductase and acyl carrier protein were found within the predicted polypeptide consisting of 1803 amino acids. Unlike the P. patulum 6-MSAS gene, the transcription of pksM from A. terreus was observed in the middle of the vegetative growth phase."}
{"id": "9426247", "title": "Cloning and characterization of the Aspergillus nidulans DNA topoisomerase I gene.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of the Aspergillus nidulans DNA topoisomerase I gene. The topoisomerase I (TOP1) gene was cloned and sequenced from Aspergillus nidulans using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Genomic DNA was used as a template to obtain a 2987-bp gene containing five small introns. PCR from a cDNA library yielded a 2613-bp sequence which codes for an 871 amino acid protein. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence with other DNA topoisomerase I (topo I) protein sequences shows a somewhat higher degree of identity with other fungal amino acid sequences than with the human enzyme. Topo I is a ubiquitous enzyme which can be converted to a cytotoxic molecule in the presence of drugs that function as topo I poisons. The Aspergillus TOP1 cDNA will be used in an effort to identify novel cytotoxic antifungals which target this enzyme."}
{"id": "9399543", "title": "Comparison of different methods for extraction of DNA of fungal pathogens from cultures and blood.", "content": "Comparison of different methods for extraction of DNA of fungal pathogens from cultures and blood. Five commercially available extraction kits and an in-house DNA extraction method for the release of DNA from Candida albicans and Aspergillus niger cells were assessed for sensitivity, purity, duration, and cost. All commercially available kits helped to shorten the duration of DNA extraction. However, the sensitivity varied from 1 to 1,000 fungal cells/ml and costs varied from $0.10 to 2.30. The QIAmp Tissue kit was the commercially available assay that yielded the same sensitivity and purity of fungal DNA release as the in-house protocol but was the most expensive method. In comparing these two extraction protocols, a 99% concordance of PCR results for 125 blood samples analyzed could be demonstrated."}
{"id": "9385443", "title": "Cloning and characterization of a rhamnogalacturonan hydrolase gene from Botrytis cinerea.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of a rhamnogalacturonan hydrolase gene from Botrytis cinerea. Rhamnogalacturonan hydrolase (Rgase A) cleaves alpha 1--2 linkages between rhamnosyl and galacturonosyl residues in pectin. A 1.9 kb RGase A cDNA clone (BCRHGA) was isolated from a B. cinerea cDNA library using a PCR-amplified Aspergillus aculeatus RGase A probe. It's 1.7 kb open reading frame had 62% identity at the amino acid level with A. aculeatus RGase A. Northern blots of B. cinerea total RNA probed with BCRHGA revealed a 2 kb band, suggesting the cDNA clone is full or nearly-full length. To determine mRNA expression of the gene, B. cinerea was grown in media containing 0.5% apple pectin, 0.5% rhamnogalacturonan-I and 1% glucose carbon sources. Northern analysis revealed the BCRHGA gene was expressed on all carbon sources, but with different patterns of expression. B. cinerea RGase A appeared to be coded for by a single or low copy number gene based on Southern analysis."}
{"id": "9379554", "title": "[Site-specific microbiological tests and the diagnostic significance-- respiratory tract infections].", "content": "[Site-specific microbiological tests and the diagnostic significance-- respiratory tract infections]."}
{"id": "9379547", "title": "[Microbiological techniques for testing bacteria and fungi--diagnosis of mycoses by non-culture methods].", "content": "[Microbiological techniques for testing bacteria and fungi--diagnosis of mycoses by non-culture methods]."}
{"id": "9373135", "title": "Genes encoding multiple drug resistance-like proteins in Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus flavus.", "content": "Genes encoding multiple drug resistance-like proteins in Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus flavus. Polymerase chain reaction using degenerate primers was used to identify genes encoding proteins of the ATP-binding cassette superfamily in Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus flavus. In A. fumigatus, two genes (AfuMDR1 and AfuMDR2) encoding proteins of the ATP-binding cassette superfamily were identified. One gene (AflMDR1) was isolated from A. flavus and is the apparent homologue to AfuMDR1. AfuMDR1 and AflMDR1 encode proteins of molecular weights 148,000 and 143,000, respectively, each containing 12 putative transmembrane regions and two ATP-binding sites. These proteins are arranged in two homologous halves, each half consisting of a hydrophobic region (encoding six putative transmembrane domains) and an ATP-binding site. The AfuMDR1 and AflMDR1-encoded proteins bear a high degree of similarity to the Schizosaccharomyces pombe leptomycin B resistance protein and to human MDR1. The second gene identified in A. fumigatus, AfuMDR2, encodes a protein of molecular weight 85,000, containing four putative transmembrane domains and an ATP binding domain. The encoded protein is similar to those encoded by MDL1 and MDL2, two MDR-like genes of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Expression of AFUMDR1 in S. cerevisiae conferred increased resistance to the antifungal agent cilofungin (LY121019), an echinocandin B analog."}
{"id": "9371888", "title": "Characterization of the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene from Venturia inaequalis.", "content": "Characterization of the mitochondrial cytochrome b gene from Venturia inaequalis. A new class of agricultural fungicides derived from the group of antifungal strobilurins acts as specific respiration inhibitors by binding to mitochondrial cytochrome b. The cytochrome b gene was cloned and sequenced from the mitochondrial genome of Venturia inaequalis, the causal agent of apple scab. The gene was 10.65 kbp in size and contained seven exons and six introns. The exons encoded a protein of 393 amino acids. Comparison of the deduced amino-acid sequence with cytochrome b proteins from other fungi revealed highest homologies to the respective proteins of Aspergillus nidulans, Podospora anserina and Neurospora crassa. All amino acids of the V. inaequalis cytochrome b at positions altered in mutants of Saccharomyces cerevisiae resistant to strobilurins, and other fungi with reduced sensitivities to strobilurins, were identical to wild-type isolates of several fungi. The cloning and characterization of the V. inaequalis cytochrome b gene is the initial step in the assessment of resistance risks inherent to the strobilurin fungicides."}
{"id": "9339892", "title": "Inducible expression of yeast mitochondrial citrate synthase in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Inducible expression of yeast mitochondrial citrate synthase in Aspergillus nidulans. The coding region of the mitochondrial citrate synthase gene (CIT1) from Saccharomyces cerevisiae was amplified by PCR and cloned into an expression vector (pAL4) downstream of the alcohol dehydrogenase (alcA) promoter of Aspergillus nidulans to yield pALCS1. Transformation of A. nidulans A773 with this construct gave stable transformants, AYC#1 and AYC#2, that were phenotypically stable for several mitotic divisions. Southern blot analysis showed that the CIT1 gene was successfully integrated into the chromosomes of the transformants. Western blot analysis and enzymatic assay for citrate synthase revealed that the integrated yeast gene was subject to inducible expression controlled by alcA promoter, which can be induced by threonine."}
{"id": "9321728", "title": "Value of environmental sampling and molecular typing of aspergilli to assess nosocomial sources of aspergillosis.", "content": "Value of environmental sampling and molecular typing of aspergilli to assess nosocomial sources of aspergillosis. In order to investigate the risk of hospital-acquired infections due to environmental Aspergillus, air sampling outside and inside the bone marrow transplantation (BMT) clinic of the University Hospital, Essen, Germany, was performed prospectively for one year. The spore concentration in the air was matched with meteorological data. Two BMT-patients, who were hospitalized during the sampling period, suffered from aspergillosis after discharge. The patients' isolates obtained at re-admission were compared with environmental isolates obtained during the first hospitalization. Analysis by randomly amplified polymorphic DNA showed that the two BMT-patients were infected with Aspergillus strains that were different from the environmental strains. It is concluded that it is not possible to predict the environmental Aspergillus spore concentration by analysis of meteorological data. Since the concentration of specific strains may fluctuate rapidly, a hospital-acquired Aspergillus infection cannot be excluded even if the infecting strain is not found in the hospital environment."}
{"id": "9312029", "title": "StuAp is a sequence-specific transcription factor that regulates developmental complexity in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "StuAp is a sequence-specific transcription factor that regulates developmental complexity in Aspergillus nidulans. The Aspergillus nidulans Stunted protein (StuAp) regulates multicellular complexity during asexual reproduction by moderating the core developmental program that directs differentiation of uninucleate, terminally differentiated spores from multinucleate, vegetative hyphae. StuAp is also required for ascosporogenesis and multicellular development during sexual reproduction. StuAp is a member of a family of fungal transcription factors that regulate development or cell cycle progression. Further, StuAp characterizes a sub-family possessing the conserved APSES domain. We demonstrate for the first time that the APSES domain is a sequence-specific DNA-binding domain that can be modeled as a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH)-like structure. We have found that StuAp response elements (A/TCGCGT/ANA/C) are located upstream of both critical developmental regulatory genes and cell cycle genes in A.nidulans. StuAp is shown to act as a transcriptional repressor in A.nidulans, but as a weak activator in budding yeast. Our data suggest that the differentiation of pseudohyphal-like sterigmatal cells during multicellular conidiophore development requires correct StuAp-regulated expression of both developmental and cell cycle genes in A.nidulans. The budding pattern of sterigmata may involve processes related to those controlling pseudohyphal growth in budding yeast."}
{"id": "9290242", "title": "The design of pooling experiments for screening a clone map.", "content": "The design of pooling experiments for screening a clone map. We consider nonadaptive pooling designs for unique-sequence screening of a 1530-clone map of Aspergillus nidulans. The map has the properties that the clones are, with possibly a few exceptions, ordered and no more than 2 of them cover any point on the genome. We propose two subdesigns of the Steiner system S(3, 5, 65), one with 65 pools and approximately 118 clones per pool, the other with 54 pools and about 142 clones per pool. Each design allows 1 or 2 positive clones to be detected, even in the presence of substantial experimental error rates. More efficient designs are possible if the overlap information in the map is exploited, if there is no constraint on the number of clones in a pool, and if no error tolerance is required. An information theory lower bound requires at least 12 pools to satisfy these minimal criteria, and an \"interleaved binary\" design can be constructed on 20 pools, with about 380 clones per pool. However, the designs with more pools have important properties of robustness to various possible errors and general applicability to a wider class of pooling experiments."}
{"id": "9290241", "title": "Cloning heterologous genes: problems and approaches.", "content": "Cloning heterologous genes: problems and approaches. Model fungi such as Neurospora crassa, Aspergillus niger, and Saccharomyces cerevisiae have provided a wealth of genetic information and are currently the object of cooperative genome sequencing projects. Many agriculturally and medically economic important pathogenic fungi, however, are less well characterized, which makes it difficult to study their genes and gene products. Gene sequences from model fungi offer a unique opportunity to clone cognate genes from pathogenic counterparts. In this review, we propose three basic strategies for cloning such genes: Functional complementation, sequence similarity, and genetic linkage. These strategies involve Southern hybridization, cloning, library screening, genetic complementation, and the polymerase chain reaction. We review the major problems encountered using these strategies and outline useful solutions to these difficulties."}
{"id": "9257365", "title": "Aspergillus fumigatus Asp fI DNA is prevalent in sputum from patients with coal workers' pneumoconiosis.", "content": "Aspergillus fumigatus Asp fI DNA is prevalent in sputum from patients with coal workers' pneumoconiosis. Aspergillus fumigatus is an apportunistic nosocomial pathogen in immunosuppressed patients or in the lesion where the local defense mechanism was impaired. Patients with pneumoconiosis are known to be susceptible to chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis. Therefore, we hypothesized that A. fumigatus might be prevalent in sputum from patients with coal workers' pneumoconiosis, and also that asthmatic symptoms in patients with coal workers' pneumoconiosis may be associated with the presence of A. fumigatus. We tested for A. fumigatus in the sputum from patients with coal workers' pneumoconiosis by nested polymerase chain reaction amplification of the Asp fI gene. Sequences specific for this gene were detectable in 5 of 11 (45.5%) patients with coal workers' pneumoconiosis with asthmatic symptoms (group A), 5 of 10 (50.0%) patients with coal workers' pneumoconiosis without asthmatic symptoms (group B) and only 1 of 9 (11.1%) patients with chronic airflow obstruction without pneumoconiosis (group C). The frequency of the Asp fI gene detection was significantly higher in groups A and B than in group C (p < 0.05). The prevalence of A. fumigatus was not associated with asthmatic symptoms. These results demonstrated that A. fumigatus was prevalent in patients with coal workers' pneumoconiosis. We speculate that colonization with A. fumigatus may be associated with this disease."}
{"id": "9248266", "title": "[Significance of Aspergillus fumigatus rDNA detected by polymerase chain reaction in diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis].", "content": "[Significance of Aspergillus fumigatus rDNA detected by polymerase chain reaction in diagnosis of pulmonary aspergillosis]. We have studied the clinical significance of Aspergillus fumigatus rDNA detected by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) for diagnosing aspergillosis. For this purpose, a specific and sensitive PCR assay was developed to amplify the 26S rDNA/intergenic spacer region of A. fumigatus. Control experiments showed that the set of primers used was capable of amplifying A. fumigatus DNA specifically and that the DNA amount of detection limit was 1 pg. Eighteen samples from 13 patients with aspergillosis and 36 samples from 24 patients without aspergillosis were tested by means of PCR, culture, latex agglutination test for galactomannan antigen and double gel diffusion assay for precipitation of antibodies to A. fumigatus. PCR showed positive test in 8 among 13 patients with pulmonary aspergillosis. On the other hand, culture of samples detected A. fumigatus in 6 patients. Galactomannan antigen and antibodies specific to A. fumigatus were positive in 2 and 6 patients respectively. These results indicated that PCR is the most sensitive among these 4 methods. Five patients showed negative PCR test despite of having pulmonary aspergillosis. Two of these patients were proved to have aspergillosis caused by A. flavus and A. niger. On the other hand, galactomannan antigen and A. fumigatus antibody were positive in one and 2 patients, respectively. PCR was positive in 2 out of 24 patients diagnosed as not having aspergillosis: one patient had diagnosis of acute bronchitis, but she showed positive culture of A. fumigatus. The other patient had diagnosis of lobar pneumonia, because any pathogens were not detected before PCR assay. The PCR assay we developed is a useful method for diagnosing aspergillosis caused by A. fumigatus as compared with other conventional methods."}
{"id": "9229335", "title": "Virulence of an aspergillopepsin-deficient mutant of Aspergillus fumigatus and evidence for another aspartic proteinase linked to the fungal cell wall.", "content": "Virulence of an aspergillopepsin-deficient mutant of Aspergillus fumigatus and evidence for another aspartic proteinase linked to the fungal cell wall. A gene replacement was performed to produce mutants of Aspergillus fumigatus deficient in the aspergillopepsin PEP (E.C. 3.4.23.18). The correct replacement of the PEP gene was confirmed by PCR and Southern hybridization experiments, whereas the absence of PEP production was demonstrated by Western blots. The culture supernatant of the transformants showed no detectable acid proteinase activity, suggesting that there is only one acid proteinase secreted by the fungus. The wild-type strain and the PEP-deficient mutants invaded tissues to a similar extent and produced comparable mortality in guinea pigs. As PEP represents a third secretory proteinase of A. fumigatus and the other two proteinases also did not show significant influence on fungal invasiveness, it is probable that secreted proteinases do not contribute decisively to tissue invasion in the pathogenesis of systemic aspergillosis. However, immunofluorescence on A. fumigatus colonies using polyclonal antibodies to PEP showed a similar pattern for the wild-type and for the mutants, with a bright fluorescence on young conidiophores, on submerged mycelium and on the tips of growing aerial mycelium. Conidia and mature aerial hyphae were not fluorescent. This pattern could reflect the existence of another crossreacting aspartic proteinase (PEP2) which was found to be sensitive to pepstatin but tightly linked to the fungal cell wall."}
{"id": "9224729", "title": "Sequence determination and molecular characterization of gigantin, a cytotoxic protein produced by the mould Aspergillus giganteus IFO 5818.", "content": "Sequence determination and molecular characterization of gigantin, a cytotoxic protein produced by the mould Aspergillus giganteus IFO 5818. Gigantin is a 17-kDa ribonuclease secreted by Aspergillus giganteus IFO 5818. The sequence of the genomic DNA coding for this protein is reported. The deduced amino acid sequence reveals nine amino acid variations with respect to alpha-sarcin, a well-characterized ribosome-inactivating protein from A. giganteus MDH 18894. The peptides obtained after tryptic digestion of reduced and carboxyamidomethylated gigantin have been chromatographically separated. The analysis of these peptides in comparison to those originating from alpha-sarcin corroborates the above sequence differences. These do not sensibly modify the conformation of the protein, based on the coincidence of the circular dichroism and fluorescence emission spectra of the two proteins. The obtained results are discussed in terms of the involvement of the distinctive residues in the immunological and catalytic properties that distinguish gigantin from alpha-sarcin."}
{"id": "9217111", "title": "Detection of aflatoxinogenic fungi in figs by a PCR reaction.", "content": "Detection of aflatoxinogenic fungi in figs by a PCR reaction. A PCR reaction was used to detect aflatoxinogenic Aspergillus flavus strains in contaminated figs. The reaction records the presence of three aflatoxin biosynthesis genes, namely the norsolorinic acid reductase (nor-1), versicolorin A dehydrogenase (ver-1) and sterigmatocystin-o-methyltransferase: (omt-A). The reaction gave a triplet pattern in the presence of DNA from A. flavus isolated from pure cultures. The reaction gave the same PCR products when pure fungal DNA was mixed with pure DNA isolated from figs, but the sensitivity was reduced by a factor of 10. The same set of bands was observed when isolated DNA from infected figs was used as template DNA but no signal was visible when DNA from uninfected figs was used as template."}
{"id": "9211795", "title": "Carbon regulation of the cuticle-degrading enzyme PR1 from Metarhizium anisopliae may involve a trans-acting DNA-binding protein CRR1, a functional equivalent of the Aspergillus nidulans CREA protein.", "content": "Carbon regulation of the cuticle-degrading enzyme PR1 from Metarhizium anisopliae may involve a trans-acting DNA-binding protein CRR1, a functional equivalent of the Aspergillus nidulans CREA protein. The pr1 gene of the entomopathogenic fungus Metarhizium anisopliae encodes a serine protease that is highly active towards the insect cuticle and whose synthesis is subject to both carbon and nitrogen repression. The pr1 promoter region was sequenced revealing the presence of putative CREA- and AREA-binding sites. In vitro bandshift experiments demonstrated that an Aspergillus nidulans GST-CREA fusion protein was capable of binding to two of the three putative CREA sites. Using a PCR-based strategy the M. anisopliae crr1 gene was identified; it encodes a putative C2H2-type DNA-binding protein with significant sequence similarity to A. nidulans CREA. Complementation experiments with an A. nidulans strain carrying creA204 demonstrated that CRR1 can partially substitute for CREA function."}
{"id": "9200704", "title": "Function of conserved tryptophans in the Aspergillus niger glucoamylase 1 starch binding domain.", "content": "Function of conserved tryptophans in the Aspergillus niger glucoamylase 1 starch binding domain. Nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) and ultraviolet (UV) difference spectroscopy were used to assess the role of a number of tryptophan residues in the granular starch binding domain (SBD) of glucoamylase 1 from Aspergillus niger. Wild-type SBD and three variant (W563K, W590K, and W615K) proteins were produced using an A. niger expression system. Titration studies were conducted with beta-cyclodextrin (betaCD), a cyclic analogue of starch, as the ligand. The NMR studies show that the W563K and W590K variants only bind 1 equiv while the wild-type protein forms a 2:1 (ligand:protein) complex. It also clearly demonstrates the abolition of binding at site 1 and site 2 in W590K and W563K, respectively. UV difference spectroscopy was used to calculate dissociation constants with addition of betaCD: 14.4 microM (apparent) for the wild type, 28.0 microM for W563K, and 6.4 microM for W590K. The implication of this is that the two binding sites have unequal contributions to the overall binding of the SBD which may be related to functional differences between the two binding sites. The low stability of the third variant, W615K, suggests that this tryptophan is not involved in binding but has an essential structural role."}
{"id": "9183009", "title": "Molecular cloning and nucleotide sequence of an endo-1,5-alpha-L-arabinase gene from Bacillus subtilis.", "content": "Molecular cloning and nucleotide sequence of an endo-1,5-alpha-L-arabinase gene from Bacillus subtilis. The nucleotide sequence of the gene encoding an endo-1,5-alpha-L-arabinase (protopectinase C) of Bacillus subtilis was determined by sequencing fragments amplified by the cassette-ligation-mediated PCR (CLM-PCR). The gene covering the start and stop codon was amplified by PCR with two specific primers, which were designed from the sequence data determined by CLM-PCR. An approximately 1.5-kb amplification product was cloned into the vector pUC119, forming a plasmid termed pPPC. An ORF that encodes the arabinase composed of 324 amino acids including a 33-amino-acid signal peptide was assigned. Comparison of the deduced amino acid sequence of the enzyme with that of an Aspergillus niger endoarabinase showed 37% identity in a 207-amino-acid overlap. The optimal nucleotide sequence for catabolite repression of B. subtilis was found upstream of the structural gene. In a culture of Escherichia coli DH5alpha cells harboring pPPC, no arabinase activity was detected, either intracellularly or extracellularly, suggesting that the B. subtilis promotor is not functional in this transformant. In B. subtilis IFO 3134 strain, production of protopectinase C was repressed by readily metabolizable carbohydrates. In contrast, productivity (total enzyme activity/bacterial growth) of the enzyme was increased about fourfold in the presence of 0.75 M potassium phosphate in the culture medium. The phosphate anion seemed to be involved in the stimulation of protopectinase C production in this stain."}
{"id": "9163746", "title": "Cloning of an E. coli RecA and yeast RAD51 homolog, radA, an allele of the uvsC in Aspergillus nidulans and its mutator effects.", "content": "Cloning of an E. coli RecA and yeast RAD51 homolog, radA, an allele of the uvsC in Aspergillus nidulans and its mutator effects. An E. coli RecA and yeast RAD51 homolog from Aspergillus nidulans, radA, has been cloned by screening genomic and cDNA libraries with a PCR-amplified probe. This probe was generated using primers carrying the conserved sequences of eukaryotic RecA homologs. The deduced amino acid sequence revealed two conserved Walker-A and -B type nucleotide-binding domains and exhibited 88%, 60%, and 53% identity with Mei-3 of Neurospora crassa, rhp51+ of Schizosaccharomyces pombe, and Rad51 of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, respectively. radA null mutants constructed by replacing the whole coding region with a selection marker showed high methyl methanesulfonate (MMS) sensitivity. Heterozygous diploids of radA disruptant with the uvsC114 mutant failed to complement with respect to MMS-sensitivity, indicating that radA is an allele of uvsC. In selecting spontaneous forward selenate resistant mutations, mutator effects were observed in radA null mutants similarly to those shown in uvsC114 mutant strains."}
{"id": "9163443", "title": "Detection and identification of fungal pathogens in blood by using molecular probes.", "content": "Detection and identification of fungal pathogens in blood by using molecular probes. A PCR assay was developed for the detection and identification of Candida and Aspergillus species. The design of the oligonucleotide primer pair as well as the species-specific probes used for species identification was derived from a comparison of the sequences of the 18S rRNA genes of various fungal pathogens. The primers targeted a consensus sequence for a variety of fungal pathogens. The assay was tested for sensitivity and specificity with 134 fungal and 85 nonfungal isolates. To assess clinical applicability, 601 blood samples from four defined groups were tested: group A (n = 35), controls; groups B to D (n = 86), patients with febrile neutropenia, without fungal colonization (group B; n = 29) and with fungal colonization (group C; n = 36); and patients with documented invasive fungal infection (IFI) (group D; n = 21). The assay detected and, by species-specific hybridization, identified most of the clinically relevant Candida and Aspergillus species at 1 CFU/ml of blood. Amplification was 100% sensitive for all molds and yeasts tested, with Histoplasma capsulatum being the only non-Aspergillus species hybridizing with the Aspergillus spp. probe. None of 35 group A patients and only 3 of 65 group B and C patients were PCR positive. The sensitivity of the assay for specimens from patients with IFI (21 patients in group D) was 100% if two specimens were tested. For specificity, 3 of 189 specimens from patients at risk but with negative cultures were positive by the assay, for a specificity of 98%. PCR preceded radiological signs by a median of 4 days (range, 4 to 7 days) for 12 of 17 patients with hepatosplenic candidiasis or pulmonary aspergillosis. For the 10 patients with IFI responding to antifungal therapy, PCR assays became persistently negative after 14 days of treatment, in contrast to the case for 11 patients, who remained PCR positive while not responding to antifungal therapy. Thus, the described PCR assay allows for the highly sensitive and specific detection and identification of fungal pathogens in vitro and in vivo. Preliminary data from the screening of a selected group of patients revealed some value in the early diagnosis and monitoring of antifungal therapy."}
{"id": "9143104", "title": "Gene cloning, purification, and characterization of a heat-stable phytase from the fungus Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Gene cloning, purification, and characterization of a heat-stable phytase from the fungus Aspergillus fumigatus. The finding of heat-stable enzymes or the engineering of moderately thermostable enzymes into more stable ones by random or site-directed mutagenesis has become a main priority of modern biotechnology. We report here for the first time a heat-stable phytase able to withstand temperatures up to 100 degrees C over a period of 20 min, with a loss of only 10% of the initial enzymatic activity. The gene (phyA) encoding this heat-stable enzyme has been cloned from Aspergillus fumigatus and overexpressed in Aspergillus niger. The enzyme showed high activity with 4-nitrophenyl phosphate at a pH range of 3 to 5 and with phytic acid at a pH range of 2.5 to 7.5."}
{"id": "9143099", "title": "ord1, an oxidoreductase gene responsible for conversion of O-methylsterigmatocystin to aflatoxin in Aspergillus flavus.", "content": "ord1, an oxidoreductase gene responsible for conversion of O-methylsterigmatocystin to aflatoxin in Aspergillus flavus. Among the enzymatic steps in the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway, the conversion of O-methylsterigmatocystin to aflatoxin has been proposed to be catalyzed by an oxidoreductase. Transformants of Aspergillus flavus 649WAF2 containing a 3.3-kb genomic DNA fragment and the aflatoxin biosynthesis regulatory gene aflR converted exogenously supplied O-methylsterigmatocystin to aflatoxin B1. A gene, ord1, corresponding to a transcript of about 2 kb was identified within the 3.3-kb DNA fragment. The promoter region presented a putative AFLR binding site and a TATA sequence. The nucleotide sequence of the gene revealed an open reading frame encoding a protein of 528 amino acids with a deduced molecular mass of 60.2 kDa. The gene contained six introns and seven exons. Heterologous expression of the ord1 open reading frame under the transcriptional control of the Saccharomyces cerevisiae galactose-inducible gal1 promoter results in the ability to convert O-methylsterigmatocystin to aflatoxin B1. The data indicate that ord1 is sufficient to accomplish the last step of the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway. A search of various databases for similarity indicated that ord1 encodes a cytochrome P-450-type monooxygenase, and the gene has been assigned to a new P-450 gene family named CYP64."}
{"id": "9141689", "title": "The TBP gene from Aspergillus nidulans-structure and expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.", "content": "The TBP gene from Aspergillus nidulans-structure and expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The genomic and cDNA copy of the TATA-binding protein (TBP) gene from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans have been cloned. The gene is interrupted by four introns, one of which is in the long 5' untranslated region of 615 bp. The transcription initiation site was established and the levels of mRNA were analysed under diverse growth conditions and found to vary severalfold. The gene encodes a protein of 268 amino acids composed of an N-terminal domain of 88 amino acids with no significant homology to other TBPs and a C-terminal domain of 180 amino acids with about 95% homology to other fungal TBPs. A cDNA clone under the yeast ADH1 promoter was able to substitute for the yeast TBP gene in vivo; however, the transformants obtained grew poorly at 35 degrees C and on galactose and glycerol at 30 degrees C, though they could grow in the presence of copper ions or aminotriazole at this temperature. This phenotype may be the result of altered function of A. nidulans TBP in certain yeast transcription activation pathways."}
{"id": "9141684", "title": "Characterization and overexpression of the Aspergillus niger gene encoding the cAMP-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit.", "content": "Characterization and overexpression of the Aspergillus niger gene encoding the cAMP-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit. The gene pkaC encoding the catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase has been isolated from the industrially important filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger. A probe for screening A. niger phage libraries was generated by a polymerase chain reaction using degenerate primers. cDNA and genomic DNA clones were isolated and sequenced. An open reading frame of 1440 bp, interrupted by three short introns, encodes a polypeptide of 480 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 53813 Da. The cAMP-dependent protein kinase catalytic subunit (PKA-C) from A. niger has a 126 amino acid extension at the N-terminus compared to the PKA-C of higher eukaryotes that-except for the first 15 amino acids, which are homologous to the Magnaporthe grisea PKA-C-shows no significant similarity to the N-terminal extension of PKA-C of other lower eukaryotes. The catalytic core of PKA-C of A. niger shows extensive homology with the PKA-C isolated from all other eukaryotes. Low-stringency hybridization did not reveal any other pkaC homologue in A. niger. The cloned pkaC was used for transformation of A. niger, leading to increased levels of pkaC mRNA and PKA-C activity. Transformants overexpressing pkaC were phenotypically different with respect to growth, showing a more compact colony morphology, accompanied by a more dense sporulation, especially on media containing trehalose and glycerol. A number of transformants also showed a strongly reduced or complete absence of sporulation. This phenotype was quickly lost upon propagation of the strains."}
{"id": "9141670", "title": "Properties of yeast expressed Aspergillus nidulans chitin synthase B which is essential for hyphal growth.", "content": "Properties of yeast expressed Aspergillus nidulans chitin synthase B which is essential for hyphal growth. A complementary DNA of the Aspergillus nidulans chsB gene encoding chitin synthase, an essential gene for hyphal growth, was obtained by RT-PCR and expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae by using the GAL1 promoter in a multicopy plasmid. The biochemical characteristics of chitin synthase B (ChsB) expressed in S. cerevisiae were examined. The chitin synthase B produced in galactose medium showed zymogenicity due to activation by trypsin treatment and required Mg2+ ion to exert maximal activity. It was competitively inhibited by polyoxin D. The Ki value of the inhibitor was 10 microM, and the K(m) for the substrate was 1.6 mM. The activity was enhanced by the addition of N-acetylglucosamine. The optimal pH is 7.5 when Mg2+ is used. These characteristics are the same as those of other chitin synthases."}
{"id": "9130526", "title": "Cloning, production, characterization and IgE cross-reactivity of different manganese superoxide dismutases in individuals sensitized to Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Cloning, production, characterization and IgE cross-reactivity of different manganese superoxide dismutases in individuals sensitized to Aspergillus fumigatus. Manganese superoxide dismutase (MnSOD) from Aspergillus fumigatus has been demonstrated to be an allergen showing a high degree of homology with phylogenetically distant MnSODs. We describe cloning, production and characterization of MnSODs from different species. MnSODs were cloned by PCR, expressed as inclusion body protein in Escherichia coli, purified by Ni2+-chelate affinity chromatography and characterized. The MnSODs from A. fumigatus, man, yeast, Drosophila melanogaster and E. coli show about 50% identity and 70% similarity on the primary structure. All proteins were produced at a high level in E. coli and refolded to achieve enzymatic activity. The proteins were able to bind IgE from sera of individuals sensitized to the A. fumigatus MnSOD. MnSOD represents a novel pan-allergen restricted to individuals sensitized to A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "9128014", "title": "Aspergillus endocarditis in a leukemia patient diagnosed by a PCR assay.", "content": "Aspergillus endocarditis in a leukemia patient diagnosed by a PCR assay. A patient in a blastic phase of chronic myelocytic leukemia developed multiple arterial emboli that originated from mitral valve vegetation. The diagnosis of infective endocarditis was not confirmed because blood cultures, serological assays and other examinations detected no pathogens. He died of intracranial hemorrhage after thrombolytic manipulation for embolization of the abdominal aorta and an autopsy was performed. Polymerase chain reaction analysis and Southern blot analysis of tissues from the mitral valve revealed Aspergillus species as the cause of the endocarditis, although none of the tissue specimens were culture-positive. These molecular analyses will be useful in the diagnosis of various types of Aspergillus infections."}
{"id": "9128011", "title": "[Detection of Aspergillus species DNA in serum samples of the patients with non-invasive pulmonary aspergillosis].", "content": "[Detection of Aspergillus species DNA in serum samples of the patients with non-invasive pulmonary aspergillosis]. We investigated the possible presence of Aspergillus species DNA in serum samples of two patients diagnosed as having non-invasive pulmonary aspergillosis by a nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method. The nested PCR results were negative in serum samples of the patients with chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis and pulmonary aspergilloma. When left pneumothorax happened to the patient with chronic necrotizing pulmonary aspergillosis and bronchial washing was performed to the patient with pulmonary aspergilloma, the nested PCR results turned positive. We consider this method useful for the diagnosis of semi-invasive stage of pulmonary aspergillosis. However, further prospective evaluation with a large clinical sample is required."}
{"id": "9108182", "title": "Serial monitoring of Aspergillus antigen in the early diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. Preliminary investigations with two examples.", "content": "Serial monitoring of Aspergillus antigen in the early diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. Preliminary investigations with two examples. A recently developed sandwich ELISA, which detects Aspergillus galactomannan, was tested retrospectively in serial serum samples from an allogeneic bone marrow transplant recipient with proven invasive aspergillosis (patient 1) and another with suspected disease (patient 2). Galactomannan was detected in the serum 4 and 28 days, respectively, before pulmonary infiltrates suggestive of fungal infection first became apparent on the chest X-ray. Aspergillus was detected by ELISA and PCR in BAL fluid samples from both patients, and in CSF from patient 1. The diagnosis was confirmed at autopsy for patient 1 by histopathology and the recovery of Aspergillus fumigatus from the lung and brain. Furthermore, in both patients the course of the antigen titer in the serum during antifungal treatment corresponded with the clinical outcome. These results confirm that the sandwich ELISA appears to be useful for the early diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis. The value of the test for monitoring the response to antifungal treatment remains to be established in prospective trials."}
{"id": "9084119", "title": "Genetic diversity among isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus in patients with cystic fibrosis.", "content": "Genetic diversity among isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus in patients with cystic fibrosis. Strains of Aspergillus fumigatus (n = 24) were isolated from the sputa of six patients with cystic fibrosis during periods from 3 to 11 months. The genetic polymorphisms of the strains were studied using the random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) assay with three single oligonucleotides and pairwise combined primers. The analysis of RAPD patterns resulted in 15 different RAPD types. In four patients, the colonizing type changed, whereas in two others the same types were detected over periods between 3 and 11 months. The genetic diversity as well as the shift of the colonizing strains found in some patients might be important for the epidemiology of Aspergillus infections in patients with cystic fibrosis."}
{"id": "9074500", "title": "Transforming DNA integrates at multiple sites in the dimorphic fungal pathogen Blastomyces dermatitidis.", "content": "Transforming DNA integrates at multiple sites in the dimorphic fungal pathogen Blastomyces dermatitidis. Blastomyces dermatitidis is a primary fungal pathogen of man and other mammals, but like many other human fungal pathogens, relatively little is known about the factors that account for its virulence and pathogenicity. We developed a transformation system to facilitate molecular genetic studies of putative virulence factors from B. dermatitidis. Transformation of the multinucleate yeasts was achieved by electroporation of DNAs containing a dominant selectable marker, hygromycin B (HygB) resistance. Southern analysis showed that transforming DNA invariably integrated ectopically into the chromosome. No evidence was found for extrachromosomal DNA. The HygB resistance could be expressed by either a 375-bp promoter fragment of the B. dermatitidis WI-1 gene encoding adhesin or an Aspergillus gpdA promoter placed 5' of the E. coli hph gene. Primer extension analysis showed that for plasmids containing the WI-1 promoter, transcription of the hph gene initiated within the 375-bp WI-1 promoter fragment. The combination of gene transfer and two promoters capable of independent transcription will allow us to restore or augment gene expression in appropriate strains and test an influence on virulence. Molecular genetic manipulation of B. dermatitidis represents a major advance in our ability to investigate the pathogenesis of blastomycosis and other similar fungal diseases."}
{"id": "9071091", "title": "[Genetic diagnosis of aspergillosis].", "content": "[Genetic diagnosis of aspergillosis]. Aspergillosis is an opportunistic infection caused by pathogenic Aspergillus species (spp.) and is a major hazard for immunocompromised patients and even for non-immunocompromised individuals. Clinical diagnosis of aspergillosis, especially invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) is difficult and is largely presumptive, typically based on spiking fevers not responding to antibiotics in a patient with the risk factors. It is well known that Aspergillus spp. can be only infrequently cultured from clinical specimens, and that the cultural examination is laborious and time-consuming. Moreover, positive culture from bronchoalveolar lavage or sputa is indicative, but not proof of infection. The criterion for diagnosis of pulmonary infection by aspergilli requires repeated isolation of the same species of Aspergillus from respiratory specimens. There have been some successful attempts using serological assays to detect circulating antibodies to Aspergillus spp. in the noninvasive form of the disease, but these are generally negative in an acute phase IPA patient. A currently available serodiagnostic kit, Pastrex Aspergillus is limited in clinical usefulness because of low sensitivity and specificity in spite of being simple and rapid. Contamination of clinical specimens with various saprophytic filamentous fungi other than aspergilli also often give false positive. Diagnostic methods using such molecular biological techniques, as polymerase chain reaction (PCR) have recently been employed to identify DNA from a number of pathogens when diagnostic means are limited. PCR is known as the most sensitive and specific technique by which to detect a specific DNA sequence. In this paper we have reviewed new genetic methods of diagnosing aspergillosis including PCR and in situ hybridization."}
{"id": "9069115", "title": "Cloning of the homogentisate 1,2-dioxygenase gene, the key enzyme of alkaptonuria in mouse.", "content": "Cloning of the homogentisate 1,2-dioxygenase gene, the key enzyme of alkaptonuria in mouse. We determined 48 amino acid residues from five peptides from the homogeneous monomer of homogentisate 1,2-dioxygenase (HGO; E.C. 1.13. 11.15) of mouse liver. After digestion with trypsin, peptides were separated by reversed phase chromatography and amino acid sequenced. The deduced codon sequence of three peptides was used to derive degenerated oligomeres. By combining these oligos, we were able to amplify fragments from 100 to 300 bases (b) from mouse liver cDNA by polymerase chain reaction after reverse transcription (RT-PCR). A fragment of 200 b was cloned and used as a probe to screen a mouse liver cDNA library. One clone from this library contained the complete cDNA-insert for HGO as determined by sequencing. The cDNA encodes for a protein of 50 kDa, as predicted. The cDNA of mouse HGO has an overall identity of 41% to the corresponding gene hmgA from Aspergillus. Sequence similarities to human expressed sequence tags (EST) clones ranged from 70% to 20%. The positions of 122 conserved amino acids could be determined by multiple sequence alignment. We identified one first intron of 928 b in the mouse gene. The gene for HGO seems to be expressed in various tissues, as shown by RT-PCR on different cDNAs. FISH experiments with the whole murine cDNA as probe clearly revealed signals at the human chromosomal band 3q13. 3-q21. This corresponds well to the previous assignment of the locus for the human alkaptonuria gene (AKU) to the same chromosomal region by multipoint linkage analysis. We therefore conclude that the HGO cDNA encodes the gene responsible for alkaptonuria."}
{"id": "9063670", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus DNA in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of AIDS patients by the polymerase chain reaction.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus DNA in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid of AIDS patients by the polymerase chain reaction."}
{"id": "9061355", "title": "Molecular typing of Aspergillus fumigatus strains by sequence-specific DNA primer (SSDP) analysis.", "content": "Molecular typing of Aspergillus fumigatus strains by sequence-specific DNA primer (SSDP) analysis. A PCR typing method has been developed and tested to investigate the polymorphism of clinical strains of Aspergillus fumigatus. Firstly, the DNA fragments from random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) patterns of nine epidemiologically and geographically non-related monosporal strains of A. fumigatus were cloned and sequenced. The pairs of five sequence-specific DNA primers (SSDP), characteristic of the 5' and 3' extremities of the RAPD products, were then used in high stringency PCR to type 43 clinical strains of A. fumigatus from 13 patients, according to the presence or absence of a single amplified band. This original approach, which uses the advantages of PCR, has made it possible to overcome the difficulties resulting from the low stringency amplification. The SSDP analysis of 51 A. fumigatus strains (9 unrelated monosporal strains and 43 clinical strains from 13 patients) can be classed into 22 different types with a high reproducibility and a high level of discrimination (D = 0.96). The results suggest that seven lung transplant patients with necrotizing aspergillosis, bronchitis aspergillosis and bronchial colonization were infected by multiple strain genotypes, whereas three patients with invasive aspergillosis seem to have been infected by a single strain."}
{"id": "9058095", "title": "Polymerase chain reaction amplification of Asp f I and alkaline protease genes from fungus balls: clinical application in pulmonary aspergillosis.", "content": "Polymerase chain reaction amplification of Asp f I and alkaline protease genes from fungus balls: clinical application in pulmonary aspergillosis. Asp fI(18 kDa) and alkaline protease (33 kDa) are the 2 major antigens which are derived from Aspergillus (A.) fumigatus and have been implicated as possible virulence factors in the pathogenesis of Aspergillus-induced diseases. We attempted to detect fragments of genes encoding both proteins from fungus balls obtained at surgery or autopsy by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification and then used PCR to test clinical samples. Frozen-stored fungus ball samples from a patient with acute myeloid leukemia complicated by Aspergillus pneumonia and from a patient with pulmonary aspergilloma were studied. We successfully amplified a 315 bp PCR product, the target sequence for Asp f I, and a 747 bp PCR product as a target sequence for alkaline protease (ALP) in both cases. In addition, 13 clinical samples including sputum specimens from patients with pulmonary aspergillosis were also examined. PCR analysis for the Asp f I (ALP) gene in clinical samples showed positive results in 5/10 (6/10) patients with pulmonary aspergilloma and in 3/3 (1/ 3) patients with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. Culture data on A. fumigatus revealed positive results in 3/9 patients with pulmonary aspergilloma and in 2/3 patients with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. This method can be used to recognize the involvement of A. fumigatus in various clinical settings where conventional culture results are not readily available."}
{"id": "9025298", "title": "The phytase subfamily of histidine acid phosphatases: isolation of genes for two novel phytases from the fungi Aspergillus terreus and Myceliophthora thermophila.", "content": "The phytase subfamily of histidine acid phosphatases: isolation of genes for two novel phytases from the fungi Aspergillus terreus and Myceliophthora thermophila. Phytases catalyse the hydrolysis of phytate (myo-inositol hexakisphosphate) to myo-inositol and inorganic phosphate. In this study genes encoding novel phytases from two different filamentous fungi, Aspergillus terreus strain 9A-1 and Myceliophthora thermophila were isolated. The encoded PhyA phytase proteins show 60% (A. terreus) and 48% (M. thermophila) identity, respectively, to the PhyA of Aspergillus niger and have 21-29% identity compared to other histidine acid phosphatases. All three PhyA proteins, in contrast to the A. niger pH 2.5-optimum acid phosphatase, prefer phytic acid as substrate and show enzyme activity at a broad range of acidic pH values. Based on their enzyme characteristics and protein sequence homology, the phytases form a novel subclass of the histidine acid phosphatase family."}
{"id": "9021130", "title": "Isolation and characterisation of a gene encoding protein disulphide isomerase, pdiA, from Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Isolation and characterisation of a gene encoding protein disulphide isomerase, pdiA, from Aspergillus niger. Current strategies to improve the secretion of heterologous proteins from Aspergillus niger include the manipulation of chaperones and foldases specific to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER). Here we report the isolation of a gene, pdiA, encoding a putative protein disulphide isomerase (PDI) from A. niger using the Saccharomyces cerevisiae PDI gene as a probe. Sequencing of a genomic clone and RT-PCR products predict a 515-aa protein comprising a 20-aa ER-translocation signal sequence and a 495-aa mature protein (Mr = 54.3 kDa). The predicted protein also contains two thiol oxidoreductase active sites with a -CGHC- motif and a carboxy terminal -HDEL ER-retention signal. Three introns were identified within the pdiA gene and Southern- and dot-blot analysis indicates that the gene is present in a single copy. Northern-blot analysis shows a transcript of the predicted size. Sequence homology to a motif associated with protein trafficking and the induction of chaperones has been identified in the pdiA promoter. Transcription of pdiA is induced 3-4-fold after treatment with tunicamycin, an inhibitor of N-linked glycosylation. The kinetics of induction suggest that pdiA expression is not part of the primary stress response."}
{"id": "9006911", "title": "The filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger contains two \"differentially regulated\" trehalose-6-phosphate synthase-encoding genes, tpsA and tpsB.", "content": "The filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger contains two \"differentially regulated\" trehalose-6-phosphate synthase-encoding genes, tpsA and tpsB. Two genes encoding trehalose-6-phosphate synthase were cloned from Aspergillus niger. tpsA was cloned using the Saccharomyces cerevisiae GGS1/TPS1 gene as a probe. It encodes a 517-amino acid polypeptide with 64-70% similarity to trehalose-6-phosphate synthase of S. cerevisiae, Kluyveromyces lactis, and Schizosaccharomyces pombe. Its transcription occurs constitutively and is enhanced on carbon-derepressing carbon sources, coinciding with the presence of a CreA-binding nucleotide motif in the 5'-noncoding region of tpsA. Disruption of tpsA only weakly reduces growth on glucose, and neither influences the glucose induction of a low affinity glucose permease nor interferes with the catabolite repression of a pectinase; it causes reduced the heat tolerance of conidia. tpsB was cloned by a polymerase chain reaction-based strategy. Its 480 amino acid sequence showed 76.5% identity to tpsA. Its transcription was hardly detectable at ambient temperatures but was enhanced strongly upon heat shock, which agrees with the presence of several copies of a C4T stress-responsive element in its 5'-upstream sequences. Hence the function of yeast GGS1/TPS1 has been split into two differentially regulated genes in A. niger, of which none appears to be involved in glucose sensing."}
{"id": "9000377", "title": "Arabinoxylan degradation by fungi: characterization of the arabinoxylan-arabinofuranohydrolase encoding genes from Aspergillus niger and Aspergillus tubingensis.", "content": "Arabinoxylan degradation by fungi: characterization of the arabinoxylan-arabinofuranohydrolase encoding genes from Aspergillus niger and Aspergillus tubingensis. The genes encoding the enzyme arabinoxylan arabinofuranohydrolase, which releases L-arabinose from arabinoxylan, have been cloned from the closely related fungi Aspergillus niger and Aspergillus tubingensis and were shown to be functional in A. niger. Integration of multiple copies in the genome resulted in over-expression of the enzymes. The arabinofuranohydrolases encoded comprise 332 amino acids and have 94% amino acid identity. Their primary structure is not related to those of other alpha-L-arabinofuranosidases, except for a low similarity with XYLC, a bacterial alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase from Pseudomonas fluorescens which acts on oat spelt xylan. The axhA expression pattern in A. niger differed from that of abfB, since it was strongly induced by birchwood xylan and much less by L-arabitol or L-arabinose. Furthermore, Northern analysis revealed that axhA expression was de repressed in creAd mutants and carbon catabolite repressed by D-glucose."}
{"id": "10846565", "title": "Cervical intra-epithelial neoplasia (CIN) III of the uterine cervix in a young female associated with AIDS.", "content": "Cervical intra-epithelial neoplasia (CIN) III of the uterine cervix in a young female associated with AIDS. A case of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) III implying severe dysplasia or carcinoma in situ of the uterine cervix in a 24 year old Japanese female patient with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) is reported. Autopsy revealed marked systemic atrophy of lymph nodes, Pneumocystis carinii pneumonia, pulmonary aspergillosis, acute pancreatitis and CIN III of the portio vaginalis uteri. The human papillomavirus (HPV) genome was detected in sections of the CIN III by polymerase chain reaction. This is the first autopsy report of cervical neoplasia in a patient with AIDS in Japan, and the pathogenesis of CIN III in this case was associated with HPV infection. Gynecological examination should be mandatory for female patients with human immunodeficiency virus infection."}
{"id": "9038753", "title": "Simple detection of the 5S ribosomal RNA of Pneumocystis carinii using in situ hybridisation.", "content": "Simple detection of the 5S ribosomal RNA of Pneumocystis carinii using in situ hybridisation. To investigate the effectiveness of digoxigenin incorporated double stranded DNA probes produced by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR), for the detection of Pneumocystis carinii, using in situ hybridisation (ISH). Formalin fixed, paraffin wax embedded sections of 26 human lung samples from 11 patients with P carinii pneumonia (PCP), and 15 with various types of fungal and viral pneumonia, were obtained during necropsy or transbronchial lung biopsy. Three additional PCP induced rat lung samples were also tested. PCR probes were prepared using the digoxigenin labelling mixture, and they were amplified from the DNA of a PCP induced rat lung after administration of dexamethasone, on the basis that 5S ribosomal RNA sequences are identical in human and rat P carinii. ISH was performed using this probe, and visualised using the digoxigenin nucleic acid detection kit. An immunohistochemical study using anti-human Pneumocystis monoclonal antibody was also carried out in parallel. ISH positively stained eight (of eight) lung necropsy specimens from patients with PCP, three (of three) transbronchial lung biopsy specimens from patients with PCP, and none of the three PCP induced rat lung specimens. In contrast, none of the specimens from patients with pneumonia caused by Aspergillus sp (n = 5), Candida sp (n = 4), Cryptococcus sp (n = 2), mucormycosis (n = 2), or cytomegalovirus (n = 2) were positive on ISH or immunohistochemistry. Using a digoxigenin labelled PCR probe for the entire 5S rRNA sequence in conjunction with conventional staining, ISH is highly reactive and specific for the diagnosis of PCP."}
{"id": "9011123", "title": "[Detection of DNA specific for Aspergillus species in serum samples from two patients with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis].", "content": "[Detection of DNA specific for Aspergillus species in serum samples from two patients with invasive pulmonary aspergillosis]. We investigated the possible presence of DNA specific for Aspergillus species in serum samples of two patients who were strongly suspected for invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) by a nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method. Both patients were diagnosed as having acute myelogenous leukemia and treated with induction chemotherapy. During chemotherapy-induced granulocytopenia, they complained of high fever, and the chest X-rays indicated infiltration shadows in their lungs. They were treated with antibiotics intravenously, but no clinical improvement was observed. As the results of the nested PCR were positive at the acute stage of infection, amphotericin B i.v. and granulocyte colony stimulating factor s.c. administrations were started in both cases. In case 1, the infectious disease improved and the nested PCR results turned negative after treatment. In case 2, in spite of the progression of the disease, the nested PCR results turned negative during treatment. Although we consider this method very useful for the diagnosis of IPA, further prospective evaluation with a large clinical population sample is required."}
{"id": "9008887", "title": "Molecular cloning, purification and characterization of two endo-1,4-beta-glucanases from Aspergillus oryzae KBN616.", "content": "Molecular cloning, purification and characterization of two endo-1,4-beta-glucanases from Aspergillus oryzae KBN616. Two endo-1,4-beta-glucanase genes, designated celA and celB, from a shoyu koji mold Aspergillus oryzae KBN616, were cloned and characterized. The celA gene comprised 877 bp with two introns. The CelA protein consisted of 239 amino acids and was assigned to the cellulase family H. The celB gene comprised 1248 bp with no introns. The CelB protein consisted of 416 amino acids and was assigned to the cellulase family C. Both genes were overexpressed under the promoter of the A. oryzae taka-amylase A gene for purification and enzymatic characterization of CelA and CelB. CelA had a molecular mass of 31 kDa, a pH optimum of 5.0 and temperature optimum of 55 degrees C, whereas CelB had a molecular mass of 53 kDa, a pH optimum of 4.0 and temperature optimum of 45 degrees C."}
{"id": "9003286", "title": "The transposable element Tan1 of Aspergillus niger var. awamori, a new member of the Fot1 family.", "content": "The transposable element Tan1 of Aspergillus niger var. awamori, a new member of the Fot1 family. Aspergillus niger var. awamori has transposable elements that we refer to as Vader and Tan1 (transposon A. niger). Vader was identified by screening unstable nitrate reductase (niaD) mutants for insertions. Four of the isolated niaD mutants were shown to contain a small insertion element. This 437 bp insertion element, Vader, is flanked by 44 bp inverted repeats (IR) and is present in approximately 15 copies in the genomes of two A. niger strains examined. A synthetic 44 bp oligomer of the inverted repeat of Vader has now been used to clone, via the polymerase chain reaction, a 2.3 kb Tan1 element. The Tan1 element has also been isolated from a partial genomic library. Tan1 is present as a single copy in A. niger var. awamori. The Tan1 element has a unique organization: IR-ORF-IR-IR-Vader-IR. The single open reading frame (ORF) (1668 bp) encodes a putative transposase homologous to Fusarium oxysporum Fot1 and Magnaporthe grisea Pot2. Immediately 3' to the second inverted repeat, which bounds the transposase, is a copy of the AT-rich Vader element. We hypothesize that at some stage the independent Vader element, although inactive by itself, arose from Tan1, resulting in current strains with only one copy of Tan1 providing transposase activity and numerous mobile copies of Vader dispersed in the genome."}
{"id": "8988359", "title": "Cloning and function determination of promoter region of glucoamylase gene from Aspergillus niger T21.", "content": "Cloning and function determination of promoter region of glucoamylase gene from Aspergillus niger T21. A 850 bp fragment of the 5' flanking region of the glucoamylase gene (glaA) was synthesized from A. niger T21 genome using PCR. The function detection vector was constructed by fusing this fragment to E. coli hygromycin B phosphotransferase gene (hph) and was used to transform A. niger. The high hygromycin resistance transformants thus obtained verified that the synthesized fragment functioned as a promoter in filamentous fungi. Southern blot analysis showed the hph gene has been integrated into genomic DNA of A. niger transformant."}
{"id": "8960907", "title": "Expression of human recombinant beta 2-microglobulin by Aspergillus nidulans and its activity.", "content": "Expression of human recombinant beta 2-microglobulin by Aspergillus nidulans and its activity. The light chain of HLA class I protein (beta 2m) has been expressed in Aspergillus nidulans. The cDNA of beta 2m was modified using the polymerase chain reaction to include overlapping extensions for its subsequent fusion into an Aspergillus vector. This fusion resulted in beta 2m cDNA being flanked by the Aspergillus awamori glucoamylase promoter and the Aspergillus niger glucoamylase terminator. Expression of beta 2m was induced by the addition of starch to the culture medium. In preliminary mass culture trials, 177 micrograms/liter of f beta 2m were obtained in 60-liter fermentations. N-terminal sequencing of purified human beta 2m produced in fungi (f beta 2m) revealed that 28% of the purified protein was of proper sequence and 61% of the protein had an additional serine and lysine residue derived from the C-terminus of the fungal leader. Purified f beta 2m from culture supernatants appeared biochemically similar to beta 2m obtained from human urine (u beta 2m) as seen in immunoblot analysis. Functionally, f beta 2m effectively interacted as a subunit of class I MHC molecules. This was seen both in a sandwich ELISA for detecting properly folded HLA class I heavy chain and in assays showing cell-surface beta 2m exchange into the mouse class I MHC H-2Kd. In these experiments the biological activity of f beta 2m was indistinguishable from u beta 2m. The successful expression of biologically active beta 2m in A. nidulans suggests that fungal systems might be useful for the production of other active components of the HLA class I MHC complex."}
{"id": "8933843", "title": "Cloning and expression of the alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase gene (ABF2) of Aspergillus niger in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.", "content": "Cloning and expression of the alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase gene (ABF2) of Aspergillus niger in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. First-strand cDNA was prepared from mRNA of Aspergillus niger MRC11624 induced on oat spelts xylan. Using the cDNA as a template, the alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase gene (abfB) was amplified with the polymerase chain reaction technique. The abfB DNA fragment was inserted between the yeast phosphoglycerate kinase I gene promoter (PGK1P) and terminator (PGK1T) sequences on a multicopy episomal plasmid. The resulting construct PGK1P-abfB-PGK1T was designated ABF2. The ABF2 gene was expressed successfully in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and functional alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase was secreted from the yeast cells. The ABF2 nucleotide sequence was determined and verified to encode a 449-amino-acid protein (Abf2) that is 94% identical to the alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase B of A. niger N400. Maximum alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase activities of 0.020 U/ml and 1.40 U/ml were obtained with autoselective recombinant S. cerevisiae strains when grown for 48 h in synthetic and complex medium respectively."}
{"id": "8929395", "title": "Molecular cloning of a cDNA encoding enolase from the filamentous fungus, Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Molecular cloning of a cDNA encoding enolase from the filamentous fungus, Aspergillus oryzae. A 1.6-kbp full-length cDNA for the Aspergillus oryzae enolase gene (enoA) was cloned. The sequenced insert contained a continuous open reading frame of 1314 bp encoding a protein of molecular weight 47 405. Among all enolases sequenced to-date, the deduced amino-acid sequence showed the highest homology (74.9%) with Candida albicans enolase (ENO1). Strong codon biases and multiple transcription start sites downstream from CT-blocks in the 5'-flanking region suggested strong expression. enoA mRNA was found to occupy approximately 3% (w/w) of total mRNA of A. oryzae by quantitative RT-PCR. This strong transcription was dependent on the carbon source in the medium and correlated with the growth rate of the mycelium."}
{"id": "8917102", "title": "Cloning and sequencing of the gene encoding tannase and a structural study of the tannase subunit from Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Cloning and sequencing of the gene encoding tannase and a structural study of the tannase subunit from Aspergillus oryzae. We cloned the Aspergillus oryzae tannase gene using three oligodeoxyribonucleotide (oligo) probes synthesized according to the tannase N-terminal and an internal amino acid (aa) sequence. The nucleotide (nt) sequence of the tannase gene was determined and compared with that of a tannase DNA complementary to RNA (cDNA) by means of reverse transcriptase PCR. The results indicated that there was no intron in the tannase gene and that it coded for 588 aa with a molecular weight of about 64,000. The tannase low-producing strain A. oryzae AO1 was transformed with the plasmid pT1 which contained the tannase gene, and tannase activities of the transformants increased in proportion to the number of copies. Tannase consisted of two kinds of subunits, linked by a disulfide bond(s) with molecular weights of about 30,000 and 33,000, respectively. We purified these subunits and determined their N-terminal aa sequences. The large and small subunits of tannase were encoded by the first and second halves, respectively. Judging from the above results, the tannase gene product is translated as a single polypeptide that is cleaved by post-translational modification into two tannase subunits linked by a disulfide bond(s). We concluded that native tannase consisted of four pairs of the two subunits, forming a hetero-octamer with a molecular weight of about 300,000."}
{"id": "8890598", "title": "[Recent progress in molecular diagnostic technology in clinical mycology].", "content": "[Recent progress in molecular diagnostic technology in clinical mycology]. Diagnosing deep-seated mycoses continues to be a major challenge for the clinician. The non-culture-dependent laboratory assay with high sensitivity and specificity are needed for rapid diagnosis of deep-seated mycoses. The most promising methodology that has this potential is the detection of fungus-specific DNA. Over the last five years, increasing numbers of papers were published which document the molecular biological assays feasible to detect fungus-specific DNA sequences in clinical specimens. In almost all of the assays thus far reported, DNA was detected following in vitro amplification using the RCR technology. This review will deal with those PCR assays which were developed, with the aim of diagnosing or screening deep-seated mycoses, for the detection of DNA from Candida species, Aspergillus species, Penicillium marneffei and Cryptococcus neoformans. Some of the PCR assays described here have been successfully used with clinical specimens to detect fungi, more rapidly and with a greater degree of sensitivity and/or specificity than by conventional means. It suggests us that PCR-based amplification strategies may help pave the way for modern clinical laboratory to better assist the clinician in diagnosing deep-seated mycoses."}
{"id": "8880528", "title": "Genotypic characterization of sequential Aspergillus fumigatus isolates from patients with cystic fibrosis.", "content": "Genotypic characterization of sequential Aspergillus fumigatus isolates from patients with cystic fibrosis. Twenty-three sequential Aspergillus fumigatus sputum isolates, which had been collected over a period of 2 years, from two patients with cystic fibrosis were genotyped by random amplified polymorphic DNA PCR and restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. In patient B, one genotype was predominantly present in the sputum samples, while in the other patient up to nine different genotypes were identified. This study suggests that different patterns of colonization with A.fumigatus exist in patients with cystic fibrosis."}
{"id": "8880501", "title": "PCR detection of DNA specific for Aspergillus species in serum of patients with invasive aspergillosis.", "content": "PCR detection of DNA specific for Aspergillus species in serum of patients with invasive aspergillosis. We investigated the possible presence of DNA specific for Aspergillus species in serum samples of patients with invasive aspergillosis (IA) by the nested PCR method. Fourteen strains of fungi including 5 strains of Aspergillus species and 10 strains of common bacteria were used for examination of specificity and sensitivity of the nested PCR. Two sets of oligonucleotide primers were derived from the sequence of the variable regions V7 to V9 of the 18S rRNA genes of Aspergillus fumigatus. The specific fragment was amplified from five strains of Aspergillus species in the single and nested PCR but not from other microorganisms. Target DNA was detected by the nested PCR with as little as 50 fg of the extracted DNA of A. fumigatus. We investigated the detection of DNA specific for Aspergillus species in serum samples of a murine model of aspergillosis and 20 patients with IA. The specific fragment was detected by the nested PCR in 71% of serum samples of infected mice and 70% of serum samples of patients with IA, while galactomannan antigen was detected in 43 and 60% of samples, respectively. The high sensitivity and specificity of the nested PCR indicate that the assay can provide early diagnosis with sufficient accuracy to be clinically useful for immunocompromised patients with IA."}
{"id": "8868425", "title": "nuvA, an Aspergillus nidulans gene involved in DNA repair and recombination, is a homologue of Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD18 and Neurospora crassa uvs-2.", "content": "nuvA, an Aspergillus nidulans gene involved in DNA repair and recombination, is a homologue of Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD18 and Neurospora crassa uvs-2. A 40 kb genomic clone and 2.3 kb EcoRI subclone that rescued the DNA repair and recombination defects of the Aspergillus nidulans nuvA11 mutant were isolated and the subclone sequenced. The subclone hybridized to a cosmid in a chromosome-specific library confirming the assignment of nuvA to linkage group IV and indicating its closeness to bimD. Amplification by PCR clarified the relative positions of nuvA and bimD. A region identified within the subclone, encoding a C3HC4 zinc finger motif, was used as a probe to retrieve a cDNA clone. Sequencing of this clone showed that the nuvA gene has an ORF of 1329 bp with two introns of 51 bp and 60 bp. Expression of nuvA appears to be extremely low. The putative NUVA polypeptide has two zinc finger motifs, a molecular mass of 48906 Da and has 39% identity with the Neurospora crassa uvs-2 and 25% identity with the Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD18 translation products. Although mutations in nuvA, uvs-2 and RAD18 produce similar phenotypes, only the nuvA11 mutation affects meiotic recombination. A role for nuvA in both DNA repair and genetic recombination is proposed."}
{"id": "8856049", "title": "Cloning and biochemical characterisation of an Aspergillus niger glucokinase. Evidence for the presence of separate glucokinase and hexokinase enzymes.", "content": "Cloning and biochemical characterisation of an Aspergillus niger glucokinase. Evidence for the presence of separate glucokinase and hexokinase enzymes. The Aspergillus niger glucokinase gene glkA has been cloned using a probe generated by polymerase chain reaction with degenerate oligonucleotides. The DNA sequence of the gene was determined, and the deduced amino acid sequence shows significant similarity to other eukaryotic hexokinase and glucokinase proteins, in particular to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae glucokinase protein. The encoded protein was purified from a multicopy glkA transformant, and extensively characterised. The protein has a molecular mass of 54536 Da and a pI of 5.2. The enzyme has high affinity for glucose (K(m) 0.063 mM at pH 7.5) and a relatively low affinity for fructose (K(m) 120 mM at pH 7.5), and in vivo fructose phosphorylation by glucokinase is consequently negligible. The configurations at C1 and C4 of the substrate appear to be essential for substrate specificity. The A. niger glucokinase shows non-competitive inhibition by ADP towards ATP and uncompetitive inhibition by ADP towards glucose. The kcal (turnover number) decreases rapidly below pH 7.5 (56% at pH 7.0 and 17% at pH 6.5) and this may have important implications for the in vivo regulation of activity. In addition, proof is provided for the presence of a second hexosephosphorylating enzyme in A. niger. This enzyme is probably a hexokinase, since unlike glucokinase, this activity is inhibited by trehalose 6-phosphate."}
{"id": "8837429", "title": "Isolation of laccase gene-specific sequences from white rot and brown rot fungi by PCR.", "content": "Isolation of laccase gene-specific sequences from white rot and brown rot fungi by PCR. Degenerate primers corresponding to the consensus sequences of the copper-binding regions in the N-terminal domains of known basidiomycete laccases were used to isolate laccase gene-specific sequences from strains representing nine genera of wood rot fungi. All except three gave the expected PCR product of about 200 bp. Computer searches of the databases identified the sequence of each of the PCR products analyzed as a laccase gene sequence, suggesting the specificity of the primers. PCR products of the white rot fungi Ganoderma lucidum, Phlebia brevispora, and Trametes versicolor showed 65 to 74% nucleotide sequence similarity to each other; the similarity in deduced amino acid sequences was 83 to 91%. The PCR products of Lentinula edodes and Lentinus tigrinus, on the other hand, showed relatively low nucleotide and amino acid similarities (58 to 64 and 62 to 81%, respectively); however, these similarities were still much higher than when compared with the corresponding regions in the laccases of the ascomycete fungi Aspergillus nidulans and Neurospora crassa. A few of the white rot fungi, as well as Gloeophyllum trabeum, a brown rot fungus, gave a 144-bp PCR fragment which had a nucleotide sequence similarity of 60 to 71%. Demonstration of laccase activity in G. trabeum and several other brown rot fungi was of particular interest because these organisms were not previously shown to produce laccases."}
{"id": "8836442", "title": "Molecular polymorphism and phenotypic variation in Aspergillus carbonarius.", "content": "Molecular polymorphism and phenotypic variation in Aspergillus carbonarius. Thirteen collection strains and field isolates of Aspergillus carbonarius were examined by using various genotypic and phenotypic approaches. Restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of the ribosomal RNA gene cluster and the mitochondrial DNA of the strains revealed only slight variations, except for one field isolate (IN7), which exhibited completely different ribosomal RNA gene cluster and mitochondrial DNA patterns. The mitochondrial DNAs of these strains were found to be much larger (45 to 57 kb) than those found earlier in the A. niger aggregate. Strain-specific characters could be detected by the random amplified polymorphic DNA technique. Isoenzyme analysis and examination of carbon source utilisation patterns of the strains also revealed some intraspecific variability, though much smaller than that observed by using DNA-based techniques. The dendrograms constructed based on genotypic and phenotypic data suggest that strain IN7 might represent a new subspecies of A. carbonarius."}
{"id": "8832021", "title": "Lymphocytosis of donor origin in cerebrospinal fluid, and marrow aplasia after donor leukocyte infusion for EBV-lymphoproliferative disease.", "content": "Lymphocytosis of donor origin in cerebrospinal fluid, and marrow aplasia after donor leukocyte infusion for EBV-lymphoproliferative disease. A 29-year-old woman underwent a T cell-depleted unrelated donor transplant for CML in chronic phase. Sixty-three days after marrow infusion, the patient developed fevers and generalized lymphadenopathy. Lymph node biopsy was consistent with monoclonal EBV-associated immunoblastic lymphoma for which the patient received 10(5) CD3-positive donor leukocytes per kilogram. Six days after leukocyte infusion the patient developed mental status changes without focal neurological deficit. MRI revealed no mass lesions. Cerebral spinal fluid revealed a white blood cell count of 1650 cells/mm3 which were shown to be T lymphocytes of donor origin. The CSF was tested and found to be PCR positive for EBV virus interval repeat 1 sequence (IR1). The lymphocytosis and mental status changes resolved without specific intervention. Subsequently she developed marrow aplasia, which was believed to be secondary to the infusion of donor leukocytes. Possible mechanisms for these two previously unreported side-effects of donor leukocyte infusion are discussed."}
{"id": "8810945", "title": "Variation in virulence of Aspergillus fumigatus strains in a murine model of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis.", "content": "Variation in virulence of Aspergillus fumigatus strains in a murine model of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis. The diversity in virulence of different Aspergillus fumigatus strains was studied in an experimental murine model of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) and the results were correlated with possession of a putative molecular marker of virulence. Seven strains from different patients with non-invasive or invasive aspergillosis and four environmental strains were typed by PCR with specific primers and scored as positive or negative, according to whether or not a 0.95-kb DNA fragment was amplified. Immunosuppressed mice were inoculated intranasally with A. fumigatus conidia from these different strains. The mortality curves revealed differences in virulence between the strains. The environmental strains produced a weaker infection than the strains from patients and the 0.95-kb-positive patient strains caused significantly higher mortality rates in mice than the 0.95-kb-negative patient strains. These findings support the hypothesis that certain isolates of A. fumigatus are more virulent than others and that their virulence appears to be associated with the 0.95-kb molecular marker."}
{"id": "8795232", "title": "Characterization of experimentally induced, nonaflatoxigenic variant strains of Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Characterization of experimentally induced, nonaflatoxigenic variant strains of Aspergillus parasiticus. Six previously isolated, nonaflatoxigenic variants of Aspergillus parasiticus, designated sec mutants, were characterized morphologically by electron microscopy, biochemically by biotransformation studies with an aflatoxin precursor, and genetically by Northern (RNA) hybridization analysis of aflatoxin biosynthetic gene transcripts. Scanning electron micrographs clearly demonstrated that compared with the parental sec+ forms, the variant sec forms had an abundance of vegetative mycelia, orders of magnitude reduced number of conidiophores and conidia, and abnormal metulae. Conidiospores were detected in sec cultures only at higher magnifications (x 500), in contrast to the sec+ (wild-type) strain, in which abundant conidiospores (masking the vegetative mycelia) were observed at even lower magnifications (x 300). All sec+ forms, but none of the sec forms, showed bioconversion of sterigmatocystin to aflatoxins. Northern blots probed with pathway genes demonstrated lack of expression of both the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway structural (nor-1 and omtA) and regulatory (aflR) genes in the sec forms; PCR and Southern hybridization analysis confirmed the presence of the genes in the sec genomes. Thus, the loss of aflatoxigenic capabilities in the sec form is correlated with alterations in the conidial morphology of the fungus, suggesting that the regulation of aflatoxin synthesis and conidiogenesis may be interlinked."}
{"id": "8795215", "title": "Detection of aflatoxigenic molds in grains by PCR.", "content": "Detection of aflatoxigenic molds in grains by PCR. Aflatoxins are carcinogenic metabolites produced by several members of the Aspergillus flavus group in grains and floods. Three genes, ver-1, omt-1, and apa-2, coding for key enzymes and a regulatory factor in aflatoxin biosynthesis, respectively, have been identified, and their DNA sequences have been published. In the present study, three primer pairs, each complementing the coding portion of one of the genes, were generated. DNA extracted from mycelia of five Aspergillus species, four Penicillium species, and two Fusarium species was used as PCR template for each of the primer pairs. DNA extracted from peanut, corn, and three insect species commonly found in stored grains was also tested. Positive results (DNA amplification) were achieved only with DNA of the aflatoxigenic molds Aspergillus parasiticus and A. flavus in all three primer pairs. The detection limit of the PCR was determined by using the primer pairs complementing the omt-1 and ver-1 genes. Sterile corn flour was inoculated separately with six different molds, each at several spore concentrations. Positive results were obtained only after a 24-h incubation in enriched media, with extracts of corn inoculated with A. parasiticus or A. flavus, even at the lowest spore concentration applied (10(2) spores per g). No DNA spores per g). It is concluded that genes involved in the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway may form the basis for an accurate, sensitive, and specific detection system, using PCR, for aflatoxigenic strains in grains and foods."}
{"id": "8789013", "title": "Molecular epidemiology of apparent outbreak of invasive aspergillosis in a hematology ward.", "content": "Molecular epidemiology of apparent outbreak of invasive aspergillosis in a hematology ward. During a 2-month period, five patients suffering from invasive infections caused by Aspergillus flavus or Aspergillus fumigatus were identified in the Hematology Department of the University Hospital Dijkzigt (Rotterdam, The Netherlands). To study the epidemiological aspects of invasive aspergillosis, strains from these patients and from the hospital environment, isolated during extensive microbiological screening, were subjected to genotyping. A novel DNA extraction technique, involving freezing, grinding, and direct lysis in guanidium isothiocyanate-containing buffers of mycelial material, was applied. DNA isolation was followed by typing by random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis. This showed that strains isolated from all patients infected with the same fungal species were genotypically distinct, thus providing evidence against the possibility of an ongoing, single-source nosocomial outbreak. Strains could also be differentiated from strains of geographically diverse origins. However, an A. flavus strain from one of the patients was also frequently encountered in the hospital environment. As all environmental strains were collected after this patient had been diagnosed with invasive disease, the epidemiological value of this observation could not be ascertained. Intensive investigations showed no single source of A. flavus or other aspergilli. RAPD genotyping proved that the outbreak of invasive aspergillosis in the hematology ward consisted of a series of unrelated events and was not due to a common source within the hospital. RAPD fingerprinting of aspergilli may greatly facilitate future investigations of the epidemiology of invasive disease caused by these pathogens."}
{"id": "8786753", "title": "Universal fungus-specific primer systems and group-specific hybridization oligonucleotides for 18S rDNA.", "content": "Universal fungus-specific primer systems and group-specific hybridization oligonucleotides for 18S rDNA. We designed two primer systems that amplify a fragment of the gene coding for the small ribosomal subunit (18S rRNA). A broadly reactive, yet fungus-specific, primer cocktail comprises two previously published primers, TR1 and TR2, which specifically amplify dermatophytes, and two newly designed primers, CA1 and AF2, which specifically amplify Candida and Aspergillus respectively. This primer cocktail amplifies a DNA fragment of approximately 578 basepairs (bp) in length (from position 838 to 1415), which contains variable, possibly species-specific regions (V5, partly V7). Another newly designed primer, UF1 (universal fungal primer 1), along with the eukaryotic primer S3 amplifies a 926-bp fragment (from position 263 to 1188) that includes the variable regions V3, V4 and V5. Both primer systems amplified DNA from Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Candida albicans, Cryptococcus neoformans, Aspergillus fumigatus, Penicillium marneffei, Fusarium oxysporum and Trichophyton mentagrophytes, but not the DNA from Prototheca zopfii, Escherichia coli or humans. The previously published oligonucleotides TR and HC, which are specific for dermatophytes and Histoplasma respectively, and the newly designed group-specific oligonucleotides, CA and AF, hybridized with T. mentagrophytes, Histoplasma capsulatum, C. albicans and A. fumigatus respectively, but not with the other six fungi or with the three controls."}
{"id": "8748280", "title": "Molecular typing by random amplification of polymorphic DNA and M13 southern hybridization of related paired isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Molecular typing by random amplification of polymorphic DNA and M13 southern hybridization of related paired isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus. Three forms of DNA-based typing procedures for Aspergillus fumigatus isolates have been developed over the last five years. The procedures are random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD), restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) detection, and Southern hybridizations with various repetitive sequence-based probes. Using two of these procedures, we compared 16 selected isolates, grouped into eight pairs on the basis of epidemiology or previously assigned RFLP types. RAPD with four primers (R108, RC08, 2, and 4), including three previously used with A. fumigatus, showed that one primer, R108, gave the best discrimination (8 types). Southern hybridization of total genomic DNA digested with HindIII and probed with the total bacteriophage M13 genome resulted in the highest overall level of discrimination. Combination of the RAPD and Southern hybridization with the previously assigned RFLP types discriminated 10 isolates of 16. Isolates closely linked epidemiologically could not be distinguished from each other. In addition, three pairs of isolates previously unlinked by epidemiology had the same overall types. Two pairs were obtained from the same hospital within 2 years of each other, whereas the third pair were isolated from California and Germany. A full understanding of the epidemiology and ecology of A. fumigatus requires multiple discriminatory typing procedures."}
{"id": "8706730", "title": "Clavin, a type-1 ribosome-inactivating protein from Aspergillus clavatus IFO 8605. cDNA isolation, heterologous expression, biochemical and biological characterization of the recombinant protein.", "content": "Clavin, a type-1 ribosome-inactivating protein from Aspergillus clavatus IFO 8605. cDNA isolation, heterologous expression, biochemical and biological characterization of the recombinant protein. We describe the cloning and expression of a new cDNA from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus clavatus IFO 8605. This cDNA contains an open reading frame (ORF) that predicts a putative ribonuclease precursor with high similarity to the alpha-sarcin family of ribosome-inactivating proteins (RIPs). The cDNA encoding the mature protein was expressed in Escherichia coli, and the recombinant protein, a 17-kDa polypeptide designated clavin was purified and characterized. Clavin shows typical type-1 RIP properties: specific cleavage of ribosomal and synthetic RNA and inhibition of protein synthesis in cell-free and cellular systems. When selectively targeted to a tumour cell antigen by coupling to a monoclonal antibody (mAb) clavin was able to inhibit protein synthesis at nanomolar concentration. Pharmacokinetics analysis in mice indicated an elimination half-life (t1/2 beta) of 7.4 h with no particular accumulation in major organs. Liver toxicity was very limited and transient while no alteration of kidney function was observed. Clavin induced a late and very low antibody response in mice. The in vitro and in vivo biological characteristics of clavin, together with its availability in large amounts, suggest the usefulness of this toxin in the production of toxic chemical conjugates."}
{"id": "8702288", "title": "Single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis of PCR-amplified ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacers to differentiate species of Aspergillus section Flavi.", "content": "Single-strand conformation polymorphism analysis of PCR-amplified ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacers to differentiate species of Aspergillus section Flavi. A novel genetic approach for classifying the species of Aspergillus Section Flavi is described here. This approach consists of PCR amplification of the 5.8S ribosomal DNA-intervening internal transcribed spacer regions (ITS I-5.8S-ITS II) with universal primers and of analysis of the PCR product by the principle of single-strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP). The approximately 570- to 590-bp PCR products were denatured and subjected to electrophoresis on a polyacrylamide gel supplemented with 20% formamide. The SSCP patterns of these species became more distinct by the addition of formamide to the gel and by visualization with ethidium bromide staining. A little interspecific length polymorphism among amplified ribosomal DNAs was enhanced to be detected by PCR-SSCP analysis. This analysis was capable of classifying 67 of the 68 Aspergillus Section Flavi strains tested into the following four groups, regardless of origin: A. flavus/A. oryzae, A. parasiticus/A. sojae, A. tamarii, and A. nomius. The results of restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis with PCR products of the ITS regions were consistent with those of PCR-SSCP analysis, except for A. nomius, which was not clearly differentiated from A. parasiticus/A. sojae. Nonradiolabelled PCR-SSCP analysis is inexpensive and practical to perform without special apparatus or skill and should assist in fungal morphological identification."}
{"id": "8690882", "title": "Kitchens as a source of Aspergillus niger infection.", "content": "Kitchens as a source of Aspergillus niger infection. In this study we investigated the epidemiology of a cluster of cutaneous infections owing to Aspergillus niger, which occurred in neutropenic patients in a bone marrow transplant unit. Heavy environmental contamination with the mould was found in the ward kitchen adjacent to the unit. The clinical and environmental isolates were typed by random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD), which showed one of the patients was infected with the same strain as that isolated repeatedly from the kitchen area. In another case, contaminated stockinette material was implicated as the source of infection. Thorough cleaning of the ward kitchen resulted in no further cases on the unit. This highlights the fact that aspergilli may spread to patients by air, food or other vehicles, and underlines the importance of searching for a source and ensuring high levels of hospital hygiene are maintained."}
{"id": "8679226", "title": "Inhibition of the transcription factors NF-kappa B and AP-1 underlies loss of cytokine gene expression in rat alveolar macrophages treated with a diffusible product from the spores of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Inhibition of the transcription factors NF-kappa B and AP-1 underlies loss of cytokine gene expression in rat alveolar macrophages treated with a diffusible product from the spores of Aspergillus fumigatus. The spores of Aspergillus fumigatus have a survival advantage over other respirable fungal spores in the lung, leading to a number of lung diseases associated with this fungus. We have hypothesized that a component on the spore surface can inhibit the activation of alveolar macrophages, known to play an essential role in immune regulation in the lung. A diffusible product from the spores of A. fumigatus (AfD) inhibited the production of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF alpha) protein by alveolar macrophages in an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Using a semiquantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, we also demonstrated a potent inhibitory effect of AfD on the production of proinflammatory cytokine transcripts in rat alveolar macrophages. The inhibition occurred at the level of transcription, with AfD inhibiting the synthesis of TNF alpha-and interleukin 6 (IL-6)-specific mRNA transcripts. No effect was seen on the synthesis of interleukin 1 beta (IL-1 beta) cytokine transcripts or on the expression of the housekeeping gene beta-actin. Furthermore, AfD specifically inhibited the activation of nuclear transcription factors NF-kappa B and AP-1, both of which are required for the coordinate upregulation of transcription of the proinflammatory cytokines TNF alpha, IL-1 beta, and IL-6. We conclude that AfD can inhibit normal alveolar macrophage responses by selectively inhibiting the production of key inflammatory cytokines, and that the mechanism of inhibition is primarily at the level of transcriptional activation."}
{"id": "8672814", "title": "Cloning and characterization of a melanin biosynthetic THR1 reductase gene essential for appressorial penetration of Colletotrichum lagenarium.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of a melanin biosynthetic THR1 reductase gene essential for appressorial penetration of Colletotrichum lagenarium. Melanin biosynthesis of Colletotrichum lagenarium is essential for appressorial penetration of the host plant. A melanin deficient mutant 9141 (Thr-) has a defect in the conversion of 1,3,8-trihydroxynaphthalene to vermelone in the melanin biosynthetic pathway. The mutant formed nonmelanized appressoria and had little infectivity on cucumber leaves. A cosmid clone pCR1 was selected from a cosmid library of wild-type C. lagenarium by means of a heterologous probe BRM2, one of the clustered genes involved in melanin biosynthesis of Alternaria alternata. pCR1 transformed the Thr- mutant 9141 to wild-type phenotype. A DNA fragment (THR1) homologous to BRM2 was subcloned from pCR1 and the nucleotide sequence determined. THR1 contains one open reading frame that encodes a protein of 282 amino acids. A transformant resulting from gene disruption showed a light brown phenotype different from the dark brown phenotype of the wild-type 104-T. The transformant formed nonmelanized appressoria and had little infectivity. The THR1 amino acid sequence contains a region highly similar to the Ver1 gene involved in the conversion of versicolorin A to sterigmatocystin in aflatoxin biosynthesis by Aspergillus parasiticus and to the T4HN reductase gene involved in the conversion of 1,3,6,8-tetrahydroxynaphthalene to scytalone and 1,3,8-trihydroxynaphthalene to vermelone in melanin biosynthesis by Magnaporthe grisea. Expression of the THR1 gene during spore germination of C. lagenarium was detected by RNA blotting. We propose that the C. lagenarium THR1 gene encodes a reductase involved in conversion of 1,3,8-trihydroxynaphthalene to vermelone."}
{"id": "8662689", "title": "Isolation and characterization of the versicolorin B synthase gene from Aspergillus parasiticus. Expansion of the aflatoxin b1 biosynthetic gene cluster.", "content": "Isolation and characterization of the versicolorin B synthase gene from Aspergillus parasiticus. Expansion of the aflatoxin b1 biosynthetic gene cluster. Versicolorin B synthase catalyzes the side chain cyclization of racemic versiconal hemiacetal to the bisfuran ring system of(-)-versicolorin B, an essential transformation in the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway of Aspergillus parasiticus. The dihydrobisfuran is key to the mutagenic nature of aflatoxin B1. The protein, which shows 58% similarity and 38% identity with glucose oxidase from Aspergillus niger, possesses an amino-terminal sequence homologous to the ADP-binding region of other flavoenzymes. However, this enzyme does not require flavin or nicotinamide cofactors for its cyclase activity. The 643-amino acid native enzyme contains three potential sites for N-linked glycosylation, Asn-Xaa-Thr or Asn-Xaa-Ser. The cDNA and genomic clones of versicolorin B synthase were isolated by screening the respective libraries with random-primed DNA probes generated from an exact copy of an internal vbs sequence. This probe was created through polymerase chain reaction by using nondegenerate polymerase chain reaction primers derived from the amino acid sequences of peptide fragments of the enzyme. The 1985-base genomic vbs DNA sequence is interrupted by one intron of 53 nucleotides. Southern blotting, nucleotide sequencing, and detailed restriction mapping of the vbs-containing genomic clones revealed the presence of omtA, a methyltransferase active in the biosynthesis, 3.3 kilobases upstream of vbs and oriented in the opposite direction from vbs. The presence of omtA in close proximity to vbs supports the theory that the genes encoding the aflatoxin biosynthetic enzymes in A. parasiticus are clustered."}
{"id": "8656684", "title": "G-CSF-mobilized peripheral blood progenitor cells for allogeneic transplantation of resistant or relapsing acute leukemias.", "content": "G-CSF-mobilized peripheral blood progenitor cells for allogeneic transplantation of resistant or relapsing acute leukemias. Peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC) were mobilized by G-CSF in normal HLA identical siblings and used for allogeneic transplantation in eight patients with refractory or relapsed acute leukemias. G-CSF administration was well tolerated and no significant side-effects were registered. The number of circulating WBC peaked at day 5 after G-CSF (range: 22.6-74.6 x 10(9)/l) with a median of 65 CD34+ cells/microl (38-155). As a consequence of leukaphereses, platelets progressively decreased, reaching the nadir after the last procedure (84-205 x 10(9)/l). A mean of two aphereses (1-3) were performed between day +4 and +7 during which 10 liters of blood were processed each time by a cell separator. Conditioning regimens were: fractionated total body irradiation (FTBI) plus either HDAra-C (2 g/m2 x 2/day for 6 days) (n=5) or melphalan (110 mg/m2) (n= 1) and busulfan (4 mg/kg/day for 4 days) and melphalan (110 mg/m2) in two patients relapsed after a previous FTBI-based allogeneic or autologous BMT. At transplantation, a median of 6.9 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg (4.2-16.5) and 279 x 10(6) CD3+ cells/kg (161-786) were infused. Engraftment of both neutrophils (> or v=1.5 x 10(9)/l) and platelets (> or v=20 x 10(9)/l) was observed in all patients after a median time of 18 days (range: 11-20 and 10-26, respectively). The evaluation of engraftment after transplantation was accomplished by PCR analysis of four hypervariable genomic regions (VNTR) (ApoB, ApoC2, YNZ-22, and MCT 118) which allowed to demonstrate the condition of donor chimaera in all patients after transplantation. As far as the clinical outcome, two patients died of interstitial pneumonitis at day +243 and +69 and two patients died at day +62 and +152 of pulmonary aspergillosis. Four patients remain alive in remission between day +88 and +287 with grade 0-l GVHD. Allogeneic PBPC transplantation is associated with a complete hematologic recovery and despite the infusion of a large amount of mature CD3+ lymphocytes, apparently acute GVHD is not worse than expected after transplantation of bone marrow progenitors."}
{"id": "8625427", "title": "Identification and cloning of a mobile transposon from Aspergillus niger var. awamori.", "content": "Identification and cloning of a mobile transposon from Aspergillus niger var. awamori. Aspergillus niger var. awamori contains multiple copies of a transposable element, Vader. This element was detected as a 437-bp insertion in four independently isolated spontaneous mutants of the niaD (nitrate reductase) gene. The Vader element is present in approximately 15 copies in both A. niger var. awamori and A. niger. A single copy of Vader was detected from only one of the two laboratory strains of A. nidulans which were also examined. Insertion of the Vader element into the niaD gene of A. niger var. awamori caused a 2-bp duplication (TA) of the target sequence. The Vader element is flanked by a 44-bp inverted repeat. The genetic stabilities of the inserted Vader elements at niaD were examined by studying reversion frequencies resulting in colonies able to grow on nitrate as a sole nitrogen source. Mutants niaD392 and niaD436 reverted at a frequency of 9x10(-3) and 4x10(-2), respectively. Two of the mutants, niaD587 and niaD410, reverted at a lower frequency of 6x10(-4)."}
{"id": "8625424", "title": "The 3-phosphoglycerate kinase gene of the yeast Yarrowia lipolytica de-represses on gluconeogenic substrates.", "content": "The 3-phosphoglycerate kinase gene of the yeast Yarrowia lipolytica de-represses on gluconeogenic substrates. We have isolated the 3-phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK) gene of the yeast Yarrowia lipolytica by probing a genomic library with a PCR fragment amplified with primers deduced from two highly conserved regions of various PGKs. It is a unique sequence encoding a polypeptide of 417 residues with extensive homology to other PGKs, especially to that of Aspergillus nidulans (76% identity). The expression of the Y. lipolytica PGK1 gene proved to be higher on gluconeogenic substrates than on glycolytic ones. Haploid strains harboring a disrupted allele were able to grow on mixtures of a gluconeogenic carbon source and of a glycolytic one, but required proline supplementation in the presence of glucose, and were inhibited by glycerol."}
{"id": "8598061", "title": "The identification and characterization of four laccases from the plant pathogenic fungus Rhizoctonia solani.", "content": "The identification and characterization of four laccases from the plant pathogenic fungus Rhizoctonia solani. Four distinct laccase genes, lcc1, lcc2, lcc3 and lcc4, have been identified in the fungus Rhizoctonia solani. Both cDNA and genomic copies of these genes were isolated and characterized. Hybridization analyses indicate that each of the four laccase genes is present in a single copy in the genome. The R. solani laccases can be divided into two groups based on their protein size, intron/exon organization, and transcriptional regulation. Three of these enzymes have been expressed in the fungus Aspergillus oryzae. Two of the recombinant laccases, r-lcc1 and r-lcc4, as well as the native lcc4 enzyme were purified and characterized. The purified proteins are homodimeric, comprised of two subunits of approximately 66kDa for lcc4 and 50-100kDa for the recombinant lcc1 protein. These laccases have spectral properties that are consistent with other blue copper proteins. With syringaldazine as a substrate, lcc4 has optimal activity at pH7, whereas lcc1 has optimal activity at pH6."}
{"id": "8722032", "title": "Fungal ribotoxins: a family of naturally engineered targeted toxins?", "content": "Fungal ribotoxins: a family of naturally engineered targeted toxins? alpha-Sarcin, mitogillin, and restrictocin are small (approximately 17 kDa) basic robosome-inactivating proteins (RIPs) produced by the Aspergilli that catalytically inactivate the large ribosomal subunits of all organisms tested to date. These three fungal ribotoxins act as specific ribonucleases by hydrolyzing one single phosphodiester bond in the universally conserved alpha-sarcin domain of 23-28S rRNAs and are among the most potent inhibitors of protein synthesis known. Previous molecular studies of ribotoxins indicated that they belong to the superfamily of ribonucleases and analysis of the mitogillin gene employing PCR-mediated site-specific mutagenesis suggests that certain domains in ribotoxins, which share homologies with motifs in ribosome-related proteins, may be responsible for the targeting of ribotoxins to the ribosome. The applications of the ribotoxins as tools in research and their uses as therapeutic and diagnostic agents are also reviewed in this paper."}
{"id": "8720191", "title": "Use of phenotypic and genotypic fingerprinting methods in the strain identification of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Use of phenotypic and genotypic fingerprinting methods in the strain identification of Aspergillus fumigatus. Aspergillus fumigatus isolates (n = 6) from a lung transplant recipient, one isolate from a patient who had been on the same ward and a reference strain (NCPF 2140) were compared using three typing methods: SDS-PAGE, immunoblotting with serum from the transplant patient and random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) assay. Neither the SDS-PAGE, immunoblot nor RAPD assay with single primers revealed differences between the eight isolates. Digestion of one primer product with the endonuclease EcoRI discriminated between the six patient isolates and the other two strains. The RAPD assay using pairwise combined primers showed identical patterns for the patient's strains but differentiated between the two other strains. It is concluded that any single technique may fail to detect strain differences and that a spectrum of typing methods is necessary in order to reveal or to exclude cross-infections with Aspergillus fumigatus."}
{"id": "8597544", "title": "Cloning, characterization and overproduction of nuclease S1 gene (nucS) from Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Cloning, characterization and overproduction of nuclease S1 gene (nucS) from Aspergillus oryzae. The nuclease S1 gene (nucS) from Aspergillus oryzae was isolated using a polymerase-chain-reaction-amplified DNA fragment as a probe, and a 2.6-kb SalI-EcoRI fragment containing the nucS gene was sequenced. It was deduced that the nucS gene had two short introns, 49 and 50 nucleotides in length. The nucS gene had an open-reading frame of 963 base pairs and coded for a protein of 287 amino acid residues, comprising the signal peptide of 20 amino acids and a mature protein of 267 amino acids. The deduced amino acid sequence agreed well with the published amino acid sequence except for one substitution. Southern hybridization analysis showed that the nucS gene existed as a single copy in the A. oryzae chromosome. When the structural gene of nucS was fused with the promoter of the glaA gene and introduced into A. oryzae, the yield of secreted nuclease S1 increased about 100-fold compared with the recipient strain."}
{"id": "8596437", "title": "Mutational analysis reveals dispensability of the N-terminal region of the Aspergillus transcription factor mediating nitrogen metabolite repression.", "content": "Mutational analysis reveals dispensability of the N-terminal region of the Aspergillus transcription factor mediating nitrogen metabolite repression. Mutational analysis has enabled identification and localization of an upstream exon of the areA gene of Aspergillus nidulans mediating nitrogen metabolite repression. A mutation in the initiation codon and frameshift mutations, which revert by restoration of the reading frame, established the coding role of the exon and mutations affecting intron splicing in conjunction with DNA sequencing of reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) products localized the coding region intron. The resulting AREA translation product would have 876 residues. Deletion of the upstream exon such that translation of the remaining areA coding region would yield a protein containing only the 719 C-terminal residues has only a subtle phenotype, very similar to those resulting from single amino acid replacements in upstream exon-encoded regions of strong sequence similarity to the Neurospora crassa and Penicillium chrysogenum homologues. A number of areA mRNAs of different sizes are synthesised and appear to be functionally redundant. Synthesis of at least the smallest mRNA(s) is probably subject to autogenous activation. Suppression of frameshift mutations by compensating mutations preventing intron splicing suggests that insertion of a markedly hydrophobic sequence can impair AREA function. Finally, translational initiation for areA can occur within a region of at least 123 nucleotides."}
{"id": "8586742", "title": "Comparison of three typing methods for clinical and environmental isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Comparison of three typing methods for clinical and environmental isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus."}
{"id": "8586705", "title": "PCR and single-strand conformational polymorphism for recognition of medically important opportunistic fungi.", "content": "PCR and single-strand conformational polymorphism for recognition of medically important opportunistic fungi. The application of PCR technology to molecular diagnostics holds great promise for the early identification of medically important pathogens. PCR has been shown to be useful for the detection of the presence of fungal DNA in both laboratory and clinical samples. Considerable interest has been focused on the utility of selecting universal primers, those that recognize constant regions among most, if not all, medically important fungi. Once an amplicon, or piece of amplified DNA determined by the unique pair of oligonucleotide primers, has been generated, several different methods may be used to distinguish between genera and between species. The two major approaches have utilized differences in restriction enzyme digestion patterns or hybridization with specific probe. We report the application of single-strand conformational polymorphism (SSCP) as a technique to delineate the differences between fungal species and/or genera. Minor sequence variations in small single-stranded DNA cause subtle changes in conformation, allowing these strands to be separated on polyacrylamide gels by SSCP. We used a 197-bp fragment amplified from the 18S rRNA gene, common to all medically important fungi. After amplification, the fragments were denatured and run on an acrylamide-glycerol gel at room temperature or 4 degrees C for 4.5 or 4 h, respectively. Under room temperature conditions, the SSCP patterns for Candida albicans, Candida tropicalis, and Candida parapsilosis were identical and all strains within each species demonstrated the same pattern. These patterns differed markedly from those of the genus Aspergillus. The SSCP patterns of major and minor bands at room temperature permitted distinction between strains of Aspergillus fumigatus and Aspergillus flavus. There also was consistency of the SSCP banding pattern among different strains of the same Aspergillus species. The SSCP patterns for other medically important opportunistic fungi, such as Cryptococcus neoformans, Pseudallescheria boydii, and Rhizopus arrhizus, were sufficiently unique to permit distinction from those of C. albicans and A. fumigatus. We conclude that the technique of PCR-SSCP provides a novel method by which to recognize and distinguish medically important opportunistic fungi and which has potential applications to molecular diagnosis, taxonomic classification, molecular epidemiology, and elucidation of mechanisms of antifungal drug resistance."}
{"id": "8586691", "title": "Comparison of antigen detection and PCR assay using bronchoalveolar lavage fluid for diagnosing invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in patients receiving treatment for hematological malignancies.", "content": "Comparison of antigen detection and PCR assay using bronchoalveolar lavage fluid for diagnosing invasive pulmonary aspergillosis in patients receiving treatment for hematological malignancies. The performance of a sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) which detects Aspergillus galactomannan (GM) was evaluated in bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid samples from 19 patients who were treated for hematological malignancies and who were suspected of having invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA). All patients had fever and pulmonary infiltrates on the chest roentgenogram on the day that the BAL fluid was obtained. The ELISA results were compared with the results of culture and Aspergillus genus-specific PCR analysis of BAL fluid samples. ELISA was also performed with serum samples. Aspergillus species were detected by PCR or ELISA with BAL fluid samples from five of seven patients who had radiological evidence of IPA. Serum ELISA results were positive for all patients with ELISA-positive BAL fluid, and for four patients the serum ELISA was positive before the BAL fluid was obtained. PCR and ELISA were positive for 2 and 1 of 10 BAL fluid samples, respectively, obtained from patients without radiological evidence of IPA, and 5 and 2 of 35 BAL fluid samples, respectively, obtained from nonneutropenic patients. This preliminary investigation suggests that GM may be detected by ELISA in BAL fluid samples from patients at risk of IPA, but that monitoring of serum GM levels may allow for the earlier diagnosis of IPA. However, further evaluation in prospective studies is required."}
{"id": "8576345", "title": "Molecular probes for diagnosis of fungal infections.", "content": "Molecular probes for diagnosis of fungal infections. We have developed 21 specific nucleic acid probes which target the large subunit rRNA genes from Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus glaucus, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus terreus, Blastomyces dermatitidis, Candida albicans, Candida (Torulopsis) glabrata, Candida guilliermondii, Candida kefyr, Candida krusei, Candida lusitaniae, Candida parapsilosis, Candida tropicalis, Coccidioides immitis, Cryptococcus neoformans var. gattii, Cryptococcus neoformans var. neoformans, Filobasidiella neoformans var. bacillispora, Filobasidiella neoformans var. neoformans, Histoplasma capsulatum, Pseudallescheria boydii, and Sporothrix schenckii. A section of the 28S rRNA gene from approximately 100 fungi, representing about 50 species of pathogens and commonly encountered saprophytes, was sequenced to develop universal PCR primers and species-specific oligonucleotide probes. Each step in the process of detection and identification was standardized to a common set of conditions applicable without modification to all fungi of interest and all types of clinical specimens. These steps consist of DNA extraction by boiling specimens in an alkaline guanidine-phenol-Tris reagent, amplification of a variable region of the 28S rRNA gene with universal primers, and amplicon identification by probe hybridization or DNA sequencing performed under conditions identical for all fungi. The results obtained by testing a panel of fungal isolates and a variety of clinical specimens indicate a high level of specificity."}
{"id": "8575021", "title": "Cloning and expression of an Aspergillus kawachii endo-1,4-beta-xylanase gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.", "content": "Cloning and expression of an Aspergillus kawachii endo-1,4-beta-xylanase gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. First-strand cDNA was prepared from mRNA isolated from Aspergillus kawachii IFO4308 and the beta-xylanase gene (xynC) amplified by using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) technique. This gene was inserted between the yeast phosphoglycerate kinase (PGK1) gene promoter (PGK1p) and terminator (PGK1T) sequences. The PGK1p-xynC-PGK1T construct (designated XYN3) was cloned into a multicopy episomal plasmid and the XYN3 gene was expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Functional beta-xylanase (Xyn3) was produced and secreted by the recombinant yeast. Xyn3 was stable between 30 and 50 degrees C, and the optimum temperature and pH were shown to be at 60 degrees C and lower than pH 3, respectively. An autoselective furl::LEU2 XYN3 recombinant strain was developed that allowed beta-xylanase production at a level of 300 nkat/ml in a non-selective complex medium."}
{"id": "8572683", "title": "Allocation of random amplified polymorphic DNA markers and enzyme activities to Aspergillus nidulans and Aspergillus tetrazonus chromosomes.", "content": "Allocation of random amplified polymorphic DNA markers and enzyme activities to Aspergillus nidulans and Aspergillus tetrazonus chromosomes. Chromosome-substituted haploid segregants of an A. nidulans x A. tetrazonus somatic hybrid were used to allocate several random amplified polymorphic DNA and isoenzyme markers to parental chromosomes. Twenty-six amplified DNA fragments, and nine isoenzyme activities, including lactate dehydrogenase, superoxide dismutase, and arylesterase isoenzymes were assigned to chromosomes. Chromosomes-specific markers were found for each A. nidulans and A. tetrazonus chromosome. These markers could be used to saturate the genetic map of A. nidulans. The formation of two secondary metabolites was also assigned to chromosomes III and VIII. Attempts were made to allocate extracellular enzyme activities to parental chromosomes, mostly without success, possibly because multiple enzyme forms located on different chromosomes could be responsible for the production of an enzyme activity."}
{"id": "8570567", "title": "A rapid method for the isolation of genomic DNA from Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "A rapid method for the isolation of genomic DNA from Aspergillus fumigatus. A majority of Aspergillus induced diseases are reported to be caused by Aspergillus fumigatus. In immunocompromized and post transplant cases it can lead to invasive aspergillosis. Due to this the molecular fingerprinting of aspergillus isolates by RFLP analysis and development of DNA diagnostic probes are gaining importance. Different methodologies are being adopted for extraction of the genomic DNA from fungus. The existing procedures for isolation of DNA are time consuming and range from several hours to few days. The most difficult step in the isolation of DNA from aspergillus species is to disrupt the tough chitin rich cell wall without causing damage to genomic DNA. We report here a rapid method for extraction of genomic DNA based on the cleavage of chitin with chitinase. The subsequent modification steps included are lysis and microwave treatment. The chromosomal DNA obtained by this procedure is 1.5-2.0 micrograms per mg of wet weight of mycelia and is observed to be minimally sheared. It is pure enough for restriction analysis and for use in the PCR to detect the gene coding for 18 kDa allergen which has been identified in our laboratory using western blot analysis with human patient sera."}
{"id": "8567928", "title": "Comparison of six different PCR methods for detection of Pneumocystis carinii.", "content": "Comparison of six different PCR methods for detection of Pneumocystis carinii. We have recently developed a nested PCR method which amplifies internal transcribed spacers (ITS) of the ribosomal RNA genes of Pneumocystis carinii. To determine whether this PCR method can be used to diagnose P. carinii infections, we examined 30 bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) specimens that were shown microscopically to contain P. carinii organisms by the P. carinii ITS PCR (Pc-ITS-PCR) and five other PCR methods that have been described for detecting P. carinii in clinical specimens. The targets of these PCR methods are portions of 18S rRNA, mitochondrial (mt) rRNA, 5S rRNA, thymidylate synthase (TS), and dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR). We also examined five different fungi, including Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Candida albicans, Histoplasma capsulatum, Cryptococcus neoformans, and Aspergillus fumigatus to determine the specificity of these six PCR methods for P. carinii. All 30 BAL specimens were positive by both the Pc-ITS-PCR and the 18S rRNA gene PCR, whereas only 26 (87%), 18 (60%), 10 (33%), and 7 (23%) of 30 BAL specimens were positive by mt rRNA gene PCR, TS gene PCR, 5S rRNA gene PCR, and DHFR gene PCR, respectively. Although the 18S rRNA gene PCR had the same sensitivity as the Pc-ITS-PCR, it nonspecifically amplified S. cerevisiae and C. albicans. The TS gene PCR also produced false-positive PCR results with C. albicans and C. neoformans. None of the other PCR methods (Pc-ITS-PCR, mt rRNA gene, 5S rRNA gene, and DHFR gene PCR) amplified the control fungal DNA. Considering both sensitivity and specificity, we conclude that Pc-ITS-PCR is the most effective of the six PCR methods evaluated in this study for the detection of P. carinii in BAL specimens."}
{"id": "8567884", "title": "Phenotypic and genotypic analysis of variability in Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Phenotypic and genotypic analysis of variability in Aspergillus fumigatus. Sixty-one isolates and collection strains of Aspergillus fumigatus were compared for their phenotypic (morphological features and isoenzyme profiles) and genotypic (restriction enzyme-generated mitochondrial DNA and ribosomal DNA profiles and random amplified polymorphic DNA patterns) features. The examined strains exhibited highly variable colony morphologies and growth rates at different temperatures, but their micromorphologies and conidial diameters were characteristic of the species. Of the isoenzymes studied, the beta-arylesterase and phosphatase patterns were the most divergent, and the 61 strains could be classified into seven groups. The glucose 6-phosphate dehydrogenase and catalase isoenzyme patterns displayed only a limited variability, while the profiles of superoxide dismutase, lactate dehydrogenase, and glutamate dehydrogenase were highly conserved. The HaeIII-generated mitochondrial DNA patterns and SmaI-digested repetitive DNA and ribosomal DNA hybridization patterns of almost all strains were also invariable. The level of variation was much higher when random amplified polymorphic DNA analysis was applied. Although the patterns of the strains were very similar with most of the primers, the application of some primers made it possible to cluster the A. fumigatus isolates into several groups. The results indicate that the random amplified polymorphic DNA technique could be used more efficiently than isoenzyme analysis for typing A. fumigatus isolates. A good correlation was found between the dendrograms obtained from the isoenzyme and random amplified polymorphic DNA data, but the isoenzyme and amplified DNA patterns did not correlate with the pathogenicity, pigment production, or geographical origin of the strains. One \"A. fumigatus\" strain (strain FRR 1266) exhibited unique isoenzyme, mitochondrial DNA, ribosomal DNA, and random amplified polymorphic DNA patterns; it is proposed that this strain represents a new species of the section Fumigati."}
{"id": "8566771", "title": "Cloning, structural organization and regulation of expression of the Penicillium chrysogenum paf gene encoding an abundantly secreted protein with antifungal activity.", "content": "Cloning, structural organization and regulation of expression of the Penicillium chrysogenum paf gene encoding an abundantly secreted protein with antifungal activity. An abundantly secreted, highly basic 12-kDa protein (PAF) was purified from the culture medium of Penicillium chrysogenum (Pc). Based on the N-terminal amino acid (aa) sequence of the protein, an oligodeoxyribonucleotide probe was derived and used for amplification of the encoding cDNA by PCR. This cDNA fragment encodes a Cys-rich preproprotein of 92 aa which appears to be processed to a mature product of 55 aa. The deduced aa sequence of the preproprotein reveals 42.6% identity to an antifungal protein (AFP) of Aspergillus giganteus. Agar diffusion tests confirmed that the Pc protein exhibits antifungal activity. In order to investigate the promoter region and the structural organization of the paf gene, a genomic 6-kb fragment was isolated and partially sequenced. Comparison of the nucleotide sequence of the genomic fragment and the cDNA clone revealed the presence of a coding region of 279 bp which is interrupted by two introns of 76 and 68 bp in length. In the promoter region, a typical TATA box, a motif resembling the fungal carbon catabolite repression element, as well as several putative GATA factor binding motifs, were found. Northern blot analysis indicated that the regulation of paf expression occurs at the level of mRNA transcription and is under control of carbon catabolite and nitrogen metabolite repression regulatory circuits."}
{"id": "8544085", "title": "Rapid detection and identification of pathogenic fungi by polymerase chain reaction amplification of large subunit ribosomal DNA.", "content": "Rapid detection and identification of pathogenic fungi by polymerase chain reaction amplification of large subunit ribosomal DNA. We describe a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) based approach to the detection and identification of pathogenic fungi which has potential for the diagnosis of systemic mycoses. Primers to sequences of the large subunit ribosomal DNA genes, which are universally conserved within the fungal kingdom, were capable of amplifying DNA from 43 strains representing 20 species (12 genera) of medically important fungi. Sequence analysis of the products obtained from Aspergillus fumigatus, Candida albicans and Cryptococcus neoformans allowed us to design species-specific primers which only amplified homologous DNA. The use of these two PCRs in tandem allows the detection (universal PCR) and identification (species-specific PCR) of a fungal pathogen within 8 h from simulated clinical specimens."}
{"id": "8534978", "title": "Cloning and nucleotide sequence of the ribonuclease T1 gene (rntA) from Aspergillus oryzae and its expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Cloning and nucleotide sequence of the ribonuclease T1 gene (rntA) from Aspergillus oryzae and its expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Aspergillus oryzae. A genomic DNA encoding ribonuclease (RNase) T1 from Aspergillus oryzae was cloned using a synthetic oligonucleotide probe. The cloned gene (designated rntA) encoded functional RNase T1, since an A. oryzae transformant with multiple copies of the rntA gene showed higher RNase T1 activity (over 200 times) than a transformant with a vector. A cDNA was cloned by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) with primers corresponding to the 5' terminus and 3' terminus of the reading frame of the rntA gene. Nucleotide sequencing analysis of both DNAs found that RNase T1 had a prepro-sequence consisting of 26 amino acids and the rntA gene had only one intron (114 bp) in the region encoding the signal sequence. The A. oryzae transformant with cDNA controlled by the amyB promoter also showed higher activity (over 300 times), indicating that the cloned cDNA encoded functional RNase T1. On the other hand, the Saccharomyces cerevisiae transformant with cDNA controlled by the GAL1 promoter could not grow on a medium containing galactose. These results suggests that A. oryzae may have a protection mechanism from RNase T1."}
{"id": "8521952", "title": "Cre1, the carbon catabolite repressor protein from Trichoderma reesei.", "content": "Cre1, the carbon catabolite repressor protein from Trichoderma reesei. In order to investigate the mechanism of carbon catabolite repression in the industrially important fungus Trichoderma reesei, degenerated PCR-primers were designed to amplify a 0.7-bp fragment of the cre1 gene, which was used to clone the entire gene. It encodes a 402-amino acid protein with a calculated M(r) of 43.6 kDa. Its aa-sequence shows 55.6% and 54.7% overall similarity to the corresponding genes of Aspergillus nidulans and A. niger, respectively. Similarity was restricted to the aa-region containing the C2H2 zinc finger and several aa-regions rich in proline and basic amino acids, which may be involved in the interaction with other proteins. Another aa-region rich in the SPXX-motif that has been considered analogous to a region of yeast RGR1p, was instead identified as a domain occurring in several eucaryotic transcription factors. The presence of the cre1 translation product was demonstrated with polyclonal antibodies against Cre1, which identified a protein of 43 (+/- 2) kDa in cell-free extracts from T. reesei. A Cre1 protein fragment from the two zinc fingers to the region similar to the aa-sequence of eucaryotic transcription factors, was expressed in Escherichia coli as a fusion protein with glutathione S-transferase. EMSA and in vitro footprinting revealed binding of the fusion protein to the sequence 5'-GCGGAG-3', which matches well with the A. nidulans consensus sequence for CreA binding (5'-SYGGRG-3'). Cell-free extracts of T. reesei formed different complexes with DNA-fragments carrying this binding sites, and the presence of Cre1 and additional proteins in these complexes was demonstrated. We conclude that T. reesei Cre1 is the functional homologue of Aspergillus CreA and that it binds to its target sequence probably as a protein complex."}
{"id": "8520125", "title": "The nitrate reductase gene from a shoyu koji mold, Aspergillus oryzae KBN616.", "content": "The nitrate reductase gene from a shoyu koji mold, Aspergillus oryzae KBN616. A niaD gene encoding nitrate reductase was isolated from Aspergillus oryzae KBN616 and sequenced. The structural gene comprises 2973 bp and 868 amino acids, which showed a high degree of similarity to nitrate reductases from other filamentous fungi. The coding sequence is interrupted by six introns varying in size from 48 to 98 bp. The intron positions are all conserved among the niaD genes from A. oryzae, Aspergillus nidulans, and Aspergillus niger. A homologous transformation system was developed for an industrial shoyu koji mold, A. oryzae KBN616, based on the nitrate reductase (niaD) of the nitrate assimilation pathway."}
{"id": "7887625", "title": "Sequence variability in homologs of the aflatoxin pathway gene aflR distinguishes species in Aspergillus section Flavi.", "content": "Sequence variability in homologs of the aflatoxin pathway gene aflR distinguishes species in Aspergillus section Flavi. The Aspergillus parasiticus aflR gene, a gene that may be involved in the regulation of aflatoxin biosynthesis, encodes a putative zinc finger DNA-binding protein. PCR and sequencing were used to examine the presence of aflR homologs in other members of Aspergillus Section Flavi. The predicted amino acid sequences indicated that the same zinc finger domain, CTSCASSKVRCTKEKPACARCIERGLAC, was present in all of the Aspergillus sojae, Aspergillus flavus, and Aspergillus parasiticus isolates examined and in some of the Aspergillus oryzae isolates examined. Unique base substitutions and a specific base deletion were found in the 5' untranslated and zinc finger region; these differences provided distinct fingerprints. A. oryzae and A. flavus had the T-G-A-A-X-C fingerprint, whereas A. parasiticus and A sojae had the C-C-C-C-C-T fingerprint at the corresponding positions. Specific nucleotides at positions -90 (C or T) and -132 (G or A) further distinguished A. flavus from A. oryzae and A. parasiticus from A. sojae, respectively. A sojae ATCC 9362, which was previously designated A. oryzae NRRL 1988, was determined to be a A. sojae strain on the basis of the presence of the characteristic fingerprint, A-C-C-C-C-C-C-T. The DNAs of other members of Aspergillus Section Flavi, such as Aspergillus nomius and Aspergillus tamarii, and some isolates of A. oryzae appeared to exhibit low levels of similarity to the A. parasiticus aflR gene since low amounts of PCR products or no PCR products were obtained when DNAs from these strains were used."}
{"id": "7883176", "title": "Cloning and characterization of a novel polygalacturonase-encoding gene from Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of a novel polygalacturonase-encoding gene from Aspergillus parasiticus. Pectinases produced by Aspergillus flavus and A. parasiticus are believed to play a significant role in the ability of these fungi to spread in cotton bolls and other crops. Utilizing a DNA probe, generated by PCR, of the Aspergillus niger pgaII gene, we have isolated a novel, constitutively expressed polygalacturonase (PG)-encoding gene (pecA) from an A. parasiticus cDNA library. DNA sequence analysis and the deduced amino acid (aa) sequence of pecA demonstrated significant identity at the nucleotide and aa levels with other PG of fungal origin. Northern blot analysis of RNA isolated from A. parasiticus grown on either glucose or pectin as the sole carbon source showed that pecA was expressed during growth in both media."}
{"id": "7854320", "title": "A multigene family related to chitin synthase genes of yeast in the opportunistic pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "A multigene family related to chitin synthase genes of yeast in the opportunistic pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus. Two approaches were used to isolate fragments of chitin synthase genes from the opportunistic human pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus. Firstly, regions of amino acid conservation in chitin synthases of Saccharomyces cerevisiae were used to design degenerate primers for amplification of portions of related genes, and secondly, a segment of the S. cerevisiae CSD2 gene was used to screen an A. fumigatus lambda genomic DNA library. the polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based approach led to the identification of five different genes, designated chsA, chsB, chsC, chsD and chsE. chsA, chsB, and chsC fall into Classes I, II and III of the 'zymogen type' chitin synthases, respectively. The chsD fragment has approximately 35% amino acid sequence identity to both the zymogen type genes and the non-zymogen type CSD2 gene. chsF appears to be a homologue of CSD2, being 80% identical to CSD2 over 100 amino acids. An unexpected finding was the isolation by heterologous hybridization of another gene (chsE), which also has strong sequence similarity (54% identity at the amino acid level over the same region as chsF) to CSD2. Reverse transcriptase-PCR was used to show that each gene is expressed during hyphal growth in submerged cultures."}
{"id": "7793959", "title": "Differentiation of Aspergillus parasiticus from Aspergillus sojae by random amplification of polymorphic DNA.", "content": "Differentiation of Aspergillus parasiticus from Aspergillus sojae by random amplification of polymorphic DNA. Aspergillus parasiticus and Aspergillus sojae are two morphologically similar species belonging to the Aspergillus section flavi. A new method to distinguish the two species, the aflatoxin producer A. parasiticus and the koji mold A. sojae, was developed. Single primers with arbitrary sequences were used to generate random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) markers from strains of these two species. Three decamers, OPA-04, OPB-10, and OPR-01, allowed adequate discrimination between strains of A. parasiticus and A. sojae in RAPD analyses. A. sojae was further separated into group I and group II with the three primers. On the other hand, A. parasiticus was divided into group A and group B when amplified with OPA-04 and OPR-10 primers. The previously misidentified stain CCRC 32423 and the misclassified strain CCRC 30227 were identified as Aspergillus flavus and A. sojae, respectively, on the basis of RAPD patterns and morphological characteristics. We suggest that the RAPD technique is a rapid and reliable tool to distinguish A. parasiticus from A. sojae."}
{"id": "7789808", "title": "A mutualistic fungal symbiont of perennial ryegrass contains two different pyr4 genes, both expressing orotidine-5'-monophosphate decarboxylase.", "content": "A mutualistic fungal symbiont of perennial ryegrass contains two different pyr4 genes, both expressing orotidine-5'-monophosphate decarboxylase. A fragment of the Claviceps purpurea pyr4 gene, encoding orotidine-5'-monophosphate decarboxylase (OMP decarboxylase), was used to screen a genomic library from an isolate of a fungus, Acremonium sp. (designated Lp1), which grows as an endophyte in perennial ryegrass (Lolium perenne). Three positive clones, lambda MC11, lambda MC12 and lambda MC14, were isolated. Two of these clones, lambda MC12 and lambda MC14, were overlapping clones from the same locus, while lambda MC11 was from a different locus. Fragments of these clones which hybridised with C. purpurea pyr4 were sequenced and found to have similarity with pyr4 from other Pyrenomycete fungi. The pyr4 gene from lambda MC12 and lambda MC14 was designated pyr4-1 and that from lambda MC11 was designated pyr4-2. The predicted ORFs of the two genes were highly conserved, with 97.5% identity at the nucleotide level, the 5' non-coding sequences were the least conserved with 88.5% identity and the 3' non-coding sequences had 93.0% identity. RT-PCR analysis of total RNA from Lp1 demonstrated that transcripts from the two genes were present at similar levels, and hybridisation of pyr4-1 to Northern blots of total RNA from Lp1 showed that full-length transcripts were being produced. Genomic fragments containing pyr4 were transformed into a strain of Aspergillus nidulans which has a mutation in pyrG (encoding OMP decarboxylase). Both pyr4-1 and pyr4-2 complemented the pyrG mutation in A. nidulans, indicating that both encode functional OMP decarboxylases. It has been proposed [Schardl et al., Genetics 136 (1994) 1307-1317] that the two pyr4 in Lp1 arose by interspecific hybridisation, most likely between the ryegrass choke pathogen, Epichlo\u00eb typhina, and another endophyte from perennial ryegrass, Acremonium lolii. Analysis by PCR amplification and direct sequencing of the variable 5' non-coding regions of pyr4, from possible ancestors to Lp1 supports this hypothesis. Comparisons of these sequences to the 5' non-coding sequences from pyr4-1 and pyr4-2 demonstrated that E. typhina and A. lolii were the most likely ancestors of the two pyr4 found in Lp1."}
{"id": "7770039", "title": "Polarity of meiotic gene conversion is 5' to 3' within the niaD gene of Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Polarity of meiotic gene conversion is 5' to 3' within the niaD gene of Aspergillus nidulans. We have examined polarity of meiotic gene conversion in the niiA-niaD gene cluster of Aspergillus nidulans in two-point crosses. The type and position of the mutations represented by the niaD alleles and the correlation between the relative frequency of gene conversion and the physical position of these mutations were determined. We show that polarity of meiotic gene conversion is 5' to 3' (transcribed strand) within the niaD gene. Additional crosses involving a niiA allele and a niaD allele show little polarity of gene conversion, which suggests that the recombination events leading to restoration of the niaD gene are initiated upstream of the coding region of the niaD gene but within the niiA-niaD gene cluster, possibly within the intergenic promoter region."}
{"id": "7747954", "title": "Development of primer sets designed for use with the PCR to amplify conserved genes from filamentous ascomycetes.", "content": "Development of primer sets designed for use with the PCR to amplify conserved genes from filamentous ascomycetes. We constructed nine sets of oligonucleotide primers on the basis of the results of DNA hybridization of cloned genes from Neurospora crassa and Aspergillus nidulans to the genomes of select filamentous ascomycetes and deuteromycetes (with filamentous ascomycete affiliations). Nine sets of primers were designed to amplify segments of DNA that span one or more introns in conserved genes. PCR DNA amplification with the nine primer sets with genomic DNA from ascomycetes, deuteromycetes, basidiomycetes, and plants revealed that five of the primer sets amplified a product only from DNA of the filamentous ascomycetes and deuteromycetes. The five primer sets were constructed from the N. crassa genes for histone 3, histone 4, beta-tubulin, and the plasma membrane ATPase. With these five primer sets, polymorphisms were observed in both the size of and restriction enzyme sites in the amplified products from the filamentous ascomycetes. The primer sets described here may provide useful tools for phylogenetic studies and genome analyses in filamentous ascomycetes and deuteromycetes (with ascomycete affiliations), as well as for the rapid differentiation of fungal species by PCR."}
{"id": "7729421", "title": "The sequence and binding specificity of UaY, the specific regulator of the purine utilization pathway in Aspergillus nidulans, suggest an evolutionary relationship with the PPR1 protein of Saccharomyces cerevisiae.", "content": "The sequence and binding specificity of UaY, the specific regulator of the purine utilization pathway in Aspergillus nidulans, suggest an evolutionary relationship with the PPR1 protein of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The uaY gene codes for a transcriptional activator mediating the induction of a number of unlinked genes involved in purine utilization in Aspergillus nidulans. Here we present the complete genomic and cDNA nucleotide sequence of this gene. The gene contains two introns. The derived polypeptide of 1060 residues contains a typical zinc binuclear cluster domain and shows a number of similarities with the PPR1 regulatory gene of Saccharomyces cerevisiae. These similarities are most striking in the putative linker and dimerization regions following the zinc cluster. Gel-shift and DNase I footprinting experiments have been carried out for three genes subject to UaY-mediated induction. The binding sequence is 5'-TCGG-6X-CCGA, which is identical to the proposed PPR1 binding sites. Nevertheless, the identity of the base immediately 3' of the 5'-TCGG sequence clearly affects the affinity of the site. The site upstream of the uapA gene has been shown to be active in vivo. Binding to this site has been analysed by a number of interference techniques. There is an interesting chemical similarity between the co-inducer of the purine utilization pathway (uric acid) and that of the genes of the pyrimidine biosynthetic pathway (dihydroorotic acid) and we show that dihydroorotic acid can act as a poor inducer of at least one activity under UaY control. These striking similarities, together with the unique pattern of regulation of pyrimidine biosynthesis in S. cerevisiae, suggest that PPR1 evolved through recruitment into the pyrimidine biosynthetic pathway of an ancestral gene related to uaY."}
{"id": "7699073", "title": "Phylogeny and PCR identification of the human pathogenic fungus Penicillium marneffei.", "content": "Phylogeny and PCR identification of the human pathogenic fungus Penicillium marneffei. The phylogenetic position of the human pathogenic fungus Penicillium marneffei was assessed from the nucleotide sequences of the nuclear and mitochondrial ribosomal DNA regions. Phylogenetic analysis determined that P. marneffei is closely related to species of Penicillium subgenus Biverticillium and sexual Talaromyces species with asexual biverticillate Penicillium states. Knowledge of the phylogenetic position of P. marneffei facilitated the design of unique oligonucleotide primers, from the nuclear ribosomal DNA internal transcribed spacer region, for the specific amplification of P. marneffei DNA. These primers were successful at selectively amplifying DNA from six isolates of P. marneffei and excluding the other species tested, which included Penicillium subgenus Biverticillium and Talaromyces species and several well-known fungal pathogens, namely, Aspergillus fumigatus, Coccidioides immitis, Histoplasma capsulatum, and Pneumocystis carinii. The primers that we have developed for the specific amplification of P. marneffei have the potential to be incorporated in a PCR identification system which could be used for the identification of this pathogenic agent from clinical material."}
{"id": "7672126", "title": "The MIG1 repressor from Kluyveromyces lactis: cloning, sequencing and functional analysis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.", "content": "The MIG1 repressor from Kluyveromyces lactis: cloning, sequencing and functional analysis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Sequence comparisons between Saccharomyces cerevisiae ScMig1 and Aspergillus nidulans CREA proteins allowed us to design two sets of degenerate primers from the conserved zinc finger loops. PCR amplification on Kluyveromyces marxianus and K. lactis genomic DNA yielded single products with sequences closely related to each other and to the corresponding regions of ScMig1 and CREA. The KIMIG1 gene of K. lactis was cloned from a genomic library using the K. marxianus PCR fragment as probe. KIMIG1 encodes a 474-amino acid protein 55% similar to ScMig1. Besides their highly conserved zinc fingers, the two proteins display short conserved motifs of possible significance in glucose repression. Heterologous complementation of a mig1 mutant of S. cerevisiae by the K. lactis gene demonstrates that the function of the Mig1 protein is conserved in these two distantly related yeasts."}
{"id": "7650207", "title": "Cloning and nucleotide sequence of a specific DNA fragment from Paracoccidioides brasiliensis.", "content": "Cloning and nucleotide sequence of a specific DNA fragment from Paracoccidioides brasiliensis. We cloned and sequenced a species-specific 110-bp DNA fragment from Paracoccidioides brasiliensis. The DNA fragment was generated by PCR with primers complementary to the rat beta-actin gene under a low annealing temperature. Comparison of the nucleotide sequence, after excluding the primers, with those in the GenBank database identified approximately 60% homology with an exon of a major surface glycoprotein gene from Pneumocystis carinii and a fragment of unknown function in Saccharomyces cerevisiae chromosome VIII. By Southern hybridization analysis, the 32P-labelled fragment detected 1.0- and 1.9-kb restriction fragments within whole-cell genomic DNA of P. brasiliensis digested with HindIII and PstI, respectively, but failed to hybridize to genomic DNAs from Candida albicans, Blastomyces dermatitidis, Cryptococcus neoformans, Aspergillus fumigatus, Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Pneumocystis carinii, rat tissue, or humans under low-stringency hybridization conditions. Additionally, the specific DNA fragment from three different P. brasiliensis isolates (Pb18, RP18, RP17) was amplified by PCR with primers mostly complementary to nonactin sequences of the 110-bp DNA fragment. In contrast, there were no amplified products from other fungus genomic DNAs previously tested, including Histoplasma capsulatum. To date, this is the first species-specific DNA fragment cloned from P. brasiliensis which might be useful as a diagnostic marker for the identification and classification of different P. brasiliensis isolates."}
{"id": "7650194", "title": "Comparison of three typing methods for clinical and environmental isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Comparison of three typing methods for clinical and environmental isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus. To evaluate procedures used for epidemiologic analysis of outbreaks of aspergillosis, we analyzed a collection of 35 Aspergillus fumigatus isolates using three typing methods: isoenzyme analysis (IEA), random amplified polymorphic DNA (RAPD) analysis, and restriction endonuclease analysis (REA). Twenty-one isolates were from a single hospital, with four isolates coming from different patients. Three clinical isolates came from a different hospital, and 11 clinical or environmental isolates were derived from a culture collection. With IEA, the patterns of alkaline phosphatase, esterase, and catalase discriminated nine types. In contrast, 22 types were obtained with five different RAPD primers, and 21 types could be detected with three of these (R108, R151, and UBC90). Restriction endonuclease analysis of genomic DNA, digested with either XbaI, XhoI, or SalI, detected 3, 17, and 13 different REA types, respectively, and 22 types were identified by combining the data from the XhoI and SalI REAs. Twenty-eight types were obtainable with a combination of REA, IEA, and RAPD patterns. Overall, the results pointed to substantial genetic variation among the isolates. Though two isolates had markedly distinct genotypes, their morphologic features and exoantigens were consistent with their being A. fumigatus. The analysis will help in planning epidemiologic studies of aspergillosis."}
{"id": "7646819", "title": "Cloning and characterization of the NADPH cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase gene from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of the NADPH cytochrome P450 oxidoreductase gene from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus niger. In this paper, we describe the cloning and molecular characterization of the Aspergillus niger cytochrome P450 reductase (CPR) gene, cprA. Attempts to clone the cprA gene by heterologous hybridization techniques were unsuccessful. Using the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with degenerate primers based on conserved regions found in cpr genes from other organisms, we were able to isolate a fragment that contained part of the gene. With the aid of this fragment, a genomic fragment containing the entire coding region and 5' and 3' untranslated ends of the cprA gene was isolated and sequenced. The cprA gene was introduced in multiple copies in A. niger strain N402 using the amdS transformation system. One of the resulting transformants, AB2-2, showed a 14-fold increase in CPR activity, indicating that the cloned cprA gene is functional. We analyzed the induction of cprA gene expression by several generally used cytochrome P450 inducers but did not find any induction of cprA gene expression. However, A. niger cprA gene expression could be induced by benzoic acid, which is the substrate of the highly inducible A. niger cytochrome P450 gene, bphA (cyp53). On the basis of a comparison of the deduced protein sequence of the A. niger cprA gene with CPR proteins isolated from other organisms, the structure-function relationship of some conserved regions is discussed."}
{"id": "7619488", "title": "Non-grinding method of DNA isolation from human pathogenic filamentous fungi using xanthogenates.", "content": "Non-grinding method of DNA isolation from human pathogenic filamentous fungi using xanthogenates."}
{"id": "7616678", "title": "[Evaluation of respiratory tract disease accompanying malignant lymphoma in the elderly].", "content": "[Evaluation of respiratory tract disease accompanying malignant lymphoma in the elderly]. We studied the usefulness of bronchoscopy in the diagnosis of pulmonary complications in elderly patients with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (NHL). The subjects were 12 patients 65 or older with NHL. Two of these patients underwent transbronchial lung biopsies (TBLB), all of them underwent bronchiolavage (BAL) and 2 with tumors underwent transbronchial biopsies of the tumors. Diagnosis was obtained in 8 out of 12 patients (66.7%). Two patients showed infiltration of lymphoma cells, 2 had cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection, 1 had pneumocystosis (P. carinii), 2 had fungal infections and 1 had a bacterial infection. TBLB was performed in 2 patients with platelet counts of over 5 x 10(4)/microliters. Lymphoma cell infiltration was diagnosed in one of these patients and a fungal infection in the other. BAL was performed on all patients. CMV was detected in 2 cases by the PCR method, P. carinii was detected in 1 case and aspergillus in 1 case. Klebsiella pneumonia was diagnosed in 1 patient. Since respiratory tract complications are often serious in NHL and the prognosis depends on early diagnosis and treatment, it is important to perform bronchoscopy on elderly patients and obtain a definitive diagnosis."}
{"id": "7615723", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus species DNA in bronchoalveolar lavage samples by competitive PCR.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus species DNA in bronchoalveolar lavage samples by competitive PCR. A competitive PCR assay involving the use of bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) samples for the diagnosis of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) was developed. For this purpose, a 1-kb mitochondrial DNA fragment of Aspergillus fumigatus was sequenced. The primers used allowed amplification of A. fumigatus, A. flavus, A. terreus, and A. niger DNAs but not DNAs of other fungi and yeasts. BAL samples from 55 consecutively enrolled patients were tested. Three samples were excluded because of failure of correct amplification of the internal competitive control. Of 28 immunocompromised patients, 6 were PCR positive; 3 died of IPA and their BAL cultures yielded A. fumigatus; and 3 were culture negative and did not develop IPA. Of 15 human immunodeficiency virus-positive patients and 9 immunocompetent patients, 5 and 4, respectively, were both PCR positive and culture negative, and none developed aspergillosis. Thus, PCR confirmed IPA in three patients but gave positive results for 25% (12 of 49) of the patients who did not develop aspergillosis. The predictive value of PCR-positive results seems low for patients at risk for aspergillosis. Moreover, the risk of contamination of reaction buffers or biological samples with Aspergillus conidia seems high and has to be weighed in regard to the potential diagnostic benefit of PCR testing as a routine procedure."}
{"id": "7612216", "title": "Molecular cloning, expression and evaluation of phosphohydrolases for phytate-degrading activity.", "content": "Molecular cloning, expression and evaluation of phosphohydrolases for phytate-degrading activity. Four acid phosphatase (phosphomonoesterase E.C.3.1.3.2) genes were cloned by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). These were pho3, pho5 and pho11 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae and the gene for a phosphate-respressible acid phosphatase from Aspergillus niger. The individual genes were subcloned into an A. oryzae expression vector downstream from a starch-inducible alpha-amylase promoter and the resulting expression constructs were transformed into a mutant strain of A. oryzae, AO7. Southern hybridization analysis confirmed that the acid phosphatase genes had been integrated into the host genome with estimates of integrated copy numbers ranging from 2 to 20 for individual transformants. Northern hybridization analysis of total RNA from individual transformants revealed the presence of a single transcript of the expected size of 1.8 kb. Production of recombinant protein was induced by the addition of 30 g L-1 of soluble starch in the fermentation media. Active acid phosphatases, not present in control cultures, were detected in the supernatant fractions of transformant cultures by acid phosphatase activity staining of non-denaturing polyacrylamide gels. The ability of the recombinant acid phosphatases to hydrolyze phytate was assessed by referenced phytase (myoinositol hexakisphosphate phosphohydrolase E.C. 3.1.3.8) activity assay procedures. A two- to six-fold increase in phytase activity was measured in transformants compared to control, untransformed A. oryzae. Sufficient quantities of A. niger and pho5 recombinant acid phosphatases were generated from large-scale fermentations to assess the efficacy of these enzymes as phytate-degrading enzymes when included in poultry diets.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7600378", "title": "Lack of association between HLA-DQ and -DR genotypes and asthma in southern Chinese patients.", "content": "Lack of association between HLA-DQ and -DR genotypes and asthma in southern Chinese patients. Asthma is an inflammatory disease with a strong genetic predisposition. We have studied a group of unrelated asthmatic patients of southern Chinese origin on their HLA-DR and -DQ regions using molecular techniques and compared them with 104 healthy controls of the same ethnic origin. Restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) was used to genotype the MHC class II DR beta, DQ alpha and DQ beta loci of the subjects. Polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using sequence specific primer (SSP) for DQ beta genes was also performed. No significant difference was found in the HLA-DQ and -DR loci between the patients and the controls. All patients had their serum IgE antibody levels measured, bronchial reactivity assessed by histamine broncho-provocation and cutaneous reactivity to common allergens determined by skin-prick tests to Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus, Dermatophagoides farinae, mixed grass pollens, Aspergillus fumigatus, cat fur and dog dander and they were classified respectively. The HLA-DR and -DQ genotypes of these subgroups of patients were compared. There was no significant difference among these subgroups of patients according to their serum IgE levels, the degree of bronchial reactivity and whether they were positive for the skin tests for the various allergens respectively. The results suggest that HLA-DQ and -DR genotypes are not associated with asthma in southern Chinese people."}
{"id": "7592973", "title": "Molecular cloning and characterization of a rhamnogalacturonan acetylesterase from Aspergillus aculeatus. Synergism between rhamnogalacturonan degrading enzymes.", "content": "Molecular cloning and characterization of a rhamnogalacturonan acetylesterase from Aspergillus aculeatus. Synergism between rhamnogalacturonan degrading enzymes. A rhamnogalacturonan acetylesterase (RGAE) was purified to homogeneity from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus aculeatus, and the NH2-terminal amino acid sequence was determined. Full-length cDNAs encoding the enzyme were isolated from an A. aculeatus cDNA library using a polymerase chain reaction-generated product as a probe. The 936-base pair rha1 cDNA encodes a 250-residue precursor protein of 26,350 Da, including a 17-amino acid signal peptide. The rha1 cDNA was overexpressed in Aspergillus oryzae, a filamentous fungus that does not possess RGAE activity, and the recombinant enzyme was purified and characterized. Mass spectrometry of the native and recombinant RGAE revealed that the enzymes are heterogeneously glycosylated. In addition, the observed differences in their molecular masses, lectin binding patterns, and monosaccharide compositions indicate that the glycan moieties on the two enzymes are structurally different. The RGAE was shown to act in synergy with rhamnogalacturonase A as well as rhamnogalacturonase B from A. aculeatus in the degradation of apple pectin rhamnogalacturonan. RNA gel blot analyses indicate that the expression of rhamnogalacturonan degrading enzymes by A. acculeatus is regulated at the level of transcription and is subjected to carbon catabolite repression by glucose."}
{"id": "7592391", "title": "Characterization of the polyketide synthase gene (pksL1) required for aflatoxin biosynthesis in Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "Characterization of the polyketide synthase gene (pksL1) required for aflatoxin biosynthesis in Aspergillus parasiticus. Aflatoxins are potent toxic and carcinogenic compounds, produced by Aspergillus parasiticus and A. flavus as secondary metabolites. In this research, a polyketide synthase gene (pksL1), the key gene for aflatoxin biosynthesis initiation in A. parasiticus, has been functionally identified and molecularly characterized. PCR-derived DNA probes were used to find the pksL1 gene from subtracted, aflatoxin-related clones. Gene knockout experiments generated four pksL1 disruptants which lost both the ability to produce aflatoxins B1, B2, and G1 and the ability to accumulate norsolorinic acid and all other intermediates of the aflatoxin biosynthetic pathway. A pksL1 DNA probe detected a 6.6-kb poly(A)+ RNA transcript in Northern (RNA) hybridizations. This transcript, associated with aflatoxin production, exhibited a regulated expression that was influenced by growth phase, medium composition, and culture temperature. DNA sequencing of pksL1 revealed an open reading frame for a polypeptide (PKSL1) of 2,109 amino acids. Sequence analysis further recognized four functional domains in PKSL1, acyl carrier protein, beta-ketoacyl-acyl carrier protein synthase, acyltransferase, and thioesterase, all of which are usually present in polyketide synthases and fatty acid synthases. On the basis of these results, we propose that pksL1 encodes the polyketide synthase which synthesizes the backbone polyketide and initiates aflatoxin biosynthesis. In addition, the transcript of pksL1 exhibited heterogeneity at the polyadenylation site similar to that of plant genes."}
{"id": "7586033", "title": "Presence of a P1 bacteriophage sequence in transforming plasmids of Pleurotus ostreatus.", "content": "Presence of a P1 bacteriophage sequence in transforming plasmids of Pleurotus ostreatus. Replicative plasmids pP01 and pP02, recovered from Pleurotus ostreatus transformants, contain an insert of bacteriophage origin. These plasmids have been amplified by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and have been shown to represent a low-grade component in the initial preparation of the vector pAN7-1. The pP01 and pP02 plasmids share an insert (P01A) of virtual identity with a SmaI-BamHI genomic fragment of P 1 bacteriophage and retain remnants of a polylinker at the 5' end of this fragment. Such an insert undoubtedly represents an in vitro-generated event and did not arise, as suggested previously, by recombination of pAN7-1 with the P. ostreatus genome. The P. ostreatus transformants, however, do select for the minority pP0 plasmid, apparently recognizing the P01A insert as a heterologous or surrogate replicon."}
{"id": "7560970", "title": "Molecular typing of Aspergillus species.", "content": "Molecular typing of Aspergillus species. In the last four years, several molecular typing methods have been applied to various Aspergillus species, primarily A. fumigatus and A. niger. Many 'clones' or DNA types exist in the environment and in patients. The most discriminatory methods appear to be restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis with or without specific probes and random amplification of polymorphic DNA analysis. Insufficient work on interlaboratory reproducibility has been done. Most patients are infected by single DNA types, although occasionally multiple isolates are detected. Little work has been done with regard to detailed hospital epidemiology using molecular typing methods."}
{"id": "7557298", "title": "Molecular cloning and sequencing of the gene encoding an extracellular aspartic proteinase from Aspergillus fumigatus.", "content": "Molecular cloning and sequencing of the gene encoding an extracellular aspartic proteinase from Aspergillus fumigatus. Oligonucleotide primers based on conserved regions of the aspergillopepsins (EC 3.4.23.18) were used to PCR amplify a 650 bp segment of the gene encoding the extracellular aspartic proteinase (PEP) from Aspergillus Fumigatus. The segment was used as a probe for isolating and sequencing the gene from a genomic library of the fungus. Likewise the cDNA was amplified by reverse PCR, cloned and sequenced. The pep gene was found to consist of four exons encoding for 395 aa. The pre-proenzyme deduced has an N-terminal leader sequence of 70 aa preceding the sequence of the mature enzyme consisting of 325 aa with a calculated molecular mass of 34.4 kDa and an isoelectric point of 3.95. The N-terminal sequence of the mature enzyme matched the N-terminal aa sequence of PEP exactly. The nucleotide and the aa sequences of the pre-proenzyme were 70% and 71% homologous to the corresponding sequences of the aspergillopepsin from A. niger var. awamori. Southern analysis of digested genomic A. fumigatus DNA with a specific PCR probe suggested the presence of a single copy of the pep gene."}
{"id": "7548505", "title": "Epidemiology of fungal infections: the promise of molecular typing.", "content": "Epidemiology of fungal infections: the promise of molecular typing. As the incidence of invasive fungal disease-particularly nosocomial candidal infection-has increased significantly over the past two decades, molecular typing has become increasingly important for the development of rational infection-control measures and therapeutic strategies. Numerous molecular methods have been used to subtype Candida species, including restriction endonuclease analysis of genomic DNA, Southern hybridization analysis, pulsed-field gel electrophoresis, and polymerase chain reaction-based approaches. Increasingly, typing techniques are being applied to other fungal organisms as well. Although an ideal epidemiological typing technique applicable to a wide range of fungal pathogens is not yet available, several molecular-typing methods may permit rapid, simple, and sensitive discrimination of specific strains among the most clinically important species of fungi."}
{"id": "7501471", "title": "Two group I introns with a C.G basepair at the 5' splice-site instead of the very highly conserved U.G basepair: is selection post-translational?", "content": "Two group I introns with a C.G basepair at the 5' splice-site instead of the very highly conserved U.G basepair: is selection post-translational? In virtually all of the 200 group I introns sequenced thus far, the specificity of 5' splice-site cleavage is determined by a basepair between a uracil base at the end of the 5' exon and a guanine in an intron guide sequence which pairs with the nucleotides flanking the splice-site. It has been reported that two introns in the cytochrome oxidase subunit I gene of Aspergillus nidulans and Podospora anserina are exceptions to this rule and have a C.G basepair in this position. We have confirmed the initial reports and shown for one of them that RNA editing does not convert the C to a U. Both introns autocatalytically cleave the 5' splice-site. Mutation of the C to U in one intron reduces the requirement for Mg2+ and leads to an increase in the rate of cleavage. As the C base encodes a highly conserved amino acid, we propose that it is selected post-translationally at the level of protein function, despite its inferior splicing activity."}
{"id": "7500937", "title": "Structural analysis of PKS1, a polyketide synthase gene involved in melanin biosynthesis in Colletotrichum lagenarium.", "content": "Structural analysis of PKS1, a polyketide synthase gene involved in melanin biosynthesis in Colletotrichum lagenarium. Albino mutants (Pks-) of Colletotrichum lagenarium form nonmelanized appressoria and possess little penetrating ability on the host plant. The defect in albino mutant 79215 (Pks-) is considered to lie in pentaketide biosynthesis and/or pentaketide cyclization during melanin biosynthesis. The cosmid pAC7, carrying the PKS1 gene, when transformed into the albino mutant restores the wild-type melanin phenotype. We have determine the DNA sequence and the transcriptional organization of the PKS1 gene. The PKS1 gene contains one open reading frame, consisting of 3 exons separated by two short introns. The predicted PKS1 polypeptide consists of 2187 amino acids and shows significant similarities with other polyketide synthases, particularly that encoded by wA in Aspergillus nidulans, involved in conidial pigmentation. The PKS1 gene contains highly conserved beta-ketoacyl synthase, acetyl/malonyl transferase, and acyl carrier protein domains. We propose that the C. lagenarium PKS1 gene encodes a polyketide synthase involved in melanin biosynthesis."}
{"id": "7489900", "title": "Cloning and characterization of the cDNAs and genes (mep20) encoding homologous metalloproteinases from Aspergillus flavus and A. fumigatus.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of the cDNAs and genes (mep20) encoding homologous metalloproteinases from Aspergillus flavus and A. fumigatus. Aspergillus fumigatus (Afu) and A. flavus (Afl), two causative agents of invasive aspergillosis, produce highly homologous serine proteinases. In addition, the former produces a 42-kDa metalloproteinase (MEP), whereas the latter produces a 23-kDa MEP. The cDNA and the gene encoding the 42-kDa MEP were cloned and sequenced. Here, we report the cloning of the cDNA and the gene encoding the 23-kDa MEP from Afl and a homologous gene from the Afu. Using degenerate primers based on the amino acid (aa) sequence of A. oryzae (Ao) MEP and thermolysin-like proteinases, a 282-bp fragment of the 23-kDa MEP-encoding gene of Afl was cloned by PCR. A 6.5-kb KpnI fragment of Afl genomic DNA containing the complete gene was cloned. The open reading frame (ORF) in this gene encodes a protein of 381 aa. Since the mature enzyme from this and other aspergilli would have a theoretical molecular mass of about 20 kDa, this MEP-encoding gene is designated mep20. A Western blot of the protein in the culture filtrate of Afl with polyclonal antibodies prepared against the MEP showed a single band at 23 kDa. The N-terminal sequence of the extracellular MEP20, TKVAS, was found at aa 194-198 within the ORF. Thus, the primary translation product has a putative 19-aa signal and a pro region of 174 aa. A homologous gene cloned from a genomic DNA library of Afu showed an ORF encoding 365 aa. Comparison of the nucleotide (nt) sequences of the cDNAs cloned by RT-PCR with their respective genes showed that there are no introns in the ORF of mep20 in Afl, but there is a 59-bp intron in the gene from Afu. The MEP20 of Afl and Afu have 68% identity and show weak immunological cross reactivity. MEP20 from both these fungi share about 60% sequence identity with the penicillolysin of Penicillium citrinum and the neutral protease II of Ao. MEP20 of Afl and Afu show only the conserved sequence, HEFTHA, but not the two other conserved sequences seen in thermolysins and similar MEP."}
{"id": "8276189", "title": "Cholestatic hepatitis leading to hepatic failure in a patient with organ-transmitted hepatitis C virus infection.", "content": "Cholestatic hepatitis leading to hepatic failure in a patient with organ-transmitted hepatitis C virus infection. A 51-year-old heart transplant recipient who developed subfulminant hepatic failure because of organ-transmitted hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is described. He presented with a predominantly cholestatic liver damage after heart transplantation. An extensive evaluation, including abdominal ultrasound and computed tomography scan and endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography was unrevealing. Liver biopsy, however, was suggestive of a large duct obstruction with prominent portal and pericellular fibrosis, marked cholestasis, pericholangitis with marked ductular proliferation, and diffuse hepatocyte degeneration. Antibody to HCV (anti-HCV) was initially negative. He deteriorated in the ensuing 3 months. A repeat enzyme immunoassay-2 test for anti-HCV 4 months after initial presentation was weakly positive. Quantitation of serum HCV RNA by branched DNA assay revealed high level viremia, 547 x 10(6) genome equivalents per milliliter. Using in situ polymerase chain reaction, HCV RNA was detected in the cytoplasm in > 80% of the hepatocytes. The patient underwent interferon alfa therapy, and serum HCV RNA levels were reduced 20-fold after four doses. Unfortunately, the patient developed pulmonary aspergillosis and died. This case illustrates that in immunosuppressed patients anti-HCV is not a good marker for the diagnosis of HCV infection, and HCV can cause a progressive form of cholestatic liver disease mimicking a large duct obstruction."}
{"id": "8181749", "title": "The pectin lyase-encoding gene (pnl) family from Glomerella cingulata: characterization of pnlA and its expression in yeast.", "content": "The pectin lyase-encoding gene (pnl) family from Glomerella cingulata: characterization of pnlA and its expression in yeast. Oligodeoxyribonucleotide primers were designed from conserved amino acid (aa) sequences between pectin lyase D (PNLD) from Aspergillus niger and pectate lyases A and E (PELA/E) from Erwinia chrysanthemi. The polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was used with these primers to amplify genomic DNA from the plant pathogenic fungus Glomerella cingulata. Three different 220-bp fragments with homology to PNL-encoding genes from A. niger, and a 320-bp fragment with homology to PEL-encoding genes from Nicotiana tabacum and E. carotovora were cloned. One of the 220-bp PCR products (designated pnlA) was used as a probe to isolate a PNL-encoding gene from a lambda genomic DNA library prepared from G. cingulata. Nucleotide (nt) sequence data revealed that this gene has seven exons and codes for a putative 380-aa protein. The nt sequence of a cDNA clone, prepared using PCR, confirmed the presence of the six introns. The positions of the introns were different from the sites of the five introns present in the three PNL-encoding genes previously sequenced from A. niger. PNLA was synthesised in yeast by cloning the cDNA into the expression vector, pEMBLYex-4, and enzymatically active protein was secreted into the culture medium. Significantly higher expression was achieved when the context of the start codon, CACCATG, was mutated to CAAAATG, a consensus sequence commonly found in highly expressed yeast genes. The produced protein had an isoelectric point (pI) of 9.4, the same as that for the G. cingulata pnlA product.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8181725", "title": "A pyruvate decarboxylase gene from Aspergillus parasiticus.", "content": "A pyruvate decarboxylase gene from Aspergillus parasiticus. A gene encoding a putative pyruvate decarboxylase (EC 4.1.1.1) was isolated from a genomic library of the filamentous fungus Aspergillus parasiticus strain SU-1. The deduced amino acid sequence showed 37% homology to PDC1 from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Although A. parasiticus has an obligate growth requirement for oxygen, it produced ethanol in shake flask cultures indicating a response to anoxic conditions mediated by pyruvate decarboxylase."}
{"id": "8176723", "title": "Detection of a wide range of medically important fungi by the polymerase chain reaction.", "content": "Detection of a wide range of medically important fungi by the polymerase chain reaction. A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method was developed that was capable of detecting a wide range of medically important fungi from clinical specimens. The primer pair was designed in conserved sequences of 18S-ribosomal RNA genes shared by most fungi. The lower limit of detection of this PCR technique was 1 pg of Candida albicans genomic DNA by ethidium bromide staining and 100 fg after Southern analysis. A 687-bp product was amplified successfully by PCR from all 78 strains of 25 medically important fungal species studies, including Candida spp., Hansenula spp., Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Cryptococcus neoformans, Trichosporon beigelii, Malassezia furfur, Pneumocystis carinii, Aspergillus spp., and Penicillium spp., but not from any strains of Mucor spp., Escherichia coli, or methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), calf thymus or human placenta. This specificity was subsequently confirmed by Southern analysis. PCR analysis of blood specimens collected from mice systemically infected with C. albicans and clinical samples including blood, cerebrospinal fluid and sputum appeared to be a more sensitive diagnostic method for invasive fungal infections than a conventional blood culture technique."}
{"id": "8112588", "title": "Cloning and characterization of the pepD gene of Aspergillus niger which codes for a subtilisin-like protease.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of the pepD gene of Aspergillus niger which codes for a subtilisin-like protease. Serine proteases constitute an important group of extra- and intracellular proteases in fungi. These enzymes are characterized by conserved regions around the active site residues, Asp, His and Ser. Based on this amino acid (aa) sequence conservation, we have used degenerate primer PCR to isolate subtilisin-specific genomic probes from Aspergillus niger, and cloned a gene, pepD, by screening a lambda genomic library using a PCR probe. The pepD gene contains three putative introns, which are 51-, 47- and 55-bp long and has an open reading frame coding for a protein which consists of 416 aa. The deduced aa sequence shows similarity to subtilisin-like proteases, in particular to fungal alkaline proteases. Signal sequence cleavage prediction indicates that the first 20 aa are probably removed upon transfer to the endoplasmic reticulum. The conservation of the pro-enzyme cleavage site in fungal alkaline proteases suggests that the mature protein is derived from this polypeptide via the removal of an additional 101 aa, resulting in a mature 30,294-Da enzyme consisting of 295 aa."}
{"id": "8112585", "title": "Two novel deduced serine/threonine protein kinases from Saccharomyces cerevisiae.", "content": "Two novel deduced serine/threonine protein kinases from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We have cloned genes for two closely related protein kinase (PK) homologues from Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Sequence alignment of the kinase domain with previously characterized PK reveals the highest degree of similarity with second messenger-regulated kinases. RCK1 encodes a 58-kDa protein, and is weakly expressed. RCK2 encodes a 65-kDa protein, and transcripts from this gene are readily detected. RCK1 has been mapped to the L arm of chromosome VII, and RCK2 to chromosome XII. Disruption of these genes in the S. cerevisiae genome demonstrates that both genes are non-essential."}
{"id": "8065031", "title": "[Detection of Aspergillus fumigatus DNA by polymerase chain reaction in the clinical samples from individuals with pulmonary aspergillosis].", "content": "[Detection of Aspergillus fumigatus DNA by polymerase chain reaction in the clinical samples from individuals with pulmonary aspergillosis]. Aspergillosis is a disastrous cause of mortality and morbidity in patients in an immunocompromised state and old lung tuberculosis. However, the diagnosis of aspergillosis remains unsettled. In the present study, we developed a test to detect the Aspergillus fumigatus DNA using polymerase chain reaction (PCR) in clinical samples including sputum and bronchial aspirations from the patients with aspergillosis. We selected 2 pairs of oligonucleotide primers and the DNA for the small subunit ribosomal RNA of aspergillus fumigatus and they were significantly amplified. Although isolation of Aspergillus DNA may reflect contamination and colonization without infection, no aspergillus DNA was found in sputum or bronchial aspirations from the patients with lung cancer or interstitial lung diseases except a case of pulmonary fibrosis associated with rheumatoid arthritis chronically received 20 mg of corticosteroid. There was a 100% correlation between the culture results and the nested PCR results in the patients with pulmonary aspergillosis. These findings indicate that PCR detection of aspergillus fumigatus might be valuable for the diagnosis of aspergillosis."}
{"id": "8061323", "title": "Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 fusB gene, located outside of the str operon, encodes a polypeptide related to protein synthesis factor EF-G.", "content": "Synechocystis sp. PCC6803 fusB gene, located outside of the str operon, encodes a polypeptide related to protein synthesis factor EF-G. Synechocystis sp. PCC6803, a cyanobacterium, possesses an unusual gene (fusB) which encodes a protein with strong homology to protein synthesis elongation factor G (EF-G), although it is not linked to the classical str operon. The fusB gene is redundant, since a Synechocystis gene similar to str operon-encoded fusA genes of other bacteria is also present (based on PCR and hybridization results). There is no evidence for the presence of a fusB homologue in other bacteria. The Synechocystis fusB gene encodes unusual amino acids at some positions that are highly conserved in fusA genes of other prokaryotes."}
{"id": "7972490", "title": "Molecular analysis of two cDNA clones encoding acidic class I chitinase in maize.", "content": "Molecular analysis of two cDNA clones encoding acidic class I chitinase in maize. The cloning and analysis of two different cDNA clones encoding putative maize (Zea mays L.) chitinases obtained by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and cDNA library screening is described. The cDNA library was made from poly(A)+ RNA from leaves challenged with mercuric chloride for 2 d. The two clones, pCh2 and pCh11, appear to encode class I chitinase isoforms with cysteine-rich domains (not found in pCh11 due to the incomplete sequence) and proline-/glycine-rich or proline-rich hinge domains, respectively. The pCh11 clone resembles a previously reported maize seed chitinase; however, the deduced proteins were found to have acidic isoelectric points. Analysis of all monocot chitinase sequences available to date shows that not all class I chitinases possess the basic isoelectric points usually found in dicotyledonous plants and that monocot class II chitinases do not necessarily exhibit acidic isoelectric points. Based on sequence analysis, the pCh2 protein is apparently synthesized as a precursor polypeptide with a signal peptide. Although these two clones belong to class I chitinases, they share only about 70% amino acid homology in the catalytic domain region. Southern blot analysis showed that pCh2 may be encoded by a small gene family, whereas pCh11 was single copy. Northern blot analysis demonstrated that these genes are differentially regulated by mercuric chloride treatment. Mercuric chloride treatment caused rapid induction of pCh2 from 6 to 48 h, whereas pCh11 responded only slightly to the same treatment. During seed germination, embryos constitutively expressed both chitinase genes and the phytohormone abscisic acid had no effect on the expression. The fungus Aspergillus flavus was able to induce both genes to comparable levels in aleurone layers and embryos but not in endosperm tissue. Maize callus growth on the same plate with A. flavus for 1 week showed induction of the transcripts corresponding to pCh2 but not to pCh11. These studies indicate that the different chitinase isoforms in maize might have different functions in the plant, since they show differential expression patterns under different conditions."}
{"id": "7961884", "title": "Cloning and characterization of two structurally and functionally divergent rhamnogalacturonases from Aspergillus aculeatus.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of two structurally and functionally divergent rhamnogalacturonases from Aspergillus aculeatus. Two rhamnogalacturonases from the filamentous fungus Aspergillus aculeatus have been cloned and characterized. A cDNA library from A. aculeatus was constructed, and a novel rhamnogalacturonase B was isolated by expression cloning in yeast. For this purpose a new plate screening assay was developed, specific for the detection of rhamnogalacturonase activity. The rhamnogalacturonase A, known from previous reports, was shown not to be expressed in yeast in an active form. Therefore, rhamnogalacturonase A was purified, peptide sequences were obtained, and full-length cDNAs encoding the enzyme were isolated using a polymerase chain reaction-generated product as a probe. Comparison of the deduced primary structures indicates that the two rhamnogalacturonases are structurally different. This is further supported by the finding that polyclonal antibodies raised against native rhamnogalacturonase A do not cross-react with rhamnogalacturonase B. The cloned genes were transformed into Aspergillus oryzae for high level expression. The recombinant enzymes were purified and characterized, revealing significant differences in glycosylation pattern and substrate specificity as well as in pH and temperature optima and stability. Data from the hydrolysis of apple rhamnogalacturonan with the recombinant rhamnogalacturonases suggest that the two enzymes exert their action at different sites in the backbone."}
{"id": "7945306", "title": "Rescue of yeast defective in mitochondrial ATP synthase subunit 8 by a heterologous gene from Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Rescue of yeast defective in mitochondrial ATP synthase subunit 8 by a heterologous gene from Aspergillus nidulans. Mitochondrial ATP synthase subunit 8 of the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and of the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans have the same length and similar structural motifs. However, the two proteins share only 50% identical residues, with the conserved residues being concentrated in the N- and C-terminal domains. We have investigated whether it is amino acid sequence or overall structural motifs that are required for subunit 8 function. PCR was used to construct a gene encoding A. nidulans subunit 8 fused to an N-terminal cleavable mitochondrial targeting sequence. Following expression in the nucleus of a yeast strain deficient in subunit 8, the chimaeric precursor targeted the subunit 8 protein back to the mitochondrion. The A. nidulans subunit 8 was found to be able to restore growth on non-fermentable substrate at 18 degrees C and 28 degrees C, but not at 36 degrees C. Given the sequence divergence between subunit 8 of A. nidulans and that of S. cerevisiae, this finding suggests that common structural motifs are important for subunit 8 function."}
{"id": "7929762", "title": "General primer-mediated PCR for detection of Aspergillus species.", "content": "General primer-mediated PCR for detection of Aspergillus species. A PCR assay was developed for the diagnosis of invasive aspergillosis in immunocompromised patients. For this purpose, the complete nucleotide sequences of the genes encoding the 18S rRNA of Aspergillus nidulans, Aspergillus terreus, Aspergillus niger, and Aspergillus flavus were elucidated and aligned to the sequences of Aspergillus fumigatus and other clinically relevant prokaryotic and eukaryotic microorganisms. Genus-specific sequences could be identified in the V7 to V9 region of 18S rRNA. By using hot-start PCR, Southern blot hybridization, and restriction enzyme analysis, Aspergillus-specific and -sensitive determination was achieved. Five of six immunosuppressed mice experimentally infected with A. fumigatus developed infection, and rRNA could be detected in each case, even in livers with the absence of positive cultures. Aspergillus species were detected by PCR in four neutropenic patients with proven aspergillosis, although Aspergillus species had been isolated from only one bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) fluid sample. Aspergillus species were detected by PCR in two more patients suspected of having infection. Positive PCR signals were obtained from the BAL samples of 3 of 8 neutropenic patients who had developed pulmonary infiltrates, but none were obtained from the samples of 14 nonimmunosuppressed patients. These results indicate the potential value of PCR to detect Aspergillus species in BAL samples and, therefore, to identify neutropenic patients at risk for invasive aspergillosis."}
{"id": "7927700", "title": "HYP1, a hydrophobin gene from Aspergillus fumigatus, complements the rodletless phenotype in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "HYP1, a hydrophobin gene from Aspergillus fumigatus, complements the rodletless phenotype in Aspergillus nidulans. Aspergillus fumigatus produces conidia that are highly dispersable and resistant to degradation. We have sought to analyze these properties by studying the rodlets which form the outer spore coat protein. Degenerate primers based on hydrophobins in other fungi were applied to genomic DNA from A. fumigatus in PCR. A product of this reaction with similarity to an Aspergillus nidulans gene as judged by Southern hybridization was chosen for further study. Cloning and sequencing revealed a gene with two introns which encodes a protein of 159 amino acids. Structural characteristics consistent with those of other fungal hydrophobin genes, especially conserved cysteine residues, are present. The expression of the gene is limited to the developmental stages in which maturing conidiophores are present. This A. fumigatus gene, HYP1, was used to transform a mutant strain of A. nidulans that lacks rodlets. Transformants with a single copy of HYP1 expressed a rodlet layer on their conidia as observed by freeze-fracture electron microscopy."}
{"id": "7927676", "title": "Molecular cloning and sequencing of the cDNA and gene for a novel elastinolytic metalloproteinase from Aspergillus fumigatus and its expression in Escherichia coli.", "content": "Molecular cloning and sequencing of the cDNA and gene for a novel elastinolytic metalloproteinase from Aspergillus fumigatus and its expression in Escherichia coli. An extracellular elastinolytic metalloproteinase, purified from Aspergillus fumigatus isolated from an aspergillosis and patient/and an internal peptide derived from it were subjected to N-terminal sequencing. Oligonucleotide primers based on these sequences were used to PCR amplify a segment of the metalloproteinase cDNA, which was used as a probe to isolate the cDNA and gene for this enzyme. The gene sequence matched exactly with the cDNA sequence except for the four introns that interrupted the open reading frame. According to the deduced amino acid sequence, the metalloproteinase has a signal sequence and 227 additional amino acids preceding the sequence for the mature protein of 389 amino acids with a calculated molecular mass of 42 kDa, which is close to the size of the purified mature fungal proteinase. This sequence contains segments that matched both the N terminus of the mature protein and the internal peptide. A. fumigatus metalloproteinase contains some of the conserved zinc-binding and active-site motifs characteristic of metalloproteinases but shows no overall homology with known metalloproteinases. The cDNA of the mature protein when introduced into Escherichia coli directed the expression of a protein with a size, N-terminal sequence, and immunological cross-reactivity identical to those of the native fungal enzyme. Although the enzyme in the inclusion bodies could not be renatured, expression at 30 degrees C yielded soluble enzyme that showed chromatographic behavior identical to that of the native fungal enzyme and catalyzed hydrolysis of elastin. The metalloproteinase gene described here was not found in Aspergillus flavus."}
{"id": "7876668", "title": "[Detection of Candida albicans by nested PCR].", "content": "[Detection of Candida albicans by nested PCR]. A nested PCR assay was developed for the diagnosis of Candida albicans infection. A segment of the C. albicans beta-tubulin gene was amplified in this assay that was sensitive with the detection limit of 10 fg DNA of C. albicans. This assay was found to be specific by obtaining the negative results with 13 organisms (5 other Candida, 2 Cryptococcus, 3 Aspergillus, Escherichia coli and others). Cerebrospinal fluid of a patient with C. albicans meningitis was analyzed and was found to be positive. These results suggest that this assay can be clinically useful because of its high sensitivity, specificity and rapidity."}
{"id": "7823410", "title": "Specific detection of Aspergillus and Penicillium species from respiratory specimens by polymerase chain reaction (PCR).", "content": "Specific detection of Aspergillus and Penicillium species from respiratory specimens by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). A polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method capable of detecting both Aspergillus fumigatus infections, pulmonary non-fumigatus Aspergillus species (spp.) and Penicillium spp. from clinical specimens was established. The primer pair was designed on the basis of the sequence of the 18S-ribosomal RNA gene of A. fumigatus and P. notatum. A 385 bp product was successfully amplified by this PCR method from all of 12 medically important Aspergillus spp. and Penicillium spp. (38 strains), but not from human, calf, Escherichia coli, methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA), any of 14 medically important yeastlike fungal species tested (32 strains) including Candida albicans, several non-albicans Candida and Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Cryptococcus neoformans, Mucor spp. or Pneumocystis carinii. This specificity was subsequently confirmed by Southern hybridization analysis. The established PCR can detect such a small amount as 1 pg of A. fumigatus DNA by staining the PCR product with ethidium bromide. With sputum specimens from clinically diagnosed aspergilloma patients, this PCR technique was demonstrated to be a more sensitive diagnostic method for Aspergillus infections than conventional culture techniques."}
{"id": "7811072", "title": "PCR primers that allow intergeneric differentiation of ascomycetes and their application to Verticillium spp.", "content": "PCR primers that allow intergeneric differentiation of ascomycetes and their application to Verticillium spp. A pair of conserved PCR primers, designated NMS1 and NMS2, that amplify a region in the mitochondrial small rRNA gene region were designed for fungi belonging to the class Ascomycetes. These primers were tested with members of eight fungal genera (Aspergillus, Fusarium, Magnaporthe, Mycospharella, Neurospora, Saccharomyces, Sclerotinia, Verticillium) and 10 Verticillium species (Verticillium albo-atrum, Verticillium chlamydosporium, Verticillium cinnebarium, Verticillium dahliae, Verticillium fungicola, Verticillium lecanii, Verticillium lateritium, Verticillium nigrescens, Verticillium psaliotae, and Verticillium tricorpus). The primers were also tested with 35 isolates of V. dahliae obtained from diverse geographic areas and diverse hosts. The results of a restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis of the region amplified by the primers differentiated the genera examined and the results of a DNA sequence analysis of the amplified region differentiated the Verticillium species. Two Fusarium species were also differentiated by the results of the restriction fragment length polymorphism analysis. On the basis of the nucleotide sequences of the amplified regions, we obtained a pair of PCR primers that could be used to differentiate V. dahliae from the other fungal isolates tested, including V. albo-atrum, a closely related plant-pathogenic species. The V. dahliae-specific PCR primer may aid in more rapid and specific detection of the pathogen directly in plant and/or soil samples. PCR primers NMS1 and NMS2 may be used as potential mitochondrial markers for studying fungal cytoplasmic inheritance of ascomycetes and for identifying DNA probes that are informative at or below the genus level."}
{"id": "7765794", "title": "Purification and molecular characterization of a soybean polygalacturonase-inhibiting protein.", "content": "Purification and molecular characterization of a soybean polygalacturonase-inhibiting protein. A polygalacturonase-inhibiting protein (PGIP) was detected in soybean (Glycine max (L.) Merr.) seedlings. The protein was purified from germinating seeds and appeared to consist of at least three components with very close molecular weights (between 37 and 40 kDa) but each showing a unique N-terminal sequence. Primers specific for N-terminal and C-terminal nucleotide sequences of field bean (Phaseolus vulgaris L.) PGIP were used in a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) on soybean DNA, and only one amplification band was obtained. The amplified product was cloned and one of the PCR clones was sequenced. The nucleotide sequence comprises 942 bp with a single open reading frame which encodes a polypeptide of 313 amino-acid residues with a predicted molecular weight of 33984 Daltons and an isoelectric point of 8.21. Analysis of genome organization showed a single gene copy of PGIP with few related sequences, and wounding of soybean hypocotyls showed a strong induction of expression of the PGIP gene. The PGIP showed different activities toward three purified fungal endo-polygalacturonases (endo-PGs) (two endo-PGs from Sclerotinia sclerotiorum and one endo-PG from Aspergillus niger). A possible involvement of soybean PGIP in plant defence against fungal pathogens is discussed."}
{"id": "7765719", "title": "Isolation of a chitin synthase gene (chsC) of Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Isolation of a chitin synthase gene (chsC) of Aspergillus nidulans. We isolated a class I chitin synthase gene (chsC) from Aspergillus nidulans. Expression of this gene was confirmed by Northern analysis and by sequencing of the PCR-amplified DNA fragments from cDNA. chsC disruptants showed no difference of morphology in the asexual cycle and no difference of growth rate compared to a wild-type strain."}
{"id": "7764853", "title": "Cloning and nucleotide sequence of the alkaline protease gene from Fusarium sp. S-19-5 and expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.", "content": "Cloning and nucleotide sequence of the alkaline protease gene from Fusarium sp. S-19-5 and expression in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. We have cloned a genomic DNA encoding the alkaline protease (Alp) of Fusarium sp. S-19-5 from a genomic DNA library and sequenced the nucleotides. Complementary DNA encoding Alp was also isolated from the cDNA library after amplifying the gene by PCR using partial sequences of the Alp genomic DNA as primers. The Alp gene has an open reading frame of 1137 nucleotides containing three introns. A TATA box (TAAATA) was observed 112 base pairs upstream from the translation initiation codon in the 5'-non coding region. The Alp protein has a pre region consisting of 14 amino acids and a pro region of 85 amino acids preceding the mature region, which consists of 280 amino acids. The amino acid sequence of Fusarium Alp has 52% homology with that of Aspergillus oryzae and 51% homology with that of Acremonium chrysogenum. The entire cDNA encoding Fusarium Alp was introduced into Saccharomyces cerevisiae, which then secreted enzymatically active Alp into the culture medium."}
{"id": "8501211", "title": "Application of polymerase chain reaction to fingerprinting Aspergillus fumigatus by random amplification of polymorphic DNA.", "content": "Application of polymerase chain reaction to fingerprinting Aspergillus fumigatus by random amplification of polymorphic DNA. A new method for fingerprinting Aspergillus fumigatus by random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD) by using single primers with arbitrary sequences is described. Five primers were examined with 19 isolates from six patients with aspergilloma as well as with A. fumigatus NCPF 2109. Two of the primers (GCT GGT GG and GCG CAC GG, 5' to 3') gave adequate discrimination between isolates, generating five and six types, respectively. Combination of the results obtained with each of these two primers generated 12 types. This compares very favorably with immunoblot fingerprinting and XbaI-generated restriction fragment length polymorphisms on the same isolates. Typeability and reproducibility were good with RAPD, and RAPD was less labor-intensive than immunoblot fingerprinting. RAPD typing results suggested that aspergillomas sometimes contain isolates of more than one type."}
{"id": "8500876", "title": "Evidence for possible involvement of an elastolytic serine protease in aspergillosis.", "content": "Evidence for possible involvement of an elastolytic serine protease in aspergillosis. A number of isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus obtained from the hospital environment produced extracellular elastolytic activity. This activity was found to be catalyzed by a single 33-kDa protein which was purified and characterized to be a serine protease. A. fumigatus, when grown on the insoluble structural material obtained from murine and bovine lung, produced the same extracellular 33-kDa elastolytic protease, indicating that this enzyme is likely to be produced when the organism infects the lung. Polymerase chain reaction with an oligonucleotide primer based on the N-terminal amino acid sequence of the elastolytic enzyme yielded a cDNA which was cloned and sequenced. The active serine motif showed more similarity to subtilisin than to mammalian elastase. The amino acid sequence showed 80% identity to the alkaline protease from Aspergillus oryzae. Screening of hospital isolates of Aspergillus flavus showed great variation in the production of elastolytic activity and a much lower level of activity than that produced by A. fumigatus. The elastolytic protease from A. flavus was shown to be a serine protease susceptible to modification and inactivation by active serine and histidine-directed reagents. This protease cross-reacted with the antibodies prepared against the elastolytic protease from A. fumigatus. Immunogold localization of the elastolytic enzyme showed that A. fumigatus germinating and penetrating into the lungs of neutropenic mice secreted the elastolytic protease. An elastase-deficient mutant generated from a highly virulent isolate of A. fumigatus caused drastically reduced mortality when nasally introduced into the lung of neutropenic mice. All of the evidence suggests that extracellular elastolytic protease is a significant virulence factor in invasive aspergillosis."}
{"id": "8464724", "title": "Evolutionary conservation of excision repair in Schizosaccharomyces pombe: evidence for a family of sequences related to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD2 gene.", "content": "Evolutionary conservation of excision repair in Schizosaccharomyces pombe: evidence for a family of sequences related to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae RAD2 gene. Cells mutated at the rad13 locus in the fission yeast, Schizosaccharomyces pombe are deficient in excision-repair of UV damage. We have cloned the S.pombe rad13 gene by its ability to complement the UV sensitivity of a rad13 mutant. The gene is not essential for cell proliferation. Sequence analysis of the cloned gene revealed an open reading-frame of 1113 amino acids with structural homology to the RAD2 gene of the distantly related Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The sequence similarity is confined to three domains, two close to the N-terminus of the encoded protein, the third being close to the C-terminus. The central region of about 500 amino acids shows little similarity between the two organisms. The first and third domains are also found in a related yet distinct pair of homologous S.pombe/S.cerevisiae DNA repair genes (rad2/YKL510), which have only a very short region between these two conserved domains. Using the polymerase chain reaction with degenerate primers, we have isolated fragments from a gene homologous to rad13/RAD2 from Aspergillus nidulans. These findings define new functional domains involved in excision-repair, as well as identifying a conserved family of genes related to RAD2."}
{"id": "8458955", "title": "Detection of Aspergillus fumigatus by polymerase chain reaction.", "content": "Detection of Aspergillus fumigatus by polymerase chain reaction. Aspergillus fumigatus is an opportunistic nosocomial pathogen causing an often fatal pneumonia, invasive aspergillosis (IA), in immunosuppressed patients. Oligonucleotide primers were used to amplify a 401-bp fragment spanning the 26S/intergenic spacer region of the rDNA complex of A. fumigatus by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). The primers were highly sensitive and specific: as little as 1 pg of A. fumigatus genomic DNA could be detected, and the primers only amplified DNA from A. fumigatus and not any other fungal, bacterial, viral, or human DNA tested. Using the PCR, we were able to detect A. fumigatus DNA in lung homogenates from immunosuppressed mice experimentally infected with A. fumigatus but not from immunosuppressed uninfected controls. There was 93% correlation between the culture results and the PCR results. In a retrospective clinical study, the sensitivity of the PCR for the detection of A. fumigatus in clinical samples was confirmed by positive amplification in three of three culture-positive respiratory samples from confirmed cases of IA. Because isolation of Aspergillus spp. may reflect contamination and colonization without infection, the feasibility of using the PCR was evaluated by analyzing culture-negative samples from both immunosuppressed patients at high risk for IA and immunocompetent patients with other lung infections. Only 2 of 10 patients were culture negative and PCR positive in the high-risk group, and 2 of 7 patients were culture negative and PCR positive in the immunocompetent group. The results indicate that PCR detection might be a valuable adjunct to current laboratory methods to diagnose IA."}
{"id": "8416986", "title": "Suppression of the bimC4 mitotic spindle defect by deletion of klpA, a gene encoding a KAR3-related kinesin-like protein in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Suppression of the bimC4 mitotic spindle defect by deletion of klpA, a gene encoding a KAR3-related kinesin-like protein in Aspergillus nidulans. To investigate the relationship between structure and function of kinesin-like proteins, we have identified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) a new kinesin-like protein in the filamentous fungus Aspergillus nidulans, which we have designated KLPA. DNA sequence analysis showed that the predicted KLPA protein contains a COOH terminal kinesin-like motor domain. Despite the structural similarity of KLPA to the KAR3 and NCD kinesin-like proteins of Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Drosophila melanogaster, which also posses COOH-terminal kinesin-like motor domains, there are no significant sequence similarities between the nonmotor or tail portions of these proteins. Nevertheless, expression studies in S. cerevisiae showed that klpA can complement a null mutation in KAR3, indicating that primary amino acid sequence conservation between the tail domains of kinesin-like proteins is not necessarily required for conserved function. Chromosomal deletion of the klpA gene exerted no observable mutant phenotype, suggesting that in A. nidulans there are likely to be other proteins functionally redundant with KLPA. Interestingly, the temperature sensitive phenotype of a mutation in another gene, bimC, which encodes a kinesin-like protein involved in mitotic spindle function in A. nidulans, was suppressed by deletion of klpA. We hypothesize that the loss of KLPA function redresses unbalanced forces within the spindle caused by mutation in bimC, and that the KLPA and BIMC kinesin-like proteins may play opposing roles in spindle function."}
{"id": "8408576", "title": "Typing of Aspergillus species and Aspergillus fumigatus isolates by interrepeat polymerase chain reaction.", "content": "Typing of Aspergillus species and Aspergillus fumigatus isolates by interrepeat polymerase chain reaction. Polymerase chain reaction amplification of repetitive DNA motifs allows discrimination of Aspergillus species. In a preliminary survey, the DNA fingerprints appear to be identical when isolates of Aspergillus fumigatus are compared. When a primer deduced from a prokaryotic repeat motif is used, Aspergillus fumigatus isolates originating from different patients or different anatomical locations can be typed individually."}
{"id": "8405943", "title": "Expression of Aspergillus oryzae alpha-amylase gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.", "content": "Expression of Aspergillus oryzae alpha-amylase gene in Saccharomyces cerevisiae. A fragment containing the full length cDNA from Aspergillus oryzae alpha-amylase has been amplified by PCR using specific synthetic oligonucleotides. The amplified cDNA was designed to favour its expression in yeast by modifying its upstream untranslated region. It was subcloned in the expression vector pYEX alpha 1, placed under the control of the yeast CYC1-GAL10 promoter and used to transform Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Cells were then able to express and secrete active alpha-amylase to the medium in a regulated fashion. The recombinant enzyme had similar electrophoretic mobility and catalytic properties to the original A. oryzae alpha-amylase."}
{"id": "8359678", "title": "Structural features of a polygalacturonase gene cloned from Aspergillus oryzae KBN616.", "content": "Structural features of a polygalacturonase gene cloned from Aspergillus oryzae KBN616. A genomic gene encoding a polygalacturonase from Aspergillus oryzae, used in soy sauce production, was cloned and sequenced. The structural gene comprises 1227 bp coding for 363 amino acids with a putative prepropeptide of 28 amino acids and the open reading frame is disrupted by two short introns of 57 bp and 81 bp. The deduced amino acid sequence of the mature protein showed 63, 63, 63 and 64% homology with those of Aspergillus niger polygalacturonase I, Aspergillus niger polygalacturonase II, Aspergillus tubingensis polygalacturonase II and Cochliobolus carbonum polygalacturonase, respectively. There is, however, little homology among fungal, plant and bacterial polygalacturonases."}
{"id": "8358825", "title": "Detection of gene-disruption events in Aspergillus transformants by polymerase chain reaction direct from conidiospores.", "content": "Detection of gene-disruption events in Aspergillus transformants by polymerase chain reaction direct from conidiospores. We describe a rapid method for the identification of gene disruption events after DNA-mediated transformation of Aspergillus fumigatus. This involves a polymerase chain reaction in which the target DNA is added in the form of intact conidiospores. Using one primer specific to the plasmid DNA and a second primer specific to the target gene on the chromosome, it is possible to identify gene disruption events among the more common ectopic integrations approximately 4 h after sporulating transformants appear on selective medium."}
{"id": "8346917", "title": "Overexpression in Escherichia coli of soluble aristolochene synthase from Penicillium roqueforti.", "content": "Overexpression in Escherichia coli of soluble aristolochene synthase from Penicillium roqueforti. Aristolochene synthase, a fungal cyclase which has been isolated from Aspergillus terreus and Penicillium roqueforti, catalyzes the cyclization of farnesyl diphosphate to the sesquiterpene hydrocarbon aristolochene. The aristolochene synthase gene (Ari1) of P. roqueforti has previously been cloned and expressed at low levels as a protein A-aristolochene synthase fusion protein in Escherichia coli. We have now used the polymerase chain reaction to amplify the aristolochene synthase coding sequence using engineered primers which produced dsDNA carrying an EcoRI restriction site and the T7 gene 10 ribosome binding site and translational spacer element immediately upstream of the ATG start codon and a BamHI site adjacent to the TAA stop codon. The PCR product was digested with EcoRI and BamHI and inserted into the multiple cloning site of the expression vector pLM1 which carried the promoter and translational leader sequence from T7 gene 10 and the E. coli rrnBT1T2 tandem transcription terminator. Cloning of the resulting construct into E. coli XL1-Blue and subcloning into the expression host E. coli BL21 (DE3) gave transformants which expressed aristolochene synthase at levels up to 40% of soluble protein when induced with isopropyl beta-D-thiogalactoside. Purification of the recombinant protein by ammonium sulfate precipitation, ion-exchange chromatography on Q Sepharose, and affinity dye chromatography on Reactive Blue 4-agarose gave homogenous aristolochene synthase which had the expected N-terminal sequence, ATSTE, mobility on sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and steady-state kinetic parameters when compared to native fungal protein."}
{"id": "8337560", "title": "[A neuropathological study of 10 HIV-infected children].", "content": "[A neuropathological study of 10 HIV-infected children]. In 10 children infected by HIV at birth, who presented early and severe immunodeficiency encephalopathy, the lesions observed in the central nervous system were different from those found in adults. Using standard neuropathological techniques, the main abnormalities were white matter palor and atrophy, pyramidal tract demyelination, moderate perivascular inflammation, numerous calcifications of blood vessels in basal ganglia, white matter and occasional in the cortex, few opportunistic infections including cytomegalovirus ventriculitis, polymorphonuclear microabcessses and aspergillus abscesses; no toxoplasma was detected. An 18-month-old girl presented with an angiocentric lymphoproliferative disorder in central and peripheral nervous system and muscle, with predominance of B cells. In most cases, low levels of HIV replication were detected in brain tissue, as demonstrated by the presence of only few microglial nodules and giant cells, feeble detection of HIV p24 and p17 antigens by immunocytochemistry, in situ hybridization of HIV DNA and RNA and polymerase chain reaction, despite severe clinical encephalopathy. Zidovudine did not improve any patient. In children with severe AIDS encephalopathy, HIV might not be directly implicated in the central nervous system lesions: an intermediate factor such as cytokines or another toxic substance secreted by activated macrophages and/or lymphocytes, could induce severe lesions in the central nervous system and minor pathology of the peripheral nervous system and muscles."}
{"id": "8321251", "title": "Specific amplification of Aspergillus fumigatus DNA by polymerase chain reaction.", "content": "Specific amplification of Aspergillus fumigatus DNA by polymerase chain reaction. We have developed a specific and sensitive method to detect the human pathogen Aspergillus fumigatus by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) with an objective of detecting the organism in peripheral blood and urine which can be obtained by non-invasive procedures. A pair of oligonucleotide primers for PCR were designed based on the published partial protein sequences of an 18 KD IgE-binding protein of A. fumigatus Asp f1 and the ribotoxins mitogillin and restrictocin of A. restrictus, and alpha-sarcin of A. giganteus. The primers were specific in amplifying an expected 315 bp region of the homologous genes in A. fumigatus and A. restrictus but not in A. giganteus. Also, there was no amplification of human DNA or DNA of A. flavus, A. niger, A. fischeri, Penicillium sp., Candida albicans and Pneumocystis carinii. The sensitivity of the PCR detection of A. fumigatus DNA is about 20 pg on an ethidium bromide gel and 0.6 pg by Southern analysis using a 32P-labelled internal oligonucleotide. In preliminary analysis of 13 urine specimens of patients suspected of invasive aspergillosis (IA), two were PCR positive, one of whom died of IA with brain lesion. Further analyses of both urine and blood specimens of IA are in progress to determine the comparative utility of PCR over the conventional antigen tests."}
{"id": "8299175", "title": "Cloning and characterization of the abfB gene coding for the major alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase (ABF B) of Aspergillus niger.", "content": "Cloning and characterization of the abfB gene coding for the major alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase (ABF B) of Aspergillus niger. Based on amino-acid sequence data from Aspergillus niger alpha-L-arabinofuranosidase B (ABF B), and cyanogen bromide fragments derived thereof, deoxyoligonucleotide mixtures were designed to be employed as primers in a polymerase chain reaction (PCR) on A. niger genomic DNA. This resulted in amplification of three related PCR products. The abfB gene encoding ABF B was isolated from a genomic library using such an amplification product as a probe. A 5.1-kb BamHI fragment was subcloned to result in plasmid pIM991. Upon introduction by co-transformation into both A. niger and A. nidulans uridine auxotrophic strains, pIM991 was shown to contain the functional gene since prototrophic transformants overproduced ABF B upon growth on the inducing carbon source sugar beet pulp. A plate assay was developed enabling quick selection of ABF B-overproducing transformants. The sequence of a 4122-bp long BamHI/SstI fragment was determined. The abfB gene does not contain introns and codes for a protein of 499 amino acids. The mature ABF B, 481 amino acids in length, has a deduced molecular weight of 50.7 kDa. A. niger abfB is the first eukaryotic gene encoding an ABF to be characterized."}
{"id": "8274451", "title": "Identification of 21 novel human protein kinases, including 3 members of a family related to the cell cycle regulator nimA of Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "Identification of 21 novel human protein kinases, including 3 members of a family related to the cell cycle regulator nimA of Aspergillus nidulans. The nimA gene encodes a protein-serine/threonine kinase that is required along with the p34cdc2 kinase for mitosis in Aspergillus nidulans. We have searched for human protein kinases that are related to the NIMA protein kinase using the polymerase chain reaction. Different pairs of degenerate oligonucleotides specific for conserved amino acid motifs in the catalytic domain of NIMA were used as primers in the polymerase chain reaction to amplify partial complementary DNAs (cDNAs) of protein kinases expressed in the promyelocytic leukemia cell line HL-60. Forty-one distinct cDNAs representing a broad spectrum of serine/threonine- and tyrosine-specific protein kinases were identified, and the sequences for 21 of these protein kinases were found to be unique. Three of these cDNAs represent a family of protein kinases whose members are related to NIMA and the murine nimA-related protein kinase Nek1. We discuss the success of this polymerase chain reaction approach with respect to the use of multiple primer pairs, the influence of primer degeneracy, and the tolerance of cDNA amplification to mismatches between primers and template mRNA."}
{"id": "8239169", "title": "The detection of Aspergillus spp. by the polymerase chain reaction and its evaluation in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid.", "content": "The detection of Aspergillus spp. by the polymerase chain reaction and its evaluation in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid. Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA) is an important cause of mortality and morbidity in the immunocompromised host. However, the diagnosis of this condition may be difficult, and it is sometimes missed because of the lack of sensitivity of available tests. Therefore, we used polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based amplification of fragments of genes-encoding alkaline proteases from Aspergillus fumigatus and A. flavus to detect these organisms in bronchoalveolar lavage fluid specimens. The predicted size of the product (747 base pairs) after amplification of A. fumigatus was larger than that for A. flavus (690 base pairs). The reaction was highly sensitive (after amplification of 500 fg of A. fumigatus DNA, product could be detected by Southern analysis), and it was specific for A. fumigatus and A. flavus. Bronchoalveolar lavage fluid from four immunosuppressed patients with proved or probable IPA was positive by this assay (sensitivity, 100%); in addition, the sample from one patient with possible IPA was PCR-positive. Only one specimen from 18 immunosuppressed patients with no evidence of IPA was PCR-positive (specificity, 94.4%). Five of 28 bronchoalveolar lavage samples from nonimmunosuppressed patients were PCR-positive, probably representing colonization of the respiratory tract. PCR-based detection may prove useful in the diagnosis of IPA."}
{"id": "8224894", "title": "The cloning and sequencing of the genes encoding phytase (phy) and pH 2.5-optimum acid phosphatase (aph) from Aspergillus niger var. awamori.", "content": "The cloning and sequencing of the genes encoding phytase (phy) and pH 2.5-optimum acid phosphatase (aph) from Aspergillus niger var. awamori. The genes encoding phytase (EC 3.1.3.8) and pH 2.5-optimum acid phosphatase (EC 3.1.3.2) have been cloned and sequenced from Aspergillus niger var. awamori. The translated nucleotide sequences yielded polypeptides of 467 and 479 amino acids (aa) for phytase and acid phosphatase, respectively. The genes were isolated using oligodeoxyribonucleotide probes based on the aa sequences of the purified proteins. Recombinant A. niger var. awamori strains carrying additional copies of the gene sequences demonstrated elevated enzyme activities."}
{"id": "8224504", "title": "Galactose oxidase: molecular analysis and mutagenesis studies.", "content": "Galactose oxidase: molecular analysis and mutagenesis studies."}
{"id": "8099900", "title": "Novel protein kinases expressed in human breast cancer.", "content": "Novel protein kinases expressed in human breast cancer. The family of protein kinases includes many oncogenes and growth-factor receptors, as well as genes that are involved in cell-cycle regulation. We have identified protein kinases expressed in a human breast-cancer cell line, 600PEI, and a primary human breast carcinoma, using PCR cloning techniques based on consensus sequences in the kinase domain. Twenty-five different protein kinases were isolated, including 3 novel putative tyrosine kinases (designated TK1, TK2, and TK5), and 2 novel putative cell-cycle-associated serine/threonine kinases (designated STK1 and STK2). TK1 is a new member of the src family of kinases that is expressed predominantly in epithelial cells. TK2 is homologous to the receptor kinase, HEK, and TK5 appears to be another member of the JAK family of kinases. The novel serine/threonine kinases, designated STK1 and STK2, were homologous to the human cdc2 and the Aspergillus nimA genes. We subsequently analyzed the levels of expression of all of these protein kinases in a panel of human breast carcinomas, using PCR-based methods. This analysis revealed different expression profiles in different primary breast carcinomas and, therefore, may determine new molecular sub-sets of human breast cancer."}
{"id": "8096800", "title": "Genetic variability and relatedness in the complex group of black Aspergilli based on random amplification of polymorphic DNA.", "content": "Genetic variability and relatedness in the complex group of black Aspergilli based on random amplification of polymorphic DNA. A PCR-based technique, involving the random amplification of polymorphic DNA (RAPD), was used for assessing genomic variability among a wide range of culture collection strains of black Aspergilli and related species. The performance of this technique is compared with that of the two other genetic techniques most commonly used, namely restriction fragment length polymorphisms on rDNA and isozyme analysis. The eight main groups as assigned by RFLP were also distinguished by RAPD patterns. On the basis of 122 polymorphic RAPD products using six random primers, the 17 collection strains examined could be subdivided into 15 distinct sub-groups. We suggest that the RAPD method is a quick and reliable tool for establishing the amount of genetic variability in closely related species. Our study indicates that the complex group of black Aspergilli is characterized by a high degree of genetic differentiation. This is also apparent from the considerable karyotype variation present in the group."}
{"id": "7934913", "title": "Construction and pathogenicity of Aspergillus fumigatus mutants that do not produce the ribotoxin restrictocin.", "content": "Construction and pathogenicity of Aspergillus fumigatus mutants that do not produce the ribotoxin restrictocin. Aspergillus fumigatus, the most common cause of invasive pulmonary aspergillosis (IPA), produces a potent cytotoxin called restrictocin. To investigate the role of restrictocin in IPA, we have constructed fungal strains in which the res gene has been inactivated by gene disruption. These disruptants lack the specific extracellular ribonucleolytic activity associated with restrictocin, as measured by an in vitro rabbit reticulocyte lysate assay. Western blot analysis of one disruptant, using an anti-restrictocin monoclonal antibody, confirmed that the toxin is not produced. The growth characteristics of the disruptants could not be distinguished from those of their parental isolates on a variety of culture media. The pathogenicity of two disruptants was assessed in a murine model of IPA. There were no significant differences in mortality when these strains were compared with the parental isolates and an ectopic transformant. In addition, histological examination of infected lung tissue did not reveal any obvious differences in the number or size of fungal colonies or in the polymorphonuclear leucocyte response. Our results demonstrate that restrictocin is not an important virulence factor in this model of IPA."}
{"id": "7916610", "title": "Identification and cloning of a second phytase gene (phyB) from Aspergillus niger (ficuum).", "content": "Identification and cloning of a second phytase gene (phyB) from Aspergillus niger (ficuum). An Aspergillus niger (ficuum) genomic DNA lambda EMBL3 library was probed with a 354-bp DNA fragment obtained by polymerase chain reaction of A. niger DNA with oligonucleotides based on partial amino acid sequence of a pH 2.5 optimum acid phosphatase. A clone containing a 1605 bp segment (phyB) encoding the 479 amino acid enzyme was isolated and found to contain four exons. Global alignment revealed 23.5% homology to Aspergillus niger phytase (PhyA); four regions of extensive homology were identified. Some of these regions may contain catalytic sites for phosphatase function."}
{"id": "7763981", "title": "Cloning and nucleotide sequence of the acid protease-encoding gene (pepA) from Aspergillus oryzae.", "content": "Cloning and nucleotide sequence of the acid protease-encoding gene (pepA) from Aspergillus oryzae. We have cloned a genomic DNA sequence encoding the acid protease (PEPA) from Aspergillus oryzae using a 0.6-kb fragment as a probe. This fragment was amplified by the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using oligonucleotide primers designed from the partial amino acid sequences of peptide fragments of the purified protein. Nucleotide sequencing analysis has shown that the cloned gene (designated pepA) encodes 404 amino acid residues and contains 3 putative introns ranging in length from 50 to 61 nucleotides. The deduced amino acid sequence of the A. oryzae PEPA has a high degree of homology (67%) to the A. awamori PEPA. Comparison with the amino acid sequence of A. awamori PEPA suggests that the A. oryzae PEPA may consist of a 78 amino acid prepro-peptide and 326 amino acid mature protein. The amino acid composition of the mature protein was almost consistent with that of the acid protease purified from A. oryzae reported previously. Southern hybridization analyses showed that the pepA gene exists as a single copy in the A. oryzae chromosome. The cloned gene was found to be functional, since transformants of A. oryzae containing multiple copies of the pepA gene showed a 2-6 fold increase in acid protease activity compared with the recipient strain."}
{"id": "1534750", "title": "An extra copy of nimEcyclinB elevates pre-MPF levels and partially suppresses mutation of nimTcdc25 in Aspergillus nidulans.", "content": "An extra copy of nimEcyclinB elevates pre-MPF levels and partially suppresses mutation of nimTcdc25 in Aspergillus nidulans. Previous work has shown that nimA encodes a cell cycle regulated protein kinase that is required along with the p34cdc2 histone H1 kinase (MPF) for mitosis in Aspergillus nidulans. We have now identified two other gene products required for mitosis in A.nidulans. nimT encodes a protein similar to the fission yeast cdc25 tyrosine phosphatase and is required for the conversion of pre-MPF to MPF and nimE encodes a B-type cyclin which is a subunit of MPF. A new genetic interaction between nimEcyclinB and nimTcdc25 type genes is reported. Increased copy number of nimEcyclinB can suppress mutation of nimTcdc25 and also lead to increased accumulation of tyrosine phosphorylated p34cdc2 (pre-MPF). This biochemical observation suggests an explanation for the genetic complementation. If nimEcyclinB recruits p34cdc2 for tyrosine phosphorylation to form pre-MPF it follows that increased expression of nimEcyclinB would increase the level of pre-MPF. The increased level of pre-MPF generated may then allow the mutant nimTcdc25 protein to convert enough pre-MPF to MPF and thus permit some mitotic progression. We also demonstrate that correct cell cycle regulation by the p34cdc2 protein kinase pathway is essential for correct developmental progression in A.nidulans."}
{"id": "1516832", "title": "StuA is required for cell pattern formation in Aspergillus.", "content": "StuA is required for cell pattern formation in Aspergillus. The stunted (stuA) gene product is required for the orderly differentiation and spatial organization of cell types of the Aspergillus nidulans conidiophore. Expression of the stuA gene is complex. Two transcripts, stuA alpha and stuA beta, are initiated from separate promoters. Transcription of both RNAs increases approximately 50-fold during the establishment of developmental competence. Induction-dependent transcriptional and post-transcriptional regulatory mechanisms further enhance expression 15-fold. Consistent with the latter observation, both transcripts have structural features characteristic of RNAs subject to translational control. Conidiophore morphogenesis requires regulatory interactions between the products of the stuA, bristle (brlA), and abacus (abaA) genes. Enhanced stunted expression is cell type specific and dependent on a functional BrlA protein. StuA affects the spatial localization of AbaA by acting directly, or indirectly, to repress abaA expression."}
{"id": "1495393", "title": "An Aspergillus fumigatus alkaline protease mutant constructed by gene disruption is deficient in extracellular elastase activity.", "content": "An Aspergillus fumigatus alkaline protease mutant constructed by gene disruption is deficient in extracellular elastase activity. Invasive pulmonary aspergillosis, usually caused by Aspergillus fumigatus, is a life-threatening condition of immunosuppressed patients. We have created a mutant strain of this fungus that lacks an extracellular alkaline protease (AFAlp). This was accomplished by transformation of A. fumigatus with a plasmid containing a selectable marker for hygromycin B resistance, and a 504 bp segment of the AFAlp gene, obtained by polymerase-chain-reaction-based amplification of A. fumigatus genomic DNA. Approximately 25% of transformants resulted from disruption of the AFAlp gene. SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis of proteins from the culture filtrate of a strain carrying the AFAlp gene disruption showed that it lacked a major protein of 33 kDa. Furthermore, in contrast to the culture filtrate from wild-type cells, the mutant had undetectable activity on azocollagen and elastin-Congo red, over a broad pH range. This shows that AFAlp accounts for most, if not all, of the extracellular elastinolytic activity of A. fumigatus, and that the mutant strain will be useful in assessing the role of AFAlp in pathogenicity."}
{"id": "1452034", "title": "Cloning and molecular characterization of the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase-encoding gene and cDNA from the plant pathogenic fungus Glomerella cingulata.", "content": "Cloning and molecular characterization of the glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase-encoding gene and cDNA from the plant pathogenic fungus Glomerella cingulata. The glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene (gpdA) has been identified from a genomic DNA library prepared from the plant pathogenic fungus Glomerella cingulata. Nucleotide sequence data revealed that this gene codes for a putative 338-amino-acid protein encoded by two exons of 129 and 885 bp, separated by an intron 216 bp long. The 5' leader sequence is also spliced by an intron of 156 bp. A cDNA clone was prepared using the polymerase chain reaction, the sequence of which was used to confirm the presence of the intron in the coding sequence and the splicing of the 5' leader sequence. The transcriptional start point (tsp) was mapped at -253 nt from the site of the initiation of translation by primer extension and is adjacent to a 42-bp pyrimidine-rich region. The general structure of the 5' flanking region shows similarities to gpdA from Aspergillus nidulans. The putative protein product is 71-86% identical at the aa level to GPDs from Aspergillus nidulans, Cryphonectria parasitica, Curvularia lunata, Podospora anserina and Ustilago maydis."}
{"id": "1431110", "title": "Selective expression of a major allergen and cytotoxin, Asp f I, in Aspergillus fumigatus. Implications for the immunopathogenesis of Aspergillus-related diseases.", "content": "Selective expression of a major allergen and cytotoxin, Asp f I, in Aspergillus fumigatus. Implications for the immunopathogenesis of Aspergillus-related diseases. Asp f I is a major 18-kDa Aspergillus fumigatus allergen and a member of the mitogillin family of cytotoxins. The nucleotide sequence of the Asp f I gene was determined by sequencing polymerase chain reaction products amplified from A. fumigatus spore DNA. The entire 678-bp DNA includes an 81-bp leader sequence, preceding the N-terminal alanine codon, a 52-bp intron, and a 444-bp open reading frame, encoding a 149-amino acid protein (M(r) 16,899), which is 99% homologous to mitogillin from Aspergillus restrictus. A mAb-based ELISA was used to compare Asp f I levels in spores, mycelia, and culture filtrate, and to determine the kinetics of allergen production. Disrupted hyphae or spore extracts had a 1000-fold lower level of Asp f I than culture filtrate, suggesting that germination of spores and growth of the fungus are essential for allergen production. Asp f I levels in A. fumigatus and A. restrictus peaked at day 3 (0.87 to 12.1 micrograms/ml), however, the allergen was not detected in Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus niger, Aspergillus terreus, and Aspergillus nidulans cultures (< 1.5 ng/ml) on either days 3 or 8. Northern analysis confirmed that Asp f I mRNA was detected only in A. fumigatus and A. restrictus, but not in the other four Aspergillus spp. Asp f I-specific DNA was generated after polymerase chain reaction amplification of genomic mycelial DNA obtained from A. fumigatus and A. restrictus, but not from the other Aspergillus spp. The results show that Asp f I is selectively expressed in A. fumigatus, and suggest that this cytotoxin could be a specific virulence factor for A. fumigatus."}
{"id": "1322861", "title": "Quantitation of cytomegalovirus DNA in lung tissue of bone marrow transplant recipients.", "content": "Quantitation of cytomegalovirus DNA in lung tissue of bone marrow transplant recipients. Five bone marrow transplant recipients who died of respiratory failure were retrospectively analyzed with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) assay for pulmonary cytomegalovirus (CMV) infection. Two patients had CMV interstitial pneumonitis according to the virus isolation and the histologic and immunofluorescent examinations of the lungs, while the other three patients had non-CMV diseases (ie, idiopathic interstitial pneumonitis, pulmonary aspergillosis, or Streptococcus mitis septicemia). Cytomegalovirus DNA was amplified from the postmortem lung tissue with PCR. The PCR assay showed apparent PCR signals specific to CMV DNA in the two patients with CMV pneumonitis. In contrast, CMV DNA was hardly detectable or undetectable in the three patients without CMV disease. With quantitative PCR assay the initial CMV copy number in the lung tissue of the two patients with CMV pneumonitis was more than 10(4) copies/micrograms DNA and was over 1,000-fold more than that of the three patients without CMV pneumonitis. These results show that quantitative PCR assay could be useful as a diagnostic measure for pulmonary CMV infection."}
{"id": "1320381", "title": "Overproduction in Escherichia coli of the dehydroquinate synthase domain of the Aspergillus nidulans pentafunctional AROM protein.", "content": "Overproduction in Escherichia coli of the dehydroquinate synthase domain of the Aspergillus nidulans pentafunctional AROM protein. The pentafunctional AROM protein of Aspergillus nidulans is encoded by the complex aromA locus and catalyses steps 2-6 in the synthesis of chorismate, the common precursor for the aromatic amino acids and p-aminobenzoic acid. DNA sequences encoding the 3-dehydroquinate synthase (DHQ synthase) and 3-dehydroquinase domains of the AROM protein have been amplified with the inclusion of a translational stop codon at the C-terminus by PCR technology. These amplified fragments of DNA have been subcloned into the prokaryotic expression vector pKK233-2 and expressed in Escherichia coli. As a result, the DHQ synthase domain is overproduced in E. coli, forming 30% of total cell protein, and can be purified to greater than 80% homogeneity by a simple two-step protocol. The 3-dehydroquinase domain is produced at a specific activity 8-fold greater than the corresponding activity encoded by the aromA gene in A. nidulans. The qutB gene of A. nidulans encoding quinate dehydrogenase has similarly been subjected to PCR amplification and expression in E. coli. The quinate dehydrogenase is not overproduced, but is active in E. coli as a shikimate dehydrogenase, as the presence of the qutB gene allows the growth of an E. coli mutant strain lacking shikimate dehydrogenase on minimal medium lacking aromatic-amino-acid supplementation."}
{"id": "2001172", "title": "The role of the clinical microbiology laboratory in transplantation.", "content": "The role of the clinical microbiology laboratory in transplantation. The clinical microbiology laboratory plays a central role in any transplantation program. Pretransplantation microbiologic testing often determines prophylactic treatment, donor selection, and blood product use. With suspected infection, rapid microbiologic tests permit prompt therapy but are challenged by an ever-changing diversity of potential pathogens and limited specimen size. Antigen detection and the polymerase chain reaction with nucleic acid hybridization are newer methods that promise earlier detection of such serious infections as disseminated aspergillosis and primary cytomegalovirus and may reveal new microbial causes of various posttransplantation syndromes."}
{"id": "1922075", "title": "nirA, the pathway-specific regulatory gene of nitrate assimilation in Aspergillus nidulans, encodes a putative GAL4-type zinc finger protein and contains four introns in highly conserved regions.", "content": "nirA, the pathway-specific regulatory gene of nitrate assimilation in Aspergillus nidulans, encodes a putative GAL4-type zinc finger protein and contains four introns in highly conserved regions. The nucleotide sequence of nirA, mediating nitrate induction in Aspergillus nidulans, has been determined. Alignment of the cDNA and the genomic DNA sequence indicates that the gene contains four introns and encodes a protein of 892 amino acids. The deduced NIRA protein displays all characteristics of a transcriptional activator. A putative double-stranded DNA-binding domain in the amino-terminal part comprises six cysteine residues, characteristic for the GAL4 family of zinc finger proteins. An amino-terminal highly acidic region and two proline-rich regions are also present. The nucleotide sequences of two mutations were determined after they were mapped by transformation with overlapping DNA fragments, amplified by the polymerase chain reaction. nirA87, a mutation conferring noninducibility by nitrate and nitrite, has a -1 frameshift at triplet 340, which eliminates 549 C-terminal amino acids from the polypeptide. Under the assumption that the truncated polypeptide is stable, it comprises the zinc finger domain and the acidic region, which seem not sufficient for transcriptional activation. nirAd-106, an allele conferring nitrogen metabolite derepression of nitrate and nitrite reductase activity, includes two transitions, changing a glutamic acid to a lysine and a valine to an alanine, situated between a basic and a proline-rich region of the protein. Northern (RNA) analysis of the wild type and of constitutive (nirAc) and derepressed (nirAd) mutants show that the nirA transcript does not vary between these strains, being in all cases constitutively expressed. On the other hand, transcript levels of structural genes (niaD and niiA) do vary, being highly inducible in the wild type but constitutively expressed in the nirAc mutant. The nirAd mutant appears phenotypically derepressed, because the niaD and niiA transcript levels are overinduced in the presence of nitrate but are still partially repressed in the presence of ammonium."}
{"id": "1918060", "title": "The gene and deduced protein sequences of the zymogen of Aspergillus niger acid proteinase A.", "content": "The gene and deduced protein sequences of the zymogen of Aspergillus niger acid proteinase A. Proteinase A obtained from the culture medium of Aspergillus niger var. macrosporus is a unique acid endopeptidase that is insensitive (or less sensitive) to specific inhibitors of ordinary acid or aspartic proteinases, such as pepstatin, diazoacetyl-DL-norleucine methyl ester, and 1,2-epoxy-3-(p-nitrophenoxy)-propane. In the preceding paper (Takahashi, K., Inoue, H., Sakai, K., Kohama, T., Kitahara, S., Takishima, K., Tanji, M., Athauda, S. B. P., Takahashi, T., Akanuma, H., Mamiya, G., Yamasaki, M. J. Biol. Chem. 266, 19480-19483), we reported the complete primary structure of the mature enzyme determined at the protein level. The enzyme has a unique two-chain structure with a 39-residue light (L) chain and a 173-residue heavy (H) chain linked noncovalently. As an extension of this study, we isolated genomic and cDNA clones encoding this proteinase and determined their nucleotide sequences. To isolate a genomic clone, the genomic DNA was selectively amplified by polymerase chain reaction using mixed oligonucleotide primers designed from the amino acid sequence of the H chain, and a specific probe thus generated was used for screening a lambda gt10 genomic library. A cDNA for the enzyme was also selectively amplified by polymerase chain reaction using primers synthesized based on the sequence of the genomic DNA. Sequencing of the cloned genomic DNA and cDNA revealed the nucleotide sequence of the structural gene for the enzyme of 846 base pairs without introns. It encodes the precursor form of proteinase A, including an NH2-terminal preprosequence of 59 residues, the L chain of 39 residues, an intervening sequence of 11 residues, and the H chain of 173 residues linked in that order. Thus, proteinase A is thought to be synthesized as a single peptide chain preproenzyme of 282 residues, which is processed to generate the mature two-chain form."}
{"id": "1840634", "title": "nit-4, a pathway-specific regulatory gene of Neurospora crassa, encodes a protein with a putative binuclear zinc DNA-binding domain.", "content": "nit-4, a pathway-specific regulatory gene of Neurospora crassa, encodes a protein with a putative binuclear zinc DNA-binding domain. nit-4, a pathway-specific regulatory gene in the nitrogen circuit of Neurospora crassa, is required for the expression of nit-3 and nit-6, the structural genes which encode nitrate and nitrite reductase, respectively. The complete nucleotide sequence of the nit-4 gene has been determined. The predicted NIT4 protein contains 1,090 amino acids and appears to possess a single Zn(II)2Cys6 binuclear-type zinc finger, which may mediate DNA binding. Site-directed mutagenesis studies demonstrated that cysteine and other conserved amino acid residues in this possible DNA-binding domain are necessary for nit-4 function. A stretch of 27 glutamines, encoded by a CAGCAA repeating sequence, occurs in the C terminus of the NIT4 protein, and a second glutamine-rich domain occurs further upstream. A NIT4 protein deleted for the polyglutamine region was still functional in vivo. However, nit-4 function was abolished when both the polyglutamine region and the glutamine-rich domain were deleted, suggesting that the glutamine-rich domain might function in transcriptional activation. The homologous regulatory gene from Aspergillus nidulans, nirA, encodes a protein whose amino-terminal half has approximately 60% amino acid identity with NIT4 but whose carboxy terminus is completely different. A hybrid nit-4-nirA gene was constructed and found to function in N. crassa."}
{"id": "1818163", "title": "Detection of human Pneumocystis carinii by the polymerase chain reaction.", "content": "Detection of human Pneumocystis carinii by the polymerase chain reaction. Oligonucleotide primers were prepared from a clone (B12) which has been shown to be a repetitive sequence in the rat P. carinii genome. Polymerase chain reaction was employed to amplify both rat and human P. carinii DNA. The detection limit of the assay was approximately 600 ng of total nucleic acid. Amplification products from both the rat and human isolates (ca. 780 bp) were characterized by denaturing gradient gel electrophoresis after digestion with Sau3A. No amplification products were obtained when DNA from the following potential pulmonary pathogens were used in identical reactions: Aspergillus fumigatus, Cryptococcus neoformans, Candida albicans, Mycobacterium avium-intracellulare and cytomegalovirus. In a blind study using the B12 primers, P. carinii DNA was successfully amplified in clinical samples which were positive by direct immunofluorescence assay (IFA) as well as in some specimens not identified by direct IFA."}
{"id": "2277645", "title": "Isolation and molecular analysis of the orotidine-5'-phosphate decarboxylase gene (pyrG) of Phycomyces blakesleeanus.", "content": "Isolation and molecular analysis of the orotidine-5'-phosphate decarboxylase gene (pyrG) of Phycomyces blakesleeanus. The pyrG gene of Phycomyces was isolated from a Phycomyces genomic library, constructed in the cosmid pHS255, by hybridization with a 170 bp fragment of the pyrG gene of Aspergillus niger. This fragment includes a consensus sequence found in almost all species in which the orotidine-5'-phosphate decarboxylase (OMPdecase) gene has been sequenced. The complete nucleotide sequence of the cloned pyrG gene from Phycomyces was determined and the transcription start sites mapped. In the predicted amino acid sequence there are regions of strong homology to the equivalent genes of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, A. niger, Schizophyllum commune and Homo sapiens. Analysis of the sequence revealed the presence of two introns. The precise length and location of these introns was determined by sequencing the pyrG cDNA and comparing it with the genomic clone. Non-coding flanking regions showed obvious homology to the consensus TATA and CAAT boxes, and the polyadenylation signal \"AATAAA\". The pyrG gene is the second Phycomyces gene that has been cloned and analysed. This is the first time that introns have been reported in Phycomyces."}
{"id": "2253884", "title": "Nitrogen regulation in Aspergillus: are two fingers better than one?", "content": "Nitrogen regulation in Aspergillus: are two fingers better than one? The areA gene, mediating nitrogen metabolite repression in Aspergillus nidulans, encodes a positive-acting regulatory protein with a single putative DNA-binding 'zinc finger' which is remarkably similar to the two 'zinc fingers' of the major regulatory protein of vertebrate erythroid cells (GF-1/Eryf1/NF-E1). The areA-300 mutation alters the specificity of gene activation in that it elevates expression of certain structural genes whilst reducing expression of certain others. It is an 'in-frame' tandem duplication of 417 bp including the entire DNA-binding region. The consequences of areA didactyly are further explored by construction of a double mutant having an altered loop residue in the N-terminal 'finger'."}
{"id": "2183644", "title": "Infection after liver transplantation.", "content": "Infection after liver transplantation. Infections occurring in liver transplant recipients result in significant morbidity and mortality. Factors influencing the frequency of posttransplant infections include pretransplant nutritional status, latent viral infections, and the degree of immunosuppression used to modulate the immune response to the allograft. Infectious agents may be introduced into the patient via the allograft, through infusion of blood products, and through intravenous lines, catheters, and drains. Infections also develop as a result of reactivation of latent viruses or by overgrowth or invasion by endogenous organisms. The intensity of the immunosuppressive regimen directly affects the frequency of infection. Infection may be categorized as bacterial, viral, fungal, or protozoal. The most frequent organisms include bacterial--enterobacteriaceae; viral--cytomegalovirus; fungal--Candida species and Aspergillus species; and protozoal--Pneumocystis carinii. Diagnosing infection requires the use of many different methods in combination, including routine bacterial culture, viral culture, and fungal culture. Histologic and cytologic examination may lead to rapid identification of some organisms. Specialized collection procedures such as bronchoalveolar lavage provide rapid access to material for culture and cytologic examination. Serum serology in conjunction with histotopic or cytologic evaluation is useful in diagnosing some infections, such as Epstein-Barr virus. New technology such as polymerase chain reaction allows detection of all types of infection at or before the onset of clinical symptoms. Rapid and early diagnosis of infection in this patient population can reduce infection-related morbidity and mortality."}
