{"id": "23018443", "title": "Cerebral \u03b2-amyloid deposition predicts HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders in APOE \u03b54 carriers.", "content": "Cerebral \u03b2-amyloid deposition predicts HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders in APOE \u03b54 carriers. The apolipoprotein E (APOE) \u03b54 allele enhances cerebral accumulation of \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) and is a major risk factor for sporadic Alzheimer's disease. We hypothesized that HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND) would be associated with the APOE \u03b54 genotype and cerebral A\u03b2 deposition. Clinicopathological study of HIV-infected adults from four prospective cohorts in the US National NeuroAIDS Tissue Consortium. We used multivariable logistic regressions to model outcomes [A\u03b2 plaques (immunohistochemistry) and HAND (standard criteria)] on predictors [APOE \u03b54 (allelic discrimination assay), older age (\u226550 years), A\u03b2 plaques, and their two-way interactions] and comorbid factors. Isocortical A\u03b2 deposits generally occurred as diffuse plaques and mild-to-moderate amyloid angiopathy. Isocortical phospho-Tau-immunoreactive neurofibrillary lesions were sparse. The APOE \u03b54 and older age were independently associated with the presence of A\u03b2 plaques [adjusted odds ratio (OR) 10.16 and 5.77, 95% confidence interval (CI) 2.89 - 35.76 and 1.91-17.48, P = 0.0003 and 0.0019, respectively, n = 96]. The probability of HAND was increased in the presence of A\u03b2 plaques among APOE \u03b54 carriers (adjusted OR 30.00, 95% CI 1.41-638.63, P = 0.029, n = 15), but not in non-\u03b54 carriers (n = 57). The APOE \u03b54 and older age increased the likelihood of cerebral A\u03b2 plaque deposition in HIV-infected adults. Generally, A\u03b2 plaques in HIV brains were immunohistologically different from those in symptomatic Alzheimer's disease brains. Nonetheless, A\u03b2 plaques were associated with HAND among APOE \u03b54 carriers. The detection of APOE \u03b54 genotype and cerebral A\u03b2 deposition biomarkers may be useful in identifying living HAND patients who could benefit from A\u03b2-targeted therapies."}
{"id": "23300105", "title": "[Gambling brain].", "content": "[Gambling brain]. Pathological gambling (PG) is a chronic mental disorder, and patients cannot stop gambling despite severe negative consequences, such as huge debts, job loss, family break-up, and so on. It is said that PG is more prevalent in Japan than in Western countries. However, PG has not received much attention and has even been thought of as a lack of will to stop gambling rather than a mental disorder. PG has been classified under \"Impulse-Control Disorders Not Elsewhere Classified,\" along with compulsive stealing (kleptomania), starting fires (pyromania) and hair-pulling (trichotillomania), but accumulative evidence suggests that PG has many similarities with substance use disorders. Therefore, PG is being proposed to be classified under \"Addiction and Related Disorders\" in the DSM-5 draft. In this article, we review neuroimaging studies on PG on the basis of 4 dimensions - sensitivity to monetary reward and loss, craving and cue reactivity, impulsivity, and decision-making. In general, PG patients show reduced sensitivity to both monetary reward and loss, increased gamble-related cue reactivity, and increased impulsivity. In contrast, decision-making contains many elements, and hence, future neuroimaging studies on PG should focus on these individual elements. Some efforts have been made to combine molecular neuroimaging (positron emission tomography) with neuroeconomics to investigate the roles of neurotransmitters in altered decision-making in neuropsychiatric disorders. Understanding the molecular mechanism of extreme or impaired decision-making could contribute to the assessment and prevention of drug and gambling addictions and to the development of novel pharmacological therapies for these addictions."}
{"id": "23300102", "title": "[Neuroimaging in corticobasal syndrome].", "content": "[Neuroimaging in corticobasal syndrome]. Recently, several attempts have been made to characterize the clinical symptoms and brain atrophy patterns in pathology-proven corticobasal degeneration (CBD) and corticobasal syndrome (CBS) with known histopathology. CBS is a term which was proposed to characterize the constellation of clinical features initially considered the defining characteristics of CBD. Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) analyses of MRI revealed that frontal lobe involvement is characteristic of CBD. The pathologic substrates for clinical CBS were found to be CBD, Alzheimer's disease (AD), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) with TAR DNA-binding protein (TDP) inclusions. CBS was associated with perirolandic atrophy, irrespective of underlying pathology. In CBS due to FTLD, atrophy extended into the prefrontal cortex, striatum, and brainstem, whereas in CBS due to AD, atrophy extended into the temporoparietal cortex and precuneus. No functional imaging studies in pathology-proven CBD or CBS with known histopathology have yet been published. PET and SPECT studies have demonstrated decreased glucose metabolism and cerebral blood flow in the fronto-parietal cortex, particularly contralateral to the dominant symptoms in CBS patients. A PET study showed decreased acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity in the fronto-parietal cortex, as well as a correlation between cortical AChE activity and mini-mental state examination score in CBS patients, suggesting that cholinergic stimulant therapy may be effective for dementia in CBS. Additionally, [18F] 6-fluorodopa PET and dopamine transporter SPECT studies have demonstrated nigrostriatal dopaminergic dysfunction in CBS. Antemortem prediction of CBD will remain challenging until sensitive, specific biomarkers are identified."}
{"id": "23299381", "title": "Use of biomarkers and imaging to assess pathophysiology, mechanisms of action and target engagement.", "content": "Use of biomarkers and imaging to assess pathophysiology, mechanisms of action and target engagement. Multidisciplinary basic research led to an evolving knowledge of the molecular pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). These advances have been translated into defined therapeutic concepts and distinct classes of compounds with putative disease-modifying effects that are now being tested in clinical trials. There is a growing consensus that disease-modifying treatments may be most effective when commenced early in the course and progression of AD pathophysiology, before amyloid deposition and neurodegeneration become too widespread. Biological indicators of pathophysiological mechanisms are required to chart and identify AD in the prodromal phase or, preferably, in asymptomatic individuals. Biomarkers are becoming even more important, owing to the challenges in demonstrating efficacy of candidate-drugs that hit pathophysiological targets using clinical and cognitive outcomes in early AD trials with limited duration. Currently, there is emerging consensus that advances in therapeutic strategies for AD that delay predefined milestones or slow the cognitive and disease progression would considerably decrease the expanding global burden of the disease. To effectively test preventive compounds for AD and bring therapy to affected individuals as early as possible there is an urgent need for a concerted collaboration among worldwide academic institutions, industry, and regulatory bodies with the aim of establishing networks for the identification and qualification of multi-modal biological disease markers."}
{"id": "23280200", "title": "Studies suggest potential approaches for early detection of Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Studies suggest potential approaches for early detection of Alzheimer disease."}
{"id": "23269595", "title": "Can MRI screen for CSF biomarkers in neurodegenerative disease?", "content": "Can MRI screen for CSF biomarkers in neurodegenerative disease? Alzheimer disease (AD) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) may have overlapping clinical presentations despite distinct underlying neuropathologies, thus making in vivo diagnosis challenging. In this study, we evaluate the utility of MRI as a noninvasive screening procedure for the differential diagnosis of AD and FTLD. We recruited 185 patients with a clinically diagnosed neurodegenerative disease consistent with AD or FTLD who had a lumbar puncture and a volumetric MRI. A subset of 32 patients had genetic or autopsy-confirmed AD or FTLD. We used singular value decomposition to decompose MRI volumes and linear regression and cross-validation to predict CSF total tau (tt) and \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2(1-42)) ratio (tt/A\u03b2) in patients with AD and patients with FTLD. We then evaluated accuracy of MRI-based predicted tt/A\u03b2 using 4 converging sources including neuroanatomic visualization and categorization of a subset of patients with genetic or autopsy-confirmed AD or FTLD. Regression analyses showed that MRI-predicted tt/A\u03b2 is highly related to actual CSF tt/A\u03b2. In each group, both predicted and actual CSF tt/A\u03b2 have extensively overlapping neuroanatomic correlates: low tt/A\u03b2 consistent with FTLD is related to ventromedial prefrontal regions while high tt/A\u03b2 consistent with AD is related to posterior cortical regions. MRI-predicted tt/A\u03b2 is 75% accurate at identifying underlying diagnosis in patients with known pathology and in clinically diagnosed patients with known CSF tt/A\u03b2 levels. MRI may serve as a noninvasive procedure that can screen for AD and FTLD pathology as a surrogate for CSF biomarkers."}
{"id": "23243071", "title": "Amyloid is linked to cognitive decline in patients with Parkinson disease without dementia.", "content": "Amyloid is linked to cognitive decline in patients with Parkinson disease without dementia. To determine whether amyloid burden, as indexed by Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) retention, identifies patients with Parkinson disease with mild cognitive impairment (PD-MCI) compared to those with normal cognition (PD-nl). A related aim is to determine whether amyloid burden predicts cognitive decline in a cohort of subjects with PD without dementia. In this prospective cohort study, we examined 46 subjects with PD without dementia, of whom 35 had normal cognition and 11 met criteria for PD-MCI at study baseline. All subjects underwent standardized neurologic and neuropsychological examinations and PiB PET at baseline, and clinical examinations were conducted annually for up to 5 years. At baseline, precuneus PiB retention did not distinguish PD-MCI from PD-nl. Subjects with PD-MCI declined more rapidly than PD-nl subjects on cognitive tests of memory, executive function, and activation retrieval. Of the 35 PD-nl subjects, 8 progressed to PD-MCI and 1 to dementia; of the 11 PD-MCI subjects, 5 converted to dementia. Both higher PiB retention and a diagnosis of PD-MCI predicted a greater hazard of conversion to a more severe diagnosis. Baseline PiB retention predicted worsening in executive function over time. The APOE \u03b54 allele also related to worsening in executive function, as well as visuospatial function, activation retrieval, and performance on the Mini-Mental State Examination. In contrast to its relation to cognitive decline, PiB retention did not affect progression of motor impairment. At baseline measurements, amyloid burden does not distinguish between cognitively impaired and unimpaired subjects with PD without dementia, but our data suggest that amyloid contributes to cognitive, but not motor, decline over time."}
{"id": "23242068", "title": "18F-FDG PET/CT findings in a patient with isolated intracranial Rosai-Dorfman disease.", "content": "18F-FDG PET/CT findings in a patient with isolated intracranial Rosai-Dorfman disease. Rosai-Dorman disease (RDD) or sinus histiocytosis with massive lymphadenopathy is a rare histiocytic disorder first described in 1969. RDD involving the central nervous system is considered to be rare, with fewer than 120 cases reported in the literature. We present a 51-year-old woman with a history of panhypopituitarism, episodic memory disturbance, and a hypothalamic tumor. Stereotaxic hypothalamic lesion biopsy showed histiocytic proliferation positive for S100 protein and CD68, but negative for CD1a, typical for RDD. \u00b9\u2078F-FDG PET/CT 4 months later demonstrated increased hypothalamic metabolic activity."}
{"id": "23242058", "title": "Clinical applications of hybrid PET/MRI in neuroimaging.", "content": "Clinical applications of hybrid PET/MRI in neuroimaging. We tested the performance and clinical applicability of combined protocols for brain imaging studies acquired on a new whole-body hybrid PET/MR scanner. Fifteen patients [6 male and 9 female patients; mean (SD) age, 51 (30) y; range, 6-89 y] were scanned on a Philips Ingenuity TF PET/MR. Standard imaging protocols of both modalities were combined, using a \"head coil\" and contrast-enhanced fully diagnostic MR protocols. Attenuation correction of the PET images was performed using tissue segmentation of the MR image and incorporation of attenuation templates measured for coils and table.The clinical indications evaluated are as follows: patients with cognitive disturbance of suspected neurodegenerative origin, presurgical evaluation of drug-refractory epilepsy, and brain tumor staging. For the first 2 indications, FDG PET imaging was performed, whereas for the last, fluoroethyltyrosine, an amino acid tracer, was used. In all cases (4 patients with neurodegenerative disease, 6 patients with epilepsy, and 5 patients with high-grade tumor), we obtained full diagnostic quality of both modalities and the total duration of the examination remained within a tolerable range (<2 hours). Twelve subjects had pathological findings: 11 of which were confirmed by clinical follow-up as true positive and 1 was confirmed as a false-positive result. For the 3 normal studies, the clinical follow-up confirmed the imaging findings as true-negative. Acquiring both PET and MR in a single session on a hybrid system minimized patient discomfort while maximizing clinical information and optimizing registration of both modalities. In addition, in comparison to PET/CT, the effective dose (related to CT) was reduced, and this is particularly beneficial in the pediatric population."}
{"id": "23237833", "title": "The first synthesis of [11C]J147, a new potential PET agent for imaging of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "The first synthesis of [11C]J147, a new potential PET agent for imaging of Alzheimer's disease. J147 was synthesized from 2,4-dimethylphenylhydrazine hydrochloride and 3-methoxybenzaldehyde in 2 steps with 71% overall yield. The precursor desmethyl-J147 was synthesized from 3-hydroxybenzaldehyde and 2,4-dimethylphenylhydrazine hydrochloride in 4 steps with 63% overall yield. [(11)C]J147 was prepared from desmethyl-J147 with [(11)C]CH(3)OTf through O-[(11)C]methylation and isolated by HPLC combined with solid-phase extraction (SPE) in 35-50% radiochemical yield based on [(11)C]CO(2) and decay corrected to end of bombardment (EOB), with 370-740 GBq/\u03bcmol specific activity at EOB."}
{"id": "23236541", "title": "Caspase-cleaved glial fibrillary acidic protein within cerebellar white matter of the Alzheimer's disease brain.", "content": "Caspase-cleaved glial fibrillary acidic protein within cerebellar white matter of the Alzheimer's disease brain. Although the cerebellum is generally thought of as an area spared of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology, recent evidence suggests that balance and mobility dysfunction may be magnified in affected individuals. In the present study, we sought to determine the degree of pathological changes within the cerebellum utilizing an antibody that specifically detects caspase-cleaved GFAP within degenerating astrocytes. Compared to control subjects, application of this antibody, termed the GFAP caspase-cleavage product (GFAPccp) antibody, revealed widespread labeling in cerebellar white matter with little staining observed in grey matter. Staining was observed within damaged astrocytes, was often localized near blood vessels and co-localized with other markers of apoptosis including TUNEL and caspase-cleaved tau. Of interest was the association of beta-amyloid deposition in white matter together with GFAPccp in cerebellar AD sections. In contrast, utilizing the tangle marker, PHF-1, neuritic pathology was completely absent in AD cerebellar sections. It is suggested that the observed pathological changes found in the white matter of the cerebellum may contribute to the declined motor performance in AD."}
{"id": "23235438", "title": "18F-barbiturates are PET tracers with diagnostic potential in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "18F-barbiturates are PET tracers with diagnostic potential in Alzheimer's disease. Three fluoro-barbiturates were synthesised, showing in vivo sedative efficacy. One of them, [(18)F], was synthesised in radiofluorinated form. PET/CT Imaging with [(18)F] identified \u03b2-amyloid over-expressing transgenic mice (\u03b2A mice) compared to wild type and tau lines. The fluorescent barbiturate 9 was able to label \u03b2A plaques in brain sections of \u03b2A mice, and co-localise with a fluorescent Zn(II) indicator."}
{"id": "23178084", "title": "Clinical positron emission tomography/magnetic resonance imaging applications.", "content": "Clinical positron emission tomography/magnetic resonance imaging applications. Although clinical positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) applications were obvious and have completely replaced PET in oncology, clinical applications of PET/magnetic resonance (MR) are currently not clearly defined. This is due to the lack of clinical data, which is mainly because PET/MR technology is not clinically mature at this point. Open issues are technical and concern ease of obtaining PET attenuation correction maps, dealing with, for example, MR surface coil metal in the PET field-of-view and appropriate workflows leading to a cost-effective examination. All issues can be circumvented by using a shuttle-connected PET/CT-MR system, but the penalty is that simultaneous PET and MR imaging are not possible and potential motion between examinations may occur. Clinically, some systems installed worldwide start to have a reasonable bulk of clinical data. Preliminary results suggest that in oncology, PET/MR may have advantages over PET/CT in head and neck imaging. In liver imaging, more PET-positive lesions are seen on MR than on CT, but that does not mean that PET/MR is superior to PET/CT. Possibly in some settings where a contrast-enhanced PET/CT is needed to be diagnostic, PET/MR can be done without contrast media. Although PET/CT has virtually no role in brain imaging, this may be an important domain for PET/MR, particularly in dementia imaging. The role of PET/MR in the heart is as yet undefined, and much research will have to be done to elucidate this role. At this point, it is also not clear where the simultaneity afforded by a fully integrated PET/MR is really needed. Sequential data acquisition even on separate systems and consecutive software image fusion may well be appropriate. With the increasing installed base of systems, clinical data will be forthcoming and define more clearly where there is clinical value in PET/MR at an affordable price."}
{"id": "23166389", "title": "Amyloid-\u03b2 imaging with Pittsburgh compound B and florbetapir: comparing radiotracers and quantification methods.", "content": "Amyloid-\u03b2 imaging with Pittsburgh compound B and florbetapir: comparing radiotracers and quantification methods. (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B ((11)C-PiB) and (18)F-florbetapir amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) PET radioligands have had a substantial impact on Alzheimer disease research. Although there is evidence that both radioligands bind to fibrillar A\u03b2 in the brain, direct comparisons in the same individuals have not been reported. Here, we evaluated PiB and florbetapir in a retrospective convenience sample of cognitively normal older controls, patients with mild cognitive impairment, and patients with Alzheimer disease from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). From the ADNI database, 32 participants were identified who had undergone at least 1 PiB study and subsequently underwent a florbetapir study approximately 1.5 y after the last PiB study. Cortical PiB and florbetapir retention was quantified using several different methods to determine the effect of preprocessing factors (such as smoothing and reference region selection) and image processing pipelines. There was a strong association between PiB and florbetapir cortical retention ratios (Spearman \u03c1 = 0.86-0.95), and these were slightly lower than cortical retention ratios for consecutive PiB scans (Spearman \u03c1 = 0.96-0.98) made approximately 1.1 y apart. Cortical retention ratios for A\u03b2-positive subjects tended to be higher for PiB than for florbetapir images, yielding slopes for linear regression of florbetapir against PiB of 0.59-0.64. Associations between consecutive PiB scans and between PiB and florbetapir scans remained strong, regardless of processing methods such as smoothing, spatial normalization to a PET template, and use of reference regions. The PiB-florbetapir association was used to interconvert cutoffs for A\u03b2 positivity and negativity between the 2 radioligands, and these cutoffs were highly consistent in their assignment of A\u03b2 status. PiB and florbetapir retention ratios were strongly associated in the same individuals, and this relationship was consistent across several data analysis methods, despite scan-rescan intervals of more than a year. Cutoff thresholds for determining positive or negative A\u03b2 status can be reliably transformed from PiB to florbetapir units or vice versa using a population scanned with both radioligands."}
{"id": "23148941", "title": "The utility of the new research diagnostic criteria for Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "The utility of the new research diagnostic criteria for Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "23148296", "title": "Propofol decreases in vivo binding of 11C-PBR28 to translocator protein (18 kDa) in the human brain.", "content": "Propofol decreases in vivo binding of 11C-PBR28 to translocator protein (18 kDa) in the human brain. The PET radioligand (11)C-PBR28 targets translocator protein (18 kDa) (TSPO) and is a potential marker of neuroimmune activation in vivo. Although several patient populations have been studied using (11)C-PBR28, no investigators have studied cognitively impaired patients who would require anesthesia for the PET procedure, nor have any reports investigated the effects that anesthesia may have on radioligand uptake. The purpose of this study was to determine whether the anesthetic propofol alters brain uptake of (11)C-PBR28 in healthy subjects. Ten healthy subjects (5 men; 5 women) each underwent 2 dynamic brain PET scans on the same day, first at baseline and then with intravenous propofol anesthesia. The subjects were injected with 680 \u00b1 14 MBq (mean \u00b1 SD) of (11)C-PBR28 for each PET scan. Brain uptake was measured as total distribution volume (V(T)) using the Logan plot and metabolite-corrected arterial input function. Propofol decreased V(T), which corrects for any alteration of metabolism of the radioligand, by about 26% (P = 0.011). In line with the decrease in V(T), brain time-activity curves showed decreases of about 20% despite a 13% increase in plasma area under the curve with propofol. Reduction of V(T) with propofol was observed across all brain regions, with no significant region X condition interaction (P = 0.40). Propofol anesthesia reduces the V(T) of (11)C-PBR28 by about 26% in the brains of healthy human subjects. Given this finding, future studies will measure neuroimmune activation in the brains of autistic volunteers and their age and sex-matched healthy controls using propofol anesthesia. We recommend that future PET studies using (11)C-PBR28 and concomitant propofol anesthesia, as would be required in impaired populations, include a control arm to account for the effects of propofol on brain measurements of TSPO."}
{"id": "23104671", "title": "Influence of scan duration on the accuracy of \u03b2-amyloid PET with florbetaben in patients with Alzheimer's disease and healthy volunteers.", "content": "Influence of scan duration on the accuracy of \u03b2-amyloid PET with florbetaben in patients with Alzheimer's disease and healthy volunteers. Florbetaben is a \u03b2-amyloid-targeted PET tracer with significant potential for augmenting the toolbox in the clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In dementia imaging, shortening of scan duration may simplify future clinical use. The aim of this retrospective study was to investigate the effect of scan duration on diagnostic accuracy. PET scans obtained from 25 AD patients and 25 healthy volunteers (HVs) were analysed. In each subject, scans of three different durations (5, 10 and 20 min; all starting 90 min after injection) were obtained, randomized, and visually assessed by three experts blinded to the subject's identity and group affiliation. Presence/absence of \u03b2-amyloid and diagnostic confidence (0-100 %) were scored, and 10 % of the scans were re-read. Further, randomly selected datasets of ten AD patients and ten HVs were quantified using an established VOI-based approach and using a voxel-based approach. The sensitivity and specificity of the blinded read were 80 % and 96 %, respectively, for all scan durations. Diagnostic confidence was high (97 \u00b1 6 %, 97 \u00b1 6 % and 95 \u00b1 8 % for the 20-min, 10-min and 5-min scans, respectively; n.s.), as was interreader agreement (kappa(20 min) = 0.94, kappa(10 min) = 0.94, kappa(5 min) = 0.89; n.s.). Intrareader agreement was highest for the 20-min scan (kappa = 1.00) and lower for the 10-min scan (kappa = 0.71) and 5-min scan (kappa = 0.80; p = 0.002 and 0.003 vs. the 20-min scan). For all scan durations, composite SUVRs (Cohen's d effect size 4.5, 3.9 and 4.8 for the 5-min, 10-min and 20-min scans; p < 0.0001 each) and individual brain volumes affected by \u03b2-amyloid (Cohen's d effect size 1.6, 1.8 and 2.0 for the 5-min, 10-min and 20-min scans; p < 0.005 each) were significantly higher in AD patients than in HVs. Reduction in scan duration did not relevantly affect the accuracy of florbetaben PET scans in discriminating between AD patients and HVs. Thus, a reduction in scan duration seems conceivable for the future clinical use of florbetaben."}
{"id": "23100049", "title": "Comparison of the binding characteristics of [18F]THK-523 and other amyloid imaging tracers to Alzheimer's disease pathology.", "content": "Comparison of the binding characteristics of [18F]THK-523 and other amyloid imaging tracers to Alzheimer's disease pathology. Extensive deposition of senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in the brain is a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although several PET imaging agents have been developed for in vivo detection of senile plaques, no PET probe is currently available for selective detection of neurofibrillary tangles in the living human brain. Recently, [(18)F]THK-523 was developed as a potential in vivo imaging probe for tau pathology. The purpose of this study was to compare the binding properties of [(18)F]THK-523 and other amyloid imaging agents, including PiB, BF-227 and FDDNP, to synthetic protein fibrils and human brain tissue. In vitro radioligand binding assays were conducted using synthetic amyloid \u03b2(42) and K18\u0394K280-tau fibrils. Nonspecific binding was determined by the addition of unlabelled compounds at a concentration of 2\u00a0\u03bcM. To examine radioligand binding to neuropathological lesions, in vitro autoradiography was conducted using sections of AD brain. [(18)F]THK-523 showed higher affinity for tau fibrils than for A\u03b2 fibrils, whereas the other probes showed a higher affinity for A\u03b2 fibrils. The autoradiographic analysis indicated that [(18)F]THK-523 accumulated in the regions containing a high density of tau protein deposits. Conversely, PiB and BF-227 accumulated in the regions containing a high density of A\u03b2 plaques. These findings suggest that the unique binding profile of [(18)F]THK-523 can be used to identify tau deposits in AD brain."}
{"id": "23085550", "title": "Automated synthesis of [18F]Florbetaben as Alzheimer's disease imaging agent based on a synthesis module system.", "content": "Automated synthesis of [18F]Florbetaben as Alzheimer's disease imaging agent based on a synthesis module system. An automated synthesis procedure of [(18)F]Florbetaben ([(18)F]BAY94-9172), a radiolabeled imaging agent in phase III study for in vivo mapping of fibrillar amyloid \u03b2 (A\u03b2) with PET, was developed using the commercial PET-MF-2V-IT-1 synthesizer. The automated radiosynthesis was carried out via a one-step nucleophilic fluorination of methanesulfonic acid 2-[2-(2-{4-[2-(4-methylamino-phenyl)-vinyl]-phenoxy}-ethoxy)-ethoxy]-ethyl ester, as a new precursor, and separation with semi-preparative high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). The total synthesis time amounted to 50 min with 20-25% yield (uncorrected for decay) and radiochemical purities of more than 95% in all runs. The described automated radiosynthesis allows the production of [(18)F]Florbetaben using a commercial radiosynthesis module and enables clinical trials of this compound."}
{"id": "23041336", "title": "Random forest-based similarity measures for multi-modal classification of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Random forest-based similarity measures for multi-modal classification of Alzheimer's disease. Neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's disease, are associated with changes in multiple neuroimaging and biological measures. These may provide complementary information for diagnosis and prognosis. We present a multi-modality classification framework in which manifolds are constructed based on pairwise similarity measures derived from random forest classifiers. Similarities from multiple modalities are combined to generate an embedding that simultaneously encodes information about all the available features. Multi-modality classification is then performed using coordinates from this joint embedding. We evaluate the proposed framework by application to neuroimaging and biological data from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). Features include regional MRI volumes, voxel-based FDG-PET signal intensities, CSF biomarker measures, and categorical genetic information. Classification based on the joint embedding constructed using information from all four modalities out-performs the classification based on any individual modality for comparisons between Alzheimer's disease patients and healthy controls, as well as between mild cognitive impairment patients and healthy controls. Based on the joint embedding, we achieve classification accuracies of 89% between Alzheimer's disease patients and healthy controls, and 75% between mild cognitive impairment patients and healthy controls. These results are comparable with those reported in other recent studies using multi-kernel learning. Random forests provide consistent pairwise similarity measures for multiple modalities, thus facilitating the combination of different types of feature data. We demonstrate this by application to data in which the number of features differs by several orders of magnitude between modalities. Random forest classifiers extend naturally to multi-class problems, and the framework described here could be applied to distinguish between multiple patient groups in the future."}
{"id": "23021038", "title": "Preclinical sporadic Alzheimer's disease: target for personalized diagnosis and preventive intervention.", "content": "Preclinical sporadic Alzheimer's disease: target for personalized diagnosis and preventive intervention. The most opportune time for preventive intervention in sporadic Alzheimer's disease (spAD) is early in its preclinical stage (pcAD), when the odds of preventing or minimizing later disabling neurodegeneration are most favorable. The efficacy of promising preventive interventions should be assessed in patients in the earliest discernible phase of pcAD. This will require application of personalized medicine techniques, with use of suitable biomarkers to detect pcAD in individuals believed to be spAD-prone. This review focuses on the genetic biomarker, apolipoprotein E (apoE) \u03b54, and on certain neuroimaging biomarkers, such as structural MRI (sMRI), fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), and PET-amyloid tracers capable of delineating the extent and distribution of amyloid-beta (A\u03b2) deposits in the brain, that can be useful in identifying cognitively normal people who are at enhanced risk of developing spAD. Many years before AD symptoms appear, such neuroimaging procedures can disclose signature abnormalities of brain structure, function, and amyloid levels in cognitively normal apoE \u03b54 allele carriers and/or individuals with a family history of spAD. Although no effective treatment for spAD is yet available, there is evidence that, by taking a proactive personalized-medicine approach, the practicing physician may be able to reduce risk in AD-prone patients by attending to such modifiable AD risk factors as hypertension, obesity, type 2 diabetes, insulin resistance, hypercholesterolemia, sedentary lifestyle, and current cigarette smoking. Young patients who are \u03b54 positive should be advised to avoid participation in contact sports or other activities that expose them to risk of traumatic brain injury."}
{"id": "23011220", "title": "Prediction of amyloid-\u03b2 pathology in amnestic mild cognitive impairment with neuropsychological tests.", "content": "Prediction of amyloid-\u03b2 pathology in amnestic mild cognitive impairment with neuropsychological tests. Assessment of disease biomarkers, particularly the in vivo assessment of amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) burden with positron emission tomography (PET), is gradually becoming central to the diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the incorporation of biomarker evidence to the diagnostic process is currently restricted mainly to research settings. The identification of memory measures that are associated with A\u03b2 is of clinical relevance as this may enhance the confidence in making a diagnosis of MCI due to AD in clinical settings. Forty one persons with amnestic MCI underwent A\u03b2 imaging with (18)F-Florbetaben PET, magnetic resonance imaging, and a comprehensive neuropsychological assessment. All measures of episodic memory were significantly correlated with A\u03b2 burden, but regression analyses revealed a strong and selective association between story recall and A\u03b2 over and beyond the effects of age, education, global cognition, hippocampal volume, or other memory tests. Analyses of sensitivity and specificity of memory measures to detect high versus low A\u03b2 scans suggested that word-list recall performed better when high sensitivity was preferred, whereas story recall performed better when high specificity was preferred. In conclusion, a measure of story recall may increase the confidence in making a diagnosis of MCI due to AD in clinical settings."}
{"id": "23000537", "title": "Chronic anti-murine A\u03b2 immunization preserves odor guided behaviors in an Alzheimer's \u03b2-amyloidosis model.", "content": "Chronic anti-murine A\u03b2 immunization preserves odor guided behaviors in an Alzheimer's \u03b2-amyloidosis model. Olfaction is often impaired in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is also dysfunctional in mouse models of the disease. We recently demonstrated that short-term passive anti-murine-A\u03b2 immunization can rescue olfactory behavior in the Tg2576 mouse model overexpressing a human mutation of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) after \u03b2-amyloid deposition. Here we tested the ability to preserve normal olfactory behaviors by means of long-term passive anti-murine-A\u03b2 immunization. Seven-month-old Tg2576 and non-transgenic littermate (NTg) mice were IP-injected biweekly with the m3.2 murine-A\u03b2-specific antibody until 16 mo of age when mice were tested in the odor habituation test. While Tg2576 mice treated with a control antibody showed elevations in odor investigation times and impaired odor habituation compared to NTg, olfactory behavior was preserved to NTg levels in m3.2-immunized Tg2576 mice. Immunized Tg2576 mice had significantly less \u03b2-amyloid immunolabeling in the olfactory bulb and entorhinal cortex, yet showed elevations in Thioflavin-S labeled plaques in the piriform cortex. No detectable changes in APP metabolite levels other than A\u03b2 were found following m3.2 immunization. These results demonstrate efficacy of chronic, long-term anti-murine-A\u03b2 m3.2 immunization in preserving normal odor-guided behaviors in a human APP Tg model. Further, these results provide mechanistic insights into olfactory dysfunction as a biomarker for AD by yielding evidence that focal reductions of A\u03b2 may be sufficient to preserve olfaction."}
{"id": "22982358", "title": "Binary classification of \u00b9\u2078F-flutemetamol PET using machine learning: comparison with visual reads and structural MRI.", "content": "Binary classification of \u00b9\u2078F-flutemetamol PET using machine learning: comparison with visual reads and structural MRI. (18)F-flutemetamol is a positron emission tomography (PET) tracer for in vivo amyloid imaging. The ability to classify amyloid scans in a binary manner as 'normal' versus 'Alzheimer-like', is of high clinical relevance. We evaluated whether a supervised machine learning technique, support vector machines (SVM), can replicate the assignments made by visual readers blind to the clinical diagnosis, which image components have highest diagnostic value according to SVM and how (18)F-flutemetamol-based classification using SVM relates to structural MRI-based classification using SVM within the same subjects. By means of SVM with a linear kernel, we analyzed (18)F-flutemetamol scans and volumetric MRI scans from 72 cases from the (18)F-flutemetamol phase 2 study (27 clinically probable Alzheimer's disease (AD), 20 amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI), 25 controls). In a leave-one-out approach, we trained the (18)F-flutemetamol based classifier by means of the visual reads and tested whether the classifier was able to reproduce the assignment based on visual reads and which voxels had the highest feature weights. The (18)F-flutemetamol based classifier was able to replicate the assignments obtained by visual reads with 100% accuracy. The voxels with highest feature weights were in the striatum, precuneus, cingulate and middle frontal gyrus. Second, to determine concordance between the gray matter volume- and the (18)F-flutemetamol-based classification, we trained the classifier with the clinical diagnosis as gold standard. Overall sensitivity of the (18)F-flutemetamol- and the gray matter volume-based classifiers were identical (85.2%), albeit with discordant classification in three cases. Specificity of the (18)F-flutemetamol based classifier was 92% compared to 68% for MRI. In the MCI group, the (18)F-flutemetamol based classifier distinguished more reliably between converters and non-converters than the gray matter-based classifier. The visual read-based binary classification of (18)F-flutemetamol scans can be replicated using SVM. In this sample the specificity of (18)F-flutemetamol based SVM for distinguishing AD from controls is higher than that of gray matter volume-based SVM."}
{"id": "22976071", "title": "Dementia specialists and early adoption of amyloid imaging.", "content": "Dementia specialists and early adoption of amyloid imaging. The goal of this study was to describe the attitudes of U.S. neurologists specializing in dementia toward the use of amyloid imaging in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A cross-sectional electronic physician survey of dementia specialists at U.S. medical schools was performed. The response rate for the survey was 51.9% (135/260). Greater than 83% of respondents plan to use amyloid imaging to evaluate patients for AD. Most respondents intend to use amyloid imaging as an adjunctive diagnostic modality to confirm (77%) or rule-out (73%) a diagnosis of AD; 24% plan to use amyloid imaging to screen asymptomatic individuals for evidence of cerebral amyloid. Specialists who do not intend to use amyloid imaging (16%) express concern about the cost (73%), the usefulness (55%), and likelihood of patient (55%) and clinician (59%) misinterpretation of findings. The need for patient pre-test counseling was endorsed by a large percentage (92%) of dementia specialists (higher than for genetic testing (82%)). In conclusion, dementia specialists, particularly young specialists, are likely to be early adopters of amyloid imaging. Assuming ready availability, this new technology would be used as a confirmatory test in the evaluation of AD, as well as a screening tool for asymptomatic pathology. Specialists recognize the complexity of interpreting amyloid imaging findings and the need for patient counseling before undergoing testing."}
{"id": "22968319", "title": "A genetic polymorphism for translocator protein 18 kDa affects both in vitro and in vivo radioligand binding in human brain to this putative biomarker of neuroinflammation.", "content": "A genetic polymorphism for translocator protein 18 kDa affects both in vitro and in vivo radioligand binding in human brain to this putative biomarker of neuroinflammation. Second-generation radioligands for translocator protein (TSPO), an inflammation marker, are confounded by the codominant rs6971 polymorphism that affects binding affinity. The resulting three groups are homozygous for high-affinity state (HH), homozygous for low-affinity state (LL), or heterozygous (HL). We tested if in vitro binding to leukocytes distinguished TSPO genotypes and if genotype could affect clinical studies using the TSPO radioligand [(11)C]PBR28. In vitro binding to leukocytes and [(11)C]PBR28 brain imaging were performed in 27 human subjects with known TSPO genotype. Specific [(3)H]PBR28 binding was measured in prefrontal cortex of 45 schizophrenia patients and 47 controls. Leukocyte binding to PBR28 predicted genotype in all subjects. Brain uptake was \u223c40% higher in HH than HL subjects. Specific [(3)H]PBR28 binding in LL controls was negligible, while HH controls had \u223c80% higher binding than HL controls. After excluding LL subjects, specific binding was 16% greater in schizophrenia patients than controls. This difference was insignificant by itself (P=0.085), but was significant after correcting for TSPO genotype (P=0.011). Our results show that TSPO genotype influences PBR28 binding in vitro and in vivo. Correcting for this genotype increased statistical power in our postmortem study and is recommended for in vivo positron emission tomography studies."}
{"id": "22961445", "title": "A European multicentre PET study of fibrillar amyloid in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "A European multicentre PET study of fibrillar amyloid in Alzheimer's disease. Amyloid PET tracers have been developed for in vivo detection of brain fibrillar amyloid deposition in Alzheimer's disease (AD). To serve as an early biomarker in AD the amyloid PET tracers need to be analysed in multicentre clinical studies. In this study 238 [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound-B (PIB) datasets from five different European centres were pooled. Of these 238 datasets, 18 were excluded, leaving [(11)C]PIB datasets from 97 patients with clinically diagnosed AD (mean age 69\u2009\u00b1\u20098\u00a0years), 72 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI; mean age 67.5\u2009\u00b1\u20098\u00a0years) and 51 healthy controls (mean age 67.4\u2009\u00b1\u20096\u00a0years) available for analysis. Of the MCI patients, 64 were longitudinally followed for 28\u2009\u00b1\u200915\u00a0months. Most participants (175 out of 220) were also tested for apolipoprotein E (ApoE) genotype. [(11)C]PIB retention in the neocortical and subcortical brain regions was significantly higher in AD patients than in age-matched controls. Intermediate [(11)C]PIB retention was observed in MCI patients, with a bimodal distribution (64\u00a0% MCI PIB-positive and 36\u00a0% MCI PIB-negative), which was significantly different the pattern in both the AD patients and controls. Higher [(11)C]PIB retention was observed in MCI ApoE \u03b54 carriers compared to non-ApoE \u03b54 carriers (p\u2009<\u20090.005). Of the MCI PIB-positive patients, 67\u00a0% had converted to AD at follow-up while none of the MCI PIB-negative patients converted. This study demonstrated the robustness of [(11)C]PIB PET as a marker of neocortical fibrillar amyloid deposition in brain when assessed in a multicentre setting. MCI PIB-positive patients showed more severe memory impairment than MCI PIB-negative patients and progressed to AD at an estimated rate of 25\u00a0% per year. None of the MCI PIB-negative patients converted to AD, and thus PIB negativity had a 100\u00a0% negative predictive value for progression to AD. This supports the notion that PIB-positive scans in MCI patients are an indicator of prodromal AD."}
{"id": "22878163", "title": "Amyloid deposition detected with florbetapir F 18 ((18)F-AV-45) is related to lower episodic memory performance in clinically normal older individuals.", "content": "Amyloid deposition detected with florbetapir F 18 ((18)F-AV-45) is related to lower episodic memory performance in clinically normal older individuals. The objective of this study was to evaluate the relationship of amyloid burden, as assessed by florbetapir F 18 ((18)F-AV-45) amyloid positron emission tomography, and cognition in healthy older control (HC) subjects. Seventy-eight HC subjects were assessed with a brief cognitive test battery and positron emission tomography (PET) imaging with (18)F-AV-45. A standard uptake value ratio was computed for mean data from 6 cortical regions using a whole cerebellum reference region. Scans were also visually rated as amyloid positive or amyloid negative by 3 readers. Higher standard uptake value ratio correlated with lower immediate memory (r = -0.33; p = 0.003) and delayed recall scores (r = -0.25; p = 0.027). Performance on immediate recall was also lower in the visually rated amyloid positive compared with amyloid negative HC (p = 0.04), with a similar trend observed in delayed recall (p = 0.06). These findings support the hypothesis that higher amyloid burden is associated with lower memory performance among clinically normal older subjects. Longitudinal follow-up is ongoing to determine whether (18)F-AV-45 may also predict subsequent cognitive decline."}
{"id": "22841687", "title": "In\u00a0vivo microglia activation in very early dementia with Lewy bodies, comparison with Parkinson's disease.", "content": "In\u00a0vivo microglia activation in very early dementia with Lewy bodies, comparison with Parkinson's disease. Reactive microgliosis, hallmark of neuroinflammation, may contribute to neuronal degeneration, as shown in several neurodegenerative diseases. We in vivo evaluated microglia activation in early dementia with Lewy bodies, still not reported, and compared with early Parkinson's disease, to assess possible differential pathological patterns. We measured the [(11)C]-PK11195 binding potentials with Positron Emission Tomography, using a simplified reference tissue model, as marker of microglia activation, and cerebral spinal fluid protein carbonylation levels, as marker of oxidative stress. Six dementia with Lewy bodies and 6 Parkinson's disease patients within a year from the onset, and eleven healthy controls were included. Clinical diagnosis was confirmed at a 4-year follow-up. In dementia with Lewy bodies as well as in Parkinson's disease, we found significant (p < 0.001) [(11)C]-PK11195 binding potential increases in the substantia nigra and putamen. Patients with Lewy bodies dementia had extensive additional microglia activation in several associative cortices. This was evident also at a single subject level. Significant increase of Cerebral Spinal Fluid protein carbonylation was shown in both patients' groups. [(11)C]-PK11195 Positron Emission Tomography imaging revealed neuroinflammation in dementia with Lewy bodies and Parkinson's disease, mirroring, even at a single subject level, the common and the different topographical distribution of neuropathological changes, yet in the earliest stages of the disease process. Focusing on those events that characterize parkinsonisms and Parkinson's disease may be the key to further advancing the understanding of pathogenesis and to taking these mechanisms forward as a means of defining targets for neuroprotection."}
{"id": "22840559", "title": "Microglial activation in Alzheimer's disease: an (R)-[\u00b9\u00b9C]PK11195 positron emission tomography study.", "content": "Microglial activation in Alzheimer's disease: an (R)-[\u00b9\u00b9C]PK11195 positron emission tomography study. Inflammatory mechanisms, like microglial activation, could be involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). (R)-[(11)C]PK11195 (1-(2-chlorophenyl)-N-methyl-N-1(1-methylpropyl)-3-isoquinolinecarboxamide), a positron emission tomography (PET) ligand, can be used to quantify microglial activation in vivo. The purpose of this study was to assess whether increased (R)-[(11)C]PK11195 binding is present in AD and mild cognitive impairment (MCI), currently also known as \"prodromal AD.\" Nineteen patients with probable AD, 10 patients with prodromal AD (MCI), and 21 healthy control subjects were analyzed. Parametric images of binding potential (BP(ND)) of (R)-[(11)C]PK11195 scans were generated using receptor parametric mapping (RPM) with supervised cluster analysis. Differences between subject groups were tested using mixed model analysis, and associations between BP(ND) and cognition were evaluated using Pearson correlation coefficients. Voxel-wise statistical parametric mapping (SPM) analysis showed small clusters of significantly increased (R)-[(11)C]PK11195 BP(ND) in occipital lobe in AD dementia patients compared with healthy control subjects. Regions of interest (ROI)-based analyses showed no differences, with large overlap between groups. There were no differences in (R)-[(11)C]PK11195 BP(ND) between clinically stable prodromal AD patients and those who progressed to dementia, and BP(ND) did not correlate with cognitive function. Microglial activation is a subtle phenomenon occurring in AD."}
{"id": "22735677", "title": "Perspectives for multimodal neurochemical and imaging biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Perspectives for multimodal neurochemical and imaging biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease. The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is presently going through a paradigm shift from disease categories to dimensions and toward the implementation of biomarkers to support identification of predementia and even preclinical asymptomatic stages of the disease. We outline the methodological basis of presently available biomarkers and technological methodologies in AD, including exploratory and hypothesis-based plasma and blood candidates, cerebrospinal fluid markers of amyloid load and axonal destruction, and imaging markers of amyloid deposition, synaptic dysfunction, cortical functional and structural disconnection, and regional atrophy. We integrate biomarker findings into a comprehensive model of AD pathogenesis from healthy aging to cognitive decline, the resilience to cerebral amyloid load (RECAL) matrix. The RECAL framework integrates factors of risk and resilience to cerebral amyloid load for individual risk prediction. We show the clinical consequences when the RECAL matrix is operationalized into a diagnostic algorithm both for individual counseling of subjects and for the identification of at risk samples for primary and secondary preventive trials. We discuss the implication of biomarkers for the identification of prodromal AD for the primary care system that seems presently not even prepared to cope with the increasing number of subjects afflicted with late stage AD dementia, let alone future cohorts of subjects searching counseling or treatment of predementia and asymptomatic stages of AD. The paradigm shift in AD diagnosis and its operationalization into a diagnostic framework will have major implications for our understanding of disease pathogenesis. Now, for the first time, we have access to in vivo markers of key events in AD pathogenesis integrated into a heuristic framework that makes strong predictions on pattern of multimodal biomarkers in different stages of AD. Critical testing of these predictions will help us to modify or even falsify the currently hold assumptions on the pathogenesis of AD based on in vivo evidence in humans."}
{"id": "22713404", "title": "Nonfluent/agrammatic PPA with in-vivo cortical amyloidosis and Pick's disease pathology.", "content": "Nonfluent/agrammatic PPA with in-vivo cortical amyloidosis and Pick's disease pathology. The role of biomarkers in predicting pathological findings in the frontotemporal dementia (FTD) clinical spectrum disorders is still being explored. We present comprehensive, prospective longitudinal data for a 66 year old, right-handed female who met current criteria for the nonfluent/agrammatic variant of primary progressive aphasia (nfvPPA). She first presented with a 3-year history of progressive speech and language impairment mainly characterized by severe apraxia of speech. Neuropsychological and general motor functions remained relatively spared throughout the clinical course. Voxel-based morphometry (VBM) showed selective cortical atrophy of the left posterior inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and underlying insula that worsened over time, extending along the left premotor strip. Five years after her first evaluation, she developed mild memory impairment and underwent PET-FDG and PiB scans that showed left frontal hypometabolism and cortical amyloidosis. Three years later (11 years from first symptom), post-mortem histopathological evaluation revealed Pick's disease, with severe degeneration of left IFG, mid-insula, and precentral gyrus. Alzheimer's disease (AD) (CERAD frequent/Braak Stage V) was also detected. This patient demonstrates that biomarkers indicating brain amyloidosis should not be considered conclusive evidence that AD pathology accounts for a typical FTD clinical/anatomical syndrome."}
{"id": "22713376", "title": "Degenerative jargon aphasia: unusual progression of logopenic/phonological progressive aphasia?", "content": "Degenerative jargon aphasia: unusual progression of logopenic/phonological progressive aphasia? Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) corresponds to the gradual degeneration of language which can occur as nonfluent/agrammatic PPA, semantic variant PPA or logopenic variant PPA. We describe the clinical evolution of a patient with PPA presenting jargon aphasia as a late feature. At the onset of the disease (ten years ago) the patient showed anomia and executive deficits, followed later on by phonemic paraphasias and neologisms, deficits in verbal short-term memory, naming, verbal and semantic fluency. At recent follow-up the patient developed an unintelligible jargon with both semantic and neologistic errors, as well as with severe deficit of comprehension which precluded any further neuropsychological assessment. Compared to healthy controls, FDG-PET showed a hypometabolism in the left angular and middle temporal gyri, precuneus, caudate, posterior cingulate, middle frontal gyrus, and bilaterally in the superior temporal and inferior frontal gyri. The clinical and neuroimaging profile seems to support the hypothesis that the patient developed a late feature of logopenic variant PPA characterized by jargonaphasia and associated with superior temporal and parietal dysfunction."}
{"id": "22695623", "title": "Characterizing the preclinical stages of Alzheimer's disease and the prospect of presymptomatic intervention.", "content": "Characterizing the preclinical stages of Alzheimer's disease and the prospect of presymptomatic intervention. Studies of asymptomatic carriers of genes that are known to predispose to Alzheimer's disease (AD) have facilitated the characterization of preclinical AD. The most prevalent genetic risk factor is the \u03b54 allele of apolipoprotein E (APOE). Neuropathological studies of young deceased \u03b54 carriers have shown modest but abnormal amounts of neocortical amyloid and medial temporal neurofibrillary tangles that is also reflected in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, amyloid-\u03b2, and phospho-tau in particular. MRI studies have shown progressive hippocampal and gray matter atrophy with the advent of mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and fluorodeoxyglucose PET scans show reduced cerebral metabolism in posterior cingulate and related AD regions evident even in 30 year olds. Cerebral amyloidosis disclosed by more recent amyloid ligand PET studies in asymptomatic 60 year olds increases in parallel with \u03b54 gene dose. Longitudinal neuropsychological studies have revealed accelerated memory decline in \u03b54 carriers beginning around age 55-60 years whose severity again parallels \u03b54 gene dose. The clinico-pathological correlation of declining memory and AD-like neuropathological change defines preclinical AD and has set the stage for the accelerated evaluation of presymptomatic AD treatments. In this article, we briefly consider some of the earliest detectable changes associated with the predisposition to AD, and some of the prevention trial strategies that have been proposed to help find treatments to reduce the risk, postpone the onset of, or completely prevent AD symptoms as soon as possible."}
{"id": "22680403", "title": "Brain accumulation of amyloid \u03b2 protein visualized by positron emission tomography and BF-227 in Alzheimer's disease patients with or without diabetes mellitus.", "content": "Brain accumulation of amyloid \u03b2 protein visualized by positron emission tomography and BF-227 in Alzheimer's disease patients with or without diabetes mellitus. Although diabetes mellitus (DM) is considered to be one of the most consistent risks for developing dementia, it is not known if the pathology in dementia patients with DM is similar to or distinct from typical pathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). To discover the mechanism of developing dementia in AD patients with DM in a living state, we studied the distribution of amyloid \u03b2 (\u0391\u03b2) protein of diabetic AD patients. To evaluate the accumulation of A\u03b2, we examined 14 normal controls, four diabetic patients with AD and 11 non-diabetic patients with AD by positron emission tomography (PET) using BF-227, a currently developed A\u03b2 tracer. The analysis of PET images among the three groups showed an abundant aggregated A\u03b2 accumulation in the cerebral cortex of both AD patients with and without DM. The extent and distributions of BF-227 accumulation in diabetic AD patients were not significantly different from these of non-diabetic AD patients. These results suggest that the degree and extent of A\u03b2 deposition is not significantly different between AD with DM and AD alone."}
{"id": "22651996", "title": "Imaging microglial activation and glucose consumption in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Imaging microglial activation and glucose consumption in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), persistent microglial activation as sign of chronic neuroinflammation contributes to disease progression. Our study aimed to in vivo visualize and quantify microglial activation in 13- to 15-month-old AD mice using [(11)C]-(R)-PK11195 and positron emission tomography (PET). We attempted to modulate neuroinflammation by subjecting the animals to an anti-inflammatory treatment with pioglitazone (5-weeks' treatment, 5-week wash-out period). [(11)C]-(R)-PK11195 distribution volume values in AD mice were significantly higher compared with control mice after the wash-out period at 15 months, which was supported by immunohistochemistry data. However, [(11)C]-(R)-PK11195 \u03bcPET could not demonstrate genotype- or treatment-dependent differences in the 13- to 14-month-old animals, suggesting that microglial activation in AD mice at this age and disease stage is too mild to be detected by this imaging method."}
{"id": "22633529", "title": "Apolipoprotein E \u03b54 and age effects on florbetapir positron emission tomography in healthy aging and Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Apolipoprotein E \u03b54 and age effects on florbetapir positron emission tomography in healthy aging and Alzheimer disease. Investigate apolipoprotein E \u03b54 (APOE4) gene and aging effects on florbetapir F18 positron emission tomography (PET) in normal aging and Alzheimer's disease (AD). Florbetapir F18 PET images were analyzed from 245 participants, 18-92 years of age, from Avid Radiopharmaceutical's multicenter registered trials, including 86 younger healthy control volunteers (yHC), 61 older healthy control volunteers (oHC), 53 mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients, and 45 AD dementia patients (DAT). Mean florbetapir standard uptake value ratios (SUVRs) were used to evaluate the effects of APOE4 carrier status, older age, and their interaction in each of these groups. In comparison with non-carriers, the APOE4 carriers in each of the oHC, MCI, and DAT groups had higher mean cortical-to-cerebellar florbetapir SUVRs, patterns of florbetapir PET elevations characteristic of DAT, and a higher proportion meeting florbetapir PET positivity criteria. Only the oHC group had a significant association between mean cortical florbetapir SUVRs and age. In cognitively normal adults, without regards to APOE4 genotype, amyloid began to increase at age 58 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 52.3-63.7), with a predicted typical age of florbetapir positivity occurring around age 71 years. Presence of the APOE4 gene reduced the age of predicted florbetapir positivity in normal aging to around age 56 years, approximately 20 years younger than non-carriers. Cerebral amyloid deposition is associated with APOE4 carrier status in older healthy control subjects and symptomatic AD patients, and increases with age in older cognitively normal individuals. Amyloid imaging positivity appears to begin near age 56 years in cognitively intact APOE4 carriers and age 76 years in APOE4 non-carriers."}
{"id": "22592018", "title": "Verbal learning in Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment: fine-grained acquisition and short-delay consolidation performance and neural correlates.", "content": "Verbal learning in Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment: fine-grained acquisition and short-delay consolidation performance and neural correlates. The aim of this study was to examine correlations between acquisition and short-delay consolidation and brain metabolism at rest measured by fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) in 44 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, 16 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) who progressed to dementia (MCI-AD), 15 MCI patients who remained stable (MCI-S, 4-8 years of follow-up), and 20 healthy older participants. Acquisition and short-delay consolidation were calculated respectively as mean gained (MG) and lost (ML) access to items of the California Verbal Learning Task. MG performance suggests that acquisition is impaired in AD patients even at predementia stage (MCI-AD). ML performance suggests that short-delay consolidation is deficient only in confirmed AD patients. Variations in acquisition performance in control participants are related to metabolic activity in the anterior parietal cortex, an area supporting task-positive attentional processes. In contrast, the acquisition deficit is related to decreased activity in the lateral temporal cortex, an area supporting semantic processes, in patients at an early stage of AD and is related to metabolic activity in the hippocampus, an area supporting associative processes, in confirmed AD patients."}
{"id": "22551786", "title": "Negative allosteric modulation of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 results in broad spectrum activity relevant to treatment resistant depression.", "content": "Negative allosteric modulation of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 results in broad spectrum activity relevant to treatment resistant depression. Evidence suggests that 30-50% of patients suffering from major depressive disorder (MDD) are classified as suffering from treatment resistant depression (TRD) as they have an inadequate response to standard antidepressants. A key feature of this patient population is the increased incidence of co-morbid symptoms like anxiety and pain. Recognizing that current standards of care are largely focused on monoaminergic mechanisms of action (MOAs), innovative approaches to drug discovery for TRD are targeting glutamate hyperfunction. Here we describe the in vitro and in vivo profile of GRN-529, a novel negative allosteric modulator (NAM) of metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5). In cell based pharmacology assays, GRN-529 is a high affinity (Ki 5.4 nM), potent (IC50 3.1 nM) and selective (>1000-fold selective vs mGluR1) mGluR5 NAM. Acute administration of GRN-529 (0.1-30 mg/kg p.o.) had dose-dependent efficacy across a therapeutically relevant battery of animal models, comprising depression (decreased immobility time in tail suspension and forced swim tests) and 2 of the co-morbid symptoms overrepresented in TRD, namely anxiety (attenuation of stress-induced hyperthermia, and increased punished crossings in the four plate test) and pain (reversal of hyperalgesia due to sciatic nerve ligation or inflammation). The potential side effect liability of GRN-529 was also assessed using preclinical models: GRN-529 had no effect on rat sexual behavior or motor co-ordination (rotarod), however it impaired cognition in mice (social odor recognition). Efficacy and side effects of GRN-529 were compared to standard of care agents (antidepressant, anxiolytic or analgesics) and the tool mGluR5 NAM, MTEP. To assess the relationship between target occupancy and efficacy, ex vivo receptor occupancy was measured in parallel with efficacy testing. This revealed a strong correlation between target engagement, exposure and efficacy across behavioral endpoints, which supports the potential translational value of PET imaging to dose selection in patients. Collectively this broad spectrum profile of efficacy of GRN-529 supports our hypothesis that negative allosteric modulation of mGluR5 could represent an innovative therapeutic approach to the treatment of TRD. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled 'Metabotropic Glutamate Receptors'."}
{"id": "22531423", "title": "Amyloid-\u03b2 and cognition in aging and Alzheimer's disease: molecular and neurophysiological mechanisms.", "content": "Amyloid-\u03b2 and cognition in aging and Alzheimer's disease: molecular and neurophysiological mechanisms. Amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) deposition in the brain is one of the key pathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Neither traditional clinical-pathological studies nor modern in vivo biomarker investigations of brain amyloid load, however, could reveal a convincing relationship between brain A\u03b2 load and cognitive deficits and decline in patients with AD. Evidence suggests that pathophysiological A\u03b2 dysregulation and accumulation are very early events that precede the onset of cognitive impairment reaching a plateau at the clinical stage of the beginning dementia syndrome. Therefore, research efforts have focused on the role of A\u03b2 in asymptomatic older adults: the results of combined amyloid-PET and neuropsychological studies show a modest but significant correlation between brain fibrillar amyloid load and various subtle cognitive deficits, most notably in challenging episodic associative memory tasks. In order to elucidate the pathophysiological link between cognition and A\u03b2, a number of combined functional neuroimaging studies have been performed, resulting in early and complex functional alterations in cognitively relevant neural networks such as the default mode network and the largely overlapping episodic memory networks. Multimodal studies using amyloid-tracing imaging methods and neurodegeneration biomarkers strongly suggest that neural network discoordination is specifically related to A\u03b2-mediated functional and potentially reversible disruption of synaptic plasticity rather than a direct consequence to neurodegenerative pathological processes. These pathophysiological processes and mechanisms may dynamically and non-linearly evolve through fully reversible adaptive compensatory stages and through reactive decompensatory stages into fully irreversible neurodegenerative stages of AD."}
{"id": "22503001", "title": "Amyloid and metabolic positron emission tomography imaging of cognitively normal adults with Alzheimer's parents.", "content": "Amyloid and metabolic positron emission tomography imaging of cognitively normal adults with Alzheimer's parents. This study examines the relationship between fibrillar beta-amyloid (A\u03b2) deposition and reduced glucose metabolism, a proxy for neuronal dysfunction, in cognitively normal (NL) individuals with a parent affected by late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). Forty-seven 40-80-year-old NL received positron emission tomography (PET) with (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) and 18F-fluoro-2-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG). These included 19 NL with a maternal history (MH), 12 NL with a paternal history (PH), and 16 NL with negative family history of AD (NH). Automated regions of interest, statistical parametric mapping, voxel-wise intermodality correlations, and logistic regressions were used to examine cerebral-to-cerebellar PiB and FDG standardized uptake value ratios across groups. The MH group showed higher PiB retention and lower metabolism in AD regions compared with NH and PH, which were negatively correlated in posterior cingulate, frontal, and parieto-temporal regions (Pearson r \u2264 -0.57, p \u2264 0.05). No correlations were observed in NH and PH. The combination of A\u03b2 deposition and metabolism yielded accuracy \u2265 69% for MH vs. NH and \u2265 71% for MH vs. PH, with relative risk = 1.9-5.1 (p values < 0.005). NL individuals with AD-affected mothers show co-occurring A\u03b2 increases and hypometabolism in AD-vulnerable regions, suggesting an increased risk for AD."}
{"id": "22397905", "title": "Influence of OPRM1 Asn40Asp variant (A118G) on [11C]carfentanil binding potential: preliminary findings in human subjects.", "content": "Influence of OPRM1 Asn40Asp variant (A118G) on [11C]carfentanil binding potential: preliminary findings in human subjects. The Asn40Asp variant (A118G) of the \u03bc opioid receptor (OPRM1) gene is thought to contribute to the development and treatment of alcohol dependence. Employing positron emission tomography (PET), we first examined whether the single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) modifies binding potential (BP(ND)) of the \u03bc-selective ligand [(11)C]carfentanil in healthy control (Con) and 5-d abstinent alcohol-dependent (AD) subjects (unblocked basal scan). Second, we examined whether the allelic variants were associated with differences in OPRM1 occupancy by naltrexone (50 mg) in AD subjects. Con and AD carriers of the G allele (AG) had lower global BP(ND) at the basal scan than subjects homozygous for the A allele (AA). In AD subjects, naltrexone occupancy was slightly higher in AG subjects (98.9%) compared to AA subjects (93.1%), but this was not significant. We are the first to demonstrate using PET in healthy normal and AD subjects that the A118G SNP alters OPRM1 availability."}
{"id": "22044507", "title": "A neuroimaging proof of principle study of Down's syndrome and dementia: ethical and methodological challenges in intrusive research.", "content": "A neuroimaging proof of principle study of Down's syndrome and dementia: ethical and methodological challenges in intrusive research. Research into specific illnesses and the development of new treatments may only become possible as new technologies become available. When used for research, such technologies may best be described as 'intrusive', in that they require a considerable willingness and commitment on the part of the participants. This has increasingly been the case for brain disorders and illnesses where novel neuroimaging techniques, often combined with clinical and psychological assessments, have the potential to result in new understanding. People with intellectual disabilities (ID) have a history of under-representation as participants in research using such technologies and are therefore at risk of not receiving equal access to state-of-the-art treatments. We propose that 'intrusive' biomedical research is both possible and ethical in ID, and explore some of the methodological challenges by reference to a recent proof of principle study that used a relatively new ligand-based brain scanning technique in a group of volunteers with Down's syndrome. Five overlapping stages of the study methodology were identified and evaluated for their acceptability to volunteers with mild to moderate ID through discussion, reflection, and analysis of structured feedback in the context of key policy documents, ethical guidelines and relevant legislation. Identification of key ethical and methodological challenges from reflective practice and participant feedback facilitated the emergence of strategies that permitted continual refinement of the study design. Important areas considered included (1) being clear about the purpose and scientific justification for the study; (2) reconciling the potential risks and benefits with relevant ethical guidelines and legislation; (3) identifying and implementing effective recruitment strategies; (4) optimising and assessing capacity to consent; and (5) making the 'intrusive' procedures as acceptable as possible to people with ID. We were able to demonstrate that a proof of principle study incorporating a novel brain scanning technique in a group of volunteers with ID was feasible, safe and well tolerated, despite the vulnerabilities of the study cohort and the intrusive nature of the research. We consider the study within an ethical and historical discourse about the principles that define current 'best practice' in ID research and propose a number of key recommendations for making intrusive research acceptable in people with ID."}
{"id": "22229116", "title": "Neuropathological alterations in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Neuropathological alterations in Alzheimer disease. The neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer disease (AD) include \"positive\" lesions such as amyloid plaques and cerebral amyloid angiopathy, neurofibrillary tangles, and glial responses, and \"negative\" lesions such as neuronal and synaptic loss. Despite their inherently cross-sectional nature, postmortem studies have enabled the staging of the progression of both amyloid and tangle pathologies, and, consequently, the development of diagnostic criteria that are now used worldwide. In addition, clinicopathological correlation studies have been crucial to generate hypotheses about the pathophysiology of the disease, by establishing that there is a continuum between \"normal\" aging and AD dementia, and that the amyloid plaque build-up occurs primarily before the onset of cognitive deficits, while neurofibrillary tangles, neuron loss, and particularly synaptic loss, parallel the progression of cognitive decline. Importantly, these cross-sectional neuropathological data have been largely validated by longitudinal in vivo studies using modern imaging biomarkers such as amyloid PET and volumetric MRI."}
{"id": "22784036", "title": "Clinical and biomarker changes in dominantly inherited Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Clinical and biomarker changes in dominantly inherited Alzheimer's disease. The order and magnitude of pathologic processes in Alzheimer's disease are not well understood, partly because the disease develops over many years. Autosomal dominant Alzheimer's disease has a predictable age at onset and provides an opportunity to determine the sequence and magnitude of pathologic changes that culminate in symptomatic disease. In this prospective, longitudinal study, we analyzed data from 128 participants who underwent baseline clinical and cognitive assessments, brain imaging, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood tests. We used the participant's age at baseline assessment and the parent's age at the onset of symptoms of Alzheimer's disease to calculate the estimated years from expected symptom onset (age of the participant minus parent's age at symptom onset). We conducted cross-sectional analyses of baseline data in relation to estimated years from expected symptom onset in order to determine the relative order and magnitude of pathophysiological changes. Concentrations of amyloid-beta (A\u03b2)(42) in the CSF appeared to decline 25 years before expected symptom onset. A\u03b2 deposition, as measured by positron-emission tomography with the use of Pittsburgh compound B, was detected 15 years before expected symptom onset. Increased concentrations of tau protein in the CSF and an increase in brain atrophy were detected 15 years before expected symptom onset. Cerebral hypometabolism and impaired episodic memory were observed 10 years before expected symptom onset. Global cognitive impairment, as measured by the Mini-Mental State Examination and the Clinical Dementia Rating scale, was detected 5 years before expected symptom onset, and patients met diagnostic criteria for dementia at an average of 3 years after expected symptom onset. We found that autosomal dominant Alzheimer's disease was associated with a series of pathophysiological changes over decades in CSF biochemical markers of Alzheimer's disease, brain amyloid deposition, and brain metabolism as well as progressive cognitive impairment. Our results require confirmation with the use of longitudinal data and may not apply to patients with sporadic Alzheimer's disease. (Funded by the National Institute on Aging and others; DIAN ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00869817.)."}
{"id": "22105948", "title": "Alzheimer disease biomarkers are associated with body mass index.", "content": "Alzheimer disease biomarkers are associated with body mass index. Both low and high body mass index (BMI) has been associated with cognitive impairment and dementia risk, including Alzheimer disease (AD). We examined the relationship of BMI with potential underlying biological substrates for cognitive impairment. We analyzed cross-sectional data from participants enrolled in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) with PET imaging using Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB, n = 101) or CSF analyses (n = 405) for \u03b2-amyloid peptide (A\u03b2) and total tau. We assessed the relationship of CSF biomarkers and global PiB uptake with BMI using linear regression controlling for age and sex. We also assessed BMI differences between those who were and were not considered biomarker positive. Finally, we assessed BMI change over 2 years in relationship to AD biomarkers. No dementia, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and AD groups were not different in age, education, or BMI. In the overall sample, CSF A\u03b2 (\u03b2 = 0.181, p < 0.001), tau (\u03b2 = -0.179, p < 0.001), tau/A\u03b2 ratio (\u03b2 = -0.180, p < 0.001), and global PiB uptake (\u03b2 = -0.272, p = 0.005) were associated with BMI, with markers of increased AD burden associated with lower BMI. Fewer overweight individuals had biomarker levels indicative of pathophysiology (p < 0.01). These relationships were strongest in the MCI and no dementia groups. The presence and burden of in vivo biomarkers of cerebral amyloid and tau are associated with lower BMI in cognitively normal and MCI individuals. This supports previous findings of systemic change in the earliest phases of the disease. Further, MCI in those who are overweight may be more likely to result from heterogeneous pathophysiology."}
{"id": "22786606", "title": "Amyloid-\u03b2 assessed by florbetapir F 18 PET and 18-month cognitive decline: a multicenter study.", "content": "Amyloid-\u03b2 assessed by florbetapir F 18 PET and 18-month cognitive decline: a multicenter study. Florbetapir F 18 PET can image amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) aggregates in the brains of living subjects. We prospectively evaluated the prognostic utility of detecting A\u03b2 pathology using florbetapir PET in subjects at risk for progressive cognitive decline. A total of 151 subjects who previously participated in a multicenter florbetapir PET imaging study were recruited for longitudinal assessment. Subjects included 51 with recently diagnosed mild cognitive impairment (MCI), 69 cognitively normal controls (CN), and 31 with clinically diagnosed Alzheimer disease dementia (AD). PET images were visually scored as positive (A\u03b2+) or negative (A\u03b2-) for pathologic levels of \u03b2-amyloid aggregation, blind to diagnostic classification. Cerebral to cerebellar standardized uptake value ratios (SUVr) were determined from the baseline PET images. Subjects were followed for 18 months to evaluate changes in cognition and diagnostic status. Analysis of covariance and correlation analyses were conducted to evaluate the association between baseline PET amyloid status and subsequent cognitive decline. In both MCI and CN, baseline A\u03b2+ scans were associated with greater clinical worsening on the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive subscale (ADAS-Cog (p < 0.01) and Clinical Dementia Rating-sum of boxes (CDR-SB) (p < 0.02). In MCI A\u03b2+ scans were also associated with greater decline in memory, Digit Symbol Substitution (DSS), and Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) (p < 0.05). In MCI, higher baseline SUVr similarly correlated with greater subsequent decline on the ADAS-Cog (p < 0.01), CDR-SB (p < 0.03), a memory measure, DSS, and MMSE (p < 0.05). A\u03b2+ MCI tended to convert to AD dementia at a higher rate than A\u03b2- subjects (p < 0.10). Florbetapir PET may help identify individuals at increased risk for progressive cognitive decline."}
{"id": "22252372", "title": "Using PET with 18F-AV-45 (florbetapir) to quantify brain amyloid load in a clinical environment.", "content": "Using PET with 18F-AV-45 (florbetapir) to quantify brain amyloid load in a clinical environment. Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging of brain amyloid load has been suggested as a core biomarker for Alzheimer's disease (AD). The aim of this study was to test the feasibility of using PET imaging with (18)F-AV-45 (florbetapir) in a routine clinical environment to differentiate between patients with mild to moderate AD and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) from normal healthy controls (HC). In this study, 46 subjects (20 men and 26 women, mean age of 69.0 \u00b1 7.6 years), including 13 with AD, 12 with MCI and 21 HC subjects, were enrolled from three academic memory clinics. PET images were acquired over a 10-min period 50 min after injection of florbetapir (mean \u00b1 SD of radioactivity injected, 259 \u00b1 57 MBq). PET images were assessed visually by two individuals blinded to any clinical information and quantitatively via the standard uptake value ratio (SUVr) in the specific regions of interest, which were defined in relation to the cerebellum as the reference region. The mean values of SUVr were higher in AD patients (median 1.20, Q1-Q3 1.16-1.30) than in HC subjects (median 1.05, Q1-Q3 1.04-1.08; p = 0.0001) in the overall cortex and all cortical regions (precuneus, anterior and posterior cingulate, and frontal median, temporal, parietal and occipital cortex). The MCI subjects also showed a higher uptake of florbetapir in the posterior cingulate cortex (median 1.06, Q1-Q3 0.97-1.28) compared with HC subjects (median 0.95, Q1-Q3 0.82-1.02; p = 0.03). Qualitative visual assessment of the PET scans showed a sensitivity of 84.6% (95% CI 0.55-0.98) and a specificity of 38.1% (95% CI 0.18-0.62) for discriminating AD patients from HC subjects; however, the quantitative assessment of the global cortex SUVr showed a sensitivity of 92.3% and specificity of 90.5% with a cut-off value of 1.122 (area under the curve 0.894). These preliminary results suggest that PET with florbetapir is a safe and suitable biomarker for AD that can be used routinely in a clinical environment. However, the low specificity of the visual PET scan assessment could be improved by the use of specific training and automatic or semiautomatic quantification tools."}
{"id": "23300829", "title": "Molecular imaging of microglial activation in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.", "content": "Molecular imaging of microglial activation in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. There is growing evidence of activated microglia and inflammatory processes in the cerebral cortex in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Activated microglia is characterized by increased expression of the 18 kDa translocator protein (TSPO) in the brain and may be a useful biomarker of inflammation. In this study, we evaluated neuroinflammation in ALS patients using a radioligand of TSPO, (18)F-DPA-714. Ten patients with probable or definite ALS (all right-handed, without dementia, and untreated by riluzole or other medication that might bias the binding on the TSPO), were enrolled prospectively and eight healthy controls matched for age underwent a PET study. Comparison of the distribution volume ratios between both groups were performed using a Mann-Whitney's test. Significant increase of distribution of volume ratios values corresponding to microglial activation was found in the ALS sample in primary motor, supplementary motor and temporal cortex (p = 0.009, p = 0.001 and p = 0.004, respectively). These results suggested that the cortical uptake of (18)F-DPA-714 was increased in ALS patients during the \"time of diagnosis\" phase of the disease. This finding might improve our understanding of the pathophysiology of ALS and might be a surrogate marker of efficacy of treatment on microglial activation."}
{"id": "21911655", "title": "Intranasal insulin therapy for Alzheimer disease and amnestic mild cognitive impairment: a pilot clinical trial.", "content": "Intranasal insulin therapy for Alzheimer disease and amnestic mild cognitive impairment: a pilot clinical trial. To examine the effects of intranasal insulin administration on cognition, function, cerebral glucose metabolism, and cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers in adults with amnestic mild cognitive impairment or Alzheimer disease (AD). Randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial. Clinical research unit of a Veterans Affairs medical center. The intent-to-treat sample consisted of 104 adults with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (n\u00a0=\u00a064) or mild to moderate AD (n\u00a0=\u00a040). Intervention\u00a0 Participants received placebo (n\u00a0=\u00a030), 20 IU of insulin (n\u00a0=\u00a036), or 40 IU of insulin (n\u00a0=\u00a038) for 4 months, administered with a nasal drug delivery device (Kurve Technology, Bothell, Washington). Primary measures consisted of delayed story recall score and the Dementia Severity Rating Scale score, and secondary measures included the Alzheimer Disease's Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog) score and the Alzheimer's Disease Cooperative Study-activities of daily living (ADCS-ADL) scale. A subset of participants underwent lumbar puncture (n\u00a0=\u00a023) and positron emission tomography with fludeoxyglucose F 18 (n\u00a0=\u00a040) before and after treatment. Outcome measures were analyzed using repeated-measures analysis of covariance. Treatment with 20 IU of insulin improved delayed memory (P\u00a0<\u00a0.05), and both doses of insulin (20 and 40 IU) preserved caregiver-rated functional ability (P\u00a0<\u00a0.01). Both insulin doses also preserved general cognition as assessed by the ADAS-cog score for younger participants and functional abilities as assessed by the ADCS-ADL scale for adults with AD (P\u00a0<\u00a0.05). Cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers did not change for insulin-treated participants as a group, but, in exploratory analyses, changes in memory and function were associated with changes in the A\u03b242 level and in the tau protein-to-A\u03b242 ratio in cerebrospinal fluid. Placebo-assigned participants showed decreased fludeoxyglucose F 18 uptake in the parietotemporal, frontal, precuneus, and cuneus regions and insulin-minimized progression. No treatment-related severe adverse events occurred. These results support longer trials of intranasal insulin therapy for patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment and patients with AD. Trial Registration\u00a0 clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00438568."}
{"id": "22084131", "title": "Positron emission tomography and neuropathologic estimates of fibrillar amyloid-\u03b2 in a patient with Down syndrome and Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Positron emission tomography and neuropathologic estimates of fibrillar amyloid-\u03b2 in a patient with Down syndrome and Alzheimer disease. Down syndrome appears to be associated with a virtually certain risk of fibrillar amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) pathology by the age of 40 and a very high risk of dementia at older ages. The positron emission tomography (PET) ligand florbetapir F18 has been shown to characterize fibrillar A\u03b2 in the living human brain and to provide a close correlation with subsequent A\u03b2 neuropathology in individuals proximate to and after the end of life. The extent to which the most frequently used PET ligands can be used to detect fibrillar A\u03b2 in patients with Down syndrome remains to be determined. To characterize PET estimates of fibrillar A\u03b2 burden in a Down syndrome patient very close to the end of life and to compare them with neuropathologic assessment made after his death. Design/ With the family's informed consent, florbetapir PET was used to study a 55-year-old Down syndrome patient with Alzheimer disease near the end of life; his brain was donated for neuropathologic assessment when he died 14 days later. Visual ratings of cerebral florbetapir uptake were performed by trained readers who were masked to the patient's diagnosis as part of a larger study, and an automated algorithm was used to characterize regional-to-cerebellar standard uptake value ratios in 6 cerebral regions of interest. Neuropathologic assessments were performed masked to the patient's diagnosis or PET measurements. Visual ratings and automated analyses of the PET image revealed a heavy fibrillar A\u03b2 burden in cortical, striatal, and thalamic regions, similar to that reported for patients with late-onset Alzheimer disease. This matched neuropathologic findings of frequent neuritic and diffuse plaques, as well as frequent amyloid angiopathy, except for neuropathologically demonstrated frequent cerebellar diffuse plaques and amyloid angiopathy that were not detected by the PET scan. Florbetapir PET can be used to detect increased cerebral-to-cerebellar fibrillar A\u03b2 burden in a Down syndrome patient with Alzheimer disease, even in the presence of frequent amyloid angiopathy and diffuse plaques in the cerebellum. Additional studies are needed to determine the extent to which PET could be used to detect and to track fibrillar A\u03b2 and to evaluate investigational A\u03b2-modifying treatments in the presymptomatic and symptomatic stages of Alzheimer disease."}
{"id": "23291028", "title": "[A study on the cerebral glucose metabolism in progressive supranuclear palsy].", "content": "[A study on the cerebral glucose metabolism in progressive supranuclear palsy]. To study the regional cerebral glucose utilization with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET and to investigate the correlation between cerebral glucose metabolism and the clinical characteristic of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). A total of 13 patients with PSP and 30 matched healthy controls were performed (18)F-FDG PET imaging at rest state. Visual inspection and statistical parametric mapping (SPM) were used to investigate regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc). Based on the visual inspection, PET imaging in the PSP patients showed that the focal hypometabolic areas mainly included the bilateral frontal cortex, midbrain and subcortical structures. Compared to the controls, voxel-based analysis showed that the regional glucose metabolism decreased in bilateral superior, middle frontal gyrus, cingulate gyrus, midbrain and subcortical structures including basal ganglion and thalamus, which were consisted with the clinical characteristics, such as vertical gaze palsy, pseudobulbar palsy, postural instability, axial rigidity, dementia and so on. (18)F-FDG PET imaging is helpful for the early diagnosis of PSP."}
{"id": "23286052", "title": "MR-less surface-based amyloid estimation by subject-specific atlas selection and Bayesian fusion.", "content": "MR-less surface-based amyloid estimation by subject-specific atlas selection and Bayesian fusion. For clinical evaluation, assessing amyloid deposition with PiB-PET is desirable without requiring MR acquisition and associated fusion/segmentation techniques. A useful clinical tool is to estimate PiB-PET against the brain surface, which is however challenging using PET alone because of the lack of structural information. We propose a method to generate such estimate, where multiple atlases are selected and combined with local weights in a Bayesian framework. Qualitative and quantitative comparison with and without MRI are presented. Using PET only, the average error on the brain surface was around 13% compared to MRI-dependant method."}
{"id": "23285580", "title": "Towards intra-operative PET for head and neck cancer: lymph node localization using high-energy probes.", "content": "Towards intra-operative PET for head and neck cancer: lymph node localization using high-energy probes. We present a novel approach for intra-operative localization of lymph nodes and metastases in the head and neck region using the radio-tracer [18F]FDG. By combining an optical tracking system with a high-energy gamma probe to detect 511keV annihilation gammas, we enable intra-operative PET to visualize activity distributions. Detection of these gammas is modeled ad-hoc analytically, taking into account several factors affecting the detection process. This allows us to iteratively reconstruct the radio-tracer distribution within a localized volume of interest. As a feasibility study we analyze clinical data of 7 patients with tumors in the head and neck region, and derive a realistic neck phantom configuration with [18F]FDG-filled lesions mimicking tumors and lymph nodes. We demonstrate the capabilities and limitations of our approach using that neck phantom. We also outline possible improvements to make our method clinically viable towards less invasive surgeries."}
{"id": "23285544", "title": "Genetic, structural and functional imaging biomarkers for early detection of conversion from MCI to AD.", "content": "Genetic, structural and functional imaging biomarkers for early detection of conversion from MCI to AD. With the advent of advanced imaging techniques, genotyping, and methods to assess clinical and biological progression, there is a growing need for a unified framework that could exploit information available from multiple sources to aid diagnosis and the identification of early signs of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We propose a modeling strategy using supervised feature extraction to optimally combine high-dimensional imaging modalities with several other low-dimensional disease risk factors. The motivation is to discover new imaging biomarkers and use them in conjunction with other known biomarkers for prognosis of individuals at high risk of developing AD. Our framework also has the ability to assess the relative importance of imaging modalities for predicting AD conversion. We evaluate the proposed methodology on the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) database to predict conversion of individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to AD, only using information available at baseline."}
{"id": "23284831", "title": "Anti-amyloid-\u03b2-mediated positron emission tomography imaging in Alzheimer's disease mouse brains.", "content": "Anti-amyloid-\u03b2-mediated positron emission tomography imaging in Alzheimer's disease mouse brains. Antibody-mediated imaging of amyloid \u03b2 (A\u03b2) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) offers a promising strategy to detect and monitor specific A\u03b2 species, such as oligomers, that have important pathological and therapeutic relevance. The major current limitation of antibodies as a diagnostic and imaging device is poor blood-brain-barrier permeability. A classical anti-A\u03b2 antibody, 6E10, is modified with 10 kDa polyethylene glycol (PEG) and a positron emitting isotope, Copper-64 (t(\u00bd)\u200a=\u200a12.7 h), and intravenously delivered to the TgCRND8 mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Modification of 6E10 with PEG (6E10-PEG) increases accumulation of 6E10 in brain tissue in both TgCRND8 and wild type control animals. 6E10-PEG differentiates TgCRND8 animals from wild type controls using positron emission tomography (PET) and provides a framework for using antibodies to detect pathology using non-invasive medical imaging techniques."}
{"id": "23280791", "title": "Effect of lifestyle activities on Alzheimer disease biomarkers and cognition.", "content": "Effect of lifestyle activities on Alzheimer disease biomarkers and cognition. A study was undertaken to investigate the association of intellectual and physical activity with biomarkers of Alzheimer disease (AD) pathophysiology and cognition in a nondemented elderly population. The biomarkers evaluated were brain A\u03b2 load via Pittsburgh compound B (PiB)-positron emission tomography (PET), neuronal dysfunction via (18) F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET, and neurodegeneration via structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). We studied 515 nondemented (428 cognitively normal and 87 mild cognitive impairment) participants in the population-based Mayo Clinic Study of Aging who completed a 3T MRI, PET scans, and APOE genotype, and had lifestyle activity measures and cognition data available. The imaging measures computed were global PiB-PET uptake, and global FDG-PET and MRI based hippocampal volume. We consolidated activity variables into lifetime intellectual, current intellectual, and current physical activities. We used a global cognitive z score as a measure of cognition. We applied 2 independent methods-partial correlation analysis adjusted for age and gender and path analysis using structural equations-to evaluate the associations between lifestyle activities, imaging biomarkers, and global cognition. None of the lifestyle variables were correlated with the biomarkers, and the path associations between lifestyle variables and biomarkers were not significant (p > 0.05). Conversely, all the biomarkers were correlated with global cognitive z score (p < 0.05), and the path associations between (lifetime and current) intellectual activities and global z score were significant (p < 0.01). Intellectual and physical activity lifestyle factors were not associated with AD biomarkers, but intellectual lifestyle factors explained variability in the cognitive performance in this nondemented population. This study provides evidence that lifestyle activities may delay the onset of dementia but do not significantly influence the expression of AD pathophysiology."}
{"id": "23272070", "title": "Sequence variants of toll like receptor 4 and late-onset Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Sequence variants of toll like receptor 4 and late-onset Alzheimer's disease. Toll like receptor 4 (TLR4) has been related to inflammation and beta-amyloid deposition in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain. No study has explored the association between haplotype-tagging single nucleotide polymorphisms (htSNPs) of TLR4 and AD risk previously and ApoE e4 status alone showed low sensitivity in identifying late-onset AD (LOAD) patients. A total of 269 LOAD patients were recruited from three hospitals in northern Taiwan (2007-2010). Controls (n\u200a=\u200a449) were recruited from elderly health checkup and volunteers of the hospital during the same period of time. Five common (frequency\u22655%) TLR4 htSNPs were selected to assess the association between TLR4 polymorphisms and the risk of LOAD in the Chinese ethnic population. Homozygosity of TLR4 rs1927907 was significantly associated with an increased risk of LOAD [TT vs. CC: adjusted odds ratio (AOR)\u200a=\u200a2.45, 95% confidence interval (CI)\u200a=\u200a1.30-4.64]. After stratification, the association increased further in ApoE e4 non-carriers (AOR\u200a=\u200a3.07) and in hypertensive patients (AOR\u200a=\u200a3.60). Haplotype GACGG was associated with a decreased risk of LOAD (1 vs. 0 copies: AOR\u200a=\u200a0.59, 95% CI\u200a=\u200a0.36-0.96; 2 vs. 0 copies: AOR\u200a=\u200a0.31, 95% CI\u200a=\u200a0.14-0.67) in ApoE e4 non-carriers. ApoE e4 status significantly modified this association (p(interaction)\u200a=\u200a0.01). These associations remained significant after correction for multiple tests. Sequence variants of TLR4 were associated with an increased risk of LOAD, especially in ApoE e4 non-carriers and in hypertensive patients. The combination of TLR4 rs1927907 and ApoE e4 significantly increased the screening sensitivity in identifying LOAD patients from 0.4 to 0.7."}
{"id": "23238736", "title": "Apolipoprotein E, not fibrillar \u03b2-amyloid, reduces cerebral glucose metabolism in normal aging.", "content": "Apolipoprotein E, not fibrillar \u03b2-amyloid, reduces cerebral glucose metabolism in normal aging. The \u03b54 allele of the polymorphic apolipoprotein E gene is associated with increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD), deposition of \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2), and reduction in cerebral glucose metabolism in asymptomatic people. Although ApoE4 may exert an effect on AD risk through amyloidogenic pathways, whether its effect on glucose metabolism is related to A\u03b2 is unknown. To answer this question, we examined data from 175 cognitively normal older people (mean age, 77; 87 men, 88 women) in the Alzheimer's disease neuroimaging initiative studied concurrently with [(18)F]flurodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography measures of glucose metabolism and the radiotracer [(18)F]florbetapir, an imaging agent which labels fibrillar A\u03b2 in vivo. Based on a threshold value of florbetapir uptake determined in separate samples, subjects were categorized as florbetapir+ or florbetapir-. Glucose metabolism was measured as a continuous variable in a group of regions of interest (ROIs) selected a priori based on their involvement in AD, and also by using a whole-brain voxelwise approach. Among this sample, 29% of subjects were florbetapir+ and 23% were ApoE4 carriers. As expected, there was a significant association between ApoE4 genotype and florbetapir positivity. Florbetapir status, however, was not significantly associated with glucose metabolism, but the ApoE4 genotype was associated with lower metabolism in both voxelwise and ROI approaches. These results show that ApoE genotype, and not aggregated fibrillar forms of A\u03b2, contributes to reduced glucose metabolism in aging and adds to a growing list of neural consequences of ApoE that do not appear to be related to A\u03b2."}
{"id": "23229103", "title": "[ALS and frontotemporal dementia - case report and review of the literature].", "content": "[ALS and frontotemporal dementia - case report and review of the literature]. The occurrence of cognitive decline in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), especially in the form of frontotemporal dementia (FTD), has been described previously. Recent molecular biology and histopathology data suggest that both ALS and FTD may share common pathological pathways and may present two phenotypes of the same proteinopathy. The underlying pathophysiological mechanism may be defective RNA- and DNA-modulation, mediated by the proteins TDP43 and FUS.\u200aThese findings are suggestive of a new disease category of TDP43-proteinopathies, which include ALS, FTD and overlap syndromes. While about half of the FTD cases are associated with TDP43-deposits, tau is found in the other half. A significant clinical overlap to other tauopathies exists here as well, for instance with corticobasal degeneration. In this paper, we present a case report and review the clinical spectrum and current pathogenetic concepts of FTD."}
{"id": "23212812", "title": "[Imaging diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Imaging diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease]."}
{"id": "23210167", "title": "[The application of nuclear medicine imaging in neurology, neurosurgery and psychiatry].", "content": "[The application of nuclear medicine imaging in neurology, neurosurgery and psychiatry]. Analysis of use of nuclear medicine imaging (positron emission tomography and single photon emission computed tomography) in diagnosis, differential diagnosis and evaluation of treatment efficacy of central nervous system diseases is presented in this review. The possibility of radionuclide imaging techniques in different variants of dementia, Parkinson's disease, brain tumors is demonstrated on the basis of personal authors experience and recent literature data. Results of PET application in evaluating of the effecacy of stereotactic interventions in patients with anxiety obsessive disorders are also described in the review."}
{"id": "23209065", "title": "[Depression and dementia: perspectives from clinical studies].", "content": "[Depression and dementia: perspectives from clinical studies]. In this review, we present an overview of clinical studies that addressed the relationship between depression and dementia or cognitive decline. Cross-sectional studies and meta-analyses have repeatedly shown an association between late-life depression (LLD) and dementia, particularly Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia; however, the findings of cohort studies have been inconsistent. Furthermore, studies on the association between depression with a younger age of onset and dementia have yielded inconsistent results. Regarding cognitive decline associated with LLD, several studies have reported an association between LLD and mild cognitive impairment, suggesting that depression itself can cause persistent cognitive impairment. Other studies have compared the cognitive profile between LLD and depression with a younger age of onset, but their results have been inconclusive, especially regarding the association between memory impairment and the age of onset of depression. LLD is associated with vascular change and white matter degeneration of the brain, as shown by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Recently, several studies reported an association between gray matter change and LLD. Studies currently in progress employ functional brain imaging methods such as single-photon emission computed tomography, functional MRI, and positron emission tomography. Clinically, it is important to understand how subtypes of depression can be defined in terms of risk of developing dementia, and to devise effective treatments. One paper explored the possibility of detecting depression associated with AD by measuring the blood A\u03b240/A\u03b242 levels, and other studies have suggested that symptoms of apathy and loss of interest are associated with conversion of depression to AD. Unfortunately, current antidepressants may have limited efficacy on depression with dementia; therefore, further investigation for devising methods of predicting conversion of depression to dementia and subsequent treatment is required."}
{"id": "23208196", "title": "Clinical staging of semantic dementia in an FDG-PET study using FTLD-CDR.", "content": "Clinical staging of semantic dementia in an FDG-PET study using FTLD-CDR. The frontotemporal lobar degeneration-specific clinical dementia rating (FTLD-CDR), which was recently developed to measure frontotemporal dementia (FTD) severity, includes 2 items that assess language and behavior in addition to the 6 items of the conventional CDR. To investigate which of the 3 ratings, i.e. the global score of the CDR (GCDR), the behavioral domain score of the FTLD-CDR (BCDR), or the language domain score of the FTLD-CDR (LCDR), is most suitable for monitoring the progression of semantic dementia (SD), the number of hypometabolic voxels was calculated by comparing 28 SD patients in each stage of the 3 ratings with 63 age/sex-matched controls using voxel-based statistical parametric mapping. The hypometabolic areas increased as a function of the LCDR score in SD patients. However, hypometabolic areas associated with the GCDR did not increase gradually as the stage increased. Furthermore, those associated with the BCDR showed the reverse pattern. Our findings suggest that the severity and patterning of glucose hypometabolism measured by the LCDR correspond well with the natural course of SD reported in previous clinical and neuroimaging studies, whereas the BCDR and GCDR did not reflect disease progression in SD."}
{"id": "23203246", "title": "Biodistribution, tumor detection, and radiation dosimetry of 18F-DCFBC, a low-molecular-weight inhibitor of prostate-specific membrane antigen, in patients with metastatic prostate cancer.", "content": "Biodistribution, tumor detection, and radiation dosimetry of 18F-DCFBC, a low-molecular-weight inhibitor of prostate-specific membrane antigen, in patients with metastatic prostate cancer. Prostate-specific membrane antigen (PSMA) is a type II integral membrane protein expressed on the surface of prostate cancer (PCa) cells, particularly in androgen-independent, advanced, and metastatic disease. Previously, we demonstrated that N-[N-[(S)-1,3-dicarboxypropyl]carbamoyl]-4-(18)F-fluorobenzyl-L-cysteine ((18)F-DCFBC) could image an experimental model of PSMA-positive PCa using PET. Here, we describe the initial clinical experience and radiation dosimetry of (18)F-DCFBC in men with metastatic PCa. Five patients with radiologic evidence of metastatic PCa were studied after the intravenous administration of 370 MBq (10 mCi) of (18)F-DCFBC. Serial PET was performed until 2 h after administration. Time-activity curves were generated for selected normal tissues and metastatic foci. Radiation dose estimates were calculated using OLINDA/EXM 1.1. Most vascular organs demonstrated a slow decrease in radioactivity concentration over time consistent with clearance from the blood pool, with primarily urinary radiotracer excretion. Thirty-two PET-positive suspected metastatic sites were identified, with 21 concordant on both PET and conventional imaging for abnormal findings compatible with metastatic disease. Of the 11 PET-positive sites not identified on conventional imaging, most were within the bone and could be considered suggestive for the detection of early bone metastases, although further validation is needed. The highest mean absorbed dose per unit administered radioactivity (\u03bcGy/MBq) was in the bladder wall (32.4), and the resultant effective dose was 19.9 \u00b1 1.34 \u03bcSv/MBq (mean \u00b1 SD). Although further studies are needed for validation, our findings demonstrate the potential of (18)F-DCFBC as a new positron-emitting imaging agent for the detection of metastatic PCa. This study also provides dose estimates for (18)F-DCFBC that are comparable to those of other PET radiopharmaceuticals such as (18)F-FDG."}
{"id": "23200616", "title": "[Pedophilia: contribution of neurology and neuroimaging techniques].", "content": "[Pedophilia: contribution of neurology and neuroimaging techniques]. Pedophilia is characterized by a persistent sexual interest of an adult for prepubescent children. The development of neuroimaging techniques such as functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) is starting to clarify the cerebral basis of disorders of sexual behavior such as pedophilia, which had been previously suggested by case studies. To review structural and functional neuroimaging studies of pedophilia. An exhaustive consultation of PubMed and Ovid databases was conducted. We obtained 19 articles presented in the present review of the literature. Case studies have demonstrated various changes of sexual behavior in relation to brain lesions, including the late appearance in adults of a sexual attraction to prepubescent children. In most cases of pedophilia associated with brain lesions, these lesions were located in frontal or in temporal regions. Structural neuroimaging studies have compared pedophiles with healthy subjects and tried to relate pedophilia to anatomical differences between these two groups. The location of structural changes is inconsistent across studies. Recent functional neuroimaging studies have also attempted to investigate the cerebral correlates of pedophilia. Results suggest that the activation pattern found in pedophiles in response to pictures of prepubescent nude girls or boys is similar to the pattern observed in healthy subjects in response to pictures of adult nude women or men. However, regions that become more activated in patients than in healthy controls in response to the presentation of pictures of children vary across studies. Studies that have begun to investigate the cerebral correlates of pedophilia demonstrate that it is possible to explore them through neuroimaging techniques. These initial results have to be confirmed by new studies backed with objective measurements of sexual arousal such as phallometry."}
{"id": "23196944", "title": "Complex visual manifestations of posterior cortical atrophy.", "content": "Complex visual manifestations of posterior cortical atrophy. We describe 5 patients with complex visual disturbances in the absence of ocular pathology who were ultimately diagnosed with posterior cortical atrophy (PCA). The presence of visual cortical symptoms, neuroimaging findings and clinical evolution led to the diagnosis 1-5 years after the onset of visual symptoms. Age of onset ranged from 50-66 years. In 3 cases, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of the brain demonstrated predominantly right posterior cortical atrophy. The other 2 patients had nonspecific MRI findings but the diagnosis was established given the findings on clinical examination and positron emission tomography (PET). All progressed to global dementia and an autopsy confirmed the diagnosis of Alzheimer disease in one patient. The possibility of PCA should be considered when a patient presents with complex visual symptoms in the absence of ocular pathology. Early neurological assessment may avoid diagnostic delay."}
{"id": "23185553", "title": "The proteome response to amyloid protein expression in vivo.", "content": "The proteome response to amyloid protein expression in vivo. Protein misfolding disorders such as Alzheimer, Parkinson and transthyretin amyloidosis are characterized by the formation of protein amyloid deposits. Although the nature and location of the aggregated proteins varies between different diseases, they all share similar molecular pathways of protein unfolding, aggregation and amyloid deposition. Most effects of these proteins are likely to occur at the proteome level, a virtually unexplored reality. To investigate the effects of an amyloid protein expression on the cellular proteome, we created a yeast expression system using human transthyretin (TTR) as a model amyloidogenic protein. We used Saccharomyces cerevisiae, a living test tube, to express native TTR (non-amyloidogenic) and the amyloidogenic TTR variant L55P, the later forming aggregates when expressed in yeast. Differential proteome changes were quantitatively analyzed by 2D-differential in gel electrophoresis (2D-DIGE). We show that the expression of the amyloidogenic TTR-L55P causes a metabolic shift towards energy production, increased superoxide dismutase expression as well as of several molecular chaperones involved in protein refolding. Among these chaperones, members of the HSP70 family and the peptidyl-prolyl-cis-trans isomerase (PPIase) were identified. The latter is highly relevant considering that it was previously found to be a TTR interacting partner in the plasma of ATTR patients but not in healthy or asymptomatic subjects. The small ubiquitin-like modifier (SUMO) expression is also increased. Our findings suggest that refolding and degradation pathways are activated, causing an increased demand of energetic resources, thus the metabolic shift. Additionally, oxidative stress appears to be a consequence of the amyloidogenic process, posing an enhanced threat to cell survival."}
{"id": "23179062", "title": "Relationship between baseline brain metabolism measured using [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG PET and memory and executive function in prodromal and early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Relationship between baseline brain metabolism measured using [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG PET and memory and executive function in prodromal and early Alzheimer's disease. Differences in brain metabolism as measured by FDG-PET in prodromal and early Alzheimer's disease (AD) have been consistently observed, with a characteristic parietotemporal hypometabolic pattern. However, exploration of brain metabolic correlates of more nuanced measures of cognitive function has been rare, particularly in larger samples. We analyzed the relationship between resting brain metabolism and memory and executive functioning within diagnostic group on a voxel-wise basis in 86 people with AD, 185 people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and 86 healthy controls (HC) from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). We found positive associations within AD and MCI but not in HC. For MCI and AD, impaired executive functioning was associated with reduced parietotemporal metabolism, suggesting a pattern consistent with known AD-related hypometabolism. These associations suggest that decreased metabolic activity in the parietal and temporal lobes may underlie the executive function deficits in AD and MCI. For memory, hypometabolism in similar regions of the parietal and temporal lobes were significantly associated with reduced performance in the MCI group. However, for the AD group, memory performance was significantly associated with metabolism in frontal and orbitofrontal areas, suggesting the possibility of compensatory metabolic activity in these areas. Overall, the associations between brain metabolism and cognition in this study suggest the importance of parietal and temporal lobar regions in memory and executive function in the early stages of disease and an increased importance of frontal regions for memory with increasing impairment."}
{"id": "23167069", "title": "[18 FDG PET imaging of the brain in the analysis of a dementia syndrome].", "content": "[18 FDG PET imaging of the brain in the analysis of a dementia syndrome]. According to current dementia guidelines from 2005 (CBO) functional brain imaging by PET-scan of the brain has no place in the analysis of a dementia syndrome. Differential diagnosis between Alzheimer disease and other causes of dementia remains important because there are differences in natural course and treatment. Here we present three patients aged 62, 71 and 68 years with dementia syndrome who were assessed at an outpatient memory clinic. After geriatric assessment and subsequent brain MRI the etiology of the dementia remained unclear. In all three patients the etiology became clear after using a 18 FDG PET-scan of the brain. We conclude that 18 FDG PET imaging of the brain has added value in the analysis of dementia syndrome with an unclear etiology after initial analysis."}
{"id": "23158895", "title": "Effects of liraglutide on neurodegeneration, blood flow and cognition in Alzheimer\u00b4s disease - protocol for a controlled, randomized double-blinded trial.", "content": "Effects of liraglutide on neurodegeneration, blood flow and cognition in Alzheimer\u00b4s disease - protocol for a controlled, randomized double-blinded trial. Type 2 diabetes (DM-2) increases the risk of developing Alzheimer\u00b4s disease (AD), and patients with AD are more likely to develop DM-2. DM-2 and AD share some pathophysiological features. In AD, amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) is accumulated as extracellular plaques in the gray matter of the brain, while in DM-2 islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP) is accumulated in the pancreas. Premature cellular degeneration is seen in both diseases. Glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) reduces the amount of A\u03b2 and improves cognition in animal studies. The present study tests the hypothesis that treatment with the long-acting GLP-1 receptor agonist liraglutide affects the accumulation of A\u03b2 in patients with AD. This is a randomized, controlled, double-blinded intervention study with AD patients treated for six months with liraglutide (n = 20) or placebo (n = 20). The primary outcome is change in deposition of A\u03b2 in the central nervous system (CNS) by Pittsburgh compound B positron emission tomography (PET). The secondary outcome is evaluation of cognition using a neuro-psychological test battery, and examination of changes in glucose uptake in the CNS by 18F-fluoro-deoxy-glucose PET. Finally, a perfusion-weighted magnetic resonance imaging with contrast will be performed to evaluate blood flow. No registered drug affects the deposition of A\u03b2 in the brain of AD patients. Our goal is to find a new therapeutic agent that alters the pathophysiology in AD patients by decreasing the formation of A\u03b2 plaques and thereby presumably improves the cognitive function. The trial is investigator-initiated and investigator-driven and is supported by Novo Nordisk Scandinavia. ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT01469351."}
{"id": "23154473", "title": "Human radiation dose estimation of (11)C-CFT using whole-body PET.", "content": "Human radiation dose estimation of (11)C-CFT using whole-body PET. C-Labeled 2-\u03b2-carbomethoxy-3-\u03b2-(4-fluorophenyl)tropane (C-CFT) is a commonly used positron emission tomography (PET) tracer for dopamine transporters imaging. The present study estimated human radiation absorbed doses of C-CFT based on whole-body PET imaging in healthy subjects. Whole-body PET was performed on 6 subjects after injection of 472.06 \u00b1 116.47 MBq of C-CFT. 7 Frames were acquired for about 70 min in 7 segments of the body. Regions of interest were drawn on PET images of source organs. Residence time was calculated as the area under the time-activity curve. Radiation dosimetry was calculated from organ residence time using the medical internal radiation dosimetry (MIDR) method. The organs with the highest radiation-absorbed doses were the urinary bladder, followed the spleen, pancreas, kidneys, and stomach. The dose-limiting critical organ was the urinary bladder. The effective dose was 8.89E-03 mSv/MBq (22.9 mrem/mCi). Biexponential fitting of mean bladder activity demonstrated that 18% of activity was excreted via the urine. The potential radiation risks of C-CFT associated with in this study are well within accepted limits. C-CFT demonstrates a favorable radiation dose profile in humans and allows multiple PET examinations on the same subject per year."}
{"id": "23152610", "title": "Region-specific hierarchy between atrophy, hypometabolism, and \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) load in Alzheimer's disease dementia.", "content": "Region-specific hierarchy between atrophy, hypometabolism, and \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) load in Alzheimer's disease dementia. Gray matter atrophy, glucose hypometabolism, and \u03b2-amyloid A\u03b2 deposition are well-described hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease, but their relationships are poorly understood. The present study aims to compare the local levels of these three alterations in humans with Alzheimer's disease. Structural magnetic resonance imaging, (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET), and (18)F-florbetapir PET data from 34 amyloid-negative healthy controls and 20 demented patients with a high probability of Alzheimer's disease etiology (attested using neuroimaging biomarkers as recently recommended) were analyzed. For each patient and imaging modality, age-adjusted Z-score maps were computed, and direct between-modality voxelwise comparison and correlation analyses were performed. Significant differences in the levels of atrophy, hypometabolism, and A\u03b2 deposition were found in most brain areas, but the hierarchy differed across regions. A cluster analysis revealed distinct subsets of regions: (1) in the hippocampus, atrophy exceeded hypometabolism, whereas A\u03b2 load was minimal; (2) in posterior association areas, A\u03b2 deposition was predominant, together with high hypometabolism and lower but still significant atrophy; and (3) in frontal regions, A\u03b2 deposition was maximal, whereas structural and metabolic alterations were low. Atrophy and hypometabolism significantly correlated in the hippocampus and temporo-parietal cortex, whereas A\u03b2 load was not significantly related to either atrophy or hypometabolism. These findings provide direct evidence for regional variations in the hierarchy and relationships between A\u03b2 load, hypometabolism, and atrophy. Altogether, these variations probably reflect the differential involvement of region-specific pathological or protective mechanisms, such as the presence of neurofibrillary tangles, disconnection, as well as compensation processes."}
{"id": "23152607", "title": "Cognitive profile of amyloid burden and white matter hyperintensities in cognitively normal older adults.", "content": "Cognitive profile of amyloid burden and white matter hyperintensities in cognitively normal older adults. Amyloid burden and white matter hyperintensities (WMH) are two common markers of neurodegeneration present in advanced aging. Each represents a potential early indicator of an age-related neurological disorder that impacts cognition. The presence of amyloid is observed in a substantial subset of cognitively normal older adults, but the literature remains equivocal regarding whether amyloid in nondemented populations is deleterious to cognition. Similarly, WMH are detected in many nondemented older adults and there is a body of evidence indicating that WMH are associated with decreased executive function and other cognitive domains. The current study investigated amyloid burden and WMH in clinically normal older adult humans aged 65-86 (N = 168) and examined each biomarker's relation with cognitive domains of episodic memory, executive function, and speed of processing. Factors for each domain were derived from a neuropsychological battery on a theoretical basis without reference to the relation between cognition and the biomarkers. Amyloid burden and WMH were not correlated with one another. Age was associated with lower performance in all cognitive domains, while higher estimated verbal intelligence was associated with higher performance in all domains. Hypothesis-driven tests revealed that amyloid burden and WMH had distinct cognitive profiles, with amyloid burden having a specific influence on episodic memory and WMH primarily associated with executive function but having broad (but lesser) effects on the other domains. These findings suggest that even before clinical impairment, amyloid burden and WMH likely represent neuropathological cascades with distinct etiologies and dissociable influences on cognition."}
{"id": "23142262", "title": "Contribution of neuroimaging to the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia.", "content": "Contribution of neuroimaging to the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease and vascular dementia. The aim of this study was to review, summarize and analyze recent findings relevant to the contribution of neuroimaging to the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and vascular dementia (VaD). Computerized tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) provide accurate demonstration of the location and rate of progression of atrophic changes affecting the brain in AD and the different types of vascular lesions observed in mixed dementias and in pure VaD. Quantification of cortical thickness allows early diagnosis and rate of progression from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to dementia. White matter involvement can also be quantified with diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and functional methods including fMRI, functional connectivity, and MR spectroscopy (MRS). Isotope-based techniques such as positron emission tomography (PET) allow measurement of regional cerebral glucose metabolism using (18)F-2-fluoro-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG). Cerebral blood flow can be measured using PET with H(2)(15)O or with\u00a0single photon emission computerized tomography (SPECT) with technetium ((99m)Tc-HMPAO) or, more recently, arterial spin label (ASL) imaging. There are isotope markers for amyloid-beta ((11)O-PIB, (18)F-florbetapir), tau ((18)FDDNP) and activated microglia ((11)C-PK11195). Neuroimaging markers are particularly useful at the early symptomatic and preclinical asymptomatic phases of AD, as well as serving as endpoints in clinical trials."}
{"id": "23137951", "title": "Tracking brain amyloid-\u03b2 in presymptomatic Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Tracking brain amyloid-\u03b2 in presymptomatic Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "23137949", "title": "Florbetapir PET analysis of amyloid-\u03b2 deposition in the presenilin 1 E280A autosomal dominant Alzheimer's disease kindred: a cross-sectional study.", "content": "Florbetapir PET analysis of amyloid-\u03b2 deposition in the presenilin 1 E280A autosomal dominant Alzheimer's disease kindred: a cross-sectional study. Fibrillar amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) is thought to begin accumulating in the brain many years before the onset of clinical impairment in patients with Alzheimer's disease. By assessing the accumulation of A\u03b2 in people at risk of genetic forms of Alzheimer's disease, we can identify how early preclinical changes start in individuals certain to develop dementia later in life. We sought to characterise the age-related accumulation of A\u03b2 deposition in presenilin 1 (PSEN1) E280A mutation carriers across the spectrum of preclinical disease. Between Aug 1 and Dec 6, 2011, members of the familial Alzheimer's disease Colombian kindred aged 18-60 years were recruited from the Alzheimer's Prevention Initiative's registry at the University of Antioquia, Medell\u00edn, Colombia. Cross-sectional assessment using florbetapir PET was done in symptomatic mutation carriers with mild cognitive impairment or mild dementia, asymptomatic carriers, and asymptomatic non-carriers. These assessments were done at the Banner Alzheimer's Institute in Phoenix, AZ, USA. A cortical grey matter mask consisting of six predefined regions.was used to measure mean cortical florbetapir PET binding. Cortical-to-pontine standard-uptake value ratios were used to characterise the cross-sectional accumulation of fibrillar A\u03b2 deposition in carriers and non-carriers with regression analysis and to estimate the trajectories of fibrillar A\u03b2 deposition. We enrolled a cohort of 11 symptomatic individuals, 19 presymptomatic mutation carriers, and 20 asymptomatic non-carriers, ranging in age from 20 to 56 years. There was greater florbetapir binding in asymptomatic PSEN1 E280A mutation carriers than in age matched non-carriers. Fibrillar A\u03b2 began to accumulate in PSEN 1E280A mutation carriers at a mean age of 28\u00b72 years (95% CI 27\u00b73-33\u00b74), about 16 years and 21 years before the predicted median ages at mild cognitive impairment and dementia onset, respectively. (18)F florbetapir binding rose steeply over the next 9\u00b74 years and plateaued at a mean age of 37\u00b76 years (95% CI 35\u00b73-40\u00b72), about 6 and 11 years before the expected respective median ages at mild cognitive impairment and dementia onset. Prominent florbetapir binding was seen in the anterior and posterior cingulate, precuneus, and parietotemporal and frontal grey matter, as well as in the basal ganglia. Binding in the basal ganglia was not seen earlier or more prominently than in other regions. These findings contribute to the understanding of preclinical familial Alzheimer's disease and help set the stage for assessment of amyloid-modifying treatments in the prevention of familial Alzheimer's disease. Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Banner Alzheimer's Foundation, Nomis Foundation, Anonymous Foundation, Forget Me Not Initiative, Colciencias, National Institute on Aging, and the State of Arizona."}
{"id": "23128926", "title": "Suicide attempt as the presenting symptom of C9orf72 dementia.", "content": "Suicide attempt as the presenting symptom of C9orf72 dementia."}
{"id": "23115180", "title": "A novel BACHD transgenic rat exhibits characteristic neuropathological features of Huntington disease.", "content": "A novel BACHD transgenic rat exhibits characteristic neuropathological features of Huntington disease. Huntington disease (HD) is an inherited progressive neurodegenerative disorder, characterized by motor, cognitive, and psychiatric deficits as well as neurodegeneration and brain atrophy beginning in the striatum and the cortex and extending to other subcortical brain regions. The genetic cause is an expansion of the CAG repeat stretch in the HTT gene encoding huntingtin protein (htt). Here, we generated an HD transgenic rat model using a human bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC), which contains the full-length HTT genomic sequence with 97 CAG/CAA repeats and all regulatory elements. BACHD transgenic rats display a robust, early onset and progressive HD-like phenotype including motor deficits and anxiety-related symptoms. In contrast to BAC and yeast artificial chromosome HD mouse models that express full-length mutant huntingtin, BACHD rats do not exhibit an increased body weight. Neuropathologically, the distribution of neuropil aggregates and nuclear accumulation of N-terminal mutant huntingtin in BACHD rats is similar to the observations in human HD brains. Aggregates occur more frequently in the cortex than in the striatum and neuropil aggregates appear earlier than mutant htt accumulation in the nucleus. Furthermore, we found an imbalance in the striatal striosome and matrix compartments in early stages of the disease. In addition, reduced dopamine receptor binding was detectable by in vivo imaging. Our data demonstrate that this transgenic BACHD rat line may be a valuable model for further understanding the disease mechanisms and for preclinical pharmacological studies."}
{"id": "23112868", "title": "Dissociation between brain amyloid deposition and metabolism in early mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Dissociation between brain amyloid deposition and metabolism in early mild cognitive impairment. The hypothetical model of dynamic biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) describes high amyloid deposition and hypometabolism at the mild cognitive impairment (MCI) stage. However, it remains unknown whether brain amyloidosis and hypometabolism follow the same trajectories in MCI individuals. We used the concept of early MCI (EMCI) and late MCI (LMCI) as defined by the Alzheimer's disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI)-Go in order to compare the biomarker profile between EMCI and LMCI. To examine the global and voxel-based neocortical amyloid burden and metabolism among individuals who are cognitively normal (CN), as well as those with EMCI, LMCI and mild AD. In the present study, 354 participants, including CN (n = 109), EMCI (n = 157), LMCI (n = 39) and AD (n = 49), were enrolled between September 2009 and November 2011 through ADNI-GO and ADNI-2. Brain amyloid load and metabolism were estimated using [(18)F]AV45 and [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose ([(18)F]FDG) PET, respectively. Uptake ratio images of [(18)F]AV45 and [(18)F]FDG were calculated by dividing the summed PET image by the median counts of the grey matter of the cerebellum and pons, respectively. Group differences of global [(18)F]AV45 and [(18)F]FDG were analyzed using ANOVA, while the voxel-based group differences were estimated using statistic parametric mapping (SPM). EMCI patients showed higher global [(18)F]AV45 retention compared to CN and lower uptake compared to LMCI. SPM detected higher [(18)F]AV45 uptake in EMCI compared to CN in the precuneus, posterior cingulate, medial and dorsal lateral prefrontal cortices, bilaterally. EMCI showed lower [(18)F]AV45 retention than LMCI in the superior temporal, inferior parietal, as well as dorsal lateral prefrontal cortices, bilaterally. Regarding to the global [(18)F]FDG, EMCI patients showed no significant difference from CN and a higher uptake ratio compared to LMCI. At the voxel level, EMCI showed higher metabolism in precuneus, hippocampus, entorhinal and inferior parietal cortices, as compared to LMCI. The present results indicate that brain metabolism remains normal despite the presence of significant amyloid accumulation in EMCI. These results suggest a role for anti-amyloid interventions in EMCI aiming to delay or halt the deposition of amyloid and related metabolism impairment."}
{"id": "23109153", "title": "Amyloid deposition, hypometabolism, and longitudinal cognitive decline.", "content": "Amyloid deposition, hypometabolism, and longitudinal cognitive decline. Using data from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) population, we examined (1) cross-sectional relationships between amyloid deposition, hypometabolism, and cognition, and (2) associations between amyloid and hypometabolism measurements and longitudinal cognitive measurements. We examined associations between mean cortical florbetapir uptake, mean (18) F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) within a set of predefined regions, and Alzhiemer's Disease Assessment Scale (ADAS-cog) performance in 426 ADNI participants (126 normal, 162 early mild cognitive impairment [EMCI], 85 late MCI [LMCI], 53 Alzheimer disease [AD] patients). For a subset of these (76 normal, 81 LMCI) we determined whether florbetapir and FDG-PET were associated with retrospective decline in longitudinal ADAS-cog measurements. Twenty-nine percent of normal subjects, 43% of EMCI patients, 62% of LMCI patients, and 77% of AD patients were categorized as florbetapir positive. Florbetapir was negatively associated with concurrent FDG and ADAS-cog in both MCI groups. In longitudinal analyses, florbetapir-positive subjects in both normal and LMCI groups had greater ongoing ADAS-cog decline than those who were florbetapir negative. However, in normal subjects, florbetapir positivity was associated with greater ADAS-cog decline than FDG, whereas in LMCI, FDG positivity was associated with greater decline than florbetapir. Although both hypometabolism and \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) deposition are detectable in normal subjects and all diagnostic groups, A\u03b2 showed greater associations with cognitive decline in normal participants. In view of the minimal cognitive deterioration overall in this group, this suggests that amyloid deposition has an early and subclinical impact on cognition that precedes metabolic changes. At moderate and later stages of disease (LMCI/AD), hypometabolism becomes more pronounced and more closely linked to ongoing cognitive decline."}
{"id": "23109151", "title": "Pittsburgh compound B and the postmortem diagnosis of Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Pittsburgh compound B and the postmortem diagnosis of Alzheimer disease. Deposition of the amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) peptide in neuritic plaques is a requirement for the diagnosis of Alzheimer disease (AD). Although the continued development of in vivo imaging agents such as Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) is promising, the diagnosis of AD is still challenging. This can be partially attributed to our lack of a detailed understanding of the interrelationship between the various pools and species of A\u03b2 and other common indices of AD pathology. We hypothesized that recent advances in our ability to accurately measure A\u03b2 postmortem (for example, using PiB), could form the basis of a simple means to deliver an accurate AD diagnosis. We conducted a comprehensive analysis of the amount of A\u03b240 and A\u03b242 in increasingly insoluble fractions, oligomeric A\u03b2, and fibrillar A\u03b2 (as defined by PiB binding), as well as plaques (diffuse and neuritic), and neurofibrillary tangles in autopsy specimens from age-matched, cognitively normal controls (n = 23) and AD (n = 22) cases, across multiple brain regions. Both PiB binding and the amount of sodium dodecyl sulfate (SDS)-soluble A\u03b2 were able to predict disease status; however, SDS-soluble A\u03b2 was a better measure. Oligomeric A\u03b2 was not a predictor of disease status. PiB binding was strongly related to plaque count, although diffuse plaques were a stronger correlate than neuritic plaques. Although postmortem PiB binding was somewhat useful in distinguishing AD from control cases, SDS-soluble A\u03b2 measured by standard immunoassay was substantially better. These findings have important implications for the development of imaging-based biomarkers of AD."}
{"id": "23106049", "title": "Feasibility of estimation of brain volume and 2-deoxy-2-(18)F-fluoro-D-glucose metabolism using a novel automated image analysis method: application in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Feasibility of estimation of brain volume and 2-deoxy-2-(18)F-fluoro-D-glucose metabolism using a novel automated image analysis method: application in Alzheimer's disease. The development of clinically-applicable quantitative methods for the analysis of brain fluorine-18 fluoro desoxyglucose-positron emission tomography ((18)F-FDG-PET) images is a major area of research in many neurologic diseases, particularly Alzheimer's disease (AD). Region of interest visualization, evaluation, and image registration (ROVER) is a novel commercially-available software package which provides automated partial volume corrected measures of volume and glucose uptake from (18)F-FDG PET data. We performed a pilot study of ROVER analysis of brain (18)F-FDG PET images for the first time in a small cohort of patients with AD and controls. Brain (18)F-FDG-PET and volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were performed on 14 AD patients and 18 age-matched controls. Images were subjected to ROVER analysis, and voxel-based analysis using SPM5. Volumes by ROVER were 35% lower than MRI volumes in AD patients (as hypometabolic regions were excluded in ROVER-derived volume measurement ) while average ROVER- and MRI-derived cortical volumes were nearly identical in control population. Whole brain volumes when ROVER-derived and whole brain metabolic volumetric products (MVP) were significantly lower in AD and accurately distinguished AD patients from controls (Area Under the Curve (AUC) of Receiver Operator Characteristic (ROC) curves 0.89 and 0.86, respectively). This diagnostic accuracy was similar to voxel-based analyses. Analysis by ROVER of (18)F-FDG-PET images provides a unique index of metabolically-active brain volume, and can accurately distinguish between AD patients and controls as a proof of concept. In conclusion, our findings suggest that ROVER may serve as a useful quantitative adjunct to visual or regional assessment and aid analysis of whole-brain metabolism in AD and other neurologic and psychiatric diseases."}
{"id": "23102709", "title": "Relative contributions of biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Relative contributions of biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease. To assess relationships between biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and their potential contributions to AD. Biomarkers and cognitive evaluations were assessed longitudinally in 179 patients with mild cognitive impairment, from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative from 2003 to 2006, and were used to examine, at any given time, the joint contributions of hippocampal volume, whole brain volume, and brain glucose metabolism on clinical AD progression, using the Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive subscale (ADAS-Cog). Marginal structural models were applied, and an inverse-probability of treatment weight estimation was used to account for time-dependent confounding between study variables. At any given time, population-level differences (e.g., 1-standard deviation [SD] increase) in brain glucose metabolism (-1.036; 95% confidence interval [95% CI],\u00a0-1.608,\u00a0-0.464) and hippocampal volume (-1.537; 95% CI,\u00a0-2.399,\u00a0-0.674) independently reduced mean (ADAS-Cog), whereas a 1-SD increase in whole brain volume did not (0.372; 95% CI,\u00a0-0.283, 1.027). The effects of brain glucose metabolism differed in subgroups defined by baseline covariates (e.g., age), but no subgroup effects were observed for hippocampal volume and brain volume. Brain glucose metabolism and hippocampal volume represent relevant biological markers in subjects at risk for AD."}
{"id": "23102120", "title": "Imaging brain amyloid in nondemented young adults with Down syndrome using Pittsburgh compound B.", "content": "Imaging brain amyloid in nondemented young adults with Down syndrome using Pittsburgh compound B. Down syndrome (DS) is one of the most common causes of intellectual disability. Although DS accounts for only 15% of all individuals with intellectual disabilities, adults with DS account for approximately 60% of individuals with intellectual disabilities and Alzheimer's disease. This is thought to be because of overproduction of the \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) protein due to trisomy for the A\u03b2 precursor protein gene on chromosome 21. Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) is a noninvasive in\u00a0vivo positron emission tomography tracer used to image amyloid deposition in living humans. Studies using PiB have shown an age-dependent asymptomatic amyloid deposition in more than 20% of the cognitively normal elderly population. Presymptomatic carriers of presenilin (PS-1) and A\u03b2 precursor protein gene mutations who are destined to develop Alzheimer's disease also show preclinical amyloid deposition. This report describes a pilot study involving the use of PiB in seven adults with DS (age: 20-44 years). Compared with objective cutoffs for amyloid positivity in older non-DS cognitively normal control subjects, only two of the seven DS subjects (age: 38 and 44 years) showed increased PiB retention. The remaining five subjects aged between 20 and 35 years showed no detectable increase in PiB retention. Interestingly, the two subjects who showed elevated PiB retention showed a striatal-predominant pattern similar to that previously reported for PS-1 mutation carriers. These results demonstrate the feasibility of conducting PiB positron emission tomography scanning in this special population, and suggest a link between A\u03b2 overproduction and early striatal deposition of fibrillar A\u03b2."}
{"id": "23102118", "title": "Cardiovascular risk factors, cortisol, and amyloid-\u03b2 deposition in Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative.", "content": "Cardiovascular risk factors, cortisol, and amyloid-\u03b2 deposition in Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative. There is epidemiological evidence that cardiovascular risk factors (CVRF) also are risk factors for Alzheimer's disease, but there is limited information on this from neuropathological studies, and even less from in\u00a0vivo studies. Therefore, we examined the relationship between CVRF and amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) brain burden measured by Pittsburgh Compound B-positron emission tomography (PiB-PET) studies in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative. Ninety-nine subjects from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative cohort who had a PiB-PET study measure, apolipoprotein E genotyping data, and information available on CVRF (body mass index [BMI], systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure [DBP], and cholesterol and fasting glucose test results) were included. Eighty-one subjects also had plasma cortisol, C-reactive protein, and superoxide dismutase 1 measurements. Stepwise regression models were used to assess the relation between the CVRF and the composite PiB-PET score. The first model included the following as baseline variables: age, clinical diagnosis, number of apolipoprotein \u025b4 alleles, BMI (P = .023), and DBP (P = .012). BMI showed an inverse relation with PiB-PET score, and DBP had a positive relation with PiB-PET score. In the second adjusted model, cortisol plasma levels were also associated with PiB-PET score (P = .004). Systolic blood pressure, cholesterol, or impaired fasting glucose were not found to be associated with PiB-PET values. In this cross-sectional study, we found an association between A\u03b2 brain burden measured in\u00a0vivo and DBP and cortisol, indicating a possible link between these CVRF and A\u03b2 burden measured by PiB-PET. These findings highlight the utility of biomarkers to explore potential pathways linking diverse Alzheimer's disease risk factors."}
{"id": "23097914", "title": "[Alzheimer disease: from pathogenetic issues to clinical perspectives].", "content": "[Alzheimer disease: from pathogenetic issues to clinical perspectives]. The aim of this article is a critical review of the main pathogenetic issues debated in Alzheimer disease, with a focus on the clinical perspectives that could derive from. The pertinence of the amyloid cascade hypothesis as a unique and causal explanation of cognitive deterioration is challenged in the light of recent therapeutic failures of clinical trials and increasing role of tau protein in clinical expression. The detection of very early and possibly preclinical stages of the disease emerges as a necessary condition for the efficacy of future amyloid or tau-oriented curative strategies. In this respect, the possibility of finding individual vulnerability markers--in the group of patients with \"mild cognitive impairment\" or even in cognitively intact subjects--represents a major challenge of the clinical research in this field."}
{"id": "23071163", "title": "Stronger effect of amyloid load than APOE genotype on cognitive decline in healthy older adults.", "content": "Stronger effect of amyloid load than APOE genotype on cognitive decline in healthy older adults. Although the APOE \u03b54 allele is associated with more rapid decline in memory in healthy older adults, the significance of elevated cerebral \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) load for longitudinal changes in cognition is unclear. Healthy and cognitively normal older adults (n = 141; mean age 76 years) underwent PET neuroimaging for cerebral A\u03b2, APOE genotyping, and cognitive assessment as part of their baseline assessment in the Australian Imaging Biomarkers and Lifestyle study. Cognitive function was reassessed 18 months later. Linear mixed-model analyses adjusted for baseline cognitive function indicated that, relative to individuals with low cerebral A\u03b2, individuals with high cerebral A\u03b2 showed significantly greater decline in working memory and verbal and visual episodic memory at 18 months. Compared with noncarriers, APOE \u03b54 carriers showed a greater decline in visual memory at the 18-month assessment. No interaction between APOE \u03b54 and cerebral A\u03b2 load was observed for any measure of cognitive function. In this prospective study of healthy older adults, high cerebral A\u03b2 load was associated with greater decline in episodic and working memory over 18 months. The APOE \u03b54 genotype was also associated with a decline in visual memory, although the effect was less than that observed for cerebral A\u03b2 load."}
{"id": "23067526", "title": "Utility of low dose (18)F-FDG PET-CT in patients with suspected colorectal carcinoma recurrence in conventional diagnostic methods.", "content": "Utility of low dose (18)F-FDG PET-CT in patients with suspected colorectal carcinoma recurrence in conventional diagnostic methods. To evaluate the efficacy of (18)F-FDG PET-CT in the diagnosis of recurrence of colorectal cancer (CRC) in patients with elevated values of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) and/or signs of recurrence in the multidetector CT (MDCT), and to demonstrate that good results can be obtained applying the ALARA principles. A retrospective study of 54 patients with suspected CRC, who underwent an (18)F-FDG PET-CT, administering a mean dose of 222 MBq (6 mCi) of (18)F-FDG, from 07/2007 to 01/2011 was carried out. Seven patients were excluded, thus studying 47 (27 males, 20 females, mean age 63 years). Recurrence was confirmed by histopathology study in 14 cases and by clinical evolution in 33. The patients were divided into 4 groups. A: patients with elevation of CEA and suspected recurrence in the MDCT. B: elevation of CEA, without suspicious lesions in the MDCT. C: normal levels of CEA and positive MDCT. D: normal levels of CEA and uncertain MDCT. We found sensitivity, specificity, PPV, NPV and overall accuracy of 91%, 69%, 89%, 75% and 85% respectively. For group A, we found 100% sensitivity, in group B, 75% sensitivity with 100% specificity%, for C, sensitivity was 89% with 71% specificity. Finally, in group D, sensitivity was 100% and specificity 60%, respectively. Applying a low dose, the (18)F-FDG PET-CT has high diagnostic performance in patients with suspicion of CRC, approaching in a higher grade the ALARA criteria."}
{"id": "23067525", "title": "Study of the sentinel node in endometrial cancer at early stages: preliminary results.", "content": "Study of the sentinel node in endometrial cancer at early stages: preliminary results. To investigate the applicability of the sentinel lymph node biopsy technique in early stages of endometrial cancer. A prospective study that included consecutive patients with a histological diagnosis of clinical state I endometrial carcinoma was performed. Two doses of 2 mCi (74 MBq) of (99m)Tc-albumin nanocolloid were injected in the uterine cervix, and planar and SPECT-CT images were obtained at one hour, and at 24 hours if no migration of the tracer was observed. Methylene blue dye was also injected into the cervix immediately prior to the surgery. A gamma probe was used during the surgical procedure for sentinel lymph node identification. In all cases, a hysterectomy, double adnexectomy and pelvic lymphadenectomy were performed, carrying out a histological analysis (hematoxylin-eosin) of the sentinel lymph nodes and the lymphadenectomy specimen. We included 19 patients, with a final diagnoses of endometrioid carcinoma (18 cases) and endometrial stromal sarcoma (1 case). At least one sentinel lymph node was identified in 17 of them (89.5% detection rate). Twenty-nine sentinel lymph nodes were identified during surgery, all of them negative for neoplastic infiltration. No metastatic invasion was found in the pelvic lymphadenectomy specimens as well. The sentinel lymph node biopsy technique seems to be a reliable tool in nodal staging of endometrial cancer at early stages, with an acceptable detection rate and high histological correlation. The low prevalence of lymphatic spread in this group of patients and the encouraging results obtained could make the sentinel lymph node an alternative to routine complete lymphadenectomy."}
{"id": "23065791", "title": "My belief or yours? Differential theory of mind deficits in frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "My belief or yours? Differential theory of mind deficits in frontotemporal dementia and Alzheimer's disease. Theory of mind reasoning-the ability to understand someone else's mental states, such as beliefs, intentions and desires-is crucial in social interaction. It has been suggested that a theory of mind deficit may account for some of the abnormalities in interpersonal behaviour that characterize patients affected by behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia. However, there are conflicting reports as to whether understanding someone else's mind is a key difference between behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia and other neurodegenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's disease. Literature data on the relationship between theory of mind abilities and executive functions are also contradictory. These disparities may be due to underestimation of the fractionation within theory of mind components. A recent theoretical framework suggests that taking someone else's mental perspective requires two distinct processes: inferring someone else's belief and inhibiting one's own belief, with involvement of the temporoparietal and right frontal cortices, respectively. Therefore, we performed a neuropsychological and neuroimaging study to investigate the hypothesis whereby distinct cognitive deficits could impair theory of mind reasoning in patients with Alzheimer's disease and patients with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia. We used a three-option false belief task to assess theory of mind components in 11 patients with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia, 12 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 20 healthy elderly control subjects. The patients with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia and those with Alzheimer's disease were matched for age, gender, education and global cognitive impairment. [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography imaging was used to investigate neural correlates of theory of mind reasoning deficits. Performance in the three-option false belief task revealed differential impairments in the components of theory of mind reasoning; patients with Alzheimer's disease had a predominant deficit in inferring someone else's belief, whereas patients with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia were selectively impaired in inhibiting their own mental perspective. Moreover, inhibiting one's own perspective was strongly correlated with inhibition in a Stroop task but not with other subprocesses of executive functions. This finding suggests that self-perspective inhibition may depend on cognitive processes that are not specific to the social domain. Last, the severity of the deficit in inferring someone else's beliefs correlated significantly over all subjects with hypometabolism in the left temporoparietal junction, whereas the severity of the deficit in self-perspective inhibition correlated significantly with hypometabolism in the right lateral prefrontal cortex. In conclusion, our findings provided clinical and imaging evidence to support differential deficits in two components of theory of mind reasoning (subserved by distinct brain regions) in patients with Alzheimer's disease and patients with behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia."}
{"id": "23064212", "title": "64Cu-p-NH2-Bn-DOTA-hu14.18K322A, a PET radiotracer targeting neuroblastoma and melanoma.", "content": "64Cu-p-NH2-Bn-DOTA-hu14.18K322A, a PET radiotracer targeting neuroblastoma and melanoma. The hu14.18K322A variant of the GD2-targeting antibody hu14.18 has been shown to elicit a level of antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity toward human neuroblastoma cells similar to that of the parent antibody. However, hu14.18K322A exhibited a decreased complement activation and associated pain, the dose-limiting toxicity in neuroblastoma immunotherapy. PET with a radiolabeled analog of the same antibody used in treatment will provide insight into the ability of hu14.18K322A to reach its target, as well as nontarget uptake that may cause side effects. Such antibody radiotracers might also provide a method for measuring GD2 expression in tumors, thus enabling the prediction of response to anti-GD2 therapy for individual patients. The conjugation of hu14.18K322A with p-NH(2)-Bn-DOTA was accomplished using N-(3-dimethylaminopropyl)-N'-ethylcarbodiimide with subsequent (64)Cu radiolabeling at 37\u00b0C for 30 min. Immunoreactivity of the conjugate was assessed by a dose-escalation blocking experiment measuring binding to purified GD2 versus GD1b as a negative control. Cell uptake and biodistribution studies in M21 (GD2-positive) and PC-3 (GD2-negative) tumor models were performed, as was small-animal PET/CT of M21 and PC-3 tumor-bearing mice. The labeling of (64)Cu-p-NH(2)-Bn-DOTA-hu14.18K322A was achieved at more than 95% radiochemical purity and a specific activity of 127-370 MBq/mg (3.4-10 mCi/mg) after chromatographic purification. Preliminary in vitro data demonstrated a greater than 6-fold selectivity of binding to GD2 versus GD1b and dose-dependent inhibition of binding by unmodified hu14.8K322A. In vivo data, including small-animal PET/CT, showed significant GD2-positive tumor-targeting ability, with a persistent 2-fold-higher uptake of radiotracer than in GD2-negative tumors. (64)Cu-p-NH(2)-Bn-DOTA-hu14.18K322A represents a novel PET radiotracer to facilitate clinical investigations of anti-GD2 immunotherapies and to complement other imaging modalities in the staging and treatment of neuroblastoma."}
{"id": "23060451", "title": "APOE4-specific changes in A\u03b2 accumulation in a new transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer disease.", "content": "APOE4-specific changes in A\u03b2 accumulation in a new transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer disease. APOE4 is the greatest risk factor for Alzheimer disease (AD) and synergistic effects with amyloid-\u03b2 peptide (A\u03b2) suggest interactions among apoE isoforms and different forms of A\u03b2 accumulation. However, it remains unclear how the APOE genotype affects plaque morphology, intraneuronal A\u03b2, soluble A\u03b242, and oligomeric A\u03b2 (oA\u03b2), particularly in vivo. As the introduction of human APOE significantly delays amyloid deposition in transgenic mice expressing familial AD (FAD) mutations (FAD-Tg), 5xFAD-Tg mice, which exhibit amyloid deposition by age 2 months, were crossed with apoE-targeted replacement mice to produce the new EFAD-Tg mice. Compared with 5xFAD mice, A\u03b2 deposition was delayed by \u223c4 months in the EFAD mice, allowing detection of early changes in A\u03b2 accumulation from 2-6 months. Although plaque deposition is generally greater in E4FAD mice, E2/E3FAD mice have significantly more diffuse and E4FAD more compact plaques. As a first report in FAD-Tg mice, the APOE genotypes had no effect on intraneuronal A\u03b2 accumulation in EFAD mice. In E4FAD mice, total apoE levels were lower and total A\u03b2 levels higher than in E2FAD and E3FAD mice. Profiles from sequential three-step extractions (TBS, detergent, and formic acid) demonstrated that the lower level of total apoE4 is reflected only in the detergent-soluble fraction, indicating that less apoE4 is lipoprotein-associated, and perhaps less lipidated, compared with apoE2 and apoE3. Soluble A\u03b242 and oA\u03b2 levels were highest in E4FAD mice, although soluble apoE2, apoE3, and apoE4 levels were comparable, suggesting that the differences in soluble A\u03b242 and oA\u03b2 result from functional differences among the apoE isoforms. Thus, APOE differentially regulates multiple aspects of A\u03b2 accumulation."}
{"id": "23056355", "title": "Methylene blue as a cerebral metabolic and hemodynamic enhancer.", "content": "Methylene blue as a cerebral metabolic and hemodynamic enhancer. By restoring mitochondrial function, methylene blue (MB) is an effective neuroprotectant in many neurological disorders (e.g., Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases). MB has also been proposed as a brain metabolic enhancer because of its action on mitochondrial cytochrome c oxidase. We used in vitro and in vivo approaches to determine how MB affects brain metabolism and hemodynamics. For in vitro, we evaluated the effect of MB on brain mitochondrial function, oxygen consumption, and glucose uptake. For in vivo, we applied neuroimaging and intravenous measurements to determine MB's effect on glucose uptake, cerebral blood flow (CBF), and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen (CMRO(2)) under normoxic and hypoxic conditions in rats. MB significantly increases mitochondrial complex I-III activity in isolated mitochondria and enhances oxygen consumption and glucose uptake in HT-22 cells. Using positron emission tomography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), we observed significant increases in brain glucose uptake, CBF, and CMRO(2) under both normoxic and hypoxic conditions. Further, MRI revealed that MB dramatically increased CBF in the hippocampus and in the cingulate, motor, and frontoparietal cortices, areas of the brain affected by Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Our results suggest that MB can enhance brain metabolism and hemodynamics, and multimetric neuroimaging systems offer a noninvasive, nondestructive way to evaluate treatment efficacy."}
{"id": "23053137", "title": "[(18)F]Flutemetamol PET imaging and cortical biopsy histopathology for fibrillar amyloid \u03b2 detection in living subjects with normal pressure hydrocephalus: pooled analysis of four studies.", "content": "[(18)F]Flutemetamol PET imaging and cortical biopsy histopathology for fibrillar amyloid \u03b2 detection in living subjects with normal pressure hydrocephalus: pooled analysis of four studies. Molecular imaging techniques developed to 'visualize' amyloid in vivo represent a major achievement in Alzheimer's disease (AD) research. This pooled analysis of four studies determined the level of association between uptake of the fibrillar amyloid \u03b2 positron emission tomography (PET) imaging agent [(18)F]flutemetamol (Pittsburgh Compound B analog with a 5.5 times longer half-life to enable it to be used in the clinical setting) and neuritic plaques and fibrillar amyloid \u03b2 measured by pathologic staining of cortical region biopsy samples. Fifty-two patients with suspected normal pressure hydrocephalus underwent prospective (n\u00a0=\u00a030) or retrospective (n\u00a0=\u00a022) [(18)F]flutemetamol PET imaging for detection of cerebral cortical fibrillar amyloid \u03b2 and cortical brain biopsy during intracranial pressure measurement or ventriculo-peritoneal shunting. [(18)F]Flutemetamol uptake was quantified using standardized uptake value ratio (SUVR) with cerebellar cortex as the reference region. Tissue fibrillar amyloid \u03b2 was evaluated using immunohistochemical monoclonal antibody 4G8 and histochemical agents Thioflavin S and Bielschowsky silver stain, and an overall pathology result based on all available immunohistochemical and histochemical results. Biopsy site and contralateral [(18)F]flutemetamol SUVRs were significantly associated with neuritic plaque burden assessed with Bielschowsky silver stain (r (spearman's)\u00a0=\u00a00.61, p\u00a0=\u00a00.0001 for both), as was the composite SUVR with biopsy pathology (r (spearman's)\u00a0=\u00a00.74, p\u00a0<\u00a00.0001). SUVR and immunohistochemical results with 4G8 for detecting fibrillar amyloid \u03b2 were similar. Blinded image evaluation showed strong agreement between readers (\u03ba\u00a0=\u00a00.86). Overall sensitivity and specificity by majority read were 93 and 100\u00a0%. Noninvasive in vivo [(18)F]flutemetamol PET imaging demonstrates strong concordance with histopathology for brain fibrillar amyloid \u03b2, supporting its promise as a tool to assist physicians with earlier detection of the disease process and making diagnostic decisions about concomitant AD and other diseases associated with brain amyloidosis."}
{"id": "23050829", "title": "Protocol for a randomized controlled trial evaluating the effect of physical activity on delaying the progression of white matter changes on MRI in older adults with memory complaints and mild cognitive impairment: the AIBL Active trial.", "content": "Protocol for a randomized controlled trial evaluating the effect of physical activity on delaying the progression of white matter changes on MRI in older adults with memory complaints and mild cognitive impairment: the AIBL Active trial. Older adults free of dementia but with subjective memory complaints (SMC) or mild cognitive impairment (MCI) are considered at increased risk of cognitive decline. Vascular risk factors (VRF), including hypertension, heart disease, smoking, hypercholesterolemia and lack of physical activity (PA) have been identified as modifiable risk factors contributing to cognitive decline, and white matter hyperintensities (WMH) are associated with VRF, SMC and cognitive impairment. Findings from a growing number of clinical trials with older adults are providing strong evidence for the benefits of physical activity for maintaining cognitive function, but few studies are investigating these benefits in high-risk populations. The aim of AIBL Active is to determine whether a 24-month physical activity program can delay the progression of white matter changes on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). This single-blind randomized controlled trial (RCT) is offered to 156 participants, aged 60 and older, in the Melbourne arm of the Australian Imaging Biomarkers and Lifestyle Flagship Study of Aging (AIBL). Participants must have SMC with or without MCI and at least one VRF. The PA intervention is a modification of the intervention previously trialed in older adults with SMC and MCI (Fitness for the Ageing Brain Study). It comprises 24 months of moderate, home-based PA (150 minutes per week) and a behavioral intervention package. The primary outcome measure will be change in WMH after 24 months on MRI. Cognition, quality of life, functional fitness, level of physical activity, plasma biomarkers for cerebrovascular disease and amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) imaging comprise secondary measures. Currently, there is no effective pharmacological treatment available to delay cognitive decline and dementia in older adults at risk. Should our findings show that physical activity can slow down the progression of WMH, this RCT would provide an important proof of concept. Since imbedded in AIBL this RCT will also be able to investigate the interaction between vascular and Alzheimer's disease pathologies. Australia New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN12611000612910."}
{"id": "23050785", "title": "Diffuse sclerosing variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma with multiple metastases and elevated serum carcinoembryonic antigen level.", "content": "Diffuse sclerosing variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma with multiple metastases and elevated serum carcinoembryonic antigen level. Diffuse sclerosing variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma (DSPC) is a rare variant of papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC). We report a 61-year-old female of DSPC whose course was complicated by multiple metastases and an elevated serum carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) level. The patient presented with upper back pain. X-ray showed an osteolytic lesion of the sixth cervical spinous process. She had a hard, nonmovable mass with fixed enlarged lymph nodes (LNs) over right neck. Fine-needle aspiration cytology revealed PTC with LNs metastasis. Positron emission tomography demonstrated multiple brain, bone, liver, and lung metastases. However, the patient had an elevated serum CEA level. She underwent a total thyroidectomy and 200 mCi radioactive (131)I therapy. The pathological findings were diffuse sclerosing variant of PTC with capsular and lymph vessel invasion. A double staining of tumor specimen appeared concomitantly positive for CEA and thyroglobulin. To our knowledge, DSPC with an elevated CEA level is extremely rare."}
{"id": "23047223", "title": "\u00b9\u2078F-labeled 2-phenylquinoxaline derivatives as potential positron emission tomography probes for in vivo imaging of \u03b2-amyloid plaques.", "content": "\u00b9\u2078F-labeled 2-phenylquinoxaline derivatives as potential positron emission tomography probes for in vivo imaging of \u03b2-amyloid plaques. In continuation of our study on the 2-phenylquinoxaline scaffold as potential \u03b2-amyloid imaging probes, two [(18)F]fluoro-pegylated 2-phenylquinoxaline derivatives, 2-(4-(2-[(18)F]fluoroethoxy)phenyl)-N-methylquinoxalin-6-amine ([(18)F]4a) and 2-(4-(2-(2-(2-[(18)F]fluoroethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)phenyl)-N-methylquinoxalin-6-amine ([(18)F]4b) were prepared. Both of them displayed high binding affinity to A\u03b2(1-42) aggregates (K(i) = 10.0 \u00b1 1.4 nM for 4a, K(i) = 5.3 \u00b1 3.2 nM for 4b). The specific and high binding of [(18)F]4a and [(18)F]4b to A\u03b2 plaques was confirmed by in vitro autoradiography on brain sections of AD human and transgenic mice. In biodistribution in normal mice, [(18)F]4a displayed high initial brain uptake (8.17% ID/g at 2 min) and rapid washout from the brain. These preliminary results suggest [(18)F]4a may be a potential PET imaging agent for A\u03b2 plaques in the living human brain."}
{"id": "23046730", "title": "Anatomically guided voxel-based partial volume effect correction in brain PET: impact of MRI segmentation.", "content": "Anatomically guided voxel-based partial volume effect correction in brain PET: impact of MRI segmentation. Partial volume effect is still considered one of the main limitations in brain PET imaging given the limited spatial resolution of current generation PET scanners. The accuracy of anatomically guided partial volume effect correction (PVC) algorithms in brain PET is largely dependent on the performance of MRI segmentation algorithms partitioning the brain into its main classes, namely gray matter (GM), white matter (WM), and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). A comparative evaluation of four brain MRI segmentation algorithms bundled in the successive releases of Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) package (SPM99, SPM2, SPM5, SPM8) using clinical neurological examinations was performed. Subsequently, their impact on PVC in (18)F-FDG brain PET imaging was assessed. The principle of the different variants of the image segmentation algorithm is to spatially normalize the subject's MR images to a corresponding template. PET images were corrected for partial volume effect using GM volume segmented from coregistered MR images. The PVC approach aims to compensate for signal dilution in non-active tissues such as CSF, which becomes an important issue in the case of tissue atrophy to prevent a misinterpretation of decrease of metabolism owing to PVE. The study population consisted of 19 patients suffering from neurodegenerative dementia. Image segmentation performed using SPM5 was used as reference. The comparison showed that previous releases of SPM (SPM99 and SPM2) result in larger gray matter regions (~20%) and smaller white matter regions (between -17% and -6%), thus introducing non-negligible bias in PVC PET activity estimates (between 30% and 90%). In contrary, the more recent release (SPM8) results in similar results (<1%). It was concluded that the choice of the segmentation algorithm for MRI-guided PVC in PET plays a crucial role for the accurate estimation of PET activity concentration. The segmentation algorithm embedded within the latest release of SPM satisfies the requirement of robust and accurate segmentation for MRI-guided PVC in brain PET imaging."}
{"id": "23043907", "title": "PET imaging in the differential diagnosis of vascular dementia.", "content": "PET imaging in the differential diagnosis of vascular dementia. Aging leads to a small loss of cortical neurons, but to a significant reduction of synapses, dendrites and myelinated fibers. These age-related changes may cause some cognitive impairment, brain atrophy and frontally accentuated diffuse decrease in metabolism. In pathological disorders leading to dementia, most frequently degenerative Alzheimer's disease, cerebrovascular disease or a combination of both, the changes are more severe, affect predominantly specific regions and result in significant loss of neurons. The differential diagnosis of these disorders is based on symptoms of cognitive and memory impairment and is supported by results of neuropsychological tests and of imaging. Whereas computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging are able to detect morphologic lesions, these modalities cannot determine functional consequences of the underlying pathologies. Positron emission tomography allows imaging of the localized and/or diffuse metabolic disturbances responsible for cognitive impairment and dementia, and is effective in differentiating vascular from degenerative dementia, as Alzheimer's disease. It can also detect inflammatory changes and their interaction with amyloid depositions for the development of mixed dementias after stroke. Imaging of neurotransmitters and of synaptic function additionally yields insight into disease specific pathophysiology. Despite that the broad clinical application of PET is limited, this technology has a great impact on research in dementia."}
{"id": "23037962", "title": "Neuroimaging in dementias.", "content": "Neuroimaging in dementias. To critically review data on the use of neuroimaging tools in the clinical diagnostic investigation of dementias. For many years, the use of neuroimaging tools in the evaluation of dementias has been restricted to excluding neurosurgical lesions that may account for the cognitive decline. However, modern neuroimaging extends beyond this traditional role of excluding other conditions and has a key role in the clinical investigation of Alzheimer's disease and of other degenerative cortical dementias. MRI, PET with fluorodeoxyglucose, and single-photon emission computed tomography are topographic markers of neural damage and enable the identification of specific lesional patterns that characterize Alzheimer's disease and other cortical dementias. More recently, PET amyloid markers have enabled the in-vivo assessment of amyloid load, a key feature in the physiopathology of Alzheimer's disease. The combined use of neuroimaging examinations with clinical, neuropsychological, and cerebrospinal fluid markers can improve the specificity of the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, even at early stages of the disease. In the following years, progress in research will provide standardized and validated imaging markers of Alzheimer's disease and other dementias, which may increase their application in clinical settings."}
{"id": "23033449", "title": "Apraxia of speech and phonological errors in the diagnosis of nonfluent/agrammatic and logopenic variants of primary progressive aphasia.", "content": "Apraxia of speech and phonological errors in the diagnosis of nonfluent/agrammatic and logopenic variants of primary progressive aphasia. The International Consensus Criteria for the diagnosis of primary progressive aphasia (PPA; Gorno-Tempini et al., 2011) propose apraxia of speech (AOS) as 1 of 2 core features of nonfluent/agrammatic PPA and propose phonological errors or absence of motor speech disorder as features of logopenic PPA. We investigated the sensitivity and specificity of AOS and phonological errors as markers for these variants and also investigated the relationship between AOS, phonological errors, and findings on C-labeled Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB)-positron emission tomography (PET) imaging associated with putative Alzheimer-type pathology. Connected speech and word repetition in 23 people with PPA who underwent PiB-PET imaging were rated for apraxic versus phonological disruption by 1 rater who was blind to diagnosis and by 2 raters who were blind to PiB-PET results. Apraxic characteristics had high sensitivity for nonfluent/agrammatic PPA, and phonological errors had high sensitivity for logopenic PPA; however, phonological errors showed lower specificity for logopenic PPA. On PiB imaging, 8 of 9 people with predominant AOS returned negative results, whereas participants with no or questionable AOS with and without phonological errors returned positive results. Attention to AOS and phonological errors may help counter some of the inherent limitations of diagnosis-by-exclusion in the current International Consensus Criteria for diagnosing PPA."}
{"id": "23028511", "title": "Plasma based markers of [11C] PiB-PET brain amyloid burden.", "content": "Plasma based markers of [11C] PiB-PET brain amyloid burden. Changes in brain amyloid burden have been shown to relate to Alzheimer's disease pathology, and are believed to precede the development of cognitive decline. There is thus a need for inexpensive and non-invasive screening methods that are able to accurately estimate brain amyloid burden as a marker of Alzheimer's disease. One potential method would involve using demographic information and measurements on plasma samples to establish biomarkers of brain amyloid burden; in this study data from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative was used to explore this possibility. Sixteen of the analytes on the Rules Based Medicine Human Discovery Multi-Analyte Profile 1.0 panel were found to associate with [(11)C]-PiB PET measurements. Some of these markers of brain amyloid burden were also found to associate with other AD related phenotypes. Thirteen of these markers of brain amyloid burden--c-peptide, fibrinogen, alpha-1-antitrypsin, pancreatic polypeptide, complement C3, vitronectin, cortisol, AXL receptor kinase, interleukin-3, interleukin-13, matrix metalloproteinase-9 total, apolipoprotein E and immunoglobulin E--were used along with co-variates in multiple linear regression, and were shown by cross-validation to explain >30% of the variance of brain amyloid burden. When a threshold was used to classify subjects as PiB positive, the regression model was found to predict actual PiB positive individuals with a sensitivity of 0.918 and a specificity of 0.545. The number of APOE [Symbol: see text] 4 alleles and plasma apolipoprotein E level were found to contribute most to this model, and the relationship between these variables and brain amyloid burden was explored."}
{"id": "23026364", "title": "Development of positron emission tomography \u03b2-amyloid plaque imaging agents.", "content": "Development of positron emission tomography \u03b2-amyloid plaque imaging agents. For 100 years, \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) have been recognized as the neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD), and their presence or absence could only be assessed postmortem using stains and dyes that identified these microscopic structures. Approximately 10 years ago, the first successful A\u03b2 plaque-specific positron emission tomography (PET) imaging study was conducted in a living human subject clinically diagnosed with probable AD using the (11)C-labeled radiopharmaceutical Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB). Laboratory studies and preclinical evaluations to design PiB began a decade earlier than the first human PiB PET study and involved chemical modifications of different well-known dyes that bound specifically to the extended \u03b2-pleated sheets that comprise the fibrils of amyloid proteins such as A\u03b2 plaques, NFTs, \u03b1-synuclein deposits, and prions. These preclinical studies were conducted in our laboratories at the University of Pittsburgh, starting with Congo red derivatives, followed by Chrysamine G derivatives, followed by X-series compounds, and finally with neutral derivatives of thioflavin-T. The in vitro and in vivo evaluations of the different derivatives as candidate PET radioligands for imaging A\u03b2 plaques and neurofibrillary tangles in human brain are described in this review, along with the specific evaluation criteria by which the candidate radioligands were judged. Out of these studies came PiB, a PET radioligand that binds selectively and with high affinity to only fibrillar forms of A\u03b2. PiB has been used in many different human research protocols throughout the world and has demonstrated the usefulness of assessing the A\u03b2 plaque status of subjects many years before the clinical diagnosis of probable AD. Recently, longer-lived (18)F-radiolabeled A\u03b2-selective radiopharmaceuticals have been developed. It is likely that the full clinical impact of these imaging agents will be realized by identifying presymptomatic subjects who would benefit from early drug treatments with future disease-modifying AD therapeutics."}
{"id": "23026363", "title": "Neuronuclear imaging in the evaluation of dementia and mild decline in cognition.", "content": "Neuronuclear imaging in the evaluation of dementia and mild decline in cognition. Recently, the National Institute on Aging and the Alzheimer's Association identified specific structural and functional neuroimaging findings as valuable markers of biological processes occurring in the human brain, especially processes that herald impending dementia caused by Alzheimer's disease (AD) in its prodromal form. In particular, the imaging modalities of magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography (PET) were singled out, along with certain biomarkers in cerebrospinal fluid, to serve this purpose. We review the clinical tests available for neuropsychologic evaluation and in cases when the differential diagnosis for the causes of cognitive impairment is difficult to make, we consider biomarkers, beginning with cerebrospinal fluid, for assessment of cognitive decline. For more direct information on dementia-related pathologic changes in brain tissue, structural features observed in magnetic resonance imaging scans are regarded. We next discuss the use of single-photon emission computed tomography for evaluating functional changes. Then, pertinent to the recent National Institute on Aging and the Alzheimer's Association's consensus statement on the diagnosis of prodromal AD, we focus on assessing the cerebral metabolic changes associated with neurodegenerative diseases that are identified with fluorodeoxyglucose PET, as well as consider the most appropriate roles for amyloid imaging based on recent studies examining the use of PET with tracers having higher retention in brain tissue-harboring plaques composed of insoluble beta-amyloid. We also consider the leading causes for the current underuse of neuronuclear imaging in evaluating patients with cognitive problems, along with strategies for combating them. Finally, we suggest an overall diagnostic algorithm to guide optimal use of all the neuroimaging tools in assessing patients with cognitive decline."}
{"id": "23024340", "title": "Occupational radiation dosimetry assessment using an automated infusion device for positron-emitting radiotracers.", "content": "Occupational radiation dosimetry assessment using an automated infusion device for positron-emitting radiotracers. Handling and administration of radiopharmaceuticals are a key contributor to staff radiation dose. Shielded automated infusion devices potentially standardize and reduce radiation exposure during procedures. However, loading the devices adds incremental radiation exposure, which may mitigate dose savings. We measured radiation doses from the loading and use of an automated infusion device and compared these with those from manual injection of (18)F radiotracers. Adult patients were administered (18)F-FDG or (18)F-FLT before 3-dimensional PET whole-body or brain imaging, respectively. Radioactivity amounts from manual injections performed with protective syringe shields and vial holders were measured by a standard dose calibrator before and after injection. Automated infusions were performed using the shielded infusion device. Staff wore electronic dosimeters at the wrist and trunk. Electronic dosimeters were also worn while multidose (18)F-FDG vials were loaded and unloaded. For each task, background radiation was determined and subtracted from the electronic dosimeter values. Twenty-seven manually injected unit doses yielded a mean administered dose to patients of 480.7 \u00b1 66.2 MBq (12.99 \u00b1 1.79 mCi), compared with 431.9 \u00b1 22.7 MBq (11.67 \u00b1 0.61 mCi) in 34 automated injections. The mean difference was statistically significant. To control for this difference, results were expressed as a standardized dose per unit of activity. With the automated infusion device, the mean extremity dose per injection was 0.003 \u00b1 0.002 \u03bcSv/MBq, compared with 0.026 \u00b1 0.017 \u03bcSv/MBq with manual injections. Mean body dose per procedure with automated infusion was 0.001 \u03bcSv/MBq, versus 0.011 \u03bcSv/MBq with manual injection (P < 0.001). The changing of bulk (18)F-FDG vials in 37 procedures added a mean dose per vial change of 0.89 \u00b1 1.3 \u03bcSv to the extremities and 0.47 \u00b1 2.0 \u03bcSv to the body. The use of a shielded automatic infusion device in a clinical PET setting resulted in an approximately 10-fold decrease in staff extremity and body doses during the administration of (18)F-labeled radiopharmaceuticals. Loading and unloading bulk vials of radiotracer did not significantly offset these dose savings."}
{"id": "23023073", "title": "Markov random field and Gaussian mixture for segmented MRI-based partial volume correction in PET.", "content": "Markov random field and Gaussian mixture for segmented MRI-based partial volume correction in PET. In this paper we propose a segmented magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) prior-based maximum penalized likelihood deconvolution technique for positron emission tomography (PET) images. The model assumes the existence of activity classes that behave like a hidden Markov random field (MRF) driven by the segmented MRI. We utilize a mean field approximation to compute the likelihood of the MRF. We tested our method on both simulated and clinical data (brain PET) and compared our results with PET images corrected with the re-blurred Van Cittert (VC) algorithm, the simplified Guven (SG) algorithm and the region-based voxel-wise (RBV) technique. We demonstrated our algorithm outperforms the VC algorithm and outperforms SG and RBV corrections when the segmented MRI is inconsistent (e.g. mis-segmentation, lesions, etc) with the PET image."}
{"id": "23012452", "title": "Dicyanovinylnaphthalenes for neuroimaging of amyloids and relationships of electronic structures and geometries to binding affinities.", "content": "Dicyanovinylnaphthalenes for neuroimaging of amyloids and relationships of electronic structures and geometries to binding affinities. The positron-emission tomography (PET) probe 2-(1-[6-[(2-fluoroethyl)(methyl)amino]-2-naphthyl]ethylidene) (FDDNP) is used for the noninvasive brain imaging of amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) and other amyloid aggregates present in Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases. A series of FDDNP analogs has been synthesized and characterized using spectroscopic and computational methods. The binding affinities of these molecules have been measured experimentally and explained through the use of a computational model. The analogs were created by systematically modifying the donor and the acceptor sides of FDDNP to learn the structural requirements for optimal binding to A\u03b2 aggregates. FDDNP and its analogs are neutral, environmentally sensitive, fluorescent molecules with high dipole moments, as evidenced by their spectroscopic properties and dipole moment calculations. The preferred solution-state conformation of these compounds is directly related to the binding affinities. The extreme cases were a nonplanar analog t-butyl-FDDNP, which shows low binding affinity for A\u03b2 aggregates (520 nM K(i)) in vitro and a nearly planar tricyclic analog cDDNP, which displayed the highest binding affinity (10 pM K(i)). Using a previously published X-ray crystallographic model of 1,1-dicyano-2-[6-(dimethylamino)naphthalen-2-yl]propene (DDNP) bound to an amyloidogenic A\u03b2 peptide model, we show that the binding affinity is inversely related to the distortion energy necessary to avoid steric clashes along the internal surface of the binding channel."}
{"id": "23008501", "title": "Preclinical characterization of a novel class of 18F-labeled PET tracers for amyloid-\u03b2.", "content": "Preclinical characterization of a novel class of 18F-labeled PET tracers for amyloid-\u03b2. Imaging of amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) plaques by PET is more and more integrated into concepts for Alzheimer disease (AD) diagnosis and drug development. The objective of this study was to find novel chemical entities that can be transformed into (18)F-labeled A\u03b2 tracers with favorable brain washout kinetics and low background signal. High-throughput screening of a large chemical library was used to identify new ligands for fibrillar aggregates of A\u03b2(1-42) peptide. Thirty-two fluorinated derivatives were synthesized and tested for their affinity toward AD brain homogenate. Twelve ligands have been radiolabeled with (18)F. The pharmacokinetic properties of the radioligands were investigated in mouse and monkey biodistribution studies. Binding characteristics were determined by autoradiography of AD brain sections in vitro and using amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice in vivo. The systematic search for A\u03b2 imaging agents revealed several fluorinated derivatives with nanomolar affinity for A\u03b2. The fluoropyridyl derivative BAY 1008472 showed a high initial brain uptake (6.45 percentage injected dose per gram at 2 min) and rapid brain washout (ratio of percentage of injected dose per gram of tissue at 2 and 30 min after injection, 9.2) in mice. PET studies of healthy rhesus monkeys confirmed the high initial brain uptake of BAY 1008472 (2.52 standardized uptake value at peak) and a fast elimination of total radioactivity from gray and white matter areas (ratio of standardized uptake value at peak uptake and 60 min 11.0). In autoradiographic analysis, BAY 1008472 selectively detected A\u03b2 deposits in human AD brain sections with high contrast and did not bind to \u03c4- or \u03b1-synuclein pathologies. Finally, ex vivo autoradiography of brain sections from amyloid precursor protein-transgenic mice confirmed that BAY 1008472 is indeed suitable for the in vivo detection of A\u03b2 plaques. A new chemical class of A\u03b2 tracers has been identified by high-throughput screening. The fluoropyridyl derivative BAY 1008472 shows a favorable preclinical profile including low background binding in gray and white matter. These properties might qualify this new tracer, in particular, to detect subtle amounts or changes of A\u03b2 burden in presymptomatic AD and during therapy."}
{"id": "23008418", "title": "Identifying and utilizing the ischemic penumbra.", "content": "Identifying and utilizing the ischemic penumbra. The penumbral concept is defined as different areas within the ischemic region evolve into irreversible brain injury over time and that this evolution is most critically linked to the severity of the decline in cerebral blood flow (CBF). The ischemic penumbra was initially defined as a region of reduced CBF with absent spontaneous or induced electrical potentials that still maintained ionic homeostasis and transmembrane electrical potentials. The reduction of CBF levels to between 10 and 15 mL/100 g/min and approximately 25 mL/100 g/min are likely to identify penumbral tissue, and the ischemic core of irreversible ischemic tissue has a CBF value below the lower threshold. The role of identifying this critically deprived brain tissue from CBF in triaging patients for endovascular ischemic therapy is evolving. In this review we focus on the basic science of the penumbral concept and identification using various imaging modalities (PET, MRI, and CT) in animal models and human studies. Another article in this supplement addresses the clinical implication and the current understanding and application of this concept into clinical practice of endovascular ischemic stroke therapy."}
{"id": "22996234", "title": "Semiquantitative analysis and characterization of physiological biodistribution of (68)Ga-DOTA-TATE PET/CT.", "content": "Semiquantitative analysis and characterization of physiological biodistribution of (68)Ga-DOTA-TATE PET/CT. The aim of this study was to describe the normal physiological distribution of (68)Ga-DOTA-TATE using the SUV to reflect the density of somatostatin receptors in various organ systems. A total of 250 patients (90 men and 160 women) were imaged on a Biograph 64 PET/CT TruePoint (Siemens Medical Solutions) 60 to 80 minutes after injection of 120 to 200 MBq (3.2-5.4 mCi) of (68)Ga-DOTA-TATE. Visual assessment was performed on all studies on the multimodality workstation, and sites of increased uptake were recorded. The SUVmax was also calculated for each organ demonstrating increased (68)Ga-DOTA-TATE uptake. Visual assessment of the (68)Ga-DOTA-TATE PET/CT studies revealed increased uptake in the pituitary, salivary, thyroid glands, liver, spleen, adrenals, kidneys and bone reflecting normal increased somatostatin receptor expression. These sites were confirmed to be disease free on clinical follow-up and on correlation with other imaging (CT/MRI/ultrasound). Using semiquantitative analysis, SUVmax values were the highest in the pituitary gland [11 (4.5)], spleen [18.9 (6.6)], adrenal [14.0 (5.6)], and kidneys [14.2 (3.6)]. In addition, increasing uptake in the uncinate process of pancreas was noted in 12% of patients with SUVmax of 9.2 (3.3). Moderate (68)Ga-DOTA-TATE uptake was also present in salivary gland [3.4 (1.8)], thyroid [2.9 (1.2)], and normal liver [6.5 (2.2)]. The bones generally showed low (68)Ga-DOTA-TATE uptake with an SUVmax of 1.0 (0.3). Knowledge of the normal (68)Ga-DOTA-TATE distribution is highly important for accurate interpretation of this novel imaging modality, which is increasingly being used in the imaging of neuroendocrine tumor."}
{"id": "22993429", "title": "Abca1 deficiency affects Alzheimer's disease-like phenotype in human ApoE4 but not in ApoE3-targeted replacement mice.", "content": "Abca1 deficiency affects Alzheimer's disease-like phenotype in human ApoE4 but not in ApoE3-targeted replacement mice. ATP-binding cassette transporter A1 (ABCA1) transporter regulates cholesterol efflux and is an essential mediator of high-density lipoprotein (HDL) formation. In amyloid precursor protein (APP) transgenic mice, Abca1 deficiency increased amyloid deposition in the brain paralleled by decreased levels of Apolipoprotein E (ApoE). The APOE\u03b54 allele is the major genetic risk factor of sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we reveal the effect of Abca1 deficiency on phenotype in mice expressing human ApoE3 or ApoE4. We used APP/E3 and APP/E4 mice generated by crossing APP/PS1\u0394E9 transgenic mice to human APOE3- and APOE4-targeted replacement mice and examined Abca1 gene dose effect on amyloid deposition and cognition. The results from two behavior tests demonstrate that lack of one copy of Abca1 significantly exacerbates memory deficits in APP/E4/Abca1(-/+) but not in APP/E3/Abca1(-/+) mice. The data for amyloid plaques and insoluble amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) also show that Abca1 hemizygosity increases A\u03b2 deposition only in APP/E4/Abca1(-/+) but not in APP/E3/Abca1(-/+) mice. Our in vivo microdialysis assays indicate that Abca1 deficiency significantly decreases A\u03b2 clearance in ApoE4-expressing mice, while the effect of Abca1 on A\u03b2 clearance in ApoE3-expressing mice was insignificant. In addition, we demonstrate that plasma HDL and A\u03b242 levels in APP/E4/Abca1(-/+) mice are significantly decreased, and there is a negative correlation between plasma HDL and amyloid plaques in brain, suggesting that plasma lipoproteins may be involved in A\u03b2 clearance. Overall, our results prove that the presence of functional Abca1 significantly influences the phenotype of APP mice expressing human ApoE4 and further substantiate therapeutic approaches in AD based on ABCA1-APOE regulatory axis."}
{"id": "22990206", "title": "Neuropsychological and neuroimaging markers in early versus late-onset Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Neuropsychological and neuroimaging markers in early versus late-onset Alzheimer's disease. Early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD) has been overshadowed by the more common late-onset AD (LOAD). Yet, the literature indicates EOAD may have less hippocampal-memory presentations and more focal neocortical localization early in the disease. To evaluate these proposed differences between these 2 forms of AD and to explore what they inform about differences in AD pathophysiology. In all, 21 patients with EOAD and 24 patients with LOAD matched for disease progression and severity were compared on neurocognitive measures and resting state fluorodeoxy-glucose positron-emission tomography (FDG-PET). Patients with EOAD had worse executive functions with greater hypometabolism in the parietal regions; whereas patients with LOAD had worse confrontation naming and verbal recognition memory with greater hypometabolism in inferior frontotemporal regions. In addition to highlighting significant differences between EOAD and LOAD, these results reveal dissociation between executive deficits in AD and frontal hypometabolism, suggesting early disturbances of the parietal-frontal network in EOAD."}
{"id": "22989902", "title": "[Anti-Ma2, anti-NMDA-receptor and anti-GluR\u03b52 limbic encephalitis with testicular seminoma: short-term memory disturbance].", "content": "[Anti-Ma2, anti-NMDA-receptor and anti-GluR\u03b52 limbic encephalitis with testicular seminoma: short-term memory disturbance]. A 36-year-old man presented with cognitive impairment and disturbance of short-term memory functions with character change. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis revealed no abnormalities; however, brain MRI revealed high-signal intensity from bilateral hippocampus lesions on fluid attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) images and T(2) weighted images. The 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose PET demonstrated high glucose uptake in the bilateral hippocampus lesions. He was diagnosed as limbic encephalitis, and was administered high-dose intravenous methylprednisolone and immune adsorption plasma therapy followed by intravenous immunoglobulin therapy. MRI abnormalities improved after treatment but recent memory disturbance remained. Ma2 antibody, NMDA-receptor antibody, and GluR\u03b52 antibody were positive. Eleven months atter the onset of disease, the tumor was identified in left testicle by ultrasound and removed the tumor. The pathological findings were seminoma. We experienced a case of paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis associated with seminoma with short-term memory disturbance. The occurrence of paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis with antibodies against cell membrane (NMDA-receptor antibody and GluR\u03b52 antibody) and intracellular (Ma2 antibody) is rare even in the literature."}
{"id": "22989783", "title": "[Early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease]. Diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains difficult to establish, and can only be considered as certain thanks to anatomopathological evidence, or genetic mutations. Current diagnostic criteria rely on innovative imaging and biological tools, in order to detect pathological cues from very early stages, and with best sensibility and sensitivity. Advances in neuro-imaging enabled the development of different tools to help establishing the diagnosis, such as cerebral atrophy assessment on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and cerebral metabolism study on positron emission tomography (PET). Besides, the increasing use of in vivo biological markers, combined to clinical criteria, enables to discriminate patients from healthy controls at even earlier stages. This includes studies on tau and beta-amyloid proteins concentrations in the cerebrosinal fluid, and amyloid-specific radioligands uptake. Familial forms of Alzheimer represent a great model for studying early or even pre-symptomatic AD, as genetic analyses constitute a diagnosis of certainty, even though they usually evolve earlier and faster. Diagnostic tools are more and more numerous and performant. According to patients' clinical heterogeneity, it appears essential to associate different method to investigate, in order to make a diagnosis as early and as reliable as possible."}
{"id": "22985800", "title": "Abnormal apocrine secretory cell mitochondria in a Huntington disease patient.", "content": "Abnormal apocrine secretory cell mitochondria in a Huntington disease patient. Over two decades, a 42-year old woman experienced the gradual onset of choreic involuntary movements, dystonia, and tics. Decreased caudate nucleus metabolism on 2-deoxyglucose PET scan and a heterozygous 49-CAG repeat expansion within the HTT gene established the diagnosis of HD, although no other family history was known. An axillary skin biopsy revealed a distinctive abnormality of mitochondria limited to the apocrine secretory cells on electron microscopy. All mitochondria were transformed into rounded structures with disrupted cristae and prominent myelin figures; many were enlarged up to 4 times the normal. Cytoplasm of apocrine secretory cells showed an abundance of lipid vacuoles, empty vesicles, and dense bodies. Biopsied skeletal muscle histology (light microscopy) was normal, as was a mitochondrial metabolism study. Biopsies from other HD patients have shown similar mitochondrial changes in cerebral neurons, muscle, fibroblasts, and lymphoblasts, adding to evidence for a systemic disturbance of mitochondria in HD."}
{"id": "22983255", "title": "[Neurovisualization in the differential diagnosis of dementia].", "content": "[Neurovisualization in the differential diagnosis of dementia]."}
{"id": "22975859", "title": "[Cerebral amyloid angiopathy-related leukodystrophy: a case report].", "content": "[Cerebral amyloid angiopathy-related leukodystrophy: a case report]. An 86-year-old woman was admitted following generalized seizure. Postictally she showed disturbance of consciousness, right hemiparesis, and right spatial neglect. Brain fluid attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) imaging demonstrated mainly left-sided, but asymmetrical, subcortical white matter lesions. On the second day, level of consciousness improved, along with right hemiparesis and right spatial neglect. Electroencephalography displayed mainly \u03b1 waves and sporadic \u03b8 waves without sharp waves. One week later, however, the patient again experienced somnolence and right hemiparesis. FLAIR revealed day-by-day enlargement of white matter lesions. The possibilities of hypoglycemia, hyperammonemia, hypothyroidism, Hashimoto encephalopathy, collagen disease, antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody-related angiitis, and infection were excluded based on the results of blood biochemistry and cerebrospinal fluid. We initially suspected intravascular lymphoma, so random skin biopsy was performed, but the results were negative. We then suspected cerebral amyloid angiopathy because of the presence of dementia and multiple microbleeds on T(2)* weighted magnetic resonance imaging. Cerebral biopsy revealed amyloid deposition in cortical arterioles and CD3-positive T cells in the perivascular space. Cerebral amyloid angiopathy-related leukodystrophy was therefore diagnosed and immunosuppressive treatment was started. After 14 days of treatment, clinical symptoms and results of FLAIR imaging were significantly improved. When patients display asymmetrical subcortical white matter lesions with microbleeds on T(2)* weighted imaging, amyloid angiopathy-related inflammation should be considered."}
{"id": "22972646", "title": "Vascular burden and Alzheimer disease pathologic progression.", "content": "Vascular burden and Alzheimer disease pathologic progression. To investigate the vascular contribution to longitudinal changes in Alzheimer disease (AD) biomarkers. The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative is a clinic based, longitudinal study with CSF, PET, and MRI biomarkers repeatedly measured in participants with normal cognition (NC), mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and mild AD. Participants with severe cerebrovascular risks were excluded. Cardiovascular risk scores and MRI white matter hyperintensities (WMHs) were treated as surrogate markers for vascular burden. Generalized estimating equations were applied, and both vascular burden and its interaction with time (vascular burden \u00d7 time) or time-varying WMHs were entered into regression models to assess whether biomarker rates of change were modified by vascular burden. Cardiovascular risk profiles were not predictive of progression in CSF \u03b2\u2084\u2082-amyloid, [\u00b9\u2078F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET uptake, and MRI hippocampal atrophy. Greater baseline cardiovascular risks or WMHs were generally associated with cognitive impairment, particularly poor executive function. WMHs increased over time with a faster rate in MCI and AD than in NC. Increased time-varying WMH was associated with faster decline in executive function and lower FDG uptake in NC. Otherwise, WMH was not associated with CSF and MRI biomarkers in the 3 groups. These findings remained unchanged after accounting for APOE4. Increased WMHs are associated with aging, decreased glucose metabolism, and decline in executive function but do not affect AD-specific pathologic progression, suggesting that the vascular contribution to dementia is probably additive although not necessarily independent of the amyloid pathway."}
{"id": "22972644", "title": "Indicators of amyloid burden in a population-based study of cognitively normal elderly.", "content": "Indicators of amyloid burden in a population-based study of cognitively normal elderly. Secondary prevention trials in subjects with preclinical Alzheimer disease may require documentation of brain amyloidosis. The identification of inexpensive and noninvasive screening variables that can identify individuals who have significant amyloid accumulation would reduce screening costs. A total of 483 cognitively normal (CN) individuals, aged 70-92 years, from the population-based Mayo Clinic Study of Aging, underwent Pittsburgh compound B (PiB)-PET imaging. Logistic regression determined whether age, sex, APOE genotype, family history, or cognitive performance was associated with odds of a PiB retention ratio >1.4 and >1.5. Area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUROC) evaluated the discrimination between PiB-positive and -negative subjects. For each characteristic, we determined the number needed to screen in each age group (70-79 and 80-89) to identify 100 participants with PiB >1.4 or >1.5. A total of 211 (44%) individuals had PiB >1.4 and 151 (31%) >1.5. In univariate and multivariate models, discrimination was modest (AUROC \u223c0.6-0.7). Multivariately, age and APOE best predicted odds of PiB >1.4 and >1.5. Subjective memory complaints were similar to cognitive test performance in predicting PiB >1.5. Indicators of PiB positivity varied with age. Screening APOE \u03b54 carriers alone reduced the number needed to screen to enroll 100 subjects with PIB >1.5 by 48% in persons aged 70-79 and 33% in those aged 80-89. Age and APOE genotype are useful predictors of the likelihood of significant amyloid accumulation, but discrimination is modest. Nonetheless, these results suggest that inexpensive and noninvasive measures could significantly reduce the number of CN individuals needed to screen to enroll a given number of amyloid-positive subjects."}
{"id": "22961552", "title": "Decreased carbon-11-flumazenil binding in early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Decreased carbon-11-flumazenil binding in early Alzheimer's disease. Neuronal loss in Alzheimer's disease, a better correlate of cognitive impairment than amyloid deposition, is currently gauged by the degree of regional atrophy. However, functional markers, such as GABA(A) receptor density, a marker of neuronal integrity, could be more sensitive. In post-mortem hippocampus, GABA(A) messenger RNA expression is reduced even in mild cognitive impairment. We measured whole-brain GABA(A) binding potential in vivo using [(11)C]-flumazenil positron emission tomography and compared GABA(A) binding with metabolic and volumetric measurements. For this purpose, we studied 12 subjects, six patients with early Alzheimer's disease and six healthy controls, with [(11)C]-flumazenil and [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography, as well as with high-resolution magnetic resonance imaging. Data were evaluated with both voxel-based parametric methods and volume of interest methods. We found that in early Alzheimer's disease, with voxel-based analysis, [(11)C]-flumazenil binding was decreased in infero-medial temporal cortex, retrosplenial cortex and posterior perisylvian regions. Inter-group differences reached corrected significance when using an arterial input function. Metabolism measured with positron emission tomography and volumetric measurements obtained with magnetic resonance imaging showed changes in regions affected in early Alzheimer's disease, but, unlike with [(11)C]-flumazenil binding and probably due to sample size, the voxel-based findings failed to reach corrected significance in any region of the brain. With volume of interest analysis, hippocampi and posterior cingulate gyrus showed decreased [(11)C]-flumazenil binding. In addition, [(11)C]-flumazenil hippocampal binding correlated with memory performance. Remarkably, [(11)C]-flumazenil binding was decreased precisely in the regions showing the greatest degree of neuronal loss in post-mortem studies of early Alzheimer's disease. From these data, we conclude that [(11)C]-flumazenil binding could be a useful marker of neuronal loss in early Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "22947919", "title": "Clinical features of Pittsburgh compound-B-negative dementia.", "content": "Clinical features of Pittsburgh compound-B-negative dementia. We previously found that some cases of clinically diagnosed Alzheimer's disease (AD) were rated as Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) negative by amyloid imaging (i.e. cases of PiB-negative dementia). The present study was designed to analyze the clinical features of PiB-negative dementia patients in detail. Of the 64 cases of clinically diagnosed AD, 14 were rated PiB negative. Eleven of these were further analyzed using CSF biomarker levels and findings from MRI, FDG-PET, (123)I-MIBG myocardial scintigraphy and voxel-based morphometry (VBM). When examined by (123)I-MIBG myocardial scintigraphy, the heart/mediastinum ratio was significantly higher in the PiB-negative dementia group than in the dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) group. Analyses of CSF biomarkers and MRI and FDG-PET findings suggested argyrophilic grain disease (AGD) in 3 cases, frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) in 3 cases, neurofibrillary tangle-predominant dementia (NFTD) in 1 case, and AD in 2 cases. In the VBM data analysis, the PiB-positive AD group showed significant atrophy of both hippocampi compared with the healthy control group, while the PiB-negative dementia group presented with significant atrophy of the left precuneus. PiB-negative dementia is unlikely to include DLB, while it most likely includes diseases of tauopathy, such as FTLD, AGD and NFTD. A better understanding of PiB-negative dementia is expected to further improve the accuracy of the clinical AD diagnosis."}
{"id": "22944619", "title": "[Markers of prodromal Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Markers of prodromal Alzheimer's disease]. The diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease has long been considered a diagnosis of probability, as the definitive diagnosis can only be established by histopathological examination. However, the development of in-vivo biomarkers, considered a reflection of physiopathological processes, has changed our view of the disease. New criteria have recently been proposed that integrate such biomarkers as found in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) using new diagnostic tools such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), brain scintigraphy, FDG-positron emission tomography (PET) and PET amyloid ligand uptake studies. The value of these new criteria for the diagnosis of prodromal Alzheimer's disease and the prospect of disease-modifying drugs are also discussed."}
{"id": "22944481", "title": "Cerebral amyloid angiopathy impact on endothelium.", "content": "Cerebral amyloid angiopathy impact on endothelium. Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is an age-associated disease characterized by amyloid deposition in cerebral and meningeal vessel walls. CAA is detected in the majority of the individuals with dementia and also in a large number of non-demented elderly individuals. In addition, CAA is strongly associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Mechanical consequences including intra-cerebral or subarachnoid hemorrhage remains CAA most feared complication, but only a small fraction of CAA results in severe bleeding. On the hand the non-mechanical consequences in cerebrovascular regulation are prevalent and may be even more deleterious. Studies of animal models have provided strong evidence linking the vasoactive A\u03b2 1-40, the main species found in CAA, to disturbances in endothelial-dependent factors, disrupting cerebrovascular regulation Here, we aimed to review experimental findings regarding the non-mechanical consequences of CAA for cerebrovascular regulation and discuss the implications of these results to clinical practice."}
{"id": "22940744", "title": "Multimodal functional and structural imaging investigations in psychosis research.", "content": "Multimodal functional and structural imaging investigations in psychosis research. Substantial pathophysiological questions about the relationship of brain pathologies in psychosis can only be answered by multimodal neuroimaging approaches combining different imaging modalities such as structural MRI (sMRI), functional MRI (fMRI), diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic-resonance spectroscopy. In particular, the multimodal imaging approach has the potential to shed light on the neuronal mechanisms underlying the major brain structural and functional pathophysiological features of schizophrenia and high-risk states such as prefronto-temporal gray matter reduction, altered higher-order cognitive processing, or disturbed dopaminergic and glutamatergic neurotransmission. In recent years, valuable new findings have been revealed in these fields by multimodal imaging studies mostly reflecting a direct and aligned correlation of brain pathologies in psychosis. However, the amount of multimodal studies is still limited, and further efforts have to be made to consolidate previous findings and to extend the scope to other pathophysiological parameters contributing to the pathogenesis of psychosis. Here, investigating the genetic foundations of brain pathology relationships is a major challenge for future multimodal imaging applications in psychosis research."}
{"id": "22940426", "title": "Subjective cognitive complaints and amyloid burden in cognitively normal older individuals.", "content": "Subjective cognitive complaints and amyloid burden in cognitively normal older individuals. Accumulating evidence suggests that subjective cognitive complaints (SCC) may indicate subtle cognitive decline characteristic of individuals with preclinical Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this study, we sought to build upon previous studies by associating SCC and amyloid-\u03b2 deposition using positron emission tomography with Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB-PET) in cognitively normal older individuals. One-hundred thirty one subjects (mean age 73.5\u00b16) were administered three subjective cognitive questionnaires and a brief neuropsychological battery. A relationship between a subjective memory complaints composite score and cortical PiB binding was found to be significant, even after controlling for depressive symptoms. By contrast, there were no significant relationships between objective cognitive measures of memory and executive functions and cortical PiB binding. Our study suggests that SCC may be an early indicator of AD pathology detectable prior to significant objective impairment."}
{"id": "22933741", "title": "A\u03b2-amyloid deposition in patients with Parkinson disease at risk for development of dementia.", "content": "A\u03b2-amyloid deposition in patients with Parkinson disease at risk for development of dementia. The aim of our study was to examine the relationship between corticostriatal A\u03b2-amyloid deposition and cognitive dysfunction in a cohort of patients with Parkinson disease (PD) at risk for dementia. This was a cross-sectional study of 40 patients with PD with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or other known dementia risk factors. Subjects underwent dynamic A\u03b2-amyloid and vesicular monoamine transporter 2 PET imaging using [(11)C] Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) and [(11)C]dihydrotetrabenazine (DTBZ), respectively, and neuropsychological assessment. PiB and DTBZ PET data were analyzed using the Logan graphical method to determine cerebral PiB deposition relative to the cerebellar hemispheres and striatal DTBZ binding relative to occipital neocortex. Component z scores were calculated for individual cognitive domains (memory, visuospatial processing, working memory/attention, and executive function) and combined linearly for global estimation of cognition. Correlation of cognitive function and cortical PiB binding was investigated. Elevated cerebral PiB binding at levels seen in patients with AD was infrequent (6 of 40 subjects). Mean cortical PiB binding in the entire cohort was 1.16 \u00b1 0.16 (distribution volume ratio; range 0.96-1.78). A significant correlation was noted between cortical PiB binding and global composite cognitive function (r = -0.55, p < 0.005) as well as the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale score (r = -0.54, p = 0.0004). Elevated cerebral A\u03b2-amyloid deposition at levels seen in Alzheimer disease is uncommon in subjects with PD at risk for dementia. In our sample, the prevalence of markedly elevated PiB binding was significantly lower than that found in prior studies of cognitively normal elderly individuals. Neocortical PiB binding correlated robustly with measures of cognitive impairment in our cohort."}
{"id": "22932755", "title": "Primary progressive aphasia and Alzheimer's disease: brief history, recent evidence.", "content": "Primary progressive aphasia and Alzheimer's disease: brief history, recent evidence. Primary progressive aphasia (PPA) has been recognized as a syndrome distinct from the usual pattern of language deterioration in Alzheimer's disease and typically more related to the pathology of frontotemporal dementia (FTD). In recent years, however, the syndromes of primary progressive aphasia have become more complex, divided into the three subtypes of progressive nonfluent aphasia (PNFA), semantic dementia (SD), and logopenic/phonological progressive aphasia (LPA). These syndromes have not only made the linguistic analysis more complex, but the associated pathologies have also become more variable. In particular, PNFA is usually, but not always, associated with FTD pathology and often evidence of a tau mutation, but rarely AD; SD is usually associated with FTD of the ubiquitin staining or progranulin (TAR-DNA) mutation type, but, again, occasionally AD; LPA is typically associated with AD pathology. Patterns of atrophy on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) generally conform to these subtypes, with PNFA associated with left frontal and insular atophy, SD associated with bilateral temporal atrophy, and LPA associated with L superior-posterior temporal and parietal atrophy. These patterns can also be seen on positron emission (PET) scanning with fluorodeoxyglucose. The newer amyloid binding ligand PET technologies are less useful for detecting regional atrophy patterns but more useful for indication of the underlying pathology. We can thus speak of syndromes of PPA or underlying pathological bases of PPA."}
{"id": "22931256", "title": "Brain amyloid imaging--FDA approval of florbetapir F18 injection.", "content": "Brain amyloid imaging--FDA approval of florbetapir F18 injection."}
{"id": "22930884", "title": "Nuclear medicine functional imaging of the brain.", "content": "Nuclear medicine functional imaging of the brain."}
{"id": "22929437", "title": "Glucagon-like peptide-1 decreases intracerebral glucose content by activating hexokinase and changing glucose clearance during hyperglycemia.", "content": "Glucagon-like peptide-1 decreases intracerebral glucose content by activating hexokinase and changing glucose clearance during hyperglycemia. Type 2 diabetes and hyperglycemia with the resulting increase of glucose concentrations in the brain impair the outcome of ischemic stroke, and may increase the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). Reports indicate that glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) may be neuroprotective in models of AD and stroke: Although the mechanism is unclear, glucose homeostasis appears to be important. We conducted a randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled crossover study in nine healthy males. Positron emission tomography was used to determine the effect of GLP-1 on cerebral glucose transport and metabolism during a hyperglycemic clamp with (18)fluoro-deoxy-glucose as tracer. Glucagon-like peptide-1 lowered brain glucose (P=0.023) in all regions. The cerebral metabolic rate for glucose was increased everywhere (P=0.039) but not to the same extent in all regions (P=0.022). The unidirectional glucose transfer across the blood-brain barrier remained unchanged (P=0.099) in all regions, while the unidirectional clearance and the phosphorylation rate increased (P=0.013 and 0.017), leading to increased net clearance of the glucose tracer (P=0.006). We show that GLP-1 plays a role in a regulatory mechanism involved in the actions of GLUT1 and glucose metabolism: GLP-1 ensures less fluctuation of brain glucose levels in response to alterations in plasma glucose, which may prove to be neuroprotective during hyperglycemia."}
{"id": "22929226", "title": "The diagnosis and evaluation of dementia and mild cognitive impairment with emphasis on SPECT perfusion neuroimaging.", "content": "The diagnosis and evaluation of dementia and mild cognitive impairment with emphasis on SPECT perfusion neuroimaging. As the world population ages, the incidence of dementing illnesses will dramatically increase. The number of people afflicted with dementia is expected to quadruple in the next 50 years. Since the neuropathology of the dementias precedes clinical symptoms often by several years, earlier detection and intervention could be key steps to mitigating the progression and burden of these diseases. This review will explore methods of evaluating, differentiating, and diagnosing the multiple forms of dementia. Particular emphasis will be placed on the diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment-the precursor to dementia. Anatomical imaging; cerebrospinal fluid markers; functional neuroimaging, such as positron emission tomography and single photon emission tomography; and molecular imaging, such as amyloid marker imaging, will be assessed in terms of sensitivity and specificity. Cost will also be a consideration, as the growing population afflicted with dementia represents an increasingly large financial encumbrance to the healthcare systems of every nation. In the face of expensive new markers and limited availability of cyclotrons, single photon emission computer tomography (SPECT) provides relatively high sensitivity and specificity at a comparatively low overall cost."}
{"id": "22928231", "title": "Clinical and pathological examples of Alzheimer's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Clinical and pathological examples of Alzheimer's disease, dementia with Lewy bodies, and frontotemporal dementia. Dementia syndromes usually consist of distinct clinical and pathological phenotypes. A careful history is required to document the onset and progression of symptoms to generate the differential diagnosis. New biomarker tests can provide evidence to increase diagnostic certainty. Disease-specific interventions, based on advances in genetic and molecular biomarkers, are likely to have the greatest impact when given in preclinical and early symptomatic phases."}
{"id": "22926714", "title": "Quantitative longitudinal interrelationships between brain metabolism and amyloid deposition during a 2-year follow-up in patients with early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Quantitative longitudinal interrelationships between brain metabolism and amyloid deposition during a 2-year follow-up in patients with early Alzheimer's disease. Similar regional anatomical distributions were reported for fibrillary amyloid deposition [measured by (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B (PIB) positron emission tomography (PET)] and brain hypometabolism [measured by (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET] in numerous Alzheimer's disease (AD) studies. However, there is a lack of longitudinal studies evaluating the interrelationships of these two different pathological markers in the same AD population. Our most recent AD study suggested that the longitudinal pattern of hypometabolism anatomically follows the pattern of amyloid deposition with temporal delay, which indicates that neuronal dysfunction may spread within the anatomical pattern of amyloid pathology. Based on this finding we now hypothesize that in early AD patients quantitative longitudinal decline in hypometabolism may be related to the amount of baseline amyloid deposition during a follow-up period of 2 years. Fifteen patients with mild probable AD underwent baseline (T1) and follow-up (T2) examination after 24 \u00b1 2.1 months with [(18)F]FDG PET, [(11)C]PIB PET, structural T1-weighted MRI and neuropsychological testing [Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease (CERAD) neuropsychological battery]. Longitudinal cognitive measures and quantitative PET measures of amyloid deposition and metabolism [standardized uptake value ratios (SUVRs)] were obtained using volume of interest (VOI)-based approaches in the frontal-lateral-retrosplenial (FLR) network and in predefined bihemispheric brain regions after partial volume effect (PVE) correction of PET data. Statistical group comparisons (SUVRs and cognitive measures) between patients and 15 well-matched elderly controls who had undergone identical imaging procedures once as well as Pearson's correlation analyses within patients were performed. Group comparison revealed significant cognitive decline and increased mean PIB/decreased FDG SUVRs in the FLR network as well as in several AD-typical regions in patients relative to controls. Concurrent with cognitive decline patients showed longitudinal increase in mean PIB/decrease in mean FDG SUVRs over time in the FLR network and in several AD-typical brain regions. Correlation analyses of FLR network SUVRs in patients revealed significant positive correlations between PIB T1 and delta FDG (FDG T1-T2) SUVRs, between PIB T1 and PIB T2 SUVRs, between FDG T1 and PIB T2 SUVRs as well as between FDG T1 and FDG T2 SUVRs, while significant negative correlations were found between FDG T1 and delta PIB (PIB T1-T2) SUVRs as well as between FDG T2 and delta FDG (FDG T1-T2) SUVRs. These findings were confirmed in locoregional correlation analyses, revealing significant associations in the same directions for two left hemispheric regions and nine right hemispheric regions, showing the strongest association for bilateral precuneus. Baseline amyloid deposition in patients with mild probable AD was associated with longitudinal metabolic decline. Additionally, mildly decreased/relatively preserved baseline metabolism was associated with a longitudinal increase in amyloid deposition. The latter bidirectional associations were present in the whole AD-typical FLR network and in several highly interconnected hub regions (i.e. in the precuneus). Our longitudinal findings point to a bidirectional quantitative interrelationship of the two investigated AD pathologies, comprising an initial relative maintenance of neuronal activity in already amyloid-positive hub regions (neuronal compensation), followed by accelerated amyloid deposition, accompanied by functional neuronal decline (neuronal breakdown) along with cognitive decline."}
{"id": "22925652", "title": "PET/MRI: challenges, solutions and perspectives.", "content": "PET/MRI: challenges, solutions and perspectives. Already from the start of PET/CT integrating positron emission tomography (PET) and computed tomography (CT) in one instrument, there have been considerations how to combine PET and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) so that their complementary abilities can be utilized in a single investigation. Since classical PET electronics fail in an even weak magnetic field and PET signal processing might disturb high-frequency signals of MRI, it soon became clear that new solutions had to be found to avoid mutual interferences. During the last fifteen years a number of different approaches towards PET/MRI for small animal imaging have been developed by research groups which together with their specific features are summarized in this review. Recently, PET/MRI for human imaging became available as well - this time by industrial initiatives. First some prototypes of BrainPET/MRI were developed followed by commercial products for simultaneous and non-simultaneous whole-body PET/MRI. Although only PET/MRI integrated in one scanner offers the full diversity of complementary multiparametric imaging, there are also promising applications of non-simultaneous sequential PET/MRI. While describing the present instrumentation for human PET/MRI, this review discusses the challenges and promises related to this new imaging technology."}
{"id": "22921250", "title": "[Imaging non motor signs in Parkinson's disease].", "content": "[Imaging non motor signs in Parkinson's disease]. Parkinson's disease is mainly considered as a motor disorder defined by a motor triad. However, various non-motor manifestations may be encountered in Parkinson's disease, including hyposmia, pain, fatigue, sleep disorders, cognitive and behavioral disorders. The pathophysiology of these signs is complex, not univocal and remains poorly understood. Functional imaging techniques either by positron emission tomography, single photon emission tomography or functional magnetic resonance imaging provide an invaluable opportunity to better understand the pathophysiology of these signs. In this paper, we present a review of the recent advances provided by functional imaging in this area."}
{"id": "22917148", "title": "Relationship between genetic risk factors and markers for Alzheimer's disease pathology.", "content": "Relationship between genetic risk factors and markers for Alzheimer's disease pathology. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by neuritic plaques (main constituent: \u03b2-amyloid [A\u03b2]) and neurofibrillary tangles (hyperphosphorylated tau protein) in the brain. Abnormalities in A\u03b2 and tau can be measured upon neuropathological examination, in cerebrospinal fluid or by PET. Etiologically, a growing body of evidence suggests that susceptibility to AD is genetically controlled. However, the precise nature of the underlying risk genes and their relation to AD biomarkers remains largely elusive. To this end, we performed a qualitative review of 17 studies (covering 47 polymorphisms in 26 genes) and investigated the potential relation between the most compelling AD risk genes and markers for A\u03b2 and tau in cerebrospinal fluid, PET imaging and neuropathological examination. Of all covered genes, only APOE and PICALM showed consistent effects on A\u03b2 but not on tau, while no obvious effects were observed for CLU, CR1, ACE, SORL and MAPT."}
{"id": "22917145", "title": "Use of FDG PET as an imaging biomarker in clinical trials of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Use of FDG PET as an imaging biomarker in clinical trials of Alzheimer's disease. PET with the glucose analog FDG as a tracer is a mature and increasingly available clinical imaging technique that can improve the diagnostic accuracy for Alzheimer's disease, which is of particular value at an early stage of the disease when clinical symptoms are still mild and nonspecific. It can also monitor progression of Alzheimer's disease, and the findings are closely related to clinical symptoms. FDG PET, therefore, could also potentially be used as an imaging biomarker for selection of patients and assessment of outcome in clinical trials. Several published intervention studies indicate a good correspondence between clinical outcome and FDG PET findings, but study designs and methods used for data analysis vary widely. Recent developments towards standardization of largely user-independent methods for quantification of regional metabolic impairment on FDG PET scans will allow a new generation of studies that could provide the required evidence for full qualification of FDG PET as an imaging biomarker in clinical trials."}
{"id": "22917141", "title": "Determining cut-points for Alzheimer's disease biomarkers: statistical issues, methods and challenges.", "content": "Determining cut-points for Alzheimer's disease biomarkers: statistical issues, methods and challenges. New proposed criteria for the clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease increasingly incorporate biomarkers, most of which are normally measured on a continuous scale. Operationalizing such criteria thus requires continuous biomarkers to be dichotomized, which in turns requires the selection of a cut-point at which to dichotomize. In this article, we review the statistical principles underlying the choice of cut-points, describe some of the most commonly adopted statistical approaches used to estimate cut-points, highlight potential pitfalls in some of the approaches and characterize in what sense the estimated cut-point from each approach is optimal. We also emphasize that how a cut-point is selected must be made in reference to how the resulting dichotomized biomarker is to be used, and in particular what actions will follow from a positive or negative test result."}
{"id": "22917137", "title": "Disclosure of Alzheimer's disease biomarker status in subjects with mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Disclosure of Alzheimer's disease biomarker status in subjects with mild cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "22915996", "title": "Activity dependent degeneration explains hub vulnerability in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Activity dependent degeneration explains hub vulnerability in Alzheimer's disease. Brain connectivity studies have revealed that highly connected 'hub' regions are particularly vulnerable to Alzheimer pathology: they show marked amyloid-\u03b2 deposition at an early stage. Recently, excessive local neuronal activity has been shown to increase amyloid deposition. In this study we use a computational model to test the hypothesis that hub regions possess the highest level of activity and that hub vulnerability in Alzheimer's disease is due to this feature. Cortical brain regions were modeled as neural masses, each describing the average activity (spike density and spectral power) of a large number of interconnected excitatory and inhibitory neurons. The large-scale network consisted of 78 neural masses, connected according to a human DTI-based cortical topology. Spike density and spectral power were positively correlated with structural and functional node degrees, confirming the high activity of hub regions, also offering a possible explanation for high resting state Default Mode Network activity. 'Activity dependent degeneration' (ADD) was simulated by lowering synaptic strength as a function of the spike density of the main excitatory neurons, and compared to random degeneration. Resulting structural and functional network changes were assessed with graph theoretical analysis. Effects of ADD included oscillatory slowing, loss of spectral power and long-range synchronization, hub vulnerability, and disrupted functional network topology. Observed transient increases in spike density and functional connectivity match reports in Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) patients, and may not be compensatory but pathological. In conclusion, the assumption of excessive neuronal activity leading to degeneration provides a possible explanation for hub vulnerability in Alzheimer's disease, supported by the observed relation between connectivity and activity and the reproduction of several neurophysiologic hallmarks. The insight that neuronal activity might play a causal role in Alzheimer's disease can have implications for early detection and interventional strategies."}
{"id": "22915704", "title": "[Operative neurosurgery: Personal view and historical backgrounds. (10) Microneurosurgery and PET scan: clinical experience of a neurosurgeon].", "content": "[Operative neurosurgery: Personal view and historical backgrounds. (10) Microneurosurgery and PET scan: clinical experience of a neurosurgeon]. During the author's clinical activity at three institutes : Kyoto University Hospital (Kyoto 1965-1969, 1977-1985), National Cardiovascular Center NCVC (Osaka 1986-1992) and Zurich University Hospital (Zurich 1970-1976, 1993-2007), He has experienced (underlined periods) working with PET scan and SPECT in relation to microsurgical treatment. The following describes how and for what the author has been engaged in this regard. 1. As preparation for the work with PET, SPECT with a rotating gamma camera was used to know blood distribution with the use of Kr-81m infusion from a selectively located catheter in the ICA, ECA or VA, e.g. to know the flow distribution of a newly constructed EC-IC bypass, which was quite separated from and not mixed up with that of already functioning inherent collaterals (Fig. 1). 2. With the use of inhalation PET scan (15O labelled CO2 and O2 inhalation and 15O CO inhalation) basic knowledge of hemodynamics of MMD was acquired (Fig. 2) 3. With the use of H215 O-PET scan with DiamoxR loading, indication for and effectiveness of EC-IC bypass surgery for occlusive cerebrovascular disease (atherosclerosis (anterior circulation (Fig. 5), posterior circulation (Fig. 6, 7)), MMD (Fig. 9), congenital disease (Fig. 8) have been settled or demonstrated. 4. In epileptic seizures, interictally or intraictally, the active locus has been identified by the use of FDG-PET, flumazenil-PET, H 2 15 O or 13 NH 3-PET respectively (Fig. 12). In this relation, selective Wada test with the use of Tc-99 m-ECD selective infusion together with Amytal R through a catheter inserted selectively into the anterior choroidal artery is an important preoperative test for the SAHE (Fig. 13). 5. FDG-PET and/or tyrosine PET supply important clues concerning appropriate surgical treatment strategy, and also for intractable glioblastoma or high grade glioma, so that in combination with radiotherapy and chemotherapy one may expect more excellent long term outcome with good quality of life (Fig. 16, 17). Furthermore, there must be cases with dementia in which some revascularization procedure might be of help, for which FDG-and H 2 15O-PET could be helpful for differential diagnosis and indication of surgery (Fig. 18)."}
{"id": "22914836", "title": "Subjective cognitive impairment: fickle but fateful.", "content": "Subjective cognitive impairment: fickle but fateful."}
{"id": "22914831", "title": "[\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET is superior to [\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I]IBZM-SPECT for the differential diagnosis of parkinsonism.", "content": "[\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET is superior to [\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I]IBZM-SPECT for the differential diagnosis of parkinsonism. Imaging of regional cerebral glucose metabolism with PET and striatal dopamine D2/D3 receptors (D2R) with SPECT improves the differential diagnosis of parkinsonism. We prospectively investigated 1) the diagnostic merits of these approaches in differentiating between Lewy body diseases (LBD; majority Parkinson disease [PD]) and atypical parkinsonian syndromes (APS); 2) the diagnostic value of [\u00b9\u2078F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET to differentiate among APS subgroups. Ninety-five of 107 consecutive patients with clinically suspected APS referred for imaging were recruited. [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET scans were analyzed by visual assessment (including individual voxel-based statistical maps). Based on a priori defined disease-specific patterns, patients with putative APS were differentiated from LBD (first level) and allocated to the subgroups multiple system atrophy (MSA), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), or corticobasal degeneration (CBD) (second level). [\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I] iodobenzamide (IBZM)-SPECT datasets were subjected to an observer-independent regions-of-interest analysis to assess striatal D2R availability. Movement disorder specialists made final clinical diagnoses after a median follow-up time of 12 months. Seventy-eight patients with clinically verified APS (n = 44) or LBD (n = 34) were included in the statistical analysis. The area under the receiver operating characteristic curve for discrimination between APS and LBD was significantly larger for [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET (0.94) than for [\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I]IBZM-SPECT (0.74; p = 0.0006). Sensitivity/specificity of [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET for diagnosing APS was 86%/91%, respectively. Sensitivity/specificity of [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET in identifying APS subgroups was 77%/97% for MSA, 74%/95% for PSP, and 75%/92% for CBD. The diagnostic accuracy of [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET for discriminating LBD from APS is considerably higher than for [\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I]IBZM-SPECT. [\u00b9\u2078F]FDG-PET reliably differentiates APS subgroups."}
{"id": "22914828", "title": "Glucose metabolism, gray matter structure, and memory decline in subjective memory impairment.", "content": "Glucose metabolism, gray matter structure, and memory decline in subjective memory impairment. To identify biological evidence for Alzheimer disease (AD) in individuals with subjective memory impairment (SMI) and unimpaired cognitive performance and to investigate the longitudinal cognitive course in these subjects. [\u00b9\u2078F]fluoro-2-deoxyglucose PET (FDG-PET) and structural MRI were acquired in 31 subjects with SMI and 56 controls. Cognitive follow-up testing was performed (average follow-up time: 35 months). Differences in baseline brain imaging data and in memory decline were assessed between both groups. Associations of memory decline with brain imaging data were tested. The SMI group showed hypometabolism in the right precuneus and hypermetabolism in the right medial temporal lobe. Gray matter volume was reduced in the right hippocampus in the SMI group. At follow-up, subjects with SMI showed a poorer performance than controls on measures of episodic memory. Longitudinal memory decline in the SMI group was associated with reduced glucose metabolism in the right precuneus at baseline. The cross-sectional difference in 2 independent neuroimaging modalities indicates early AD pathology in SMI. The poorer memory performance at follow-up and the association of reduced longitudinal memory performance with hypometabolism in the precuneus at baseline support the concept of SMI as the earliest manifestation of AD."}
{"id": "22903128", "title": "Increased basal forebrain metabolism in mild cognitive impairment: an evidence for brain reserve in incipient dementia.", "content": "Increased basal forebrain metabolism in mild cognitive impairment: an evidence for brain reserve in incipient dementia. Cholinergic dysfunction is well known to significantly contribute to the cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, it has not been clarified whether the cholinergic dysfunction is a primary event or a retrograde event secondary to neuronal loss of the cholinergic targets. Analysis of the in vivo neuronal activity of the basal forebrain in the early stages of AD could yield more information about this issue. In the present study, uptake of [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) in the basal forebrain was measured in 13 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), 20 with early AD, and 14 healthy subjects using high-resolution research tomograph-PET. The FDG uptake was compared among the groups and correlated with the Mini Mental Status Examination (MMSE) score. The MCI patients showed significantly higher FDG uptake in the basal forebrain than the healthy subjects and the AD patients, and those did not developed dementia after 2 years showed even higher uptake than those developed dementia. The basal forebrain metabolism showed an inverted-U relationship with MMSE score in highly educated subjects, and cross-voxel analysis over the whole brain in MCI patients revealed a significant correlation in uptake between the basal forebrain and the fronto-temporal cortices. These findings indicate that in MCI patients, neuronal activity in the basal forebrain is initially increased over that in normal aging and then decreased only with further cognitive decline. The increase is consistent with a secondary compensation against neurodegeneration at target areas, and may provide brain reserve against functional impairments at incipient stages of dementia."}
{"id": "22898692", "title": "Radiomics: the process and the challenges.", "content": "Radiomics: the process and the challenges. \"Radiomics\" refers to the extraction and analysis of large amounts of advanced quantitative imaging features with high throughput from medical images obtained with computed tomography, positron emission tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. Importantly, these data are designed to be extracted from standard-of-care images, leading to a very large potential subject pool. Radiomics data are in a mineable form that can be used to build descriptive and predictive models relating image features to phenotypes or gene-protein signatures. The core hypothesis of radiomics is that these models, which can include biological or medical data, can provide valuable diagnostic, prognostic or predictive information. The radiomics enterprise can be divided into distinct processes, each with its own challenges that need to be overcome: (a) image acquisition and reconstruction, (b) image segmentation and rendering, (c) feature extraction and feature qualification and (d) databases and data sharing for eventual (e) ad hoc informatics analyses. Each of these individual processes poses unique challenges. For example, optimum protocols for image acquisition and reconstruction have to be identified and harmonized. Also, segmentations have to be robust and involve minimal operator input. Features have to be generated that robustly reflect the complexity of the individual volumes, but cannot be overly complex or redundant. Furthermore, informatics databases that allow incorporation of image features and image annotations, along with medical and genetic data, have to be generated. Finally, the statistical approaches to analyze these data have to be optimized, as radiomics is not a mature field of study. Each of these processes will be discussed in turn, as well as some of their unique challenges and proposed approaches to solve them. The focus of this article will be on images of non-small-cell lung cancer."}
{"id": "22895582", "title": "Apathy in patients with Parkinson disease without dementia or depression: a PET study.", "content": "Apathy in patients with Parkinson disease without dementia or depression: a PET study. We sought to identify apathy metabolic bases in Parkinson disease (PD). A total of 45 patients with PD who were not clinically depressed (Montgomery-\u00c5sberg Depression Rating Scale [MADRS] <21) and had no dementia (Mattis Dementia Rating Scale [MDRS] >130) were assessed with the Apathy Evaluation Scale (AES) and underwent a resting-state F-18 fluorodeoxyglucose PET (FDG-PET) scan. A motor assessment comprising the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale Part III (UPDRS-III) was conducted and total levodopa equivalent daily dose (LEDD) was calculated. Imaging data were analyzed with statistical parametric mapping. Age, LEDD, and MDRS scores were introduced as covariates. Positive correlations were observed between the AES score and cerebral metabolism in the right inferior frontal gyrus (Brodmann area [BA] 47), right middle frontal gyrus (BA 10), right cuneus (BA 18), and right anterior insula (BA 13). Negative correlations were observed between the AES score and cerebellar metabolism in the semilunar lobules bilaterally, within the posterior lobe. Using an AES score equal to or above 42 to define clinical apathy, prevalence in our patient group was 17.8%. The AES score was negatively correlated with the MDRS score and positively correlated with the \"retardation\" subscore of the MADRS. It was not correlated with either UPDRS III or LEDD. Results indicate that the frontal, temporal, and cerebellar areas known to be involved in reward, emotion, and cognition are also implicated in apathy in patients with PD without dementia or depression. Their roles in the etiopathology of apathy are discussed."}
{"id": "22893421", "title": "[Imaging findings in autosomal-dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) - CADASIL - the most frequent familial stroke syndrome].", "content": "[Imaging findings in autosomal-dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) - CADASIL - the most frequent familial stroke syndrome]."}
{"id": "22892349", "title": "Increased binding of peripheral benzodiazepine receptor in mild cognitive impairment-dementia converters measured by positron emission tomography with [\u00b9\u00b9C]DAA1106.", "content": "Increased binding of peripheral benzodiazepine receptor in mild cognitive impairment-dementia converters measured by positron emission tomography with [\u00b9\u00b9C]DAA1106. Subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) have \"prodromal or incipient\" dementia with neuropathological changes. Peripheral benzodiazepine receptor (PBR) binding was shown to reflect activated microglia, one of the predictive biomarkers of conversion to dementia. We sought to evaluate PBR binding in MCI subjects using positron emission tomography (PET). PET scans with [\u00b9\u00b9C]DAA1106, a potent and selective ligand for PBR, were performed on seven MCI subjects, 10 patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 10 age-matched control subjects. PBR binding in the regions of interest was quantified by binding potential (BP). Five MCI subjects were clinically followed for 5 years after their initial PET scans. [\u00b9\u00b9C]DAA1106 binding to PBR was significantly increased in widespread areas in MCI subjects when compared to healthy controls. We found no significant difference in BP between MCI and AD patients. MCI subjects with [\u00b9\u00b9C]DAA1106 binding values higher than the control mean +0.5 standard deviation (S.D.) developed dementia within 5 years. Our finding of higher DAA binding in MCI subjects indicated that microglial activation may occur before the onset of dementia. In vivo detection of microglial activation may provide useful prognostic information with respect to stratifying MCI subjects at increased risk of dementia."}
{"id": "22889797", "title": "A frontotemporal dementia-like syndrome mimicking postpartum depression detected by 18F fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography.", "content": "A frontotemporal dementia-like syndrome mimicking postpartum depression detected by 18F fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography. FDG (fluorodeoxyglucose) PET (positron emission tomography) is a useful tool in the clinical workup of patients being evaluated for dementing illnesses. It is particularly effective at differentiating primary neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer disease from alternative considerations including frontotemporal dementia. We present the case of a patient with peripartum antibody-mediated voltage-gated potassium channel encephalitis whose FDG PET findings were suggestive of frontotemporal dementia-like disorder. Voltage-gated potassium channel antibody-mediated encephalitis is an increasingly described clinical phenomenon whose presentation may mimic primary neurodegenerative diseases."}
{"id": "22889795", "title": "Two different 18F-FDG brain PET metabolic patterns in autoimmune limbic encephalitis.", "content": "Two different 18F-FDG brain PET metabolic patterns in autoimmune limbic encephalitis. Autoimmune limbic encephalitis (ALE) is a severe, but treatable, neuropsychiatric disorder that is difficult to diagnose clinically. With the goal of improving diagnosis of this disorder, we retrospectively evaluated the cerebral FDG PET pattern in a group of patients with ALE. Nine adult patients with subacute cognitive decline were eventually diagnosed with ALE based on clinical presentation, cerebrospinal fluid inflammatory markers, and response to immunosuppressive therapy. All patients received FDG PET brain scanning during their diagnostic evaluation, which were retrospectively reviewed for this study. Our patients' scans fell into 2 readily separable patterns. Five younger patients had a mixed metabolic pattern most easily recognized by pronounced occipital hypometabolism, accentuated by hypermetabolism in the temporal and orbitofrontal cortex. Other, milder findings were also present. Once this unusual pattern was established as corresponding to ALE, it helped lead to the correct clinical diagnosis in the last 2 patients. Four older patients had scans that closely resembled diffuse neurodegenerative disease. We found 2 different PET scan patterns in patients with ALE. One is an easily recognizable mixture of hyper- and hypometabolism that has also been described in a few recent case reports and is potentially specific for ALE. The other is indistinguishable from neurodegenerative disease. We propose that awareness of these patterns may contribute to the diagnosis of this elusive, but treatable, neurologic disorder."}
{"id": "22878982", "title": "Progressive neuropsychiatric and brain abnormalities after smoke inhalation.", "content": "Progressive neuropsychiatric and brain abnormalities after smoke inhalation. A 46-year-old man inhaled combustible smoke of unknown chemical composition for 15-20 min in an automobile body shop. Within 1&emsp14;month, he noted headache, sadness, anergia, anhedonia, agitation, poor sleep and impairment of concentration, attention and learning skills. Three years later, mental status examination showed major depression and cognitive disorder manifested by apprehension, continuous sadness, agitation, exhaustion, difficulty with word finding, bradyphrenia, short-term and long-term memory impairment, and judgement impaired by impulsive and affect-laden reactions without reflection. Impairments were noted on neuropsychiatric tests, and positron emission tomography (PET) scan of the brain with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose showed globally decreased and heterogeneous metabolic activity in the entire brain. Treatment included sertraline, methylphenidate, valproic acid and topiramate. At 14 years after smoke inhalation injury, he had persistent cognitive impairment. Repeat brain PET scan showed areas of improvement and deterioration. This case shows long-term brain and psychiatric dysfunction resulting after toxic smoke inhalation, with some areas of the brain having progressive deterioration between years 3 and 14 after smoke inhalation."}
{"id": "22874668", "title": "Generation of a novel murine model of A\u03b2 deposition based on the expression of human wild-type amyloid precursor protein gene.", "content": "Generation of a novel murine model of A\u03b2 deposition based on the expression of human wild-type amyloid precursor protein gene. Mouse models of Alzheimer disease (AD) have been generated based on Amyloid-\u03b2 Precursor Protein (A\u03b2PP) and the Presenilin (PSEN) gene mutations associated with familial AD (FAD). Such models have provided valuable insights into AD pathogenesis and represent an important research tool for the discovery of potential treatments. To model amyloid deposition in AD, we generated a new mouse line based on the presence of two copies of the genomic region encoding human wild-type A\u03b2PP as well as a mutation (L166P) in the murine Psen1. By ~6 months of age, these mice have begun to develop cerebral A\u03b2 pathology with a significant increase in the levels of A\u03b2PP C-terminal fragments and A\u03b242, as well as increase A\u03b242/A\u03b240 ratio. Since in the brain and other tissues of these mice, wild-type human A\u03b2PP mRNA and protein levels are comparable to those of endogenous A\u03b2PP, this model may allow studies about the role of A\u03b2PP isoforms in the pathogenesis of AD. This animal model may be suitable to test drugs aimed at inhibiting expression or altering splicing and processing of A\u03b2PP, without artifacts associated with the presence of mutations in A\u03b2PP or overexpression due to the use of exogenous promoters. These features of the new model are of critical importance in assessing the success of therapeutic interventions."}
{"id": "22872307", "title": "Posterior parietooccipital hypometabolism may differentiate mild cognitive impairment from dementia in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Posterior parietooccipital hypometabolism may differentiate mild cognitive impairment from dementia in Parkinson's disease. Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) may have normal cognition, mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or dementia. We investigated differences in cerebral metabolism associated with these three cognitive states and the relationship between metabolism and cognitive dysfunction. FDG PET and a battery of neuropsychological tests were used to study PD patients with dementia (n = 19), MCI (n = 28) and normal cognition (n = 21), and control subjects (n = 20). Regional glucose metabolism in patients and controls was analysed using statistical parametric mapping (SPM8) corrected for age, motor severity and depression. Correlations between the mini-mental state examination score and Z-score values of the different cognitive domains with respect to cerebral FDG uptake were assessed using SPM8. PD patients with MCI (PD-MCI patients) exhibited decreased FDG uptake in the frontal lobe, and to a lesser extent in parietal areas compared with cognitively normal patients. Patients with dementia showed reduced metabolism in the parietal, occipital and temporal areas and a less extensive reduction in the frontal lobe compared with PD-MCI patients, while widespread hypometabolism was seen in comparison with patients with normal cognition. PD-MCI patients exhibited reduced FDG uptake in the parietal and occipital lobes and in localized areas of the frontal and temporal lobes compared with controls, whereas patients with dementia showed a widespread reduction of cortical metabolism. Mini-mental state examination score correlated positively with metabolism in several lobes, executive function with metabolism in the parietooccipitotemporal junction and frontal lobe, memory with temporoparietal metabolism, visuospatial function with occipitoparietal and temporal metabolism, and language with frontal metabolism. PD patients with MCI exhibited hypometabolism in several cortical regions compared with controls, and in the frontal and parietal regions compared with cognitively normal patients. Hypometabolism was higher in patients with dementia than in those with MCI, mainly in the posterior cortical areas where it was correlated with visuospatial, memory and executive functions."}
{"id": "22871906", "title": "Nonamnestic presentations of early-onset Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Nonamnestic presentations of early-onset Alzheimer's disease. Early-onset Alzheimer's disease (EOAD) beginning before the age of 65 may differ from late-onset AD (LOAD) in clinical course and frequency of nonamnestic presentations. In a 10-year retrospective review, 125 patients with EOAD, diagnosed clinically and verified by functional neuroimaging, were compared with 56 patients with LOAD and further classified depending on predominant cognitive difficulty on presentation. Eighty (64%) of the patients with EOAD had a nonamnestic presentation, compared with only 7 (12.5%) of the patients with LOAD. Compared with LOAD, the patients with EOAD had a shorter duration with lower Mini-Mental State Examination scores. The neuroimaging reports among the patients with EOAD showed more hippocampal atrophy with an amnestic presentation, more left parietal changes with impaired language presentations, and more right parietal and occipital changes with impaired visuospatial presentations. These findings indicate that EOAD differs from LOAD in a more aggressive course and in having predominantly nonamnestic presentations that vary in neuropathological location."}
{"id": "22868714", "title": "Thioflavin-S staining coupled to flow cytometry. A screening tool to detect in vivo protein aggregation.", "content": "Thioflavin-S staining coupled to flow cytometry. A screening tool to detect in vivo protein aggregation. Amyloid deposits are associated with an increasing number of human disorders, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. Recent studies provide compelling evidence for the existence of amyloid-like conformations in the insoluble bacterial inclusion bodies (IBs) produced during the recombinant expression of amyloidogenic proteins. This makes prokaryotic cells a physiologically relevant system to study the mechanisms of in vivo amyloid deposition. We show here that the application of flow cytometry to detect Thioflavin-S (Th-S) fluorescence provides a fast, robust, quantitative, non-invasive method to screen for the presence of in vivo intracellular amyloid-like aggregates in bacteria, with potential application in the analysis of the impact of genetic mutations or chemical compounds on the aggregation of disease-associated polypeptides."}
{"id": "22868352", "title": "Cognitive decline and amyloid accumulation in patients with mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Cognitive decline and amyloid accumulation in patients with mild cognitive impairment. The relationship between baseline (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B ((11)C-PIB) uptake and cognitive decline during a 2-year follow-up was studied in 9 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) who converted to Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 7 who remained with MCI. (11)C-PIB PET scan was conducted at baseline and cognitive assessment both at baseline and at follow-up. To obtain quantitative regional values of (11)C-PIB uptake, automated region of interest analysis was done using spatially normalized parametric ratio (region-to-cerebellar cortex) images. At baseline, there were statistically significant differences in (11)C-PIB uptake, but not in cognitive test performances between the converters and nonconverters. Memory and executive function declined only in the converters during follow-up. In the converters, lower baseline frontal (11)C-PIB uptake was associated with faster decline in verbal learning. Higher baseline uptake in the caudate nucleus was related to faster decline in memory consolidation, and higher temporal uptake was associated with decline in executive function. Higher (11)C-PIB uptake in the caudate nucleus and temporal lobe was related to decline in memory and executive functions, whereas lower frontal uptake was related to decline in verbal learning. The results indicate that in prodromal AD, frontal amyloid accumulation reaches its maximum in the MCI stage, characterized by memory problems without full-blown dementia."}
{"id": "22864813", "title": "Correspondence between in vivo (11)C-PiB-PET amyloid imaging and postmortem, region-matched assessment of plaques.", "content": "Correspondence between in vivo (11)C-PiB-PET amyloid imaging and postmortem, region-matched assessment of plaques. The definitive Alzheimer's disease (AD) diagnosis requires postmortem confirmation of neuropathological hallmarks-amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs). The advent of radiotracers for amyloid imaging presents an opportunity to investigate amyloid deposition in vivo. The (11)C-Pittsburgh compound-B (PiB)-PET ligand remains the most widely studied to date; however, regional variations in (11)C-PiB binding and the extent of agreement with neuropathological assessment have not been thoroughly investigated. Sojkova and colleagues [35] reported variable agreement between CERAD-based neuropathologic diagnosis of AD lesions and mean cortical PiB, suggesting the need for a more direct quantification of regional A\u03b2 in relation to in vivo imaging. In the present study, we extend these findings by examining the correspondence among regional (11)C-PiB load, region-matched quantitative immunohistological assessments of A\u03b2 and NFTs, and brain atrophy (MRI) in six older Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging participants who came to autopsy (imaging-autopsy interval range 0.2-2.4\u00a0years). The total number of A\u03b2 plaques (6E10) and NFTs (PHF1) in paraffin sections from hippocampus, orbito-frontal cortex, anterior and posterior cingulate gyrus, precuneus and cerebellum was quantified using a technique guided by unbiased stereological principles. We report a general agreement between the regional measures of amyloid obtained via stereological assessment and imaging, with significant relationships evident for the anterior (r\u00a0=\u00a00.83; p\u00a0=\u00a00.04) and posterior (r\u00a0=\u00a00.94; p\u00a0=\u00a00.005) cingulate gyri, and the precuneus (r\u00a0=\u00a00.94; p\u00a0=\u00a00.005). No associations were observed between (11)C-PiB load and NFT count for any of the regions examined (p\u00a0>\u00a00.2 in all regions), or between regional A\u03b2 or NFT counts and corresponding brain volumes. The strong associations of PiB retention with region-matched, quantitative analyses of A\u03b2 in postmortem tissue offer support for the validity of (11)C-PiB-PET imaging as a method for evaluation of plaque burden in vivo."}
{"id": "22849649", "title": "Effective diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease by means of large margin-based methodology.", "content": "Effective diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease by means of large margin-based methodology. Functional brain images such as Single-Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT) and Positron Emission Tomography (PET) have been widely used to guide the clinicians in the Alzheimer's Disease (AD) diagnosis. However, the subjectivity involved in their evaluation has favoured the development of Computer Aided Diagnosis (CAD) Systems. It is proposed a novel combination of feature extraction techniques to improve the diagnosis of AD. Firstly, Regions of Interest (ROIs) are selected by means of a t-test carried out on 3D Normalised Mean Square Error (NMSE) features restricted to be located within a predefined brain activation mask. In order to address the small sample-size problem, the dimension of the feature space was further reduced by: Large Margin Nearest Neighbours using a rectangular matrix (LMNN-RECT), Principal Component Analysis (PCA) or Partial Least Squares (PLS) (the two latter also analysed with a LMNN transformation). Regarding the classifiers, kernel Support Vector Machines (SVMs) and LMNN using Euclidean, Mahalanobis and Energy-based metrics were compared. Several experiments were conducted in order to evaluate the proposed LMNN-based feature extraction algorithms and its benefits as: i) linear transformation of the PLS or PCA reduced data, ii) feature reduction technique, and iii) classifier (with Euclidean, Mahalanobis or Energy-based methodology). The system was evaluated by means of k-fold cross-validation yielding accuracy, sensitivity and specificity values of 92.78%, 91.07% and 95.12% (for SPECT) and 90.67%, 88% and 93.33% (for PET), respectively, when a NMSE-PLS-LMNN feature extraction method was used in combination with a SVM classifier, thus outperforming recently reported baseline methods. All the proposed methods turned out to be a valid solution for the presented problem. One of the advances is the robustness of the LMNN algorithm that not only provides higher separation rate between the classes but it also makes (in combination with NMSE and PLS) this rate variation more stable. In addition, their generalization ability is another advance since several experiments were performed on two image modalities (SPECT and PET)."}
{"id": "22844733", "title": "[Biological markers in the diagnosis of dementia and Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Biological markers in the diagnosis of dementia and Alzheimer's disease]. Alzheimer's disease is the leading cause of dementia in advanced age with a prevalence of above 40% among persons 80 years or older. In recent years, new studies have made some important discoveries regarding the pathogenesis of the diseases and potential therapeutic measures. These developments have led to the announcement of new guidelines for the diagnosis of the disease published by the National Institute on Aging and the ALzheimer's Association. These guidelines expand the definition of ALzheimer's disease to include 2 new phases of the disease: pre-symptomatic and mildly symptomatic but pre-dementia. For the first time, the guidelines also incorporated the usage of biological markers to assist in the diagnosis of the disease, although they are still only in the research agenda. These biomarkers include atrophy of the medial temporal lobe by MRI, reduction of glucose metabolism in specific brain areas by PET-FDG and presence of beta-amyloid staining in the brain by PET-amyloid scan. In addition, there are also cerebrospinal fluid ICSF) biomarkers characteristic of Alzheimer's disease, which consist of low levels of Abeta42 and elevated levels of total and phosphorylated TAU. These biomarkers may be used to diagnose the disease in the early pre-symptomatic phase, to differentiate Alzheimer's disease from other causes of dementia and may be helpful in the follow-up of newly developed specific treatments."}
{"id": "22843412", "title": "The neurobiology of glucocerebrosidase-associated parkinsonism: a positron emission tomography study of dopamine synthesis and regional cerebral blood flow.", "content": "The neurobiology of glucocerebrosidase-associated parkinsonism: a positron emission tomography study of dopamine synthesis and regional cerebral blood flow. Mutations in GBA, the gene encoding glucocerebrosidase, the enzyme deficient in Gaucher disease, are common risk factors for Parkinson disease, as patients with Parkinson disease are over five times more likely to carry GBA mutations than healthy controls. Patients with GBA mutations generally have an earlier onset of Parkinson disease and more cognitive impairment than those without GBA mutations. We investigated whether GBA mutations alter the neurobiology of Parkinson disease, studying brain dopamine synthesis and resting regional cerebral blood flow in 107 subjects (38 women, 69 men). We measured dopamine synthesis with (18)F-fluorodopa positron emission tomography, and resting regional cerebral blood flow with H(2)(15)O positron emission tomography in the wakeful, resting state in four study groups: (i) patients with Parkinson disease and Gaucher disease (n = 7, average age = 56.6 \u00b1 9.2 years); (ii) patients with Parkinson disease without GBA mutations (n = 11, 62.1 \u00b1 7.1 years); (iii) patients with Gaucher disease without parkinsonism, but with a family history of Parkinson disease (n = 14, 52.6 \u00b1 12.4 years); and (iv) healthy GBA-mutation carriers with a family history of Parkinson disease (n = 7, 50.1 \u00b1 18 years). We compared each study group with a matched control group. Data were analysed with region of interest and voxel-based methods. Disease duration and Parkinson disease functional and staging scores were similar in the two groups with parkinsonism, as was striatal dopamine synthesis: both had greatest loss in the caudal striatum (putamen Ki loss: 44 and 42%, respectively), with less reduction in the caudate (20 and 18% loss). However, the group with both Parkinson and Gaucher diseases showed decreased resting regional cerebral blood flow in the lateral parieto-occipital association cortex and precuneus bilaterally. Furthermore, two subjects with Gaucher disease without parkinsonian manifestations showed diminished striatal dopamine. In conclusion, the pattern of dopamine loss in patients with both Parkinson and Gaucher disease was similar to sporadic Parkinson disease, indicating comparable damage in midbrain neurons. However, H(2)(15)O positron emission tomography studies indicated that these subjects have decreased resting activity in a pattern characteristic of diffuse Lewy body disease. These findings provide insight into the pathophysiology of GBA-associated parkinsonism."}
{"id": "22842466", "title": "Formation of spherulitic amyloid \u03b2 aggregate by anionic liposomes.", "content": "Formation of spherulitic amyloid \u03b2 aggregate by anionic liposomes. Alzheimer's disease is the most common form of senile dementia. This neurodegenerative disorder is characterized by an amyloid deposition in senile plaques, composed primarily of fibrils of an aggregated peptide, amyloid \u03b2 (A\u03b2). The modeling of a senile plaque formation on a model neuronal membrane under the physiological condition is an attractive issue. In this study, we used anionic liposomes to model the senile plaque formation by A\u03b2. The growth behavior of amyloid A\u03b2 fibrils was directly observed, revealing that the induction of the spherulitic A\u03b2 aggregates could result from the growth of seeds in the presence of anionic liposomes. The seeds of A\u03b2 fibrils strongly interacted with negatively charged liposome and the subsequent association of the seeds were induced to form the seed cluster with many growth ends, which is advantageous for the formation of spherulitic A\u03b2 aggregates. Therefore, anionic liposomes mediated not only fibril growth but also the aggregation process. These results imply that anionic liposome membranes would affect the aggregate form of A\u03b2 fibrils. The modeling of senile plaque reported here is considered to have great potential for study on the amyloidosis."}
{"id": "22840744", "title": "Using Pittsburgh Compound B for in vivo PET imaging of fibrillar amyloid-beta.", "content": "Using Pittsburgh Compound B for in vivo PET imaging of fibrillar amyloid-beta. The development of A\u03b2-PET imaging agents has allowed for detection of fibrillar A\u03b2 deposition in\u00a0vivo and marks a major advancement in understanding the role of A\u03b2 in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Imaging A\u03b2 thus has many potential clinical benefits: early or perhaps preclinical detection of disease and accurately distinguishing AD from dementias of other non-A\u03b2 causes in patients presenting with mild or atypical symptoms or confounding comorbidities (in which the distinction is difficult to make clinically). From a research perspective, imaging A\u03b2 allows us to study relationships between amyloid pathology and changes in cognition, brain structure, and function across the continuum from normal aging to mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to AD; and to monitor the effectiveness of anti-A\u03b2 drugs and relate them to neurodegeneration and clinical symptoms. Here, we will discuss the application of one of the most broadly studied and widely used A\u03b2 imaging agents, Pittsburgh Compound-B (PiB)."}
{"id": "22836176", "title": "Serotonin-1A receptor binding is positively associated with gray matter volume -- a multimodal neuroimaging study combining PET and structural MRI.", "content": "Serotonin-1A receptor binding is positively associated with gray matter volume -- a multimodal neuroimaging study combining PET and structural MRI. Animal models revealed that the serotonin-1A (5-HT(1A)) receptor modulates gray matter structure. However, there is a lack of evidence showing the relationship between 5-HT(1A) receptor concentration and gray matter in the human brain in vivo. Here, to demonstrate an association between the 5-HT(1A) receptor binding potential, an index for receptor concentration, and the local gray matter volume (GMV), an index for gray matter structure, we measured 35 healthy subjects with both positron emission tomography (PET) and structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). We found that regional heteroreceptor binding was positively associated with GMV in distinctive brain regions such as the hippocampi and the temporal cortices in both hemispheres (R(2) values ranged from 0.308 to 0.503, p<0.05 cluster-level FDR-corrected). Furthermore, autoreceptor binding in the midbrain raphe region was positively associated with GMV in forebrain projection sites (R(2)=0.656, p=0.001). We also observed a broad range between 5-HT(1A) receptor binding and GMV. Given the congruence of altered 5-HT(1A) receptor concentrations and GMV reduction in depression or Alzheimer's disease as reported by numerous studies, these results might provide new insights towards understanding the mechanisms behind GMV alterations observed in these brain disorders."}
{"id": "22835812", "title": "Pre- and postsynaptic serotonergic differences in males with extreme levels of impulsive aggression without callous unemotional traits: a positron emission tomography study using (11)C-DASB and (11)C-MDL100907.", "content": "Pre- and postsynaptic serotonergic differences in males with extreme levels of impulsive aggression without callous unemotional traits: a positron emission tomography study using (11)C-DASB and (11)C-MDL100907. Impulsive aggression (IA) in adults is associated with brain serotonin (5-HT) system abnormalities and is more common following childhood adversity. Within aggressive behavior, IA and callous unemotional (CU) traits are core components of differentiable factors with opposing 5-HT abnormalities. We aimed to investigate 5-HT abnormalities in IA and potential correlations with severity of childhood adversity while controlling for confounding 5-HT effects of high CU traits and mental disorders. Healthy male subjects (mean age 34 \u00b1 9 years) without high CU traits were recruited with IA ratings in the high (n = 14) and low (n = 13) population extremes. Serotonin transporter (SERT) and 5-HT(2A) receptor availability was measured in multiple brain regions using positron emission tomography with (11)C-DASB and (11)C-MDL100907, respectively, and compared between high-IA and low-IA groups. Correlations were measured between SERT and 5-HT(2A) receptor availability, impulsivity and aggression, and childhood adversity. Compared with the low-IA group, SERT were significantly higher in brainstem regions in the high-IA group (by 29.0% \u00b1 11.4%) and modestly lower across cortical regions (by 11.1% \u00b1 6.0%), whereas 5-HT(2A) receptors were also modestly lower (by 8.6% \u00b1 4.0%). Across all subjects, brainstem SERT were significantly positively correlated with impulsivity, aggression, and childhood trauma ratings. Within the high-IA group, higher brainstem SERT was most strongly predicted by severity of childhood trauma (r = .76 in midbrain). Pre-and postsynaptic 5-HT differences are present in men with high levels of IA and are strongly suggestive of a persisting effect of childhood adversity on serotonergic neurodevelopment and emotional-behavioral control."}
{"id": "22833145", "title": "Direct, nucleophilic radiosynthesis of [18F]trifluoroalkyl tosylates: improved labelling procedures.", "content": "Direct, nucleophilic radiosynthesis of [18F]trifluoroalkyl tosylates: improved labelling procedures. A rapid and efficient protocol to afford the title compound 2-[(18)F]-fluoro-2,2-difluoroethyl tosylate ([(18)F]7b) is described. Starting from [(18)F]fluoride ion, labelling reagent 7b was obtained in good yields and a high specific radioactivity. Compound ([(18)F]7b) was then used to synthesise a prospective radiotracer for PET-imaging in dementia."}
{"id": "22832730", "title": "Elevated body mass in National Football League players linked to cognitive impairment and decreased prefrontal cortex and temporal pole activity.", "content": "Elevated body mass in National Football League players linked to cognitive impairment and decreased prefrontal cortex and temporal pole activity. Obesity is a risk factor for neurodegenerative disease and has been shown to adversely affect cognitive function. Professional athletes who participate in sports, which expose them to repetitive concussions, may be at heightened risk for cognitive impairment. Here, we investigated the effects of body mass as measured by waist-to-height ratio (WHtR) on regional cerebral blood flow using single-photon emission computed tomography imaging in 38 healthy weight (WHtR mean 49.34 \u00b1 2.8; age 58 \u00b1 9.6) and 38 overweight (WHtR mean 58.7 \u00b1 4.7; age 58 \u00b1 13.3) retired National Football League football players. After matching for age and position, we used a two sample t-test to determine the differences in blood flow in healthy versus overweight subjects. Statistical parametric mapping revealed a higher WHtR ratio is associated with decreased blood flow in Brodmann areas 8, 9 and 10, brain regions involved in attention, reasoning and executive function (P<0.05, family-wise error) along with deficits in the temporal pole. Moreover, overweight athletes had significant decrease in attention (P = 0.01326), general cognitive proficiency (P = 0.012; Microcog: Assessment of Cognitive Functioning) and memory (P=0.005; Mild Cognitive Impairment Screen). The association between elevated WHtR percentage and decreased blood flow in the prefrontal cortex and temporal pole may be correlated with the decreased performance on tests of attention and memory. These findings suggest that a weight management program may be critical to the health of athletes who have been exposed to mild brain trauma during their careers."}
{"id": "22832319", "title": "Synthesis and biological evaluation of novel oxindole derivatives for imaging neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Synthesis and biological evaluation of novel oxindole derivatives for imaging neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease. This letter describes the synthesis and biological evaluation of a novel series of radioiodinated oxindole (OI) derivatives for detecting neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). In binding experiments in vitro, 2-oxindole (2-OI) and 3-oxindole (3-OI) derivatives showed affinity for tau aggregates. The 3-OI derivative 14 showed the highest affinity of these derivatives. In biodistribution experiments using normal mice, the OI derivatives displayed good uptake (2.4-2.5%ID/g at 2 min) and clearance from the brain with time (0.6-1.4%ID/g at 30 min). In fluorescence staining experiments using AD brain sections, 14 clearly stained NFTs. 3-OI may serve as a new molecular scaffold for developing novel NFT imaging agents."}
{"id": "22832236", "title": "Cholinergic deficit and response to donepezil therapy in Parkinson's disease with dementia.", "content": "Cholinergic deficit and response to donepezil therapy in Parkinson's disease with dementia. Although donepezil, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, has been proved to be effective in ameliorating cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease with dementia (PDD), the responsiveness of patients to donepezil therapy varies. [5-(11)C-methoxy]donepezil, the radiolabeled form of donepezil, is a ligand for positron emission tomography (PET), which can be exploited for the quantitative analysis of donepezil binding to acetylcholinesterase and for cholinergic imaging. To investigate the deficits of the cholinergic system in the brain in PDD and its association with response to donepezil therapy. Twelve patients with PDD and 13 normal control subjects underwent [5-(11)C-methoxy]donepezil-PET imaging. For patients with PDD, daily administration of donepezil was started after [5-(11)C-methoxy]donepezil-PET imaging and continued for 3 months. In the PDD group, the mean total distribution volume of the cerebral cortices was 22.7% lower than that of the normal control group. The mean total distribution volume of the patients with PDD was significantly correlated with improvement of visuoperceptual function after 3 months of donepezil therapy. The results suggest that donepezil therapy is more effective in patients with less decrease in acetylcholinesterase, a binding site of donepezil, at least in the specific cognitive domain."}
{"id": "22814208", "title": "Impact of beta-amyloid-specific florbetaben PET imaging on confidence in early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Impact of beta-amyloid-specific florbetaben PET imaging on confidence in early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. Early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) may be corroborated by imaging of beta-amyloid plaques using positron emission tomography (PET). Here, we performed an add-on questionnaire study to evaluate the relevance of florbetaben imaging (BAY 949172) in diagnosis and consecutive management of probable AD patients. AD patients with a clinical diagnosis in accordance with the NINCDS-ADRDA criteria or controls were imaged using florbetaben. Referring physicians were asked on a voluntary basis about their confidence in initial diagnosis, significance of PET imaging results, and their anticipated consequences for future patient care. 121 questionnaires for probable AD patients and 80 questionnaires for controls were evaluated. In 18% of patients who had initially received the diagnosis of probable AD, PET scans were rated negative, whereas in controls 18% of scans were positive. An increase in confidence in the initial diagnosis was frequently reported (80%). Imaging results had a significant impact on the intended patient care, as judged by the referring physicians; this was most prominent in those patients with a contradicting scan and/or a low confidence in the initial diagnosis. Florbetaben amyloid imaging increases the overall confidence in diagnosis of AD and may frequently influence clinical decisions and patient management."}
{"id": "22812018", "title": "[Synthesis of benzothiazole derivatives and their binding characteristics with beta-amyloid].", "content": "[Synthesis of benzothiazole derivatives and their binding characteristics with beta-amyloid]. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease endangering human health seriously. Recent reports have revealed that beta-amyloid aggregates play a key role in the pathogenesis of AD. Thus, targeting the Abeta plaques benzothiazole derivatives were synthesized with the scaffold of the most promising imaging agent PIB ([11C]-6-OH-BTA-1, [11C]-2-(4-(methylamino)phenyl)-6-hydroxybenzothiazole) and C = N as linker to study the binding characteristics with the target protein through surface plasmon resonance (SPR) technique. These derivatives were synthesized through simple yet effective method with high yields and characterized by 1H NMR and FTIR. The binding properties (K(D)) were determined with Biacore X-100 instrument according to the fitting-plot curve. Compounds 3a and 3f showed high binding affinity for Abeta1-40. The results suggest that benzothiazole derivatives could be served as a scaffold to develop novel beta-amyloid imaging agents for the diagnosis of AD."}
{"id": "22811995", "title": "[An overview of biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[An overview of biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease]. Alzheimer's disease (AD), also called presenile dementia, is one of the most common neurodegenerative diseases in elderly people. The main pathological features of AD include senile plaques (SPs), neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and neuron loss. A biomarker is a characteristic that can be objectively measured and evaluated as an indicator of normal biological processes, pathogenic processes, or pharmacological responses to a therapeutic intervention. Class biomarkers of AD such as Abeta and phosphorylated tau have been widely used in clinical diagnosis of AD patients. Recently, novel technologies like proteomics, genomics, and imaging techniques have expanded the role of a biomarker from early diagnosis to monitoring the progression of diseases and evaluating the response to various treatments. In this article, we will review the progress of various biomarkers of AD."}
{"id": "22810436", "title": "Imaging and acetylcholinesterase inhibitor response in dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Imaging and acetylcholinesterase inhibitor response in dementia with Lewy bodies. Acetylcholinesterase inhibitors are commonly used to treat patients with dementia with Lewy bodies. Hippocampal atrophy on magnetic resonance imaging and amyloid-\u03b2 load on positron emission tomography are associated with the Alzheimer's disease-related pathology in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies. To date, few studies have investigated imaging markers that predict treatment response in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies. Our objective was to determine whether imaging markers of Alzheimer's disease-related pathology such as hippocampal volume, brain amyloid-\u03b2 load on (11)C Pittsburgh compound B positron emission tomography predict treatment response to acetylcholinesterase inhibitors in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies. We performed a retrospective analysis on consecutive treatment-naive patients with dementia with Lewy bodies (n\u2009=\u200954) from the Mayo Clinic Alzheimer's Disease Research Centre who subsequently received acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and underwent magnetic resonance imaging with hippocampal volumetry. Baseline and follow-up assessments were obtained with the Mattis Dementia Rating Scale. Subjects were divided into three groups (reliable improvement, stable or reliable decline) using Dementia Rating Scale reliable change indices determined previously. Associations between hippocampal volumes and treatment response were tested with analysis of covariance adjusting for baseline Dementia Rating Scale, age, gender, magnetic resonance field strength and Dementia Rating Scale interval. Seven subjects underwent (11)C Pittsburgh compound B imaging within 12 weeks of magnetic resonance imaging. Global cortical (11)C Pittsburgh compound B retention (scaled to cerebellar retention) was calculated in these patients. Using a conservative psychometric method of assessing treatment response, there were 12 patients with reliable decline, 29 stable cases and 13 patients with reliable improvement. The improvers had significantly larger hippocampi than those that declined (P\u2009=\u20090.02) and the stable (P\u2009=\u20090.04) group. An exploratory analysis demonstrated larger grey matter volumes in the temporal and parietal lobes in improvers compared with those who declined (P\u2009<\u20090.05). The two patients who had a positive (11)C Pittsburgh compound B positron emission tomography scan declined and those who had a negative (11)C Pittsburgh compound B positron emission tomography scan improved or were stable after treatment. Patients with dementia with Lewy bodies who do not have the imaging features of coexistent Alzheimer's disease-related pathology are more likely to cognitively improve with acetylcholinesterase inhibitor treatment."}
{"id": "22809738", "title": "Dysgraphia in Korean patients with Alzheimer's disease as a manifestation of bilateral hemispheric dysfunction.", "content": "Dysgraphia in Korean patients with Alzheimer's disease as a manifestation of bilateral hemispheric dysfunction. In writing, linguistic (i.e., spelling) and nonlinguistic (i.e., arranging strokes or letters) functions are processed by the left and right hemispheres, respectively. The configuration of Korean alphabet, 'Hangul' invokes nonlinguistic, visuospatial functions that other writing systems use less extensively. Patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) have bilateral involvement of temporoparietal-frontal areas that are responsible for processing language and visuospatial functions. The aim of this study was to examine the nature of Hangul writing dysfunction, which may be associated with bilateral hemispheric impairments in AD. A sample of 75 patients with AD and 20 healthy controls (HC) performed a Hangul writing task. Neuroimaging positron emission tomography (PET) data of 22 patients were utilized to measure the regional brain glucose metabolism associated with Hangul writing. The writing performance of the AD group was significantly reduced and different types of errors were observed as the disease got worse. Glucose hypometabolism correlated with Hangul writing impairment was located in the right occipitotemporal lobe and left temporoparietal lobe. The PET findings demonstrate that impairment in Hangul writing performance in Korean AD patients is closely related to a functional decline in both the right and left hemispheres. The study provides a unique contribution to the knowledge of dysgraphia in a non-alphabetical writing system as well as the underlying neuropathology of dysgraphic features in such languages."}
{"id": "22808022", "title": "Acute HCV/HIV coinfection is associated with cognitive dysfunction and cerebral metabolite disturbance, but not increased microglial cell activation.", "content": "Acute HCV/HIV coinfection is associated with cognitive dysfunction and cerebral metabolite disturbance, but not increased microglial cell activation. Microglial cell activation and cerebral function impairment are described in both chronic hepatitis C viral (HCV) and Human-Immune-Deficiency viral (HIV) infections. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of acute HCV infection upon cerebral function and microglial cell activation in HIV-infected individuals. A case-control study was conducted. Subjects with acute HCV and chronic HIV coinfection (aHCV) were compared to matched controls with chronic HIV monoinfection (HIVmono). aHCV was defined as a new positive plasma HCV RNA within 12 months of a negative RNA test. Subjects underwent neuro-cognitive testing (NCT), cerebral proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ((1)H-MRS) and positron emission tomography (PET) using a (11)C-radiolabeled ligand (PK11195), which is highly specific for translocator protein 18 kDA receptors on activated microglial cells. Differences between cases and controls were assessed using linear regression modelling. Twenty-four aHCV cases completed NCT and (1)H-MRS, 8 underwent PET. Of 57 HIVmono controls completing NCT, 12 underwent (1)H-MRS and 8 PET. Subjects with aHCV demonstrated on NCT, significantly poorer executive function (mean (SD) error rate 26.50(17.87) versus 19.09(8.12), p = 0.001) and on (1)H-MRS increased myo-inositol/creatine ratios (mI/Cr, a marker of cerebral inflammation) in the basal ganglia (ratio of 0.71(0.22) versus 0.55(0.23), p = 0.03), compared to subjects with HIVmono. On PET imaging, no difference in (11)C-PK11195 binding potential (BP) was observed between study groups (p>0.10 all cerebral locations), however lower BPs were associated with combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) use in the parietal (p = 0.01) and frontal (p = 0.03) cerebral locations. Poorer cognitive performance and disturbance of cerebral metabolites are observed in subjects with aHC,V compared to subjects with HIVmono. Higher (11)C-PK11195 BP was not observed in subjects with aHCV, but was observed in subjects not on cART."}
{"id": "22807560", "title": "Functional brain imaging of cognitive dysfunction in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Functional brain imaging of cognitive dysfunction in Parkinson's disease. Multiple factors are involved in the development of cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD) and related disorders. Notably, several underlying factors, such as monoaminergic dysfunction, Lewy body pathology, Alzheimer disease-like pathology and cerebrovascular disease are implied in the PD pathophysiology of cognitive impairment. The mesocortical dopaminergic system is associated with executive functions which are frequently affected in PD and are influenced by local levodopa concentration, dopamine metabolism and baseline performance status. The ventral striatum and frontal cortex are associated with impulse control disorders reported in PD patients treated with dopamine replacement therapy. Cholinergic impairment in PD plays a cardinal role in the development of dementia. Acetylcholinesterase positron emission tomography demonstrates that posterior brain areas are related to cognitive decline in PD patients. Amyloid radiotracer illustrates that patients with PD with severe cognitive impairment were prone to accompanied cortical amyloid deposition. Metabolism/perfusion change associated with cognitive impairment in PD, so-called PD related cognitive pattern, is characterised by reduced frontoparietal activity and is an effective way to differentiate and monitor cognitive function of individual PD patients. Cognitive impairment in PD cannot be explained by a single mechanism and is entangled by multiple factors. Imaging studies can unravel each pathological domain, further shed light on the interrelation between different pathomechanisms, not only in PD but also in other dementia related disorders, and thereby integrate its interpretation to apply to therapeutics in individual patients."}
{"id": "22805443", "title": "[Multi-center study of inter-scanner difference in brain positron emission tomography].", "content": "[Multi-center study of inter-scanner difference in brain positron emission tomography]. We showed scanner dependence of brain (18)F-FDG and (11)C-PiB images by using phantom examination with nine kinds of positron emission tomography (PET) scanners. We used two types of phantoms, cylindrical phantom with 15 cm inside diameter and three-dimensional (3D) brain phantom, and we set the body phantom on the bed to examine the effect of scatter and random coefficients from outside of the axial field of view (AFOV). Radioactivity and distance of the two phantoms were determined by a pilot study to obtain a condition similar to the clinical study. Axial uniformity was evaluated by circular region of interest (ROI) of 12 cm diameter, set in the center of the reconstruction image of the cylindrical phantom. As a result, the standardized uptake value (SUV) was lower than the true value in some scanners, and there was a scanner in which the axial uniformity was deteriorated by high radioactivity outside the AFOV. In the cylindrical phantom, the axial uniformity of the scanner was improved using the new dead-time correction method; however, it was not improved in the 3D brain phantom. Quality-controlled PET scanners are important to maintain constant levels for multicenter studies."}
{"id": "22796873", "title": "Enriching amnestic mild cognitive impairment populations for clinical trials: optimal combination of biomarkers to predict conversion to dementia.", "content": "Enriching amnestic mild cognitive impairment populations for clinical trials: optimal combination of biomarkers to predict conversion to dementia. The goal of this study was to identify the optimal combination of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers to predict conversion from amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI) to Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia within two years, for enriching clinical trial populations. Data from 63 subjects in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative aMCI cohort who had MRI and FDG-PET imaging along with CSF data at baseline and at least two years clinical follow-up were used. A Bayesian classification method was used to determine which combination of 31 variables (MRI, FDG-PET, CSF measurements, apolipoprotein E (ApoE) genotype, and cognitive scores) provided the most accurate prediction of aMCI to AD conversion. The cost and time trade-offs for the use of these biomarkers as inclusion criteria in clinical trials were evaluated. Using the combination of all biomarkers, ApoE genotype, and cognitive scores, we achieved an accuracy of 81% in predicting aMCI to AD conversion. With only ApoE genotype and cognitive scores, the prediction accuracy decreased to 62%. By comparing individual modalities, we found that MRI measures had the best predictive power (accuracy = 78%), followed by ApoE, FDG-PET, CSF, and the Alzheimer's disease assessment scale-cognitive subscale. The combination of biomarkers from different modalities, measuring complementary aspects of AD pathology, provided the most accurate prediction of aMCI to AD conversion within two years. This was predominantly driven by MRI measures, which emerged as the single most powerful modality. Overall, the combination of MRI, ApoE, and cognitive scores provided the best trade-off between cost and time compared with other biomarker combinations for patient recruitment in clinical trial."}
{"id": "22795494", "title": "Comparison of diffusion-weighted MRI with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography/CT and electroencephalography in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "Comparison of diffusion-weighted MRI with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography/CT and electroencephalography in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography/CT (18F-FDG PET/CT) scanning may be a useful tool for early diagnosis of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD), as it may reveal lowered cellular glucose transport and metabolism in the cortex, cerebellum and basal ganglia. The aim of the present study was to compare the findings from PET/CT, MRI and electroencephalography (EEG) for patients with sCJD, to explore whether typical sites or reliable patterns of regional metabolic change could be found and to evaluate the results of diagnostic imaging in the light of clinical symptomatology. Five patients with biopsy-confirmed sCJD and nine with probable sCJD (aged 36-68 years) were evaluated using PET/CT, diffusion-weighted (DW)-MRI and EEG. In 13 of the 14 patients (92.86%), PET/CT imaging detected extra regions with abnormalities in addition to the hyperintense areas shown with DW-MRI. Two patients with no abnormal DW-MRI findings in the basal ganglia had bilateral extrapyramidal signs accompanied by basal ganglia hypometabolism on PET. Eight patients (57.14%) had decreased FDG uptake in the thalamic nuclei on PET scans; however, DW-MRI did not identify corresponding hyperintense changes in the thalamic nuclei. In 11 patients (78.57%), DW-MRI revealed more regions with abnormalities than EEG, and 10 patients (71.43%) had DW-MRI abnormalities in the thalamic nuclei and basal ganglia that EEG was unable to detect. There was a high level of correspondence among the PET/CT, DW-MRI and EEG results, with PET revealing more abnormal regions than the other imaging modalities. In the absence of neuropathological findings, FDG-PET could improve the accuracy of sCJD diagnosis when combined with DW-MRI and EEG, particularly for differentiating sCJD from paraneoplastic syndromes. Our results suggest that PET/CT is able to detect sCJD at an earlier stage and with greater sensitivity than DW-MRI."}
{"id": "22791901", "title": "Amyloid imaging in Alzheimer's disease: comparison of florbetapir and Pittsburgh compound-B positron emission tomography.", "content": "Amyloid imaging in Alzheimer's disease: comparison of florbetapir and Pittsburgh compound-B positron emission tomography. Amyloid imaging provides in vivo detection of the fibrillar amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) plaques of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The positron emission tomography (PET) ligand, Pittsburgh Compound-B (PiB-C11), is the most well studied amyloid imaging agent, but the short half-life of carbon-11 limits its clinical viability. Florbetapir-F18 recently demonstrated in vivo correlation with postmortem A\u03b2 histopathology, but has not been directly compared with PiB-C11. Fourteen cognitively normal adults and 12 AD patients underwent PiB-C11 and florbetapir-F18 PET scans within a 28-day period. Both ligands displayed highly significant group discrimination and correlation of regional uptake. These data support the hypothesis that florbetapir-F18 provides comparable information with PiB-C11."}
{"id": "22789740", "title": "Normative database of the serotonergic system in healthy subjects using multi-tracer PET.", "content": "Normative database of the serotonergic system in healthy subjects using multi-tracer PET. The highly diverse serotonergic system with at least 16 different receptor subtypes is implicated in the pathophysiology of most neuropsychiatric disorders including affective and anxiety disorders, obsessive compulsive disorder, post-traumatic stress disorder, eating disorders, sleep disturbance, attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder, drug addiction, suicidal behavior, schizophrenia, Alzheimer, etc. Alterations of the interplay between various pre- and postsynaptic receptor subtypes might be involved in the pathogenesis of these disorders. However, there is a lack of comprehensive in vivo values using standardized procedures. In the current PET study we quantified 3 receptor subtypes, including the major inhibitory (5-HT(1A) and 5-HT(1B)) and excitatory (5-HT(2A)) receptors, and the transporter (5-HTT) in the brain of healthy human subjects to provide a database of standard values. PET scans were performed on 95 healthy subjects (age=28.0 \u00b1 6.9 years; 59% males) using the selective radioligands [carbonyl-(11)C]WAY-100635, [(11)C]P943, [(18)F]altanserin and [(11)C]DASB, respectively. A standard template in MNI stereotactic space served for region of interest delineation. This template follows two anatomical parcellation schemes: 1) Brodmann areas including 41 regions and 2) AAL (automated anatomical labeling) including 52 regions. Standard values (mean, SD, and range) for each receptor and region are presented. Mean cortical and subcortical binding potential (BP) values were in good agreement with previously published human in vivo and post-mortem data. By means of linear equations, PET binding potentials were translated to post-mortem binding (provided in pmol/g), yielding 5.89 pmol/g (5-HT(1A)), 23.5 pmol/g (5-HT(1B)), 31.44 pmol/g (5-HT(2A)), and 11.33 pmol/g (5-HTT) being equivalent to the BP of 1, respectively. Furthermore, we computed individual voxel-wise maps with BP values and generated average tracer-specific whole-brain binding maps. This knowledge might improve our interpretation of the alterations taking place in the serotonergic system during neuropsychiatric disorders."}
{"id": "22786597", "title": "Predicting sites of new hemorrhage with amyloid imaging in cerebral amyloid angiopathy.", "content": "Predicting sites of new hemorrhage with amyloid imaging in cerebral amyloid angiopathy. We aimed to determine whether amyloid imaging can help predict the location and number of future hemorrhages in cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). We performed a longitudinal cohort study of 11 patients with CAA without dementia who underwent serial brain MRIs after baseline amyloid imaging with Pittsburgh compound B (PiB). Mean distribution volume ratio (DVR) of PiB was determined at the sites of new micro/macrobleeds identified on follow-up MRI and compared with PiB retention at \"simulated\" hemorrhages, randomly placed in the same subjects using a probability distribution map of CAA-hemorrhage location. Mean PiB retention at the sites of observed new bleeds was also compared to that in shells concentrically surrounding the bleeds. Finally the association between number of incident bleeds and 3 regional amyloid measures were obtained. Nine of 11 subjects had at least one new microbleed on follow-up MRI (median 4, interquartile range [IQR] 1-9) and 2 had 5 new intracerebral hemorrhages. Mean DVR was greater at the sites of incident bleeds (1.34, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.23-1.46) than simulated lesions (1.14, 95% CI 1.07-1.22, p < 0.0001) in multivariable models. PiB retention decreased with increasing distance from sites of observed bleeds (p < 0.0001). Mean DVR in a superior frontal/parasagittal region of interest correlated independently with number of future hemorrhages after adjustment for relevant covariates (p = 0.003). Our results provide direct evidence that new CAA-related hemorrhages occur preferentially at sites of increased amyloid deposition and suggest that PiB-PET imaging may be a useful tool in prediction of incident hemorrhages in patients with CAA."}
{"id": "22785519", "title": "Amyloid imaging mismatch.", "content": "Amyloid imaging mismatch. An 82-year-old man with suspected systemic amyloidosis and complete atrioventricular block underwent vascular biopsy during his pacemaker implantation with pathology showing amyloid deposits. 99mTc-aprotinin SPECT revealed increased radiotracer uptake along the left ventricular wall, consistent with cardiac amyloidosis. 11C-PiB PET/CT performed for the evaluation of amyloid deposits in the brain showed findings suggestive of Alzheimer disease without abnormal radiotracer concentration in the myocardium to match the 99mTc-aprotinin SPECT findings. Dynamic PET images showed increased 11C-PiB concentration in the left ventricular myocardium at 2 minutes after injection, with subsequent tracer clearance by approximately 5 minutes, consistent with normal 11C-PiB biodistribution."}
{"id": "22785496", "title": "Visual assessment versus quantitative three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography for detection of mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Visual assessment versus quantitative three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography for detection of mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer disease. We examined the clinical impact of commercially available quantitation software using 3-dimensional stereotactic surface projection (3D-SSP) on the diagnostic accuracy of 18F fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (18F FDG PET) in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer disease (AD). Enrollees underwent clinical evaluation to determine cognitive status and subsequent 18F FDG PET neuroimaging. Four blinded readers (2 novices and 2 experts) rated the images for degree of abnormality and interpretive confidence without and with 3D-SSP. Diagnostic accuracy was determined with area under the curve (area under the curve) of a receiver operating characteristic (receiver operating characteristic) curve analysis and change in confidence with model-based means (LSMeans). Twenty-three normal controls and 31 patients with cognitive impairment (18 MCI and 13 AD) were enrolled (28 female and 26 male; mean age 74 years). During follow-up (mean 3.6 years), all normal participants remained normal, 12 of 18 participants with MCI progressed to dementia, and all participants with baseline dementia progressed. The area under the curve with 3D-SSP (0.88; 95% CI: 0.76-0.95) was significantly higher than without it (0.72; 95% CI: 0.55-0.83). The specificity increased from 26% to 63% for novices and from 56% to 87% for experts with addition of 3D-SSP, whereas the sensitivity was essentially unchanged at 86% and 86% for the beginners and 81% and 79% for the experts. The interpretive confidence increased significantly from 3.3 to 4.0 (maximum value = 5, P = 0.048). The use of commercially available 3D-SSP quantitation improved diagnostic accuracy for evaluation of MCI and AD with 18F FDG PET."}
{"id": "22785390", "title": "Analysis of regional cerebral blood flow data to discriminate among Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia, and elderly controls: a multi-block barycentric discriminant analysis (MUBADA) methodology.", "content": "Analysis of regional cerebral blood flow data to discriminate among Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal dementia, and elderly controls: a multi-block barycentric discriminant analysis (MUBADA) methodology. We present a generalization of mean-centered partial least squares correlation called multiblock barycentric discriminant analysis (MUBADA) that integrates multiple regions of interest (ROIs) to analyze functional brain images of cerebral blood flow or metabolism obtained with SPECT or PET. To illustrate MUBADA we analyzed data from 104 participants comprising Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, frontotemporal dementia (FTD) patients, and elderly normal controls. Brain images were analyzed via 28 ROIs (59,845 voxels) selected for clinical relevance. This is a discriminant analysis (DA) question with several blocks (one per ROI) and with more variables than observations, a configuration that precludes using DA. MUBADA revealed two factors explaining 74% and 26% of the total variance: Factor 1 isolated FTD, and Factor 2 isolated AD. A random effects model correctly classified 64% (chance = 33%) of \"new\" participants (p < 0.0001). MUBADA identified ROIs that best discriminated groups: ROIs separating FTD were bilateral inferior, middle frontal, left inferior, and middle temporal gyri, while ROIs separating AD were bilateral thalamus, inferior parietal gyrus, inferior temporal gyrus, left precuneus, middle frontal, and middle temporal gyri. MUBADA classified participants at levels comparable to standard methods (i.e., SVM, PCA-LDA, and PLS-DA) but provided information (e.g., discriminative ROIs and voxels) not easily accessible to these methods."}
{"id": "22777857", "title": "Correlation between neuropsychological tests and hypoperfusion in MCI patients: anatomical labeling using xjView and Talairach Daemon software.", "content": "Correlation between neuropsychological tests and hypoperfusion in MCI patients: anatomical labeling using xjView and Talairach Daemon software. Statistical analysis of brain perfusion SPECT images has shown mild to severe abnormalities, consistent with cortical dysfunctions in the brain. Recently, functional brain imaging such as fMRI, PET and SPECT is increasingly used for diagnosis of MCI. In this study, we calculate the correlation with perfusion of brain SPECT and neuropsychological test scores of patients by SPM analysis to evaluate the relationship with cerebral hypoperfusion and cognitive dysfunction in MCI patients. Anatomical labeling was performed automatically using the Talairach Daemon (TD) and xjView. Ninety-three patients (mean age 67.2 \u00b1 7.42 years; 59 women and 34 men) with MCI were selected and examined by the comprehensive neuropsychological test. Tc-99m-HMPAO brain SPECT images were acquired on the patients using a two-head gamma camera. We analyzed the brain image of MCI patients by SPM8 software, and observed the anatomical correlated region, between the neuropsychological tests and cerebral hypoperfusion. The SPM8 tool provided correlation between neuropsychological score and brain perfusion by simple regression method. The neuropsychological test included attention, language function, visuospatial function, memory, frontal executive function, depression score and general cognitive function. Percentage of voxels with correlated area to the whole brain was calculated and the values by Rey complex figure test (CFT) copy score, MMSE score, Seoul verbal learning test (SVLT) immediate recall score and Rey CFT delayed recall score were 15.3, 12.33, 10.59 and 8.45 %, respectively. Rey CFT copy score was correlated with perfusion in the left middle temporal gyrus (BA 21), right inferior frontal gyrus (BA 45), right lingual gyrus, left lingual gyrus (BA 18), right postcentral gyrus (BA 40), right cingulate gyrus (BA 31) and left thalamus (pulvinar) with p < 0.01 FDR. The correlation related to MMSE included left parahippocampal gyrus, right fusiform gyrus and right middle frontal gyrus (BA 46). SVLT immediate recall score was correlated with left superior temporal gyrus and Rey CFT delayed recall score was correlated with left inferior frontal gyrus (BA 47), right inferior frontal gyrus, and left lentiform nucleus. Visuospatial and general cognitive dysfunctions in the patients with MCI were most correlated with cerebral hypoperfusion. Rey CFT copy and MMSE scores were more strongly correlated with blood perfusion of the brain than with other neuropsychological test scores. xjView was a useful tool to find out the anatomical name of the selected voxel or clusters and to display the cluster's anatomical information and list all cluster information and could be used instead of TD Client."}
{"id": "22777304", "title": "An imaging agent for amyloid.", "content": "An imaging agent for amyloid."}
{"id": "22776451", "title": "Endotoxin-induced systemic inflammation activates microglia: [\u00b9\u00b9C]PBR28 positron emission tomography in nonhuman primates.", "content": "Endotoxin-induced systemic inflammation activates microglia: [\u00b9\u00b9C]PBR28 positron emission tomography in nonhuman primates. Microglia play an essential role in many brain diseases. Microglia are activated by local tissue damage or inflammation, but systemic inflammation can also activate microglia. An important clinical question is whether the effects of systemic inflammation on microglia mediate the deleterious effects of systemic inflammation in diseases such as Alzheimer's dementia, multiple sclerosis, and stroke. Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging with ligands that bind to Translocator Protein (TSPO) can be used to detect activated microglia. The aim of this study was to evaluate whether the effect of systemic inflammation on microglia could be measured with PET imaging in nonhuman primates, using the TSPO ligand [(11)C]PBR28. Six female baboons (Papio anubis) were scanned before and at 1h and/or 4h and/or 22 h after intravenous administration of E. coli lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 0.1mg/kg), which induces systemic inflammation. Regional time-activity data from regions of interest (ROIs) were fitted to the two-tissue compartmental model, using the metabolite-corrected arterial plasma curve as input function. Total volume of distribution (V(T)) of [(11)C]PBR28 was used as a measure of total ligand binding. The primary outcome was change in V(T) from baseline. Serum levels of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF\u03b1), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1\u03b2), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and interleukin-8 (IL-8) were used to assess correlations between systemic inflammation and microglial activation. In one baboon, immunohistochemistry was used to identify cells expressing TSPO. LPS administration increased [(11)C]PBR28 binding (F(3,6)=5.1, p=.043) with a 29 \u00b1 16% increase at 1h (n=4) and a 62 \u00b1 34% increase at 4h (n=3) post-LPS. There was a positive correlation between serum IL-1\u03b2 and IL-6 levels and the increase in [(11)C]PBR28 binding. TSPO immunoreactivity occurred almost exclusively in microglia and rarely in astrocytes. In the nonhuman-primate brain, LPS-induced systemic inflammation produces a robust increase in the level of TSPO that is readily detected with [(11)C]PBR28 PET. The effect of LPS on [(11)C]PBR28 binding is likely mediated by inflammatory cytokines. Activation of microglia may be a mechanism through which systemic inflammatory processes influence the course of diseases such as Alzheimer's, multiple sclerosis, and possibly depression."}
{"id": "22773517", "title": "[Anti-NMDA receptor encephalitis - case report].", "content": "[Anti-NMDA receptor encephalitis - case report]. We present a patient with multiple sclerosis, diagnosed at the age of 16.5, in whom mental and orientation disturbances, strange behaviour as well as bizarre dyskinesias of the face and extremities occurred at age 20. After several days, tonic-clonic status epilepticus developed. Head computed tomography showed no abnormalities. Lumbar puncture revealed a pleocytosis of 20/3, which became normal after treatment. Seizures were brought under control, but the psychiatric symptoms persisted; they subsided after a dozen or so weeks. Magnetic resonance of the head and cervical spinal cord did not show any new abnormalities. After another several months, all symptoms recurred. A wide range of laboratory tests, as well as positron emission tomography, did not reveal any abnormalities. Suspicion of autoimmune encephalitis led to a test for serum anti-NMDA-receptor antibodies that confirmed the diagnosis. After immunotherapy, our patient improved and was transferred for rehabilitation."}
{"id": "22773150", "title": "Correlation between serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations and regional cerebral blood flow in degenerative dementia.", "content": "Correlation between serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations and regional cerebral blood flow in degenerative dementia. Chronic low serum vitamin D concentrations are common among the elderly. Recent studies have suggested that its metabolite, 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25-OHD), might be important for preserving cognitive functions through specific brain protective effects. However, this hypothesis is still under discussion. The aim of this study was to assess the correlation between serum 25-OHD concentrations and regional cerebral blood flow in neurodegenerative diseases such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and dementia of Lewy bodies (DLB). Radionuclide brain single-photon emission computed tomography/computed tomography (SPECT/CT) images and 25-OHD dosage in noninstitutionalized patients were obtained within 14 days. SPECT/CT examination was carried out using technetium-99m-ethyl cysteinate dimer in 20 consecutive patients (12 AD and eight DLB). Reconstructed images were spatially normalized using Statistical Parametric Mapping version 5 software to a default SPECT template. Voxel-based multiple regression correlation analyses, with age and mini mental state examination scores as confounding factors, were carried out. Findings were considered significant for a threshold P-value less than 0.01 (corrected at cluster level). A positive correlation was found between 25-OHD concentrations and regional cerebral blood flow in the left precuneus cortex (Talairach coordinates: -14, -42, 63) in AD patients. No correlation was detected in DLB patients. The results of this study confirm the relationship between 25-OHD concentrations and AD and therefore underline the hypothesis of a potential neuroprotective effect against brain degeneration. These encouraging findings need to be confirmed by larger prospective correlation series."}
{"id": "22766739", "title": "Postmortem Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB) binding increases with Alzheimer's disease progression.", "content": "Postmortem Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB) binding increases with Alzheimer's disease progression. The development of imaging reagents is of considerable interest in the Alzheimer's disease (AD) field. Some of these, such as Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB), were designed to bind to the amyloid-\u03b2 peptide (A\u03b2), the major component of amyloid deposits in the AD brain. Although these agents were designed for imaging amyloid deposits in vivo, a major avenue of evaluation relies on postmortem cross validation with established indices of AD pathology. In this study, we evaluated changes in the postmortem binding of PiB and its relationship to other aspects of A\u03b2-related pathology in a series of AD cases and age-matched controls. We also examined cases of preclinical AD (PCAD) and amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI), both considered early points in the AD continuum. PiB binding was found to increase with the progression of the disease and paralleled increases in the less soluble forms of A\u03b2, including SDS-stable A\u03b2 oligomers. Increased PiB binding and its relationship to A\u03b2 was only significant in a brain region vulnerable to the development of AD pathology (the superior and middle temporal gyri) but not in an unaffected region (cerebellum). This implies that the amyloid deposited in disease-affected regions may possess fundamental, brain region specific characteristics that may not as yet be fully appreciated. These data support the idea that PiB is a useful diagnostic tool for AD, particularly in the early stage of the disease, and also show that PiB could be a useful agent for the discovery of novel disease-related properties of amyloid."}
{"id": "22763629", "title": "Head motion evaluation and correction for PET scans with 18F-FDG in the Japanese Alzheimer's disease neuroimaging initiative (J-ADNI) multi-center study.", "content": "Head motion evaluation and correction for PET scans with 18F-FDG in the Japanese Alzheimer's disease neuroimaging initiative (J-ADNI) multi-center study. Head motion during 30-min (six 5-min frames) brain PET scans starting 30 min post-injection of FDG was evaluated together with the effect of post hoc motion correction between frames in J-ADNI multicenter study carried out in 24 PET centers on a total of 172 subjects consisting of 81 normal subjects, 55 mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 36 mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients. Based on the magnitude of the between-frame co-registration parameters, the scans were classified into six levels (A-F) of motion degree. The effect of motion and its correction was evaluated using between-frame variation of the regional FDG uptake values on ROIs placed over cerebral cortical areas. Although AD patients tended to present larger motion (motion level E or F in 22 % of the subjects) than MCI (3 %) and normal (4 %) subjects, unignorable motion was observed in a small number of subjects in the latter groups as well. The between-frame coefficient of variation (SD/mean) was 0.5 % in the frontal, 0.6 % in the parietal and 1.8 % in the posterior cingulate ROI for the scans of motion level 1. The respective values were 1.5, 1.4, and 3.6 % for the scans of motion level F, but reduced by the motion correction to 0.5, 0.4 and 0.8 %, respectively. The motion correction changed the ROI value for the posterior cingulate cortex by 11.6 % in the case of severest motion. Substantial head motion occurs in a fraction of subjects in a multicenter setup which includes PET centers lacking sufficient experience in imaging demented patients. A simple frame-by-frame co-registration technique that can be applied to any PET camera model is effective in correcting for motion and improving quantitative capability."}
{"id": "22760302", "title": "Assessment of a protocol for routine simultaneous myocardial blood flow measurement and standard myocardial perfusion imaging with rubidium-82 on a high count rate positron emission tomography system.", "content": "Assessment of a protocol for routine simultaneous myocardial blood flow measurement and standard myocardial perfusion imaging with rubidium-82 on a high count rate positron emission tomography system. High count rate positron emission tomography (PET) systems offer the potential for accurate myocardial blood flow (MBF) quantification during first-pass dynamic imaging in conjunction with standard rubidium-82 (Rb-82) PET myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI). We investigate the feasibility of this using a Siemens Biograph mCT. Current routine clinical PET MPI is performed with 1480 MBq (40 mCi) Rb-82. Dynamic first-pass images from 217 consecutive patients were reviewed for evidence of detector saturation, indicating that count rate limits had been exceeded. Phantom acquisitions in the presence of high count rates were performed to assess the effect of detector saturation on quantitative accuracy. Accurate MBF quantification and perfusion imaging using current protocols was successful in 85% of clinical cases. Detector block saturation was observed in 15% of cases, and phantom acquisitions indicate that saturation may have an adverse effect on quantitative accuracy. Visualization of transit or pooling of Rb-82 in the vessels in the axilla was the most consistent feature when saturation occurred. Reduction of administered activity to 1110 MBq (30 mCi) and subsequent evaluation of 159 patients ensured successful MBF quantification while maintaining good diagnostic quality perfusion imaging in 99% of cases. MBF quantification and good-quality standard perfusion imaging can be performed on a high count rate PET system using a single-acquisition protocol. The administered activity requires optimization and we recommend 1110 MBq for PET MPI with a Biograph mCT."}
{"id": "22752783", "title": "A review of the default mode network in aging and dementia based on molecular imaging.", "content": "A review of the default mode network in aging and dementia based on molecular imaging. The default mode network (DMN) is a unique idea that attracts many neuroimaging researchers to examine alterations in the resting-state brain physiology in normal aging and psychiatric and neurological disorders predominantly by using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). In dementias, especially in Alzheimer's disease (AD), one of the recent topics in an imaging domain is depicting its pathological substance, \u03b2-amyloid protein (A\u03b2) in vivo using positron emission tomography (PET). This A\u03b2 accumulation was not only discovered in AD but also frequently in cognitively normal people. Indeed, there is evidence that subjects with high A\u03b2 deposition tend to be considered as those who are very likely to develop AD in the future. Recent reports also show that the DMN in AD patients is affected in conjunction with A\u03b2 deposition. Our recent study of the cognitive and physiological impact of A\u03b2 accumulation on the DMN function in normal elderly people using PET has shown that the amount of A\u03b2 deposits is negatively correlated with the DMN function, and the lower function of the DMN is associated with poorer working memory performance. As expected, A\u03b2 deposition in the brain, however minute the degree of its accumulation can be, may cause neuronal discoordination in the DMN along with poor working memory in normal aging. As literature on fMRI-based DMN activity is profuse, here, we discuss the pathophysiological aspect of the DMN from a molecular imaging viewpoint."}
{"id": "22751169", "title": "Pilot study of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor for treatment of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Pilot study of granulocyte-colony stimulating factor for treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Human granulocyte colony-stimulating-factor (G-CSF) is widely used for treatment of neutropenia and to mobilize stem/progenitor cells for bone marrow transplantation. In studies of thousands of healthy donor subjects treated with G-CSF to mobilize stem/progenitor cells, the side-effect profile has been reported to be mild and reversible. In pre-clinical studies, G-CSF was reported to improve spatial learning performance and to markedly reduce amyloid deposition in hippocampus and entorhinal cortex in a murine model of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The present study investigated the effects of a five day schedule of G-CSF administration on tolerability, safety, and cognition in eight patients with mild to moderate stage AD. A double-blind placebo control, cross-over design was implemented. Treatment with G-CSF did not result in serious adverse events. The most common and expected side effects were transient increases in white blood cell count, myalgias and diffuse aching that improved with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medications. Of a battery of cognitive tests administered using the CANTAB computerized system, only the mean paired associate learning (PAL total trials adjusted) was significantly improved at the final visit of the study compared to baseline values (p < 0.05). There were no significant differences in amyloid-\u03b21-42 levels in cerebrospinal fluid measured two weeks after G-CSF and two weeks after placebo treatments. In conclusion, administration of G-CSF in a dosage regimen commonly used for bone marrow donors was well tolerated and safe, and provided a signal of positive change in a hippocampal-dependent task of cognitive performance."}
{"id": "22749065", "title": "Cerebral PET with florbetapir compared with neuropathology at autopsy for detection of neuritic amyloid-\u03b2 plaques: a prospective cohort study.", "content": "Cerebral PET with florbetapir compared with neuropathology at autopsy for detection of neuritic amyloid-\u03b2 plaques: a prospective cohort study. Results of previous studies have shown associations between PET imaging of amyloid plaques and amyloid-\u03b2 pathology measured at autopsy. However, these studies were small and not designed to prospectively measure sensitivity or specificity of amyloid PET imaging against a reference standard. We therefore prospectively compared the sensitivity and specificity of amyloid PET imaging with neuropathology at autopsy. This study was an extension of our previous imaging-to-autopsy study of participants recruited at 22 centres in the USA who had a life expectancy of less than 6 months at enrolment. Participants had autopsy within 2 years of PET imaging with florbetapir ((18)F). For one of the primary analyses, the interpretation of the florbetapir scans (majority interpretation of five nuclear medicine physicians, who classified each scan as amyloid positive or amyloid negative) was compared with amyloid pathology (assessed according to the Consortium to Establish a Registry for Alzheimer's Disease standards, and classed as amyloid positive for moderate or frequent plaques or amyloid negative for no or sparse plaques); correlation of the image analysis results with amyloid burden was tested as a coprimary endpoint. Correlation, sensitivity, and specificity analyses were also done in the subset of participants who had autopsy within 1 year of imaging as secondary endpoints. The study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT 01447719 (original study NCT 00857415). We included 59 participants (aged 47-103 years; cognitive status ranging from normal to advanced dementia). The sensitivity and specificity of florbetapir PET imaging for detection of moderate to frequent plaques were 92% (36 of 39; 95% CI 78-98) and 100% (20 of 20; 80-100%), respectively, in people who had autopsy within 2 years of PET imaging, and 96% (27 of 28; 80-100%) and 100% (18 of 18; 78-100%), respectively, for those who had autopsy within 1 year. Amyloid assessed semiquantitatively with florbetapir PET was correlated with the post-mortem amyloid burden in the participants who had an autopsy within 2 years (Spearman \u03c1=0\u00b776; p<0\u00b70001) and within 12 months between imaging and autopsy (0\u00b779; p<0\u00b70001). The results of this study validate the binary visual reading method approved in the USA for clinical use with florbetapir and suggest that florbetapir could be used to distinguish individuals with no or sparse amyloid plaques from those with moderate to frequent plaques. Additional research is needed to understand the prognostic implications of moderate to frequent plaque density. Avid Radiopharmaceuticals."}
{"id": "22735052", "title": "Amyloid plaque imaging from IMPY/SPECT to AV-45/PET.", "content": "Amyloid plaque imaging from IMPY/SPECT to AV-45/PET. The formation and deposition of \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) plaques are the earliest pathological changes in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Molecular imaging of A\u03b2 plaques could serve as a surrogate marker in early diagnosis and neuropathogenesis studies of AD. Several radionuclide labeled ligands have recently been developed for noninvasive visualization of A\u03b2 plaques in the brains of AD patients using single photon emission computed tomography or positron emission tomography (PET). There has been rapid progress in the field of imaging for plaque pathology. AV-45 was the first plaque imaging agent to enter multi-center, investigational new drug clinical trials in the US, and has now been studied in dozens of trials with more than 1,000 subjects ranging from cognitively normal individuals to those with AD dementia. \"Imaging to autopsy\" phase III studies further confirmed and validated the specific imaging signal correlated to the plaque burden in living subjects. With these promising and confirmed characteristics of AV-45, the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) under common consensus decided on AV-45 as the emerging standard PET imaging agent for evaluating the progression of plaque pathology in patients with AD or mild cognition impairment, and even healthy controls. With the wide availability of AV-45 for plaque imaging, the ultimate goal of the ADNI is global clinical trials for disease detection and progression. This review presents recent experience with A\u03b2-targeting radiotracers at Chang Gung University and Chang Gung Memorial Hospital."}
{"id": "22728617", "title": "Naming impairment in Alzheimer's disease is associated with left anterior temporal lobe atrophy.", "content": "Naming impairment in Alzheimer's disease is associated with left anterior temporal lobe atrophy. There is considerable debate about the neuroanatomic localization of semantic memory, the knowledge of culturally shared elements such as objects, concepts, and people. Two recent meta-analyses of functional imaging studies (fMRI and PET) sought to identify cortical regions involved in semantic processing. Binder and colleagues (Binder et al., 2009) identified several regions of interest, widely distributed throughout the frontal, parietal, and temporal cortices. In contrast, Lambon Ralph and colleagues (2010) focused on the anterior temporal lobe, and found that when the potential for signal loss is accounted for (due, for example, to distortion artifact or field of view restriction), significant regional activation is detected. We set out to determine whether the anterior temporal lobe plays a significant role in picture naming, a task which relies on semantic memory. We examined a relatively large sample of patients with early Alzheimer's disease (N=145), a multifocal disease process typically characterized in the early stages by problems with episodic memory and executive function. Hypothesis-driven analyses based on regions of interest derived from the meta-analyses as well as exploratory analyses across the entire cerebral cortex demonstrated a highly specific correlation between cortical thinning of the left anterior temporal lobe and impaired naming performance. These findings lend further support to theories that include a prominent role for the anterior temporal lobe in tasks that rely on semantic memory."}
{"id": "22727821", "title": "A simplified synthesis of the hypoxia imaging agent 2-(2-Nitro-1H-imidazol-1-yl)-N-(2,2,3,3,3-[(18)F]pentafluoropropyl)-acetamide ([18F]EF5).", "content": "A simplified synthesis of the hypoxia imaging agent 2-(2-Nitro-1H-imidazol-1-yl)-N-(2,2,3,3,3-[(18)F]pentafluoropropyl)-acetamide ([18F]EF5). [(18)F]EF5 is a validated marker for PET imaging of tumor hypoxia. It is prepared by reacting a trifluoroallyl precursor with carrier-added [(18)F]F(2) gas in trifluoroacetic acid (TFA) solvent. We report here an improved radiosynthesis and purification of [(18)F]EF5 by utilizing an electroformed nickel (Ni) target for [(18)F]F(2) production, and Oasis\u00ae HLB cartridges for on-line solid phase extraction of [(18)F]EF5 prior to HPLC purification. [(18)F]F(2) was produced by deuteron bombardment of neon plus F(2) in an Ni target, and bubbled through the radiolabelling precursor solution. Purification was achieved by extracting the contents of the crude reaction mixture onto Oasis HLB cartridges, and subsequently eluted onto a semi-preparative HPLC column for further separation. Purified [(18)F]EF5 was evaluated in small animal PET studies using HCT116 tumor xenografts in nude mice. The electroformed Ni target enabled recovery of >75% of the radioactivity from the cyclotron target, resulting in 16.2 \u00b1 2.2 GBq (438 \u00b1 58 mCi) of [(18)F]F(2) available for the synthesis. Use of Oasis cartridges yielded a less complex mixture for purification. On average, 1140 \u00b1 200 MBq (30.8 \u00b1 5.4 mCi) of [(18)F]EF5 were collected at EOS. Small animal PET imaging studies showed specific retention of [(18)F]EF5 in tumors, with tumor-to-muscle ratios of 2.7 \u00b1 0.3 at about 160 min after injection. A simple procedure has been developed for the routine synthesis of [(18)F]EF5 in amounts and purity required for clinical studies. This new method avoids the need for TFA evaporation and also enables facile automation of the synthesis using commercially available radiosynthesis modules."}
{"id": "22727624", "title": "Toward evidence-based decisions in diagnostic radiology: a research and rating process for multiple decision-makers.", "content": "Toward evidence-based decisions in diagnostic radiology: a research and rating process for multiple decision-makers. The use of diagnostic imaging tests and the development of evidence-based guidelines, reviews, and other materials have both undergone substantial growth in recent years. However, the proliferation of evidence-based information has not translated into the universal deployment of medical and coverage policy for diagnostic imaging that is similarly evidence-based. One possible reason is the failure of those institutions generating evidence-based information to format findings in an accessible manner for all relevant stakeholders. The Institute for Clinical and Economic Review has developed a simple and transparent method for rating evidence that is accessible to clinicians, patients, payers, and other policy makers. The authors describe this process in relation to three imaging-based examples (computed tomographic colonography, coronary computed tomographic angiography, and positron emission tomography for dementia neuropathology). The issues raised, controversies considered, and use of the ratings in setting policy are discussed in relation to each example."}
{"id": "22722670", "title": "CSF biomarkers correlate with cerebral blood flow on SPECT in healthy elderly.", "content": "CSF biomarkers correlate with cerebral blood flow on SPECT in healthy elderly. The preclinical patterns of biological markers for Alzheimer's disease (AD) in vivo need further exploration. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate CSF biomarkers, regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and cognitive performance in cognitively healthy older individuals. Within a 2-week period, 32 cognitively healthy older individuals underwent CSF analysis, rCBF measurement and cognitive testing. The CSF was analysed for \u03b2-amyloid(1-42) (A\u03b242), total tau protein (T-tau) and hyperphosphorylated tau protein (P-tau). The rCBF results were analysed with statistical parametric mapping to investigate rCBF covariance with the other measurements. High CSF P-tau and T-tau levels correlated with decreased rCBF in the right superior posterior medial frontal lobe whereas high CSF P-tau levels also correlated with increased rCBF in the left fronto-temporal border zone area. No significant covariance was seen between rCBF and CSF A\u03b242. Neither CSF P-tau and T-tau levels nor rCBF in the current right frontal and left posterior locations were associated with cognitive performance. Our findings suggest a possible correlation between tau pathology and blood flow abnormalities in individuals without any overt cognitive symptoms. An association with AD development is possible but other explanatory mechanisms cannot be excluded."}
{"id": "22718551", "title": "Florbetapir: knowing one's future.", "content": "Florbetapir: knowing one's future."}
{"id": "22717196", "title": "The relationship between naloxone-induced cortisol and mu opioid receptor availability in mesolimbic structures is disrupted in alcohol dependent subjects.", "content": "The relationship between naloxone-induced cortisol and mu opioid receptor availability in mesolimbic structures is disrupted in alcohol dependent subjects. The mu opioid receptor system is altered in alcohol dependent (AD) subjects. Cortisol responses to opioid receptor antagonists are assumed to impart information about opioid receptor activity. In the present study we examined naloxone-induced cortisol responses in 18 healthy control (HC) and 25 recently detoxified AD subjects and then correlated the cortisol response with mu opioid receptor availability across 15 brain regions using positron emission tomography (PET) and the mu opioid receptor selective ligand [(11)C] Carfentanil (CFN). On average the AD subjects required twice the dose of naloxone to induce a peak cortisol response compared to the HC subjects. Using the rising slope of the cortisol curve (placebo to peak) as a metric we then went on to examine the relationship between cortisol responses to naloxone and [(11)C]CFN BP(ND). There were significant negative relationships between cortisol and [(11)C]CFN binding potential (BP(ND)) in multiple brain regions of HC subjects. However, cortisol responses did not correlate with [(11)C]CFN BP(ND) across any brain region in AD subjects. In summary, naloxone imparts information about individual differences in mu opioid receptor availability throughout the mesolimbic system in healthy individuals. However pathways governing the relationship between naloxone-induced cortisol and mu opioid receptor availability are disrupted during early abstinence in AD subjects."}
{"id": "22716136", "title": "Neural mechanisms for the cannabinoid modulation of cognition and affect in man: a critical review of neuroimaging studies.", "content": "Neural mechanisms for the cannabinoid modulation of cognition and affect in man: a critical review of neuroimaging studies. Pharmacological challenge in conjunction with neuroimaging techniques has been employed for over two decades now to understand the neural basis of the cognitive, emotional and symptomatic effects of the main ingredients of cannabis, the most widely used illicit drug in the world. This selective critical review focuses on the human neuroimaging studies investigating the effects of delta-9- tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD), the two main cannabinoids of interest present in the extract of the cannabis plant. These studies suggest that consistent with the polymorphic and heterogeneous nature of the effects of cannabis, THC and CBD have distinct and often opposing effects on widely distributed neural networks that include medial temporal and prefrontal cortex and striatum, brain regions that are rich in cannabinoid receptors and implicated in the pathophysiology of psychosis. They help elucidate the neurocognitive mechanisms underlying the acute induction of psychotic symptoms by cannabis and provide mechanistic understanding underlying the potential role of CBD as an anxiolytic and antipsychotic. Although there are ethical and methodological caveats, pharmacological neuroimaging studies such as those reviewed here may not only help model different aspects of the psychopathology of mental disorders such as schizophrenia and offer insights into their underlying mechanisms, but may suggest potentially new therapeutic targets for drug discovery."}
{"id": "22712644", "title": "Molecular imaging of dementia.", "content": "Molecular imaging of dementia. Diagnosis and treatment strategies for dementia are based on the sensitive and specific detection of the incipient neuropathological characteristics, combined with emerging treatments that counteract molecular processes in its pathogenesis. Positron emission tomography (PET) is used for diverse clinical and basic studies on dementia with a wide range of radiotracers. Approaches to visualize amyloid deposition in human brains non-invasively with PET depend on imaging agents reacting with amyloid fibrils. The most widely used tracer is [(11) C]-6-OH-BTA-1, also known as Pittsburgh Compound-B, which has a high affinity to amyloid \u03b2 peptide (A\u03b2) aggregates. Some (18) F-labeled amyloid ligands with a longer radioactive half-life have also been developed for broader clinical applications. In addition, there have been demonstrated advantages of tracers with high specific radioactivity in the sensitive detection of amyloid, which have indicated the significance of A\u03b2-N3-pyroglutamate as a new diagnostic and therapeutic target. Furthermore, beneficial outcomes of A\u03b2 and tau immunization in humans and mouse models have highlighted crucial roles of immunocompetent glia in the protection of neurons against amyloid toxicities. The utility of PET with a radioligand for translocator protein as a biomarker for tau-triggered toxicity, and as a complement to amyloid and tau imaging for diagnostic assessment of tauopathies with and without A\u03b2 pathologies, has also been demonstrated. Meanwhile, brain cholinergic function can be estimated by measuring acetylcholinesterase activity in the brain with PET and radiolabeled acetylcholine analogues. It has been reported that patients with early Parkinson's disease exhibit a reduction in acetylcholinesterase activity in the cerebral cortex, and this decline is more profound in patients with Parkinson's disease with dementia and dementia with Lewy bodies than in patients with Parkinson's disease without dementia. The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative was a multicentre research project conducted over 6\u2003years that studied changes in cognition, brain structure, and biomarkers in healthy elderly controls and subjects with mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease. An international workgroup of the National Institute on Aging-Alzheimer's Association has suggested that Alzheimer's disease would be optimally treated before significant cognitive impairment, defined as a 'presymptomatic' or 'preclinical' stage. Therefore, PET will be of technical importance for both clinical and basic research aimed at prodromal pathologies of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "22712065", "title": "[The use of modern neuroimaging methods in studies of mechanisms of development cognitive disturbances in patients with multiple sclerosis].", "content": "[The use of modern neuroimaging methods in studies of mechanisms of development cognitive disturbances in patients with multiple sclerosis]."}
{"id": "22710357", "title": "Distinct patterns of antiamyloid-\u03b2 antibodies in typical and atypical Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Distinct patterns of antiamyloid-\u03b2 antibodies in typical and atypical Alzheimer disease. To compare serum antiamyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) antibodies in typical and atypical Alzheimer disease (AD). Preliminary observations. Thirteen patients with AD, 8 patients with posterior cortical atrophy with evidence of AD (PCA-AD) pathophysiological process by both cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers and amyloid imaging, and 12 age-matched control individuals. The class and subclass levels of serum anti-A\u03b2 antibodies were measured using an oligomer-based enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. This method allowed measuring both free antibodies and, after acidic treatment, the total fraction that includes all antibodies complexed with circulating A\u03b240/42 and any cross-reacting antigen. Anti-A\u03b2 IgG were restricted to the IgG1 and IgG3 subclasses. Their total levels were strikingly lower and more homogeneous in patients with PCA compared with both typical AD and controls, while biomarkers of amyloid deposition (CSF A\u03b242 and positron emission tomography amyloid imaging) were similar in patients with AD and patients with PCA. Serum anti-A\u03b2 IgG1 and IgG3 antibodies differ between distinct forms of AD. Its significance is discussed for possible implications as immune effectors in the specific pathophysiology of AD variants."}
{"id": "22703622", "title": "Neuroimaging of delusions in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Neuroimaging of delusions in Alzheimer's disease. MEDLINE, Embase and PsycINFO were searched using the keywords \"imaging\", \"neuroimaging\", \"CT\", \"MRI\", \"PET\", \"SPECT\", \"Alzheimer's\", \"dementia\", \"delusions\" and \"psychosis\" to find studies specifically assessing or reporting on neuroimaging of delusions in Alzheimer's Dementia (AD), separate from hallucinations or psychosis in general in AD. Twenty-five studies were found meeting criteria and are included in this review which reports on structural, regional perfusion, metabolic and receptor binding imaging modalities assessing delusions as a whole, as well as persecutory and misidentification delusional subtypes. The majority of studies implicate right-sided pathology, primarily frontal lobe. Left-frontal predominance and release, secondary to right-sided pathology, may create a hyperinferential state resulting in the formation of delusions. This perturbation and imbalance of normal networks is associated with delusional phenomenology. Temporal lobe structures are also important in misidentification syndromes, which have a different natural history than paranoid delusions. Consistent with the neuropathological and genetic literature, neuroimaging has shown that paranoid versus misidentification delusions are associated with different phenomenology and different neural substrates. Delusional subtype is an important factor in understanding the neurobiological underpinnings of delusions in dementia. We also discuss methodological issues related to neuroimaging of delusions in AD."}
{"id": "22701746", "title": "Involvement of receptor tyrosine kinase Tyro3 in amyloidogenic APP processing and \u03b2-amyloid deposition in Alzheimer's disease models.", "content": "Involvement of receptor tyrosine kinase Tyro3 in amyloidogenic APP processing and \u03b2-amyloid deposition in Alzheimer's disease models. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common progressive neurodegenerative disease known to humankind. It is characterized by brain atrophy, extracellular amyloid plaques, and intracellular neurofibril tangles. \u03b2-Amyloid cascade is considered the major causative player in AD. Up until now, the mechanisms underlying the process of A\u03b2 generation and accumulation in the brain have not been well understood. Tyro3 receptor belongs to the TAM receptor subfamily of receptor protein tyrosine kinases (RPTKs). It is specifically expressed in the neurons of the neocortex and hippocampus. In this study, we established a cell model stably expressing APPswe mutants and producing A\u03b2. We found that overexpression of Tyro3 receptor in the cell model significantly decreased A\u03b2 generation and also down-regulated the expression of \u03b2-site amyloid precursor protein cleaving enzyme (BACE1). However, the effects of Tyro3 were inhibited by its natural ligand, Gas6, in a concentration-dependent manner. In order to confirm the role of Tyro3 in the progression of AD development, we generated an AD transgenic mouse model accompanied by Tyro3 knockdown. We observed a significant increase in the number of amyloid plaques in the hippocampus in the mouse model. More plaque-associated clusters of astroglia were also detected. The present study may help researchers determine the role of Tyro3 receptor in the neuropathology of AD."}
{"id": "22700814", "title": "Low PiB PET retention in presence of pathologic CSF biomarkers in Arctic APP mutation carriers.", "content": "Low PiB PET retention in presence of pathologic CSF biomarkers in Arctic APP mutation carriers. To investigate the particular pathology of the Arctic APP (APParc) early-onset familial Alzheimer disease (eoFAD) mutation for the first time in vivo with PET in comparison with other eoFAD mutations and sporadic Alzheimer disease (sAD). We examined 2 APParc mutation carriers together with 5 noncarrier siblings cross-sectionally with (11)C-labeled Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) and (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET, as well as MRI, CSF biomarkers, and neuropsychological tests. Likewise, we examined 7 patients with sAD, 1 carrier of a presenilin 1 (PSEN1) mutation, 1 carrier of the Swedish APP (APPswe) mutation, and 7 healthy controls (HCs). Cortical PiB retention was very low in the APParc mutation carriers while cerebral glucose metabolism and CSF levels of A\u03b2(1-42), total and phosphorylated tau were clearly pathologic. This was in contrast to the PSEN1 and APPswe mutation carriers revealing high PiB retention in the cortex and the striatum in combination with abnormal glucose metabolism and CSF biomarkers, and the patients with sAD who showed typically high cortical PiB retention and pathologic CSF levels as well as decreased glucose metabolism when compared with HCs. The lack of fibrillar \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) as visualized by PiB PET in APParc mutation carriers suggests, given the reduced glucose metabolism and levels of A\u03b2(1-42) in CSF, that other forms of A\u03b2 such as oligomers and protofibrils are important for the pathologic processes leading to clinical Alzheimer disease."}
{"id": "22700745", "title": "Whither the hippocampus? FDG-PET hippocampal hypometabolism in Alzheimer disease revisited.", "content": "Whither the hippocampus? FDG-PET hippocampal hypometabolism in Alzheimer disease revisited. The hippocampus is a widely recognized area of early change in AD, yet voxelwise analyses of FDG-PET activity differences between AD and CN controls have consistently failed to identify hippocampal hypometabolism. In this article, we propose a high-dimensional PET-specific analysis framework to determine whether important hippocampal metabolic FDG-PET activity differences between patients with AD and CN subjects are embedded in the Jacobian information generated during spatial normalization. Resting FDG-PET data were obtained from 102 CN and 92 participants with AD from the ADNI data base. A PET-study-specific template was constructed using symmetric diffeomorphic registration. Spatially normalized raw FDG maps, Jacobian determinant maps, and modulated maps were generated for all subjects. Statistical parametric mapping and tensor-based morphometry were performed, comparing patients with AD with CN subjects. Whole-brain spatially normalized raw FDG maps demonstrated robust hypometabolism in cingulate gyrus and bilateral parietal areas. No hippocampal differences were present, except on ROI-based analyses with a hippocampal mask. Whole-brain modulated maps demonstrated robust bilateral hippocampal hypometabolism, and some hypometabolism in the posterior cingulate. Tensor-based morphometry demonstrated robust hippocampal differences only. These results demonstrate that hippocampal metabolic differences are embedded in the Jacobian information from the spatial normalization procedure. We introduce a voxelwise PET-specific analysis framework based on the use of a PET-population-specific template, high-dimensional symmetric diffeomorphic normalization, and the use of Jacobian information, which can provide substantially increased statistical power and an order of magnitude decrease in imaging costs."}
{"id": "22694975", "title": "Mitochondria and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Mitochondria and Alzheimer's disease. Reductions in cerebral metabolism sufficient to impair cognition in normal individuals also occur in Alzheimer's disease (AD). FDG PET studies have shown that decreased glucose metabolism in AD precedes clinical diagnosis and the degree of clinical disability in AD correlates closely to the magnitude of the reduction in brain metabolism. This suggests that the clinical deterioration and metabolic impairment in AD are related closely. Diminished metabolism can lead to the hyperphosphorylation of tau and increased production of amyloid beta peptide, hallmarks of AD. These observations suggest also that early mitochondrially therapeutic interventions may be an important target in delaying AD progression in elderly individuals and in treating AD patients."}
{"id": "22693110", "title": "Brain amyloid and cognition in Lewy body diseases.", "content": "Brain amyloid and cognition in Lewy body diseases. Many patients with PD develop PD with dementia (PDD), a syndrome that overlaps clinically and pathologically with dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB); PDD and DLB differ chiefly in the relative timing of dementia and parkinsonism. Brain amyloid deposition is an early feature of DLB and may account, in part, for its early dementia. We sought to confirm this hypothesis and also to determine whether amyloid accumulation contributes to cognitive impairment and dementia in the broad range of parkinsonian diseases. Twenty-nine cognitively healthy PD, 14 PD subjects with mild cognitive impairment (PD-MCI), 18 with DLB, 12 with PDD, and 85 healthy control subjects (HCS) underwent standardized neurologic and neuropsychological examinations and Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) imaging with PET. Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) genotypes were obtained in many patients. PiB retention was expressed as the distribution volume ratio using a cerebellar tissue reference. PiB retention was significantly higher in DLB than in any of the other diagnostic groups. PiB retention did not differ across PDD, PD-MCI, PD, and HCS. Amyloid burden increased with age and with the presence of the ApoE \u03b54 allele in all patient groups. Only in the DLB group was amyloid deposition associated with impaired cognition. DLB subjects have higher amyloid burden than subjects with PDD, PD-MCI, PD, or HCS; amyloid deposits are linked to cognitive impairment only in DLB. Early amyloid deposits in DLB relative to PDD may account for their difference in the timing of dementia and parkinsonism."}
{"id": "22691528", "title": "A case of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease mimicking corticobasal degeneration: FDG PET, SPECT, and MRI findings.", "content": "A case of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease mimicking corticobasal degeneration: FDG PET, SPECT, and MRI findings. A 58-year-old woman was admitted with left-sided decreased sensation, ataxia, and left \"alien\" hand and leg. Brain SPECT and PET showed hypoperfusion and hypometabolism in the right frontoparietal cortices, including the primary sensorimotor cortex, and temporal cortex. MRI demonstrated matching-restricted diffusion and fluid-attenuated inversion recovery hyperintensity. Corticobasal degeneration was suspected initially. The patient declined rapidly, and the diagnosis of sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD) was made based on cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers. CJD can present with symptoms similar to other disorders. This case illustrates that CJD can mimic a rare neurodegenerative disorder, cortico-basal degeneration, both clinically and by neuroimaging."}
{"id": "22691524", "title": "Sequential FDG PET and MRI findings in a case of human herpes virus 6 limbic encephalitis.", "content": "Sequential FDG PET and MRI findings in a case of human herpes virus 6 limbic encephalitis. A 50-year-old woman developed a human herpes virus 6 limbic encephalitis characterized by memory loss and somnolence, 3 weeks after a cord blood-derived stem cell transplantation. Sequential scalp electroencephalogram failed to detect seizure activity. Cerebrospinal fluid polymerase chain reaction assay demonstrated human herpes virus 6 deoxyribonucleic acid (positive, 3.74 log). Acute phase FDG PET imaging showed bilateral intense FDG uptake in both hippocampi and amygdalae. After antiviral treatment (gancyclovir followed by foscarnet), neurologic symptoms disappear gradually. Late phase FDG PET imaging showed a regression in FDG uptake representing hippocampal hypometabolism because of hippocampal sclerosis."}
{"id": "22691507", "title": "Apparent relative hypermetabolism of selective brain areas in Huntington disease and importance of reference region for analysis.", "content": "Apparent relative hypermetabolism of selective brain areas in Huntington disease and importance of reference region for analysis. We investigated the pattern of reduced and increased metabolism in symptomatic Huntington chorea (HD) patients and assessed the influence of intensity normalization method. FDG brain PET was performed in 11 manifest HD patients and 11 age-matched controls. Images underwent statistical parametric mapping analysis after global normalization or with white matter or pons as reference region. Region of interest analysis of FDG uptake ratios was also performed using total region or white matter as reference. Correlation between regional uptake ratios to that of the caudate was evaluated by linear regression analysis. Although statistical parametric mapping analysis identified striatal hypometabolism and thalamic hypermetabolism in HD patients with all methods, substantially different FDG uptake patterns were shown depending on the method of intensity normalization. Global normalization displayed large areas of relative normalized hypermetabolism across the cerebral cortex and cerebellum. With white matter as reference, relative normalized hypermetabolism was observed in the thalamus and a much more limited area of the cortex. With pons as reference, relative normalized hypermetabolism was largely confined to the thalamus and a small area of the cerebellum. These results demonstrate apparent relative normalized hypermetabolism in selective brain regions in manifest HD patients. Furthermore, the choice of reference region for intensity normalization is critical for accurate monitoring of this metabolic change with FDG PET."}
{"id": "22690944", "title": "Novel \u00b9\u2078F-labeled benzoxazole derivatives as potential positron emission tomography probes for imaging of cerebral \u03b2-amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Novel \u00b9\u2078F-labeled benzoxazole derivatives as potential positron emission tomography probes for imaging of cerebral \u03b2-amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease. Two radiofluoro-pegylated phenylbenzoxazole derivatives, 4-(5-(2-(2-(2-[(18)F]fluoroethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)benzo[d]oxazol-2-yl)-N-methylaniline ([(18)F]24) and 4-(5-(2-(2-(2-[(18)F]fluoroethoxy)ethoxy)ethoxy)benzo[d]oxazol-2-yl)-N,N-dimethylaniline ([(18)F]32), were synthesized and evaluated as probes for imaging cerebral \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) plaques in living brain tissue by PET. [(18)F]24 and [(18)F]32 displayed high affinity for A\u03b2(1-42) aggregates (K(i) = 9.3 and 3.9 nM, respectively). In vitro autoradiography with sections of post-mortem AD brain and transgenic mouse brain confirmed the affinity of these tracers. Initial high uptake into and rapid washout from the brain in normal mice were observed. [(18)F]24 also displayed excellent binding to A\u03b2 plaques in ex vivo autoradiographic experiments with Tg2576 mice. Furthermore, small-animal PET studies demonstrated significant differences in the clearance profile after the administration of [(18)F]24 between Tg2576 and wild-type mice. The results suggest [(18)F]24 to be a useful PET agent for detecting A\u03b2 plaques in the living human brain."}
{"id": "22684530", "title": "18F-labelled CCR1-receptor antagonist is not suitable for imaging of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "18F-labelled CCR1-receptor antagonist is not suitable for imaging of Alzheimer's disease. Diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) with positron emission tomography (PET) using 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) relies on typical alterations of brain glucose metabolism which are, however, not disease specific. Amyloid-\u03b2 imaging has not entered clinical routine yet. Post mortem histological specimen of brain tissue from AD patients revealed enhanced expression of the chemotactic cytocine receptor 1 (CCR1). CCR1-antagonist ZK811460 was labeled with fluorine-18 to explore its possible use as specific diagnostic tool in AD. Tracer characterization comprising PET imaging of brain and metabolite analysis was performed in AD patients and controls. Neither qualitative evaluation nor quantitative compartment analysis of PET data did show any enhanced binding of the 18F-labeled CCR1-antagonist in the brain of AD patients or controls. 18F-ZK811460 did not fulfill the expectation as diagnostic tracer in PET imaging of AD."}
{"id": "22683529", "title": "A highly selective and specific PET tracer for imaging of tau pathologies.", "content": "A highly selective and specific PET tracer for imaging of tau pathologies. Senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles are prominent neuropathological hallmarks in Alzheimer's disease and are considered to be targets for therapeutic intervention as well as biomarkers for diagnostic in vivo imaging agents. While there are a number of amyloid-\u03b2 positron emission tomography (PET) tracers currently in different stages of clinical development and commercialization, there have been very few reports on imaging agents selectively targeting tau aggregates. In search of [18F]-PET tracers that possess great binding affinity and selectivity toward tau tangles, we tested more than 900 compounds utilizing a unique screening process. A competitive autoradiography assay was set up to test compounds for binding to native tau tangles and amyloid-\u03b2 plaques on human brain tissue sections. In our in vitro assays, the 18F labeled compound [18F]-T808 displayed a high level of binding affinity and good selectivity for tau aggregates over amyloid-\u03b2 plaques. [18F]-T808 showed rapid uptake and washout in rodent brains. Our in vitro and preclinical in vivo studies suggest that [18F]-T808 possesses suitable properties and characteristics to be a specific and selective PET probe for imaging of paired helical filament tau in human brains."}
{"id": "22677678", "title": "[The role of brain glucose metabolism in the development of cognitive dysfunctions in patients with remitting and secondary-progressive multiple sclerosis].", "content": "[The role of brain glucose metabolism in the development of cognitive dysfunctions in patients with remitting and secondary-progressive multiple sclerosis]. To study mechanisms of development of cognitive dysfunctions in multiple sclerosis (MS), brain glucose metabolism has been investigated using PET method. We have studied 61 patients with different types of MS course. Correlations between cognitive dysfunctions and regional glucose metabolic rate were revealed. The authors suggest that metabolic dysfunctions of the grey matter play the important role in the pathogenesis of cognitive disturbances in MS."}
{"id": "22669011", "title": "Maternal family history is associated with Alzheimer's disease biomarkers.", "content": "Maternal family history is associated with Alzheimer's disease biomarkers. A family history of Alzheimer's disease (AD) increases one's risk of developing late-onset AD (LOAD), and a maternal family history of LOAD influences risk more than a paternal family history. Accumulating evidence suggests that a family history of dementia associates with AD-typical biomarker changes. We analyzed cross-sectional data from non-demented, mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and LOAD participants in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) with PET imaging using Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB, n = 99) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis (n = 403) for amyloid-\u03b2 peptide (A\u03b2) and total tau. We assessed the relationship of CSF and PiB biomarkers and family history of dementia, as well as parent gender effects. In the larger analysis of CSF biomarkers, we assessed diagnosis groups individually. In the overall sample, CSF A\u03b2, tau/A\u03b2 ratio, and global PiB uptake were significantly different between family history positive and negative groups, with markers of increased AD burden associated with a positive maternal family history of dementia. Moreover, a maternal family history of dementia was associated with significantly greater PiB A\u03b2 load in the brain in the parietal cortex, precuneus, and sensorimotor cortex. Individuals with MCI positive for a maternal family history of dementia had significantly more markers of AD pathophysiology than individuals with no family history of dementia. A family history of dementia is associated with AD-typical biomarker changes. These biomarker associations are most robust in individuals with a maternal family history, suggesting that a maternally inherited factor influences AD risk."}
{"id": "22665688", "title": "Alzheimer's disease: early diagnosis and treatment.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease: early diagnosis and treatment. With ageing of populations, the worldwide population of persons with dementia will reach over 81 million by 2040, of which the most common cause is Alzheimer's disease. In recent years, there have been major advances in the understanding of its pathogenesis, methods to diagnose it, and treatment. Magnetic resonance brain imaging, cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers, and Pittsburgh compound B and fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography of the brain can facilitate an accurate diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease in its early stage, and diagnose the mild cognitive impairment stage of Alzheimer's disease. At present, only symptomatic but not disease-modifying drug treatments are available. Donepezil, rivastigmine and galantamine are the currently approved cholinesterase inhibitors for the treatment of mild, moderate, and severe Alzheimer's disease. Overall, cholinesterase inhibitors show beneficial effects on cognition, activity of daily living, behaviour, and overall clinical rating. Memantine is another symptomatic treatment for moderate-to-severe Alzheimer's disease patients. It has a small beneficial effect on cognition, activity of daily living, behaviour, and overall clinical rating. Vitamin E has antioxidant properties, and may be used in some Alzheimer's disease patients without vascular risk factors. Concurrent non-pharmacological and psychosocial management of patients and their caregivers have a very important role. Disease-modifying therapies are still under development, whilst immunotherapy may be a viable option in the near future."}
{"id": "22661593", "title": "FDA approves 18F-florbetapir PET agent.", "content": "FDA approves 18F-florbetapir PET agent."}
{"id": "22653791", "title": "PET and MRI reveal early evidence of neurodegeneration in spinocerebellar ataxia type 17.", "content": "PET and MRI reveal early evidence of neurodegeneration in spinocerebellar ataxia type 17. Spinocerebellar ataxia type 17 (SCA17) is a rare autosomal dominantly inherited neurodegenerative disorder presenting with a variable phenotype including ataxia, dystonia, chorea, and parkinsonism, as well as cognitive impairment. We evaluated morphologic and functional imaging characteristics to elucidate evidence of neurodegeneration in SCA17, even in the presymptomatic stage of the disease. Nine individuals of 3 large SCA17 pedigrees, including 4 presymptomatic mutation carriers, underwent cranial 3-dimensional MRI volumetry, as well as multitracer PET with (18)F-FDG, (11)C-d-threo-methylphenidate, and (11)C-raclopride. Healthy subjects showing no signs of a neurologic or psychiatric disease served as controls. MRI volumetry revealed atrophy of the cerebellum and caudate nucleus in manifesting patients (P = 0.04 and 0.05, respectively) and in presymptomatic mutation carriers (P = 0.04 and 0.01, respectively). PET demonstrated decreased glucose metabolism in the striatum, as well as in the cuneus, cingulum, and parietal lobe, in all SCA17 patients and presymptomatic mutation carriers. In addition, PET was closely correlated with motor performance as assessed by the Scale for the Assessment and Rating of Ataxia (P = 0.037) and Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (P = 0.05) and with cognitive function as assessed by the Mini-Mental Status Examination (P = 0.037). Furthermore, (11)C-raclopride PET showed impairment of the postsynaptic dopaminergic compartment of the putamen and caudate nucleus not only in manifest SCA17 patients (P = 0.04 and 0.008, respectively) but also in yet-unaffected mutation carriers (P = 0.05 and 0.05, respectively). The degree of postsynaptic dopaminergic dysfunction was associated with impairment of motor performance. In contrast, significant presynaptic dopaminergic deficits assessed with (11)C-d-threo-methylphenidate PET were not detected. MRI volumetry, as well as (11)C-raclopride and (18)F-FDG PET, reveal neuronal dysfunction and neurodegeneration even in the presymptomatic stage and may serve as markers for disease activity in upcoming interventional trials on SCA17."}
{"id": "22651941", "title": "Predictors for cognitive decline in patients with confluent white matter hyperintensities.", "content": "Predictors for cognitive decline in patients with confluent white matter hyperintensities. Although patients harboring confluent white matter hyperintensities (WMH) are at high risk of cognitive decline, this risk varies among individuals. We investigated the predictors for cognitive decline in stroke patients with confluent WMH. We followed up 100 stroke patients with confluent WMH who were participants of the VITAmins TO Prevent Stroke study for 2 years. We investigated the association between clinical features, apolipoprotein E status, imaging measures (infarcts, microbleeds, volumes of WMH, cortical gray matter [cGM], lateral ventricles, and hippocampi), and B vitamins with changes in cognitive measures (clinical dementia rating scale, Mini-Mental State Examination, Mattis dementia rating scale--initiation/perseveration subscale). We performed Pittsburgh compound B imaging among dementia converters. Multivariate regression analysis showed that increase in clinical dementia rating scale grade was associated with cGM atrophy, absence of hyperlipidemia, and lower diastolic blood pressure at baseline. cGM atrophy and absence of hyperlipidemia were also associated with deterioration in Mini-Mental State Examination and Mattis dementia rating scale--initiation/perseveration subscale scores. Pittsburgh compound B retention typical of Alzheimer's disease was found only in 10% of dementia converters. Incident stroke and B vitamins were not associated with cognitive decline. Among stroke patients with confluent WMH, cGM atrophy and absence of hyperlipidemia are important predictors for cognitive decline. Significant cognitive decline can occur in the absence of incident stroke or Alzheimer's pathology."}
{"id": "22647721", "title": "Synthesis and evaluation of pyridylbenzofuran, pyridylbenzothiazole and pyridylbenzoxazole derivatives as \u00b9\u2078F-PET imaging agents for \u03b2-amyloid plaques.", "content": "Synthesis and evaluation of pyridylbenzofuran, pyridylbenzothiazole and pyridylbenzoxazole derivatives as \u00b9\u2078F-PET imaging agents for \u03b2-amyloid plaques. The synthesis and SAR of new \u03b2-amyloid binding agents are reported. Evaluation of important properties for achieving good signal-to-background ratio is described. Compounds 27, 33, and 36 displayed desirable lipophilic and pharmacokinetic properties. Compound 27 was further evaluated with autoradiographic studies in vitro on human brain tissue and in vivo in Tg2576 mice. Compound 27 showed an increased signal-to-background ratio compared to flutemetamol 4, indicating its suitability as PET ligand for \u03b2-amyloid deposits in AD patients. The preparation of the corresponding (18)F-labeled PET radioligand of compound 27 is presented."}
{"id": "22635103", "title": "Human apolipoprotein E2 promotes parenchymal amyloid deposition and neuronal loss in vasculotropic mutant amyloid-\u03b2 protein Tg-SwDI mice.", "content": "Human apolipoprotein E2 promotes parenchymal amyloid deposition and neuronal loss in vasculotropic mutant amyloid-\u03b2 protein Tg-SwDI mice. Human apolipoprotein (ApoE) genotype influences the development of Alzheimer's disease and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA), where the \u03b54 allele increases and the \u03b52 allele decreases the risk for developing disease. Specific mutations within the amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) peptide have been identified that cause familial forms of CAA. However, the influence of APOE genotype on accumulation of CAA mutant A\u03b2 in brain is not well understood. Earlier, we showed that human ApoE4 redistributes fibrillar amyloid deposition from the cerebral microvasculature to parenchymal plaques in Tg-SwDI mice, a model that accumulates human Dutch/Iowa (E22Q/D23N) CAA mutant A\u03b2 in brain (Xu et al., J Neurosci 28, 5312-5320, 2008). Human ApoE2 can reduce A\u03b2 pathology in transgenic models of parenchymal plaques. Here we determined if human ApoE2 can influence the location and severity of amyloid pathology in Tg-SwDI mice. Comparing Tg-SwDI mice bred onto a human APOE2/2 or human APOE4/4 background, we found there was no change in the brain levels of total A\u03b2(40) and A\u03b2(42) compared to mice on the endogenous mouse APOE background. In Tg-SwDI mice on either human APOE background, there was a similarly strong reduction in the levels of microvascular CAA and emergence of extensive parenchymal plaque amyloid. In both Tg-SwDI-hAPOE2/2 and Tg-SwDI-hAPOE4/4 mice, the distribution of ApoE proteins and neuronal loss were associated with parenchymal amyloid plaques. These findings suggest that compared with human ApoE4, human ApoE2 does not beneficially influence the quantitative or spatial accumulation of human Dutch/Iowa CAA mutant amyloid or associated pathology in transgenic mice."}
{"id": "22633443", "title": "Long-term neurotoxic effects of dimethylamine borane intoxication.", "content": "Long-term neurotoxic effects of dimethylamine borane intoxication. To investigate the long-term neurotoxic effects in a patient with acute dimethylamine borane (DMAB) intoxication. A 38-year-old man, working in a semiconductor factory, with acute DMAB intoxication presented with confusion, and drowsiness, followed by cognitive impairments and motor-predominant axonal polyneuropathy. We performed serial neurobehavioral assessments and functional neuroimaging studies, including brain (99m)Tc-TRODAT single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and brain positron emission tomography (PET) scan to monitor the long-term central nervous system (CNS) effects of DMAB intoxication. Neurobehavioral tests revealed a persistent impairment in episodic memory of visual retention semantic category retrieval and working memory of digit span (backward). Brain (99m)Tc-TRODAT SPECT scan showed a lower radioactivity uptake in the left striatum and F-18 FDG PET scan revealed a relatively decreased cerebral metabolism at the anterior cingulate gyrus and both frontal regions. Follow-up neurobehavioral tests showed that the cognitive improvements were mainly documented in intelligence, attention function, conceptual shift, perceptual motor speed, verbal learning and working memory but were limited in visual memory and executive functions. Patients with acute DMAB intoxication may have a long-lasting CNS toxicity on the cognitive dysfunction, parkinsonism, and an impaired metabolic activity of the brain. Clinical improvements may sustain during the long-term follow-up period."}
{"id": "22628162", "title": "Regional dynamics of amyloid-\u03b2 deposition in healthy elderly, mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease: a voxelwise PiB-PET longitudinal study.", "content": "Regional dynamics of amyloid-\u03b2 deposition in healthy elderly, mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease: a voxelwise PiB-PET longitudinal study. Amyloid-\u03b2 deposition in Alzheimer's disease is thought to start while individuals are still cognitively unimpaired and it is hypothesized that after an early phase of fast accumulation, a plateau is reached by the time of cognitive decline. However, few longitudinal Pittsburgh compound B-positron emission tomography studies have tested this hypothesis, and with conflicting results. The purpose of this work is to further our understanding of the dynamics of amyloid-\u03b2 deposition in a large longitudinal cohort. A total of 32 patients with Alzheimer's disease, 49 subjects with mild cognitive impairment and 103 healthy controls underwent two Pittsburgh compound B-positron emission tomography scans 18 months apart. For each participant, a parametric map of Pittsburgh compound B-positron emission tomography rate of change was created [(follow-up scan\u2009-\u2009baseline scan)/follow-up duration] and entered in a voxelwise three-way analysis of covariance, with clinical status (healthy controls, mild cognitive impairment or Alzheimer's disease), disease progression (clinical conversion from healthy controls to mild cognitive impairment or Alzheimer's disease, or from mild cognitive impairment to Alzheimer's disease) and Pittsburgh compound B status (positive versus negative) as independent factors. Only a significant effect of the Pittsburgh compound B status was found: both Pittsburgh compound B-positive and -negative subjects showed a significant increase in amyloid-\u03b2 deposition, with this increase being significantly higher in Pittsburgh compound B-positive individuals. This finding suggests either that Pittsburgh compound B-negative individuals have slower rates of amyloid-\u03b2 accumulation than positive, or that the proportion of individuals showing significant increase in amyloid-\u03b2 deposition, termed 'Pittsburgh compound B accumulators', is higher within the Pittsburgh compound B-positive group than within the Pittsburgh compound B-negative group. The bimodal distribution of the individual rates of neocortical amyloid-\u03b2 accumulation observed support the existence of 'Pittsburgh compound B non-accumulators' and 'Pittsburgh compound B accumulators' and different clustering analyses led to a consistent threshold to separate these two subgroups (0.014-0.022 standardized uptake value ratio(pons)/year). The voxelwise three-way analysis of covariance was thus recomputed with the 'Pittsburgh compound B accumulators' only and the results were almost unchanged, with the Pittsburgh compound B-positive group showing higher accumulation than the Pittsburgh compound B-negative group. Finally, a significant negative correlation was found between Pittsburgh compound B rate of change and Pittsburgh compound B baseline burden, but only in the Pittsburgh compound B-positive group (r=\u2009-0.24; P=0.025). Higher rates of amyloid-\u03b2 deposition are associated with higher amyloid-\u03b2 burden suggesting that amyloid-\u03b2 deposition does not reach a plateau when cognitive impairments manifest but is instead an ongoing process present even at the Alzheimer's disease stage. amyloid-\u03b2 accumulation also seems to slow down at the latest stages of the process, i.e. in participants with the highest amyloid burden. Furthermore, this study identified the existence of Pittsburgh compound 'accumulators' and 'non-accumulators', notably within the Pittsburgh compound B-negative group, which may be a relevant concept for future studies."}
{"id": "22620001", "title": "[Searching for biomarkers to diagnose dementia].", "content": "[Searching for biomarkers to diagnose dementia]. A decrease in the concentration of amyloid beta-protein-42 and an increase in that of tau or phosphorylated tau in addition to volumetry on MRI and amyloid imaging by PET are available biomarkers. However, we need better biomarkers to detect very early stage of Alzheimer disease to develop disease modifying drugs, which should be used 10 or 15 years prior to emergence of clinical symptoms. In terms of biomarkers for other dementing neurodegenerative diseases, including synucleinopathies such as dementia with Lewy bodies and multiple system atrophy, and tauopathies such as progressive supranuclear palsy, corticobasal degeneration, synuclein, TDP-43, progranulin and tau may be candidate proteins for possible biomarkers for these diseases."}
{"id": "22614327", "title": "CSF biomarker associations with change in hippocampal volume and precuneus thickness: implications for the Alzheimer's pathological cascade.", "content": "CSF biomarker associations with change in hippocampal volume and precuneus thickness: implications for the Alzheimer's pathological cascade. Neurofibrillary tangles (NFT) and amyloid plaques are hallmark neuropathological features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). There is some debate as to which neuropathological feature comes first in the disease process, with early autopsy studies suggesting that NFT develop first, and more recent neuroimaging studies supporting the early role of amyloid beta (A\u03b2) deposition. Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers of A\u03b2\u2084\u2082 and hyperphosphorylated tau (p-tau) have been shown to serve as in vivo proxy measures of amyloid plaques and NFT, respectively. The aim of this study was to examine the association between CSF biomarkers and rate of atrophy in the precuneus and hippocampus. These regions were selected because the precuneus appears to be affected early and severely by A\u03b2 deposition, and the hippocampus similarly by NFT pathology. We predicted (1) baseline A\u03b2\u2084\u2082 would be related to accelerated rate of cortical thinning in the precuneus and volume loss in the hippocampus, with the latter relationship expected to be weaker, (2) baseline p-tau(181p) would be related to accelerated rate of hippocampal atrophy and cortical thinning in the precuneus, with the latter relationship expected to be weaker. Using all ADNI cohorts, we fitted separate linear mixed-effects models for changes in hippocampus and precuneus longitudinal outcome measures with baseline CSF biomarkers modeled as predictors. Results partially supported our hypotheses: Both baseline p-tau(181p) and A\u03b2\u2084\u2082 were associated with hippocampal atrophy over time. Neither p-tau(181p) nor A\u03b2\u2084\u2082 were significantly related to cortical thinning in the precuneus over time. However, follow-up analyses demonstrated that having abnormal levels of both A\u03b2\u2084\u2082 and p-tau(181p) was associated with an accelerated rate of atrophy in both the hippocampus and precuneus. Results support early effects of A\u03b2 in the Alzheimer's disease process, which are less apparent than and perhaps dependent on p-tau effects as the disease progresses. However, amyloid deposition alone may be insufficient for emergence of significant morphometric changes and clinical symptoms."}
{"id": "22610458", "title": "Arterial spin labeling MRI: an emerging biomarker for Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative conditions.", "content": "Arterial spin labeling MRI: an emerging biomarker for Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative conditions. The search for biomarkers that detect and track disease progression in early Alzheimer's disease has been a major pursuit for two decades. Functional measures reflecting alterations of synaptic activity associated with neuronal dysfunction have displayed promise for following disease course in early stages. Although fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET) and blood oxygen level-dependent functional MRI (BOLD fMRI) have been studied extensively for this purpose, this review will discuss the emergence and potential role of arterial spin labeling (ASL) MRI, which measures cerebral blood flow (CBF), in neurodegeneration. Several recent studies have explored ASL MRI in early and prodromal Alzheimer's disease and have reported areas of hypoperfusion that overlap considerably with hypometabolism frequently reported with FDG PET. However, some studies have also noted increased regional CBF of patients with prodromal and early stage clinical Alzheimer's disease, which may have implications for pathophysiology and the role of compensatory responses to neurodegeneration. Additionally, a few recent studies have begun to use this modality to explore the role of cerebrovascular factors in cognitive decline and the relationship to Alzheimer's disease. ASL MRI is just beginning to be applied more widely to various neurodegenerative conditions. Initial data suggest that this methodology may provide similar information to FDG PET, but with several advantages in the ease of acquisition and expense. Additional applications of this modality, including task-related studies and testing of pharmacological effects, are underexplored, but are potentially of significant value in understanding disease-related functional changes and treatment effects."}
{"id": "22596267", "title": "[11C]-MP4A PET cholinergic measurements in amnestic mild cognitive impairment, probable Alzheimer's disease, and dementia with Lewy bodies: a Bayesian method and voxel-based analysis.", "content": "[11C]-MP4A PET cholinergic measurements in amnestic mild cognitive impairment, probable Alzheimer's disease, and dementia with Lewy bodies: a Bayesian method and voxel-based analysis. Non-invasive approaches for positron emission tomography (PET) parametric imaging of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity have been developed and applied to the investigation of dementia, mainly Alzheimer's disease (AD), but also dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), not including, however, patients in the early disease stage. The few cholinergic PET studies on mild cognitive impairment (MCI) did not provide clinical follow-up. One limitation of the methods used so far is the relatively low sensitivity in measuring subcortical or deep cortical structures, which might represent specific disease markers. Here we assessed AChE activity with [11C]-MP4A and PET by a maximum a posteriori Bayesian method (MAPB) based on a 2-tissue compartment-3-rate-constant reference region model. 30 subjects were included: 10 multi-domain amnestic MCI (aMCI) with a follow up of 2 years, 7 probable AD (pAD), 4 DLB subjects, and 9 healthy controls. Regions of interest and voxel-based statistical parametric mapping analyses revealed significant and widespread AChE reductions in several cortical regions and in the hippocampus in all pAD subjects and aMCI subjects who progressed to AD (converters). Noteworthy, hippocampal AChE activity correlated significantly with long-term verbal and non-verbal memory in both aMCI converters and pAD. The pattern was more heterogeneous in early DLB patients, with only 2 out of 4 cases showing a severe or intermediate reduction of AChE activity. The comparable AChE reductions in pAD and aMCI converters indicate the presence of a widespread impairment of the cholinergic system already in the MCI phase. A more variable degree of cholinergic dysfunction is present in early DLB."}
{"id": "22592807", "title": "Suppression of myocardial 18F-FDG uptake with a preparatory \"Atkins-style\" low-carbohydrate diet.", "content": "Suppression of myocardial 18F-FDG uptake with a preparatory \"Atkins-style\" low-carbohydrate diet. Physiological myocardial uptake of 18F-FDG during positron emission tomography can mask adjacent abnormal uptake in mediastinal malignancy and inflammatory cardiac diseases. Myocardial uptake is unpredictable and variable. This study evaluates the impact of a low-carbohydrate diet in reducing myocardial FDG uptake. Patients attending for clinically indicated oncological FDG PET were asked to have an \"Atkins-style\" low-carbohydrate diet (less than 3\u00a0g) the day before examination and an overnight fast. A total of 120 patients following low-carbohydrate diet plus overnight fast were compared with 120 patients prepared by overnight fast alone. Patients having an Atkins-style diet also completed a diet compliance questionnaire. SUV(max) and SUV(mean) for myocardium, blood pool and liver were measured in both groups. Myocardial SUV(max) fell from 3.53\u2009\u00b1\u20092.91 in controls to 1.77\u2009\u00b1\u20090.91 in the diet-compliant group. 98\u00a0% of diet-compliant patients had a myocardial SUV(max) less than 3.6 compared with 67\u00a0% of controls. Liver and blood pool SUV(max) rose from 2.68\u2009\u00b1\u20090.49 and 1.82\u2009\u00b1\u20090.30 in the control group to 3.14\u2009\u00b1\u20090.57 and 2.06\u2009\u00b1\u20090.30. An Atkins-style diet the day before PET, together with an overnight fast, effectively suppresses myocardial FDG uptake. \u2022 Low-carbohydrate diet (LCD) the day before PET suppresses myocardial FDG uptake. \u2022 LCD before PET increases liver and blood pool SUV ( max ) and SUV ( mean ). \u2022 Suppression of myocardial uptake may improve PET imaging of thoracic disease. \u2022 Suppression of myocardial uptake may help imaging cardiac inflammatory disease with PET."}
{"id": "22588188", "title": "No evidence for additional blood-brain barrier P-glycoprotein dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease patients with microbleeds.", "content": "No evidence for additional blood-brain barrier P-glycoprotein dysfunction in Alzheimer's disease patients with microbleeds. Decreased blood-brain barrier P-glycoprotein (Pgp) function has been shown in Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients using positron emission tomography (PET) with the radiotracer (R)-[(11)C]verapamil. Decreased Pgp function has also been hypothesized to promote cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) development. Here, we used PET and (R)-[(11)C]verapamil to assess Pgp function in eighteen AD patients, of which six had microbleeds (MBs), presumably reflecting underlying CAA. No differences were found in binding potential and nonspecific volume of distribution of (R)-[(11)C]verapamil between patient groups. These results provide no evidence for additional Pgp dysfunction in AD patients with MBs."}
{"id": "22588187", "title": "Optimization of supervised cluster analysis for extracting reference tissue input curves in (R)-[(11)C]PK11195 brain PET studies.", "content": "Optimization of supervised cluster analysis for extracting reference tissue input curves in (R)-[(11)C]PK11195 brain PET studies. Performance of two supervised cluster analysis (SVCA) algorithms for extracting reference tissue curves was evaluated to improve quantification of dynamic (R)-[(11)C]PK11195 brain positron emission tomography (PET) studies. Reference tissues were extracted from images using both a manually defined cerebellum and SVCA algorithms based on either four (SVCA4) or six (SVCA6) kinetic classes. Data from controls, mild cognitive impairment patients, and patients with Alzheimer's disease were analyzed using various kinetic models including plasma input, the simplified reference tissue model (RPM) and RPM with vascular correction (RPMV(b)). In all subject groups, SVCA-based reference tissue curves showed lower blood volume fractions (V(b)) and volume of distributions than those based on cerebellum time-activity curve. Probably resulting from the presence of specific signal from the vessel walls that contains in normal condition a significant concentration of the 18\u2009kDa translocation protein. Best contrast between subject groups was seen using SVCA4-based reference tissues as the result of a lower number of kinetic classes and the prior removal of extracerebral tissues. In addition, incorporation of V(b) in RPM improved both parametric images and binding potential contrast between groups. Incorporation of V(b) within RPM, together with SVCA4, appears to be the method of choice for analyzing cerebral (R)-[(11)C]PK11195 neurodegeneration studies."}
{"id": "22583523", "title": "Collateral perfusion: time for novel paradigms in cerebral ischemia.", "content": "Collateral perfusion: time for novel paradigms in cerebral ischemia. Collateral circulation and associated potential compensation in downstream perfusion have been recognized long before arterial occlusions were known to cause ischemic stroke. Arterial aspects and the venous capacity of collaterals to offset potentially devastating effects of blocking a cerebral artery have been studied in various animal species and even human populations with stroke, providing a framework for translational research. The time has come for collaterals to move from the periphery to a central position in stroke therapeutics, propelled by the momentum of imaging data and culminating in novel paradigms with respect to time, imaging approaches and treatment strategies. It is time for a concerted focus on collateral perfusion to harness potential therapeutic advances from acute stroke to chronic cerebrovascular disorders."}
{"id": "22580170", "title": "Combining MRI and CSF measures for classification of Alzheimer's disease and prediction of mild cognitive impairment conversion.", "content": "Combining MRI and CSF measures for classification of Alzheimer's disease and prediction of mild cognitive impairment conversion. The suggested revision of the NINCDS-ADRDA criterion for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) includes at least one abnormal biomarker among magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). We aimed to investigate if the combination of baseline MRI and CSF could enhance the classification of AD compared to using either alone and predict mild cognitive impairment (MCI) conversion at multiple future time points. 369 subjects from the Alzheimer's disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) were included in the study (AD=96, MCI=162 and CTL=111). Freesurfer was used to generate regional subcortical volumes and cortical thickness measures. A total of 60 variables were used for orthogonal partial least squares to latent structures (OPLS) multivariate analysis (57 MRI measures and 3 CSF measures: A\u03b2(42), t-tau and p-tau). Combining MRI and CSF gave the best results for distinguishing AD vs. CTL. We found an accuracy of 91.8% for the combined model at baseline compared to 81.6% for CSF measures and 87.0% for MRI measures alone. The combined model also gave the best accuracy when distinguishing between MCI vs. CTL (77.6%) at baseline. MCI subjects who converted to AD by 12 and 18month follow-up were accurately predicted at baseline using an AD vs. CTL model (82.9% and 86.4% respectively), with lower prediction accuracies for those MCI subjects converting by 24 and 36month follow up (75.4% and 68.0% respectively). The overall prediction accuracies for converters and non-converters ranged from 58.6% to 66.4% at different time points. Combining MRI and CSF measures in a multivariate model at baseline gave better accuracy for discriminating between AD and CTL, between MCI and CTL and for predicting future conversion from MCI to AD, than using either MRI or CSF separately."}
{"id": "22577238", "title": "Initial clinical comparison of 18F-florbetapir and 18F-FDG PET in patients with Alzheimer disease and controls.", "content": "Initial clinical comparison of 18F-florbetapir and 18F-FDG PET in patients with Alzheimer disease and controls. The purpose of this study was to determine how clinical interpretations of the (18)F-amyloid tracer florbetapir compares diagnostically with (18)F-FDG PET when evaluating patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) and controls. Nineteen patients with a clinical diagnosis of AD and 21 elderly controls were evaluated with both (18)F-florbetapir and (18)F-FDG PET scans. Scans were interpreted together by 2 expert readers masked to any case information and were assessed for tracer binding patterns consistent with AD. The criteria for interpreting the (18)F-florbetapir scan as positive for AD was the presence of binding in the cortical regions relative to the cerebellum. (18)F-FDG PET scans were interpreted as positive if they displayed the classic pattern of hypometabolism in the temporoparietal regions. Scans were interpreted as either positive or negative for AD. In addition, a relative scoring system was used to assess the degree of either hypometabolism or amyloid binding in specified regions. The metabolism and amyloid binding scores for each region were compared across subjects. An overall ratio was calculated on the basis of values in regions expected to be affected by AD and those not expected to be affected. The metabolic ratio and amyloid ratio were then correlated with the mini-mental status examination (MMSE) score. The sensitivity and specificity, compared with the clinical diagnosis of AD or controls, for the (18)F-florbetapir scans were 95% and 95%, respectively, and for the (18)F-FDG scans 89% and 86%, respectively. When a comparison with MMSE scores was made, (18)F-FDG significantly correlated with MMSE when both controls and AD patients were included (r = 0.79, P < 0.0001) and in AD patients alone (r = 0.70, P = 0.001). The (18)F-florbetapir scores significantly correlated with MMSE scores only when both controls and AD patients were included (r = 0.62, P < 0.001) but not in the AD group alone (r = 0.12, P = 0.66). Overall, both scans performed well in detecting AD in patients with known clinical AD. Both scans correlated well with cognitive status as determined by MMSE when the entire cohort of controls and AD patients was evaluated. However, only the (18)F-FDG scans correlated with cognitive status when AD patients were evaluated separately."}
{"id": "22572706", "title": "Amyloid deposition after cerebral hypoperfusion: evidenced on [(18)F]AV-45 positron emission tomography.", "content": "Amyloid deposition after cerebral hypoperfusion: evidenced on [(18)F]AV-45 positron emission tomography. Animal studies have shown that cerebral hypoperfusion may be associated with amyloid plaque accumulation. Amyloid plaque is known to be associated with dementia and [(18)F]AV-45 is a positron emission tomography (PET) ligand that binds to extracelluar plaques. We hypothesized that demented patients with cerebral hypoperfusion may have increased [(18)F]AV-45 uptake. Five demented patients with cerebral hypoperfusion due to unilateral carotid artery stenosis (CAS) were examined with [(18)F]AV-45 PET, and the results were compared with six elderly controls. The standard uptake value ratio (SUVR) of each region of interest (ROI) was created using whole cerebellum as the reference region. All subjects underwent magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) for obtaining structural information. Patients with dementia and unilateral CAS had a higher global [(18)F]AV-45 SUVR (1.34 \u00b1 0.06) as compared with controls (1.10 \u00b1 0.04, p=0.0043), especially over the frontal, temporal, precuneus, anterior cingulate and occipital regions. The statistical distribution maps revealed a significantly increased [(18)F]AV-45 SUVR in the medial frontal, caudate, thalamus, posterior cingulate, occipital and middle and superior temporal regions ipsilateral to the side of CAS (p<0.01). The present study found that cerebral [(18)F]AV-45 binding is increased in demented patients with CAS, and its distribution is lateralized to the CAS side, suggesting that amyloid-related dementia may occur under cerebral hypoperfusion."}
{"id": "22570063", "title": "[Biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease: after Alzheimer's disease neuroimaging initiative studies].", "content": "[Biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease: after Alzheimer's disease neuroimaging initiative studies]. Recent advances in biomarker studies compiled from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) are summarized here. CSF A\u03b242, total tau, and phosphorylated tau181 are the most sensitive biomarkers for diagnosing Alzheimer's disease (AD) and predicting the onset of AD in cases with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to AD. Many perspective studies on PiB-PET, FDG-PET, MRI volumetry, and some neuropsychiatric tests have provided evidence for the usefulness of these biomarkers for diagnosing AD and MCI due to AD. Basic and clinical studies have contributed considerably to the establishment of clinical evidence that supports the usefulness of these markers. Given the progress in the diagnosis of preclinical AD, discovery of therapy that is essential for the cure of AD is expected soon."}
{"id": "22569194", "title": "Heterogeneity of cholinergic denervation in Parkinson's disease without dementia.", "content": "Heterogeneity of cholinergic denervation in Parkinson's disease without dementia. Parkinson's disease (PD) is a multisystem neurodegenerative disorder. Heterogeneous clinical features may reflect heterogeneous changes in different brain regions. In contrast to the pronounced nigrostriatal denervation characteristic of PD, cholinergic changes are less marked. We investigated cholinergic innervation activity in PD subjects relative to normal subjects. Nondemented PD subjects (n=101, age 65.3\u00b17.2 years) and normal subjects (n=29, age 66.8\u00b110.9 years) underwent clinical assessment and [(11)C]methyl-4-piperidinyl propionate acetylcholinesterase and [(11)C]dihydrotetrabenazine monoaminergic positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. Cholinergic projection changes were heterogeneous for 65 out of 101 PD subjects who had neocortical and thalamic acetylcholinesterase activity within the normal range. The remainder had combined neocortical and thalamic (13/101), isolated neocortical (18/101), or isolated thalamic (5/101) acetylcholinesterase activity below the normal range. The low neocortical acetylcholinesterase activity subgroup had significantly lower global cognitive performance compared with the normal range subgroup (F=7.64, P=0.0069) with an independent effect for nigrostriatal denervation (F=7.60, P=0.0074). The low thalamic acetylcholinesterase activity subgroup did not differ from the normal thalamic acetylcholinesterase activity subgroup in cognitive performance or motor impairments except for a history of falls (P=0.0023). Cholinergic denervation is heterogeneous with reduced neocortical and/or thalamic acetylcholinesterase activity in 36% of nondemented PD subjects with corresponding clinical phenotypic variation. Results also show independent cognitive effects for both cholinergic and dopaminergic system changes in nondemented PD subjects."}
{"id": "22566505", "title": "Increased cerebral metabolism after 1 year of deep brain stimulation in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Increased cerebral metabolism after 1 year of deep brain stimulation in Alzheimer disease. The importance of developing unique, neural circuitry-based treatments for the cognitive and neuropsychiatric symptoms of Alzheimer disease (AD) was the impetus for a phase I study of deep brain stimulation (DBS) in patients with AD that targeted the fornix. To test the hypotheses that DBS would increase cerebral glucose metabolism in cortical and hippocampal circuits and that increased metabolism would be correlated with better clinical outcomes. Open-label trial. Academic medical center. A total of 5 patients with mild, probable AD (1 woman and 4 men, with a mean [SD] age of 62.6 [4.2] years). Deep brain stimulation of the fornix. All patients underwent clinical follow-up and high-resolution positron emission tomography studies of cerebral glucose metabolism after 1 year of DBS. Functional connectivity analyses revealed that 1 year of DBS increased cerebral glucose metabolism in 2 orthogonal networks: a frontal-temporal-parietal-striatal-thalamic network and a frontal-temporal-parietal-occipital-hippocampal network. In similar cortical regions, higher baseline metabolism prior to DBS and increased metabolism after 1 year of DBS were correlated with better outcomes in global cognition, memory, and quality of life. Increased connectivity after 1 year of DBS is observed, which is in contrast to the decreased connectivity observed over the course of AD. The persistent cortical metabolic increases after 1 year of DBS were associated with better clinical outcomes in this patient sample and are greater in magnitude and more extensive in the effects on cortical circuitry compared with the effects reported for pharmacotherapy over 1 year in AD."}
{"id": "22563077", "title": "Exercise is more effective than diet control in preventing high fat diet-induced \u03b2-amyloid deposition and memory deficit in amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice.", "content": "Exercise is more effective than diet control in preventing high fat diet-induced \u03b2-amyloid deposition and memory deficit in amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice. Accumulating evidence suggests that some dietary patterns, specifically high fat diet (HFD), increase the risk of developing sporadic Alzheimer disease (AD). Thus, interventions targeting HFD-induced metabolic dysfunctions may be effective in preventing the development of AD. We previously demonstrated that amyloid precursor protein (APP)-overexpressing transgenic mice fed HFD showed worsening of cognitive function when compared with control APP mice on normal diet. Moreover, we reported that voluntary exercise ameliorates HFD-induced memory impairment and \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) deposition. In the present study, we conducted diet control to ameliorate the metabolic abnormality caused by HFD on APP transgenic mice and compared the effect of diet control on cognitive function with that of voluntary exercise as well as that of combined (diet control plus exercise) treatment. Surprisingly, we found that exercise was more effective than diet control, although both exercise and diet control ameliorated HFD-induced memory deficit and A\u03b2 deposition. The production of A\u03b2 was not different between the exercise- and the diet control-treated mice. On the other hand, exercise specifically strengthened the activity of neprilysin, the A\u03b2-degrading enzyme, the level of which was significantly correlated with that of deposited A\u03b2 in our mice. Notably, the effect of the combination treatment (exercise and diet control) on memory and amyloid pathology was not significantly different from that of exercise alone. These studies provide solid evidence that exercise is a useful intervention to rescue HFD-induced aggravation of cognitive decline in transgenic model mice of AD."}
{"id": "22560596", "title": "Stromal cell-derived factor 1\u03b1 decreases \u03b2-amyloid deposition in Alzheimer's disease mouse model.", "content": "Stromal cell-derived factor 1\u03b1 decreases \u03b2-amyloid deposition in Alzheimer's disease mouse model. \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) aggregates are known to induce neuronal and synaptic dysfunction, and thus are involved in learning and memory deficits in Alzheimer's disease (AD), making A\u03b2 deposits a potential target for prevention or treatment. Microglia, especially bone marrow-derived microglia (BMDM), has been recently thought to play important roles in internalizing and phagocytozing A\u03b2. BMDM originate in the bone marrow, migrate into the blood as hematopoietic progenitor cells (HPCs) and enter the brain in a chemokine-dependent manner. An effective chemoattractant for HPCs is stromal cell-derived factor 1 (SDF-1), which is also involved in regulating HPCs differentiation. Therefore, we hypothesize that SDF-1 might have influence on the migration of BMDM from peripheral cycle to brain. To explore whether treatment with SDF-1\u03b1 can decrease A\u03b2 burden, APP/PS1 double transgenic mice were given intracerebroventricular injection of SDF-1\u03b1 weekly from the age of 28 to 32 weeks (4 weeks of injections) or from 28 to 36 weeks (8 weeks of injections). The results of our study showed that SDF-1\u03b1 treatment decreased the area and the number of A\u03b2 deposits, increased the level of Iba-1, a marker of microglia, and increased the number of plaque associated microglia in the parenchyma of APP/PS1 transgenic mice. These results suggest that SDF-1 could provide a novel and promising target for the purpose of lowering A\u03b2 pathology in AD."}
{"id": "22560011", "title": "[For a new definition of the Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[For a new definition of the Alzheimer's disease]."}
{"id": "22558216", "title": "Electromagnetic treatment to old Alzheimer's mice reverses \u03b2-amyloid deposition, modifies cerebral blood flow, and provides selected cognitive benefit.", "content": "Electromagnetic treatment to old Alzheimer's mice reverses \u03b2-amyloid deposition, modifies cerebral blood flow, and provides selected cognitive benefit. Few studies have investigated physiologic and cognitive effects of \"long-term\" electromagnetic field (EMF) exposure in humans or animals. Our recent studies have provided initial insight into the long-term impact of adulthood EMF exposure (GSM, pulsed/modulated, 918 MHz, 0.25-1.05 W/kg) by showing 6+ months of daily EMF treatment protects against or reverses cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's transgenic (Tg) mice, while even having cognitive benefit to normal mice. Mechanistically, EMF-induced cognitive benefits involve suppression of brain \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) aggregation/deposition in Tg mice and brain mitochondrial enhancement in both Tg and normal mice. The present study extends this work by showing that daily EMF treatment given to very old (21-27 month) Tg mice over a 2-month period reverses their very advanced brain A\u03b2 aggregation/deposition. These very old Tg mice and their normal littermates together showed an increase in general memory function in the Y-maze task, although not in more complex tasks. Measurement of both body and brain temperature at intervals during the 2-month EMF treatment, as well as in a separate group of Tg mice during a 12-day treatment period, revealed no appreciable increases in brain temperature (and no/slight increases in body temperature) during EMF \"ON\" periods. Thus, the neuropathologic/cognitive benefits of EMF treatment occur without brain hyperthermia. Finally, regional cerebral blood flow in cerebral cortex was determined to be reduced in both Tg and normal mice after 2 months of EMF treatment, most probably through cerebrovascular constriction induced by freed/disaggregated A\u03b2 (Tg mice) and slight body hyperthermia during \"ON\" periods. These results demonstrate that long-term EMF treatment can provide general cognitive benefit to very old Alzheimer's Tg mice and normal mice, as well as reversal of advanced A\u03b2 neuropathology in Tg mice without brain heating. Results further underscore the potential for EMF treatment against AD."}
{"id": "22556189", "title": "Amyloid burden and metabolic function in early-onset Alzheimer's disease: parietal lobe involvement.", "content": "Amyloid burden and metabolic function in early-onset Alzheimer's disease: parietal lobe involvement. Alzheimer's disease with early onset often presents with a distinct cognitive profile, potentially reflecting a different distribution of underlying neuropathology. The purpose of this study was to examine the relationships between age and both in vivo fibrillary amyloid deposition and glucose metabolism in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Dynamic [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound-B (90 min) and static [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (15 min) scans were obtained in 100 patients with Alzheimer's disease and 20 healthy controls. Parametric non-displaceable binding potential images of [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound-B and standardized uptake value ratio images of [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose were generated using cerebellar grey matter as reference tissue. Nine [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound-B-negative patients were excluded. The remaining patients were categorized into younger (n=45, age: 56 \u00b1 4 years) and older (n=46, age: 69 \u00b1 5 years) groups, based on the median age (62 years) at time of diagnosis. Younger patients showed more severe impairment on visuo-spatial function, attention and executive function composite scores (P<0.05), while we found a trend towards poorer memory performance for older patients (P=0.11). Differences between groups were assessed using a general linear model with repeated measures (gender adjusted) with age as between subjects factor, region (frontal, temporal, parietal and occipital and posterior cingulate cortices) as within subjects factor and [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound-B binding/[(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose uptake as dependent variables. There was no main effect of age for [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound-B or [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose, suggesting that overall, the extent of amyloid deposition or glucose hypometabolism did not differ between groups. Regional distributions of [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound-B binding and [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose uptake (both P for interaction <0.05) differed between groups, however, largely due to increased [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound-B binding and decreased [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose uptake in the parietal cortex of younger patients (both P<0.05). Linear regression analyses showed negative associations between visuo-spatial functioning and parietal [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound-B binding for younger patients (standardized \u03b2: -0.37) and between visuo-spatial functioning and occipital binding for older patients (standardized \u03b2: -0.39). For [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose, associations were found between parietal uptake with visuo-spatial (standardized \u03b2: 0.55), attention (standardized \u03b2: 0.39) and executive functioning (standardized \u03b2: 0.37) in younger patients, and between posterior cingulate uptake and memory in older patients (standardized \u03b2: 0.41, all P<0.05). These in vivo findings suggest that clinical differences between younger and older patients with Alzheimer's disease are not restricted to topographical differentiation in downstream processes but may originate from distinctive distributions of early upstream events. As such, increased amyloid burden, together with metabolic dysfunction, in the parietal lobe of younger patients with Alzheimer's disease may contribute to the distinct cognitive profile in these patients."}
{"id": "22555074", "title": "Radioactive agent approved as part of Alzheimer disease workup.", "content": "Radioactive agent approved as part of Alzheimer disease workup."}
{"id": "22551733", "title": "Short-term clinical outcomes for stages of NIA-AA preclinical Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Short-term clinical outcomes for stages of NIA-AA preclinical Alzheimer disease. Recommendations for the diagnosis of preclinical Alzheimer disease (AD) have been formulated by a workgroup of the National Institute on Aging and Alzheimer's Association. Three stages of preclinical AD were described. Stage 1 is characterized by abnormal levels of \u03b2-amyloid. Stage 2 represents abnormal levels of \u03b2-amyloid and evidence of brain neurodegeneration. Stage 3 includes the features of stage 2 plus subtle cognitive changes. Stage 0, not explicitly defined in the criteria, represents subjects with normal biomarkers and normal cognition. The ability of the recommended criteria to predict progression to cognitive impairment is the crux of their validity. Using previously developed operational definitions of the 3 stages of preclinical AD, we examined the outcomes of subjects from the Mayo Clinic Study of Aging diagnosed as cognitively normal who underwent brain MRI or [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose and Pittsburgh compound B PET, had global cognitive test scores, and were followed for at least 1 year. Of the 296 initially normal subjects, 31 (10%) progressed to a diagnosis of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or dementia (27 amnestic MCI, 2 nonamnestic MCI, and 2 non-AD dementias) within 1 year. The proportion of subjects who progressed to MCI or dementia increased with advancing stage (stage 0, 5%; stage 1, 11%; stage 2, 21%; stage 3, 43%; test for trend, p < 0.001). Despite the short follow-up period, our operationalization of the new preclinical AD recommendations confirmed that advancing preclinical stage led to higher proportions of subjects who progressed to MCI or dementia."}
{"id": "22551199", "title": "Positron emission tomography shows elevated cannabinoid CB1 receptor binding in men with alcohol dependence.", "content": "Positron emission tomography shows elevated cannabinoid CB1 receptor binding in men with alcohol dependence. Several lines of evidence link cannabinoid (CB) type 1 (CB (1) ) receptor-mediated endogenous CB (eCB) signaling to the etiology of alcohol dependence (AD). However, to date, only peripheral measures of eCB function have been collected in living humans with AD and no human in vivo data on the potentially critical role of the brain CB (1) receptor in AD have been published. This is an important gap in the literature, because recent therapeutic developments suggest that these receptors could be targeted for the treatment for AD. Medication-free participants were scanned during early abstinence 4\u00a0weeks after their last drink. Using positron emission tomography (PET) with a high-resolution research tomograph and the CB (1) receptor selective radiotracer [(11) C]OMAR, we determined [(11) C]OMAR volume of distribution ( V (T) ) values, a measure of CB (1) receptor density, in a priori selected brain regions in men with AD (n\u00a0=\u00a08, age 37.4\u00a0\u00b1\u00a07.9\u00a0years; 5 smokers) and healthy control (HC) men (n\u00a0=\u00a08, age 32.5\u00a0\u00b1\u00a06.9\u00a0years; all nonsmokers). PET images reconstructed using the MOLAR algorithm with hardware motion correction were rigidly aligned to the subject-specific magnetic resonance (MR) image, which in turn was warped to an MR template. Time-activity curves (TACs) were extracted from the dynamic PET data using a priori selected regions of interest delineated in the MR template space. In AD relative to HC, [(11) C]OMAR V (T) values were elevated by approximately 20% (p\u00a0=\u00a00.023) in a circuit, including the amygdala, hippocampus, putamen, insula, anterior and posterior cingulate cortices, and orbitofrontal cortex. Age, body mass index, or smoking status did not influence the outcome. These findings agree with preclinical evidence and provide the first, albeit still preliminary in vivo evidence suggesting a role for brain CB (1) receptors in AD. The current study design does not answer the important question of whether elevated CB (1) receptors are a preexisting vulnerability factor for AD or whether elevations develop as a consequence of AD."}
{"id": "22541290", "title": "Neurological phenotypes for Down syndrome across the life span.", "content": "Neurological phenotypes for Down syndrome across the life span. This chapter reviews the neurological phenotype of Down syndrome (DS) in early development, childhood, and aging. Neuroanatomic abnormalities in DS are manifested as aberrations in gross brain structure as well as characteristic microdysgenetic changes. As the result of these morphological abnormalities, brain circuitry is impaired. While an intellectual disability is ubiquitous in DS, there is a wide range of variation in cognitive performance and a growing understanding between aberrant brain circuitry and the cognitive phenotype. Hypotonia is most marked at birth, affecting gait and ligamentous laxity. Seizures are bimodal in presentation with infantile spasms common in infancy and generalized seizures associated with cognitive decline observed in later years. While all individuals have the characteristic neuropathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD) by age 40 years, the prevalence of dementia is not universal. The tendency to develop AD is related, in part, to several genes on chromosome 21 that are overexpressed in DS. Intraneuronal accumulation of \u03b2-amyloid appears to trigger a cascade of neurodegeneration resulting in the neuropathological and clinical manifestations of dementia. Functional brain imaging has elucidated the temporal sequence of amyloid deposition and glucose metabolic rate in the development of dementia in DS. Mitochondrial abnormalities contribute to oxidative stress which is part of AD pathogenesis in DS as well as AD in the general population. A variety of medical comorbidities threaten cognitive performance including sleep apnea, abnormalities in thyroid metabolism, and behavioral disturbances. Mouse models for DS are providing a platform for the formulation of clinical trials with intervention targeted to synaptic plasticity, brain biochemistry, and morphological brain alterations."}
{"id": "22539565", "title": "IgA NMDA receptor antibodies are markers of synaptic immunity in slow cognitive impairment.", "content": "IgA NMDA receptor antibodies are markers of synaptic immunity in slow cognitive impairment. To report that antibodies to synaptic proteins may occur in association with slow, progressive cognitive decline. A total of 24 patients with progressive cognitive dysfunction of unclear etiology were examined for onconeuronal and synaptic receptor antibodies. The effect of serum was examined in cultures of dissociated mouse hippocampal neurons. Seven patients had immunoglobulin A (IgA), but no immunoglobulin G (IgG), antibodies against NMDA receptor (NMDAR). Anti-NMDAR IgA positive patients' serum, but not serum from control individuals, caused dramatic decrease of the levels of NMDAR and other synaptic proteins in neurons, along with prominent changes in NMDAR-mediated currents. These effects correlated with the titer of IgA NMDAR antibodies and were reversed after removing patients' serum from the culture media. When available, comprehensive clinical assessment and brain metabolic imaging showed neurologic improvement after immunotherapy. A subset of patients with slowly progressive cognitive impairment has an underlying synaptic autoimmunity that decreases the density of NMDAR and other synaptic proteins, and alters synaptic currents. This autoimmunity can be demonstrated examining patients' serum and CSF for NMDAR IgA antibodies, identifying possible candidates for immunotherapy."}
{"id": "22531413", "title": "Cortical thinning in subcortical vascular dementia with negative 11C-PiB PET.", "content": "Cortical thinning in subcortical vascular dementia with negative 11C-PiB PET. To determine the existence of cortical thinning in subcortical vascular dementia (SVaD) with a negative 11C-Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) positron emission tomography scan and to compare the topography of cortical thinning between PiB-negative SVaD and Alzheimer's disease (AD), we enrolled 24 patients with PiB(-) SVaD, 81 clinically probable AD individuals, and 72 normal cognitive controls. Compared with controls, cortical thinning in PiB(-) SVaD was most profound in the perisylvian area, medial prefrontal area, and posterior cingulate gyri, while the precuneus and medial temporal lobes were relatively spared. When the cortical thickness of AD and PiB(-) SVaD were directly compared, PiB(-) SVaD demonstrated significant cortical thinning in the bilateral inferior frontal, superior temporal gyri, and right medial frontal and orbitofrontal lobes, while AD showed significant cortical thinning in the right medial temporal region. SVaD without amyloid burden may lead to substantial cortical atrophy. Moreover, characteristic topography of cortical thinning in PiB(-) SVaD suggests different mechanisms of cortical thinning in PiB(-) SVaD and AD."}
{"id": "22529246", "title": "CSF biomarkers for secondary prevention trials: why markers of amyloid deposition and neurodegeneration are both important.", "content": "CSF biomarkers for secondary prevention trials: why markers of amyloid deposition and neurodegeneration are both important."}
{"id": "22528111", "title": "Tissue processing prior to analysis of Alzheimer's disease associated proteins and metabolites, including A\u03b2.", "content": "Tissue processing prior to analysis of Alzheimer's disease associated proteins and metabolites, including A\u03b2. Amyloid-containing tissue, whether from human patients or an animal model of a disease, is typically characterized by various biochemical and immunohistochemical techniques, many of which are described in detail in this volume. In this chapter, we describe a straightforward technique for the homogenization of tissue prior to these analyses. The technique is particularly well suited for performing a large number of different biochemical analyses on a single mouse brain hemisphere. Starting with this homogenate multiple characterizations can be done, including western blot analysis and isolation of membrane-associated proteins, both of which are described here. Additional analyses can readily be performed on the tissue homogenate, including the ELISA quantitation of A\u03b2 in the brain of a transgenic mouse model of \u03b2-amyloid deposition. The ELISA technique is described in detail in Chapter 34."}
{"id": "22526956", "title": "18F-FDG PET uptake in the pre-Huntington disease caudate affects the time-to-onset independently of CAG expansion size.", "content": "18F-FDG PET uptake in the pre-Huntington disease caudate affects the time-to-onset independently of CAG expansion size. To test in a longitudinal follow-up study whether basal glucose metabolism in subjects with a genetic risk of Huntington disease (HD) may influence the onset of manifest symptoms. The study group comprised 43 presymptomatic (preHD) subjects carrying the HD mutation. They underwent a (18)F-FDG PET scan and were prospectively followed-up for at least 5 years using the unified HD rating scale to detect clinical changes. Multiple regression analysis included subject's age, CAG mutation size and glucose uptake as variables in a model to predict age at onset. Of the 43 preHD subjects who manifested motor symptoms, suggestive of HD, after 5 years from the PET scan, 26 showed a mean brain glucose uptake below the cut-off of 1.0493 in the caudate, significantly lower than the 17 preHD subjects who remained symptom-free (P < 0.0001). This difference was independent of mutation size. Measurement of brain glucose uptake improved the CAG repeat number and age-based model for predicting age at onset by 37 %. A reduced level of glucose metabolism in the brain caudate may represent a predisposing factor that contributes to the age at onset of HD in preHD subjects, in addition to the mutation size."}
{"id": "22522445", "title": "Symptoms of rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder are associated with cholinergic denervation in Parkinson disease.", "content": "Symptoms of rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder are associated with cholinergic denervation in Parkinson disease. Rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder (RBD) is common in Parkinson disease (PD), but its relationship to the varied neurotransmitter deficits of PD and prognostic significance remain incompletely understood. RBD and cholinergic system degeneration are identified independently as risk factors for cognitive impairment in PD. We aimed to assess the association between cholinergic denervation and symptoms of RBD in PD patients without dementia. Eighty subjects with PD without dementia (age, 64.6 \u00b1 7.0 years; range, 50-82 years; 60 males, 20 females; mean Montreal Cognitive Assessment Test [MoCA] score, 26.2 \u00b1 2.1; range 21-30) underwent clinical assessment, neuropsychological testing, and [(11)C]methylpiperidyl propionate acetylcholinesterase and [(11)C]dihydrotetrabenazine (DTBZ) vesicular monoamine transporter type 2 positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. (11)C3-Amino-4-(2-dimethylaminomethyl-phenylsulfaryl)-benzonitrile (DASB) serotonin transporter PET imaging was performed in a subset of 35 subjects. The presence of RBD symptoms was determined using the Mayo Sleep Questionnaire. Twenty-seven of 80 subjects (33.8%) indicated a history of RBD symptoms. Subjects with and without RBD symptoms showed no significant differences in age, motor disease duration, MoCA, Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale motor scores, or striatal DTBZ binding. Subjects with RBD symptoms, in comparison to those without, exhibited decreased neocortical, limbic cortical, and thalamic cholinergic innervation (0.0213 \u00b1 0.0018 vs 0.0236 \u00b1 0.0022, t = 4.55, p < 0.0001; 0.0388 \u00b1 0.0029 vs 0.0423 \u00b1 0.0058, t = 2.85, p = 0.0056; 0.0388 \u00b1 0.0025 vs 0.0427 \u00b1 0.0042, t = 4.49, p < 0.0001, respectively). Brainstem and striatal DASB binding showed no significant differences between groups. The presence of RBD symptoms in PD is associated with relative neocortical, limbic cortical, and thalamic cholinergic denervation although not with differential serotoninergic or nigrostriatal dopaminergic denervation. The presence of RBD symptoms may signal cholinergic system degeneration."}
{"id": "22517954", "title": "Alzheimer disease: new concepts on its neurobiology and the clinical role imaging will play.", "content": "Alzheimer disease: new concepts on its neurobiology and the clinical role imaging will play. Alzheimer disease (AD) is one of, if not the most, feared diseases associated with aging. The prevalence of AD increases exponentially with age after 60 years. Increasing life expectancy coupled with the absence of any approved disease-modifying therapies at present position AD as a dominant public health problem. Major advances have occurred in the development of disease biomarkers for AD in the past 2 decades. At present, the most well-developed AD biomarkers are the cerebrospinal fluid analytes amyloid-\u03b2 42 and tau and the brain imaging measures amyloid positron emission tomography (PET), fluorodeoxyglucose PET, and magnetic resonance imaging. CSF and imaging biomarkers are incorporated into revised diagnostic guidelines for AD, which have recently been updated for the first time since their original formulation in 1984. Results of recent studies suggest the possibility of an ordered evolution of AD biomarker abnormalities that can be used to stage the typical 20-30-year course of the disease. When compared with biomarkers in other areas of medicine, however, the absence of standardized quantitative metrics for AD imaging biomarkers constitutes a major deficiency. Failure to move toward a standardized system of quantitative metrics has substantially limited potential diagnostic usefulness of imaging in AD. This presents an important opportunity that, if widely embraced, could greatly expand the application of imaging to improve clinical diagnosis and the quality and efficiency of clinical trials."}
{"id": "22514792", "title": "The pharmacology of neurotrophic treatment with Cerebrolysin: brain protection and repair to counteract pathologies of acute and chronic neurological disorders.", "content": "The pharmacology of neurotrophic treatment with Cerebrolysin: brain protection and repair to counteract pathologies of acute and chronic neurological disorders. Neurotrophic factors are considered as part of the therapeutic strategy for neurological disorders like dementia, stroke and traumatic brain injury. Cerebrolysin is a neuropeptide preparation which mimics the action of endogenous neurotrophic factors on brain protection and repair. In dementia models, Cerebrolysin decreases \u03b2-amyloid deposition and microtubule-associated protein tau phosphorylation by regulating glycogen synthase kinase-3\u03b2 and cyclin-dependent kinase 5 activity, increases synaptic density and restores neuronal cytoarchitecture. These effects protect integrity of the neuronal circuits and thus result in improved cognitive and behavioral performance. Furthermore, Cerebrolysin enhances neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus, the basis for neuronal replacement therapy in neurodegenerative diseases. Experimental studies in stroke animal models have shown that Cerebrolysin stabilizes the structural integrity of cells by inhibition of calpain and reduces the number of apoptotic cells after ischemic lesion. Cerebrolysin induces restorative processes, decreases infarct volume and edema formation and promotes functional recovery. Stroke-induced neurogenesis in the subventricular zone was also promoted by Cerebrolysin, thus supporting the brain's self-repair after stroke. Both, traumatic brain and spinal cord injury conditions stimulate the expression of natural neurotrophic factors to promote repair and regeneration processes -axonal regeneration, neuronal plasticity and neurogenesis- that is considered to be crucial for the future recovery. Neuroprotective effects of Cerebrolysin on experimentally induced traumatic spinal cord injury have shown that Cerebrolysin prevents apoptosis of lesioned motoneurons and promotes functional recovery. This section summarizes the most relevant data on the pharmacology of Cerebrolysin obtained from in vitro assays (biochemical and cell cultures) and in vivo animal models of acute and chronic neurological disorders."}
{"id": "22510256", "title": "Resting state FDG-PET functional connectivity as an early biomarker of Alzheimer's disease using conjoint univariate and independent component analyses.", "content": "Resting state FDG-PET functional connectivity as an early biomarker of Alzheimer's disease using conjoint univariate and independent component analyses. Imaging cerebral glucose metabolism with positron emission tomography (PET) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) has allowed for improved characterisation of this pathology. Such patterns are typically analysed using either univariate or multivariate statistical techniques. In this work we combined voxel-based group analysis and independent component analysis to extract differential characteristic patterns from PET data of glucose metabolism in a large cohort of normal elderly controls and patients with AD. The patterns were used in conjunction with a support vector machine to discriminate between subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) at risk or not of converting to AD. The method was applied to baseline fluoro-deoxyglucose (FDG)-PET images of subjects from the ADNI database. Our approach achieved improved early detection and differentiation of typical versus pathological metabolic patterns in the MCI population, reaching 80% accuracy (85% sensitivity and 75% specificity) when using selected regions. The method has the potential to assist in the advance diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, and to identify early in the development of the disease those individuals at high risk of rapid cognitive decline who could be candidates for new therapeutic approaches."}
{"id": "22503458", "title": "In vitro characterization of [18F]-florbetaben, an A\u03b2 imaging radiotracer.", "content": "In vitro characterization of [18F]-florbetaben, an A\u03b2 imaging radiotracer. Amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) plaques are a major pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The noninvasive detection of A\u03b2 plaques may increase the accuracy of clinical diagnosis as well as monitor therapeutic interventions. While [(11)C]-PiB is the most widely used A\u03b2 positron emission tomography (PET) radiotracer, due to the short half-life of (11)C (20 min), its application is limited to centers with an on-site cyclotron and (11)C radiochemistry expertise. Therefore, novel [(18)F] (half-life 110 min)-labeled A\u03b2 PET tracers have been developed. We have demonstrated that [(18)F]-florbetaben-PET can differentiate individuals diagnosed with AD from healthy elderly, Parkinson's disease and frontotemporal lobe dementia (FTLD-tau) patients. While [(18)F]-florbetaben-PET retention matched the reported postmortem distribution of A\u03b2 plaques, the nature of [(18)F]-florbetaben binding to other pathological lesions comprising misfolded proteins needs further assessment. The objective of this study was to determine whether Florbetaben selectively binds to A\u03b2 plaques in postmortem tissue specimens containing mixed pathological hallmarks (i.e., tau and \u03b1-synuclein aggregates). Human AD, FTLD-tau and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) brain sections were analyzed by [(18)F]-florbetaben autoradiography and [(3)H]-florbetaben high-resolution emulsion autoradiography and [(19)F]-florbetaben fluorescence microscopy. Both autoradiographical analyses demonstrated that Florbetaben exclusively bound A\u03b2 plaques in AD brain sections at low nanomolar concentrations. Furthermore, at concentrations thousand-folds higher than those during a PET scan, [(19)F]-florbetaben did not bind to \u03b1-synuclein or tau aggregates in DLB and FTLD-tau brain sections, respectively. Detection of [(19)F]-florbetaben staining by fluorescence microscopy in several AD brain regions demonstrated that Florbetaben identified A\u03b2 plaques in all brain regions examined. This study provides further evidence that [(18)F]-florbetaben-PET is a highly selective radiotracer to assess A\u03b2 plaque deposition in the brain."}
{"id": "22503457", "title": "Microwave-assisted one-pot radiosynthesis of 2'-deoxy-2'-[18F]fluoro-5-methyl-1-\u03b2-d-arabinofuranosyluracil ([18F]-FMAU).", "content": "Microwave-assisted one-pot radiosynthesis of 2'-deoxy-2'-[18F]fluoro-5-methyl-1-\u03b2-d-arabinofuranosyluracil ([18F]-FMAU). [(18)F]-FMAU is a PET tracer being evaluated for imaging cell proliferation. Current multi-step procedures of [(18)F]-FMAU synthesis are time-consuming, resulting in low radiochemical yield and inconvenient applications for the clinic. We have previously reported the use of Friedel-Crafts catalysts for an improved synthesis of [(18)F]-FMAU. In this study, we investigated the efficiency of microwave-assisted radiosynthesis of [(18)F]-FMAU in comparison with conventional thermal conditions. A simplified one-pot synthesis of [(18)F]-FMAU was developed under microwave conditions. Various reaction times, temperatures, and microwave powers were systematically explored to optimize the coupling reaction of 2-deoxy-2-[(18)F]fluoro-1,3,5-tri-O-benzoyl-d-arabinofuranose ([(18)F]-sugar) and bis-2,4-(trimethylsilyloxy)-5-methyluracil (silylated uracil) in the presence of a Friedel-Crafts catalyst, trimethylsilyl trifluoromethanesulfonate (TMSOTf). Microwave significantly enhanced the coupling efficiency of [(18)F]-sugar and silylated uracil by reducing the reaction time to 10 min (6-fold reduction as compared to conventional heating) at 95 \u00b0C. Base hydrolysis followed by high-performance liquid chromatography purification produced the desired [(18)F]-FMAU. The overall radiochemical yield was 20 \u00b1 4% (decay corrected, n=3). Radiochemical purity was >99% and specific activity was >400 mCi/\u03bcmol. The \u03b1/\u03b2 anomer ratio was 1:2. The radiosynthesis time was about 90 min from the end of bombardment. A reliable microwave-assisted approach has been developed for routine synthesis of [(18)F]-FMAU. The new approach affords a simplified process with shorter synthesis time and higher radiochemical yield as compared to conventional heating. A fully automated microwave-assisted synthesis of [(18)F]-FMAU can be readily achieved under new reaction conditions."}
{"id": "22498655", "title": "Multi-source feature learning for joint analysis of incomplete multiple heterogeneous neuroimaging data.", "content": "Multi-source feature learning for joint analysis of incomplete multiple heterogeneous neuroimaging data. Analysis of incomplete data is a big challenge when integrating large-scale brain imaging datasets from different imaging modalities. In the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI), for example, over half of the subjects lack cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) measurements; an independent half of the subjects do not have fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) scans; many lack proteomics measurements. Traditionally, subjects with missing measures are discarded, resulting in a severe loss of available information. In this paper, we address this problem by proposing an incomplete Multi-Source Feature (iMSF) learning method where all the samples (with at least one available data source) can be used. To illustrate the proposed approach, we classify patients from the ADNI study into groups with Alzheimer's disease (AD), mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and normal controls, based on the multi-modality data. At baseline, ADNI's 780 participants (172AD, 397 MCI, 211 NC), have at least one of four data types: magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), FDG-PET, CSF and proteomics. These data are used to test our algorithm. Depending on the problem being solved, we divide our samples according to the availability of data sources, and we learn shared sets of features with state-of-the-art sparse learning methods. To build a practical and robust system, we construct a classifier ensemble by combining our method with four other methods for missing value estimation. Comprehensive experiments with various parameters show that our proposed iMSF method and the ensemble model yield stable and promising results."}
{"id": "22491869", "title": "Predicting missing biomarker data in a longitudinal study of Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Predicting missing biomarker data in a longitudinal study of Alzheimer disease. To investigate predictors of missing data in a longitudinal study of Alzheimer disease (AD). The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) is a clinic-based, multicenter, longitudinal study with blood, CSF, PET, and MRI scans repeatedly measured in 229 participants with normal cognition (NC), 397 with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), and 193 with mild AD during 2005-2007. We used univariate and multivariable logistic regression models to examine the associations between baseline demographic/clinical features and loss of biomarker follow-ups in ADNI. CSF studies tended to recruit and retain patients with MCI with more AD-like features, including lower levels of baseline CSF A\u03b2(42). Depression was the major predictor for MCI dropouts, while family history of AD kept more patients with AD enrolled in PET and MRI studies. Poor cognitive performance was associated with loss of follow-up in most biomarker studies, even among NC participants. The presence of vascular risk factors seemed more critical than cognitive function for predicting dropouts in AD. The missing data are not missing completely at random in ADNI and likely conditional on certain features in addition to cognitive function. Missing data predictors vary across biomarkers and even MCI and AD groups do not share the same missing data pattern. Understanding the missing data structure may help in the design of future longitudinal studies and clinical trials in AD."}
{"id": "22491868", "title": "Investigating missing data in Alzheimer disease studies.", "content": "Investigating missing data in Alzheimer disease studies."}
{"id": "22491866", "title": "Similar clinical and neuroimaging features in monozygotic twin pair with mutation in progranulin.", "content": "Similar clinical and neuroimaging features in monozygotic twin pair with mutation in progranulin. To report the phenotypic characterization of monozygotic twins with mutations encoding progranulin (PGRN). We studied a twin pair with an exon 4 gene deletion in the PGRN gene. Both twins had clinical and neuropsychological examinations as well as structural MRI and fluorodeoxyglucose PET (FDG-PET) scans. PGRN gene sequencing was performed followed by progranulin ELISA in plasma. Both twins manifested symptoms within 3 years of each other, with early behavioral, language, dysexecutive, and memory problems. MRI and FDG-PET imaging demonstrated a strikingly similar topography of findings with clear left hemisphere predominance. Serum progranulin levels in both were well below those from a normal population sample. Compared with the heterogeneity seen in many families with PGRN mutations, these monozygotic twins demonstrated strong clinical, neuroimaging, and serum progranulin level similarities, demonstrating the importance of shared genetic profiles beyond environmental influences in the symptomatic expression of the disease."}
{"id": "22491780", "title": "The prognostic value of amyloid imaging.", "content": "The prognostic value of amyloid imaging. Mild cognitive impairment is characterized by a decline in cognitive performance without interference with activities of daily living. The amnestic subtype of mild cognitive impairment progresses to Alzheimer's disease at a rate of 10-15% per year and in the majority the neuropathology is intermediate between the neuropathological changes of typical ageing and Alzheimer's disease. Amyloid deposition occurs over a decade before the development of noticeable cognitive symptoms in a continuous process that starts in healthy elderly individuals. Newly developed PET amyloid imaging agents provide noninvasive biomarkers for the early in vivo detection of Alzheimer's pathology in healthy elderly individuals and those with mild cognitive impairment. Exclusion of amyloid pathology should allow a more accurate prognosis to be given and ensure appropriate recruitment into clinical trials testing the efficacy of new putative antiamyloid agents at an earlier disease stage. The development of (18)F-labelled amyloid imaging agents has increased the availability of this new technology for clinical and research use since they can be used in PET centres where a cyclotron and radiochemistry are not available. This review discusses the role of PET imaging for assessing the amyloid load in cognitively normal elderly subjects and subjects with mild cognitive impairment at risk of conversion to Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "22488240", "title": "An operational approach to National Institute on Aging-Alzheimer's Association criteria for preclinical Alzheimer disease.", "content": "An operational approach to National Institute on Aging-Alzheimer's Association criteria for preclinical Alzheimer disease. A workgroup commissioned by the Alzheimer's Association (AA) and the National Institute on Aging (NIA) recently published research criteria for preclinical Alzheimer disease (AD). We performed a preliminary assessment of these guidelines. We employed Pittsburgh compound B positron emission tomography (PET) imaging as our biomarker of cerebral amyloidosis, and (18) fluorodeoxyglucose PET imaging and hippocampal volume as biomarkers of neurodegeneration. A group of 42 clinically diagnosed AD subjects was used to create imaging biomarker cutpoints. A group of 450 cognitively normal (CN) subjects from a population-based sample was used to develop cognitive cutpoints and to assess population frequencies of the different preclinical AD stages using different cutpoint criteria. The new criteria subdivide the preclinical phase of AD into stages 1 to 3. To classify our CN subjects, 2 additional categories were needed. Stage 0 denotes subjects with normal AD biomarkers and no evidence of subtle cognitive impairment. Suspected non-AD pathophysiology (SNAP) denotes subjects with normal amyloid PET imaging, but abnormal neurodegeneration biomarker studies. At fixed cutpoints corresponding to 90% sensitivity for diagnosing AD and the 10th percentile of CN cognitive scores, 43% of our sample was classified as stage 0, 16% stage 1, 12 % stage 2, 3% stage 3, and 23% SNAP. This cross-sectional evaluation of the NIA-AA criteria for preclinical AD indicates that the 1-3 staging criteria coupled with stage 0 and SNAP categories classify 97% of CN subjects from a population-based sample, leaving only 3% unclassified. Future longitudinal validation of the criteria will be important."}
{"id": "22483590", "title": "Radiofluorinated histamine H\u2083 receptor antagonist as a potential probe for in vivo PET imaging: radiosynthesis and pharmacological evaluation.", "content": "Radiofluorinated histamine H\u2083 receptor antagonist as a potential probe for in vivo PET imaging: radiosynthesis and pharmacological evaluation. The histamine H(3) receptor (H(3)R) plays a role in cognition and memory processes and is implicated in different neurological disorders, including Alzheimer's disease, schizophrenia, and narcolepsy. In vivo studies of the H(3)R occupancy using a radiolabeled PET tracer would be very useful for CNS drug discovery and development. We report here the radiosynthesis, in vitro and in vivo evaluation of a novel (18)F-labeled high-affinity H(3)R antagonist (18)F-ST889. The radiosynthesis was accomplished via nucleophilic substitution of the mesylate leaving group with a radiochemical yield of 8-20%, radiochemical purity >99%, and specific radioactivity > 65 GBq/\u03bcmol. (18)F-ST889 exhibited high in vivo stability and rather low lipophilicity (logD(7.4)=0.35 \u00b1 0.09). In vitro autoradiography showed specific binding in H(3)R-rich brain regions such as striatum and cortex. However, in vivo PET imaging of the rat brain with (18)F-ST889 was not successful. Possible reasons are discussed."}
{"id": "22482447", "title": "Cerebral amyloid angiopathy.", "content": "Cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is cerebrovascular amyloid deposition. It is classified into several types according to the cerebrovascular amyloid proteins involved [amyloid \u03b2-protein (A\u03b2), cystatin C (ACys), prion protein (APrP), transthyretin (ATTR), gelsolin (AGel), ABri/ADan, and AL]. Sporadic A\u03b2-type CAA is commonly found in elderly individuals and patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). CAA-related disorders include hemorrhagic and ischemic brain lesions and dementia. It has been proposed that cerebrovascular A\u03b2 originates mainly from the brain and is transported to the vascular wall through a perivascular drainage pathway, where it polymerizes into fibrils on vascular basement membrane through interactions with extracellular components. CAA would be promoted by overproduction of A\u03b240 (a major molecular species of cerebrovascular A\u03b2), a decrease of A\u03b2 degradation, or reduction of A\u03b2 clearance due to impairment of perivascular drainage pathway. Further understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of CAA would lead to development of disease-modifying therapies for CAA and CAA-related disorders."}
{"id": "22482446", "title": "Pathologic lesions in neurodegenerative diseases.", "content": "Pathologic lesions in neurodegenerative diseases. This chapter will discuss two of the most widely used approaches to assessing brain structure: neuroimaging and neuropathology. Whereas neuropathologic approaches to studying the central nervous system have been utilized for many decades and have provided insights into morphologic correlates of dementia for over 100 years, accurate structural imaging techniques \"blossomed\" with the development and refinement of computerized tomographic scanning and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), beginning in the late 1970s. As Alzheimer disease progresses over time, there is progressive atrophy of the hippocampus and neocortex--this can be quantified and regional accentuation of the atrophy can be evaluated using quantitative MRI scanning. Furthermore, ligands for amyloid proteins have recently been developed--these can be used in positron emission tomography studies to localize amyloid proteins, and (in theory) study the dynamics of their deposition (and clearance) within the brain over time. Neuropathologic studies of the brain, using highly specific antibodies, can demonstrate synapse loss and the deposition of proteins important in AD progression--specifically ABeta and phosphor-tau. Finally, neuropathologic assessment of (autopsy) brain specimens can provide important correlation with sophisticated neuroimaging techniques."}
{"id": "22476968", "title": "Efficient construction of PET/fluorescence probe based on sarcophagine cage: an opportunity to integrate diagnosis with treatment.", "content": "Efficient construction of PET/fluorescence probe based on sarcophagine cage: an opportunity to integrate diagnosis with treatment. Due to the shortage of established platforms/methods for multimodality probe construction, in this study, we developed a heterofunctional chelator, BaAn(Boc)Sar, from sarcophagine cage as a general platform for dual-modality probe construction. A dual-modality probe for positron-emission tomography (PET) and fluorescence imaging was synthesized using the developed BaAn(Boc)Sar chelator. The c(RGDyK)(2) peptide (denoted as RGD(2)) and fluorescence dye Cy5.5 were conjugated with BaAn(Boc)Sar to form BaAnSar-RGD(2)-Cy5.5. Then, BaAnSar-RGD(2)-Cy5.5 was labeled with (64)Cu in ammonium acetate buffer. PET and fluorescent imaging were carried out to evaluate (64)Cu-BaAnSar-RGD(2)-Cy5.5 in nude mice bearing U87MG glioblastoma xenograft. The BaAnSar-RGD(2)-Cy5.5 was labeled with (64)Cu very efficiently in 0.1 M NH(4)OAc buffer within 10 min at 37 \u00b0C in the yield of 86.7 \u00b1 4.4 % (n = 3). The specific activity of (64)Cu-BaBaSar-RGD(2) was controlled at 50-200 mCi/\u03bcmol for the consideration of both PET and optical imaging. MicroPET quantification analysis shows that the U87MG tumor uptake is 6.41 \u00b1 0.28, 6.51 \u00b1 1.45, and 5.92 \u00b1 1.57 %ID/g at 1, 4, and 20 h postinjection, respectively. Good correlation was obtained between the tumor to muscle ratios measured by the radioactivity and fluorescence intensity. As a proof of concept, an animal surgery study demonstrated that this dual-modality probe would greatly benefit the patients because the PET moiety could be used for tumor detection, and the fluorescent moiety would allow image-guided surgery. Our findings demonstrated the effectiveness and feasibility of preparing dual-modality imaging probes based on the sarcophagine scaffold. The resulting PET and fluorescent imaging probe also holds a great potential for clinical translation."}
{"id": "22474610", "title": "Brain imaging in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Brain imaging in Alzheimer disease. Imaging has played a variety of roles in the study of Alzheimer disease (AD) over the past four decades. Initially, computed tomography (CT) and then magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) were used diagnostically to rule out other causes of dementia. More recently, a variety of imaging modalities including structural and functional MRI and positron emission tomography (PET) studies of cerebral metabolism with fluoro-deoxy-d-glucose (FDG) and amyloid tracers such as Pittsburgh Compound-B (PiB) have shown characteristic changes in the brains of patients with AD, and in prodromal and even presymptomatic states that can help rule-in the AD pathophysiological process. No one imaging modality can serve all purposes as each have unique strengths and weaknesses. These modalities and their particular utilities are discussed in this article. The challenge for the future will be to combine imaging biomarkers to most efficiently facilitate diagnosis, disease staging, and, most importantly, development of effective disease-modifying therapies."}
{"id": "22473957", "title": "The hypoxia imaging agent CuII(atsm) is neuroprotective and improves motor and cognitive functions in multiple animal models of Parkinson's disease.", "content": "The hypoxia imaging agent CuII(atsm) is neuroprotective and improves motor and cognitive functions in multiple animal models of Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive, chronic disease characterized by dyskinesia, rigidity, instability, and tremors. The disease is defined by the presence of Lewy bodies, which primarily consist of aggregated \u03b1-synuclein protein, and is accompanied by the loss of monoaminergic neurons. Current therapeutic strategies only give symptomatic relief of motor impairment and do not address the underlying neurodegeneration. Hence, we have identified Cu(II)(atsm) as a potential therapeutic for PD. Drug administration to four different animal models of PD resulted in improved motor and cognition function, rescued nigral cell loss, and improved dopamine metabolism. In vitro, this compound is able to inhibit the effects of peroxynitrite-driven toxicity, including the formation of nitrated \u03b1-synuclein oligomers. Our results show that Cu(II)(atsm) is effective in reversing parkinsonian defects in animal models and has the potential to be a successful treatment of PD."}
{"id": "22473174", "title": "Variations of clinical SPECT/CT operations: an international survey.", "content": "Variations of clinical SPECT/CT operations: an international survey. This survey gathers information about clinical SPECT/CT operations worldwide to help guide standardization of clinical SPECT/CT imaging. An international, web-based survey of SPECT/CT users was initiated in 12/2010 through an e-mail distribution. Users were asked 71 questions related to (A) demographics, (B) SPECT/CT operations/utilization and (C) variations in imaging protocols. Collected responses originated from 117 imaging centers in the Americas (66%), Europe (20%), Asia-Pacific (11%) and the Middle-East (3%), with the majority of responding sites representing public health care institutions (69%). Most sites operate 1-2 SPECT/CT-systems (74%), typically installed in Nuclear Medicine departments (84%) with extensive prior SPECT-only experience (82%). Only 14% of SPECT/CTs are installed in Radiology departments. Clinical SPECT/CT imaging is performed either as routine (51%) or ad-hoc \"add-on\" procedure (49%) with a high inter-site and inter-examination variability. The main application of the integrated CT is to provide anatomical localization of the tracer uptake rather than to produce contrast-enhanced or other high-quality CT images. Consequently, in only 22% of the sites a CT contrast injector is installed. Only 6% of centers use SPECT/CT devices for stand-alone CT procedures. An international survey among clinical SPECT/CT users revealed that SPECT/CT is a not a routine component of nuclear medicine procedures. The majority of the centers responding do not fully utilize the diagnostic potential of the CT components. Significant variations in standard imaging protocols were observed. These findings illustrate the need for training and standardization and underscore the need for revisiting the role of SPECT/CT in diagnostic imaging."}
{"id": "22460160", "title": "Cognitive impairment in degenerative parkinsonisms: role of radionuclide brain imaging.", "content": "Cognitive impairment in degenerative parkinsonisms: role of radionuclide brain imaging. Cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD) and atypical parkinsonian syndromes is gaining increased clinical significance. The neurochemical and neuropathological basis in the various parkinsonian forms and even in an individual patient are not fully elucidated yet and could be heterogeneous. Loss of dopaminergic, cholinergic and noradrenergic innervation has been suggested to be the underlying neurochemical deficits for cognitive impairment and dementia in PD, but the onset of cognitive impairment and the progression to dementia may not share the same underlying neurochemical basis. Similarly, pathological evidence is also heterogeneous, ranging from subcortical pathology, limbic or cortical Lewy body type degeneration, and Alzheimer's type pathology that can be found even in the same patient with PD dementia (PDD). Typically, the prototype of early cognitive deficit in PD is a dysexecutive syndrome, but other cognitive domains are more involved when dementia develops, mainly including visuospatial, language and memory dysfunction. Functional radionuclide neuroimaging, by means of single-photon emission computed tomography and positron emission tomography, are contributing to characterize the topographic cortical pattern of cognitive impairment, as well as to define the underlying neurochemical deficit. Lastly, the advent of amyloid PET may help clarifying the meaning of amyloid load in diffuse Lewy body disease and PDD. Knowing the neurochemical and pathophysiological substrate of cognitive deficit in patients with PD or other degenerative Parkinsonisms may help the clinician in understanding the clinical condition of an individual patient in order to plan pharmacological and non-pharmacological intervention. The introduction of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors for therapy of PDD is an example of information integration between clinical-neuropsychological and pathophysiological-neurochemical aspects obtained also with the key contribution of functional neuroimaging."}
{"id": "22460159", "title": "Identification of biomarkers in Lewy-body disorders.", "content": "Identification of biomarkers in Lewy-body disorders. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) may account for up to 30% of all dementia cases. The symptoms of DLB can be difficult to disentangle from other dementia subtypes, particularly Alzheimer's disease (AD). AD and DLB pathologies often overlap within individuals. Like DLB, Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) also shares common features with DLB. Currently, whether an individual is diagnosed with PDD or DLB depends solely on the timing of symptom onset. Early, accurate diagnosis is needed for optimal management and treatment. It is hoped that the development of existing and new Lewy body disorders biomarkers will facilitate more accurate diagnosis. Reduced dopamine transporter levels in DLB as shown with [123I]FP-CIT-SPECT currently appears to be the most reliable and valid biomarker, although other (predominantly imaging-based) methods also appear to have the high sensitivity and specificity required for a good biomarker. This includes (in DLB compared to AD) reduced cardiac 123I-MIBG uptake, occipital hypometabolism on FDG-PET and preservation of medial temporal lobe structures on CT/MRI. Perfusion SPECT, cerebrospinal fluid protein levels (amyloid, tau and \u03b1-synuclein), electroencephalography, saccadic eye movement tracking and 11C-PiB amyloid imaging also hold promise as biomarkers in terms of differentiating DLB, AD, PDD and other neurodegenerative disorders, although findings are less consistent. Studies utilising a combination approach in which two or more potential biomarkers are compared seem to provide very good sensitivity and specificity. In general, longitudinal studies, pathological confirmation of diagnosis and the combined approach may hold the most promise for the identification of biomarkers."}
{"id": "22459725", "title": "Communication among neurons.", "content": "Communication among neurons. The communication among neurons is the prerequisite for the working brain. To understand the cellular, neurochemical, and structural basis of this communication, and the impacts of aging and disease on brain function, quantitative measures are necessary. This thesis evaluates several quantitative neurobiological methods with respect to possible bias and methodological issues. Stereological methods are suited for the unbiased estimation of number, length, and volumes of components of the nervous system. Stereological estimates of the total length of myelinated nerve fibers were made in white matter of post mortem brains, and the impact of aging and diseases as Schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease were evaluated. Although stereological methods are in principle unbiased, shrinkage artifacts are difficult to account for. Positron emission tomography (PET) recordings, in conjunction with kinetic modeling, permit the quantitation of radioligand binding in brain. The novel serotonin 5-HT4 antagonist [11C]SB207145 was used as an example of the validation process for quantitative PET receptor imaging. Methods based on reference tissue as well as methods based on an arterial plasma input function were evaluated with respect to precision and accuracy. It was shown that [11C]SB207145 binding had high sensitivity to occupancy by unlabeled ligand, necessitating high specific activity in the radiosynthesis to avoid bias. The established serotonin 5-HT2A ligand [18F]altanersin was evaluated in a two-year follow-up study in elderly subjects. Application of partial volume correction of the PET data diminished the reliability of the measures, but allowed for the correct distinction between changes due to brain atrophy and receptor availability. Furthermore, a PET study of patients with Alzheimer's disease with the serotonin transporter ligand [11C]DASB showed relatively preserved serotonergic projections, despite a marked decrease in 5-HT2A receptor binding. Possible confounders are considered and the relation to the prevailing beta-amyloid hypothesis is discussed."}
{"id": "22459153", "title": "The Psen1-L166P-knock-in mutation leads to amyloid deposition in human wild-type amyloid precursor protein YAC transgenic mice.", "content": "The Psen1-L166P-knock-in mutation leads to amyloid deposition in human wild-type amyloid precursor protein YAC transgenic mice. Genetically engineered mice have been generated to model cerebral \u03b2-amyloidosis, one of the hallmarks of Alzheimer disease (AD) pathology, based on the overexpression of a mutated cDNA of the amyloid-\u03b2 precursor protein (A\u03b2PP) or by knock-in of the murine A\u03b2pp gene alone or with presenilin1 mutations. Here we describe the generation and initial characterization of a new mouse line based on the presence of 2 copies of the human genomic region encoding the wild-type A\u03b2PP and the L166P presenilin 1 mutation. At \u223c6 mo of age, double-mutant mice develop amyloid pathology, with signs of neuritic dystrophy, intracellular A\u03b2 accumulation, and glial inflammation, an increase in A\u03b2PP C-terminal fragments, and an 8 times increase in A\u03b242 levels with a 40% decrease in A\u03b240 levels, leading to a significant increase (14 times) of A\u03b242/A\u03b240 ratios, with minimal effects on presenilin or the Notch1 pathway in the brain. We conclude that in mice, neither mutations in A\u03b2PP nor overexpression of an A\u03b2PP isoform are a prerequisite for A\u03b2 pathology. This model will allow the study of AD pathogenesis and testing of therapeutic strategies in a more relevant environment without experimental artifacts due to the overexpression of a single-mutant A\u03b2PP isoform using exogenous promoters."}
{"id": "22457741", "title": "Predicting future clinical changes of MCI patients using longitudinal and multimodal biomarkers.", "content": "Predicting future clinical changes of MCI patients using longitudinal and multimodal biomarkers. Accurate prediction of clinical changes of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients, including both qualitative change (i.e., conversion to Alzheimer's disease (AD)) and quantitative change (i.e., cognitive scores) at future time points, is important for early diagnosis of AD and for monitoring the disease progression. In this paper, we propose to predict future clinical changes of MCI patients by using both baseline and longitudinal multimodality data. To do this, we first develop a longitudinal feature selection method to jointly select brain regions across multiple time points for each modality. Specifically, for each time point, we train a sparse linear regression model by using the imaging data and the corresponding clinical scores, with an extra 'group regularization' to group the weights corresponding to the same brain region across multiple time points together and to allow for selection of brain regions based on the strength of multiple time points jointly. Then, to further reflect the longitudinal changes on the selected brain regions, we extract a set of longitudinal features from the original baseline and longitudinal data. Finally, we combine all features on the selected brain regions, from different modalities, for prediction by using our previously proposed multi-kernel SVM. We validate our method on 88 ADNI MCI subjects, with both MRI and FDG-PET data and the corresponding clinical scores (i.e., MMSE and ADAS-Cog) at 5 different time points. We first predict the clinical scores (MMSE and ADAS-Cog) at 24-month by using the multimodality data at previous time points, and then predict the conversion of MCI to AD by using the multimodality data at time points which are at least 6-month ahead of the conversion. The results on both sets of experiments show that our proposed method can achieve better performance in predicting future clinical changes of MCI patients than the conventional methods."}
{"id": "22441582", "title": "Longitudinal imaging of Alzheimer pathology using [11C]PIB, [18F]FDDNP and [18F]FDG PET.", "content": "Longitudinal imaging of Alzheimer pathology using [11C]PIB, [18F]FDDNP and [18F]FDG PET. [(11)C]PIB and [(18)F]FDDNP are PET tracers for in vivo detection of the neuropathology underlying Alzheimer's disease (AD). [(18)F]FDG is a glucose analogue and its uptake reflects metabolic activity. The purpose of this study was to examine longitudinal changes in these tracers in patients with AD or mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and in healthy controls. Longitudinal, paired, dynamic [(11)C]PIB and [(18)F]FDDNP (90 min each) and static [(18)F]FDG (15 min) PET scans were obtained in 11 controls, 12 MCI patients and 8 AD patients. The mean interval between baseline and follow-up was 2.5 years (range 2.0-4.0 years). Parametric [(11)C]PIB and [(18)F]FDDNP images of binding potential (BP(ND)) and [(18)F]FDG standardized uptake value ratio (SUVr) images were generated. A significant increase in global cortical [(11)C]PIB BP(ND) was found in MCI patients, but no changes were observed in AD patients or controls. Subsequent regional analysis revealed that this increase in [(11)C]PIB BP(ND) in MCI patients was most prominent in the lateral temporal lobe (p < 0.05). For [(18)F]FDDNP, no changes in global BP(ND) were found. [(18)F]FDG uptake was reduced at follow-up in the AD group only, especially in frontal, parietal and lateral temporal lobes (all p < 0.01). Changes in global [(11)C]PIB binding (\u03c1 = -0.42, p < 0.05) and posterior cingulate [(18)F]FDG uptake (\u03c1 = 0.54, p < 0.01) were correlated with changes in Mini-Mental-State Examination score over time across groups, whilst changes in [(18)F]FDDNP binding (\u03c1 = -0.18, p = 0.35) were not. [(11)C]PIB and [(18)F]FDG track molecular changes in different stages of AD. We found increased amyloid load in MCI patients and progressive metabolic impairment in AD patients. [(18)F]FDDNP seems to be less useful for examining disease progression."}
{"id": "22434215", "title": "Compensatory premotor activity during affective face processing in subclinical carriers of a single mutant Parkin allele.", "content": "Compensatory premotor activity during affective face processing in subclinical carriers of a single mutant Parkin allele. Patients with Parkinson's disease suffer from significant motor impairments and accompanying cognitive and affective dysfunction due to progressive disturbances of basal ganglia-cortical gating loops. Parkinson's disease has a long presymptomatic stage, which indicates a substantial capacity of the human brain to compensate for dopaminergic nerve degeneration before clinical manifestation of the disease. Neuroimaging studies provide evidence that increased motor-related cortical activity can compensate for progressive dopaminergic nerve degeneration in carriers of a single mutant Parkin or PINK1 gene, who show a mild but significant reduction of dopamine metabolism in the basal ganglia in the complete absence of clinical motor signs. However, it is currently unknown whether similar compensatory mechanisms are effective in non-motor basal ganglia-cortical gating loops. Here, we ask whether asymptomatic Parkin mutation carriers show altered patterns of brain activity during processing of facial gestures, and whether this might compensate for latent facial emotion recognition deficits. Current theories in social neuroscience assume that execution and perception of facial gestures are linked by a special class of visuomotor neurons ('mirror neurons') in the ventrolateral premotor cortex/pars opercularis of the inferior frontal gyrus (Brodmann area 44/6). We hypothesized that asymptomatic Parkin mutation carriers would show increased activity in this area during processing of affective facial gestures, replicating the compensatory motor effects that have previously been observed in these individuals. Additionally, Parkin mutation carriers might show altered activity in other basal ganglia-cortical gating loops. Eight asymptomatic heterozygous Parkin mutation carriers and eight matched controls underwent functional magnetic resonance imaging and a subsequent facial emotion recognition task. As predicted, Parkin mutation carriers showed significantly stronger activity in the right ventrolateral premotor cortex during execution and perception of affective facial gestures than healthy controls. Furthermore, Parkin mutation carriers showed a slightly reduced ability to recognize facial emotions that was least severe in individuals who showed the strongest increase of ventrolateral premotor activity. In addition, Parkin mutation carriers showed a significantly weaker than normal increase of activity in the left lateral orbitofrontal cortex (inferior frontal gyrus pars orbitalis, Brodmann area 47), which was unrelated to facial emotion recognition ability. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that compensatory activity in the ventrolateral premotor cortex during processing of affective facial gestures can reduce impairments in facial emotion recognition in subclinical Parkin mutation carriers. A breakdown of this compensatory mechanism might lead to the impairment of facial expressivity and facial emotion recognition observed in manifest Parkinson's disease."}
{"id": "22434067", "title": "The development, past achievements, and future directions of brain PET.", "content": "The development, past achievements, and future directions of brain PET. The early developments of brain positron emission tomography (PET), including the methodological advances that have driven progress, are outlined. The considerable past achievements of brain PET have been summarized in collaboration with contributing experts in specific clinical applications including cerebrovascular disease, movement disorders, dementia, epilepsy, schizophrenia, addiction, depression and anxiety, brain tumors, drug development, and the normal healthy brain. Despite a history of improving methodology and considerable achievements, brain PET research activity is not growing and appears to have diminished. Assessments of the reasons for decline are presented and strategies proposed for reinvigorating brain PET research. Central to this is widening the access to advanced PET procedures through the introduction of lower cost cyclotron and radiochemistry technologies. The support and expertize of the existing major PET centers, and the recruitment of new biologists, bio-mathematicians and chemists to the field would be important for such a revival. New future applications need to be identified, the scope of targets imaged broadened, and the developed expertize exploited in other areas of medical research. Such reinvigoration of the field would enable PET to continue making significant contributions to advance the understanding of the normal and diseased brain and support the development of advanced treatments."}
{"id": "22434068", "title": "Molecular brain imaging in the multimodality era.", "content": "Molecular brain imaging in the multimodality era. Multimodality molecular brain imaging encompasses in vivo visualization, evaluation, and measurement of cellular/molecular processes. Instrumentation and software developments over the past 30 years have fueled advancements in multimodality imaging platforms that enable acquisition of multiple complementary imaging outcomes by either combined sequential or simultaneous acquisition. This article provides a general overview of multimodality neuroimaging in the context of positron emission tomography as a molecular imaging tool and magnetic resonance imaging as a structural and functional imaging tool. Several image examples are provided and general challenges are discussed to exemplify complementary features of the modalities, as well as important strengths and weaknesses of combined assessments. Alzheimer's disease is highlighted, as this clinical area has been strongly impacted by multimodality neuroimaging findings that have improved understanding of the natural history of disease progression, early disease detection, and informed therapy evaluation."}
{"id": "22429886", "title": "Effects of age and \u03b2-amyloid on cognitive changes in normal elderly people.", "content": "Effects of age and \u03b2-amyloid on cognitive changes in normal elderly people. Age-related decline is common in multiple cognitive domains. \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) deposition, a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease, is also associated with cognitive changes in many older people. In this study, we examined a wide range of cognitive function in order to differentiate the effect of age and A\u03b2 on cognition during aging. Using positron emission tomography (PET) imaging with the radiotracer Pittsburgh Compound B (PIB), we classified normal older subjects as High PIB-Old and Low PIB-Old and applied sequential multivariate analyses (i.e., principal components analysis [PCA] and discriminant analysis) to obtain summary measures of cognitive tests encompassing multiple cognitive domains. Among 5 cognitive components, a significant age effect was observed in component scores of visual memory and executive functions, regardless of the level of A\u03b2. Discriminant scores (weighted scores of the 5 cognitive components) revealed a significant effect of both age and A\u03b2 and were further associated with quantitative PIB counts. The results of the current study highlight both effects of age and A\u03b2 on cognitive changes in normal elderly."}
{"id": "22425545", "title": "Abnormal striatal dopaminergic and cardiac sympathetic imaging in dementia with Lewy bodies: two sides of the same coin.", "content": "Abnormal striatal dopaminergic and cardiac sympathetic imaging in dementia with Lewy bodies: two sides of the same coin."}
{"id": "22421174", "title": "4-[18F]-tetraphenylphosphonium as a PET tracer for myocardial mitochondrial membrane potential.", "content": "4-[18F]-tetraphenylphosphonium as a PET tracer for myocardial mitochondrial membrane potential. This study tested the hypothesis that 4-[(18)F]fluorophenyltriphenylphosphonium ((18)F-TPP) is useful for in vivo positron emission tomography (PET) measurement of mitochondrial membrane potential (\u0394\u03a8m). Its utility as a blood flow tracer also was evaluated. Tetraphenylphosphonium is useful for in vitro measurement of \u0394\u03a8m. In vivo measurement of \u0394\u03a8m has potential value in the assessment of heart failure pathophysiology and therapy as well as assessment of myocardial viability and so may be a very useful clinical tool. Anesthetized swine (N = 6) with a balloon catheter in the left anterior descending coronary artery were studied. Microsphere measurements of myocardial blood flow (MBF) were made after balloon inflation (baseline) and \u223c10 min after intravenous administration of adenosine and phenylephrine after which \u223c10 mCi (18)F-TPP was injected intravenously and dynamic PET data acquisition obtained for 30 min. After the swine were killed, the hearts were sectioned for microsphere measurement of MBF and (18)F-TPP measured by well counter in these same samples. PET images provided whole blood and myocardial (18)F-TPP concentration for determination of \u0394\u03a8m by the Nernst equation, corrected for nonspecific (18)F-TPP binding. Microsphere MBF, absolute (ml/min/g) and relative, was compared with PET data (standard uptake value and K1). Nonspecific binding of (18)F-TPP overestimated \u0394\u03a8m measured by -37 \u00b1 4 mV (mean \u00b1 SD). Normal zone \u0394\u03a8m of ex vivo samples (-91 \u00b1 11 mV; N = 52; sample weight, 1.07 \u00b1 0.18 g) correlated strongly (R(2)= 0.93) with normal zone by PET (-81 \u00b1 13 mV). Both ex vivo and PET normal zone \u0394\u03a8m, although somewhat lower, compared well with that reported for tritium labeled triphenylphosphonium in normal working Langendorff rat heart (-100 mV). Although the relative MBF by (18)F-TPP correlated strongly with relative microsphere MBF (R(2)= 0.83), there was no correlation between absolute MBF by (18)F-TPP and microsphere MBF. (18)F-TPP is a promising tracer for noninvasive PET measurement of \u0394\u03a8m in living subjects. It is useful as well for assessment of relative but not absolute MBF."}
{"id": "22415193", "title": "Local susceptibility causes diffusion alterations in patients with Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Local susceptibility causes diffusion alterations in patients with Alzheimer's disease and mild cognitive impairment. Recent studies with positron emission tomography (PET) using the Pittsburgh compound B (PIB) found widespread amyloid plaque depositions in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and even in cognitively normal (CN) subjects. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the local susceptibility gradients in brain tissue alter regional diffusion measurements using MRI in patients with AD and MCI. Two diffusion tensor (DT)-MRI data sets were acquired with alternating polarities of the external diffusion-sensitizing gradients. Three subject groups were included: 15 patients with AD, 18 patients with MCI and 16 CN. Maps of mean diffusivity (MD) and fractional anisotropy (FA) were computed separately for positive (p) and negative (n) polarities (pMD and nMD, pFA and nFA). Voxel-wise paired t-tests were performed between pMD versus nMD or between pFA versus nFA maps, separately for each subject group. We also investigated regions-of-interest (ROIs) in the brain. Based on the pair-wise comparisons, we found significant differences between pMD and nMD in all three groups. Results of ROI-based analyses showed that the non-linear behaviors of the ROI data sets were shown for all three groups. In conclusion, significant differences of MD maps between the two polarities of diffusion-sensitizing gradients were found, suggesting that the intrinsic background gradients may alter MD signals in specific regions. It can be important to take into account the effects of local gradient alterations during diffusion measurements in patients with AD, MCI and elderly controls."}
{"id": "22414859", "title": "Thalamic cholinergic innervation is spared in Alzheimer disease compared to parkinsonian disorders.", "content": "Thalamic cholinergic innervation is spared in Alzheimer disease compared to parkinsonian disorders. There are two major sources of cholinergic projections in the brain. The nucleus basalis of Meynert provides the principal cholinergic input of the cortical mantle and the pedunculopontine nucleus-laterodorsal tegmental complex (PPN-LDTC; hereafter referred to as PPN) provides the major cholinergic input to the thalamus. Cortical cholinergic denervation has previously been shown to be part of Alzheimer and parkinsonian dementia but there is less information about subcortical thalamic cholinergic denervation. We investigated thalamic cholinergic afferent integrity by measuring PPN-Thalamic (PPN-Thal) acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity via PET imaging in Alzheimer (AD), Parkinson disease without dementia (PD), Parkinson disease with dementia (PDD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). AD (n=13; mean age 75.4 \u00b1 5.5), PD (n=11; age 71.4 \u00b1 6.4), PDD (n=6; age 70.8\u00b14.7), DLB (n=6; age 68.0 \u00b1 8.6) and normal controls (NC; n=14; age 69.0 \u00b1 7.5) subjects underwent AChE [\u00b9\u00b9C]-methyl-4-piperidinyl propionate (PMP) PET imaging. PPN-Thal PET data were analyzed using the Nagatsuka method. There were no significant differences in mean age between the groups (F=1.86, p=0.134). Kruskal-Wallis testing demonstrated a significant group effect for PPN-Thal AChE hydrolysis rates (F=9.62, p<0.0001). Compared to NC, reduced thalamic k3 hydrolysis rate was noted in subjects with PDD (-19.8%; AChE k3 hydrolysis rates 0.1072 \u00b1 0.0143 min\u207b\u00b9), DLB (-17.4%; 0.1103 \u00b1 0.0112 min\u207b\u00b9) and PD (-12.8%; 0.1165 \u00b1 0.0114 min\u207b\u00b9). Each of these 3 subgroups was statistically different from AD subjects (-0.7%; 0.1326 \u00b1 0.0095 min\u207b\u00b9) who showed relatively spared thalamic k3 hydrolysis rates which were comparable to NC (0.1336 \u00b1 0.0142 min\u207b\u00b9). Thalamic cholinergic denervation is present in PD, PDD, and DLB but not in AD. Neurodegenerative involvement of thalamic cholinergic afferent projections may contribute to disease-specific motor and cognitive abnormalities."}
{"id": "22414634", "title": "Relative equilibrium plot improves graphical analysis and allows bias correction of standardized uptake value ratio in quantitative 11C-PiB PET studies.", "content": "Relative equilibrium plot improves graphical analysis and allows bias correction of standardized uptake value ratio in quantitative 11C-PiB PET studies. Both the standardized uptake value ratio (SUVR) and the Logan plot result in biased distribution volume ratios (DVRs) in ligand-receptor dynamic PET studies. The objective of this study was to use a recently developed relative equilibrium-based graphical (RE) plot method to improve and simplify the 2 commonly used methods for quantification of (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B ((11)C-PiB) PET. The overestimation of DVR in SUVR was analyzed theoretically using the Logan and the RE plots. A bias-corrected SUVR (bcSUVR) was derived from the RE plot. Seventy-eight (11)C-PiB dynamic PET scans (66 from controls and 12 from participants with mild cognitive impaired [MCI] from the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging) were acquired over 90 min. Regions of interest (ROIs) were defined on coregistered MR images. Both the ROI and the pixelwise time-activity curves were used to evaluate the estimates of DVR. DVRs obtained using the Logan plot applied to ROI time-activity curves were used as a reference for comparison of DVR estimates. Results from the theoretic analysis were confirmed by human studies. ROI estimates from the RE plot and the bcSUVR were nearly identical to those from the Logan plot with ROI time-activity curves. In contrast, ROI estimates from DVR images in frontal, temporal, parietal, and cingulate regions and the striatum were underestimated by the Logan plot (controls, 4%-12%; MCI, 9%-16%) and overestimated by the SUVR (controls, 8%-16%; MCI, 16%-24%). This bias was higher in the MCI group than in controls (P < 0.01) but was not present when data were analyzed using either the RE plot or the bcSUVR. The RE plot improves pixelwise quantification of (11)C-PiB dynamic PET, compared with the conventional Logan plot. The bcSUVR results in lower bias and higher consistency of DVR estimates than of SUVR. The RE plot and the bcSUVR are practical quantitative approaches that improve the analysis of (11)C-PiB studies."}
{"id": "22410648", "title": "White matter hyperintensities predict amyloid increase in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "White matter hyperintensities predict amyloid increase in Alzheimer's disease. Impaired amyloid clearance probably contributes to increased amyloid deposition in sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD). Diminished perivascular drainage due to cerebral small-vessel disease (CSVD) has been proposed as a cause of reduced amyloid clearance. White matter hyperintensities (WMHs) are considered to reflect CSVD and can be measured using fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Amyloid deposition can be determined in vivo using Pittsburgh compound B ([11C]PiB) positron emission tomography (PET). We aimed to elucidate the association between WMH and the progression of amyloid deposition in patients with AD. Twenty-two patients with probable AD underwent FLAIR-MRI and [11C]PiB-PET examinations at baseline (BL) and after a mean follow-up (FU) interval of 28 months. The relationship between BL-WMH and the progression of cerebral amyloid between BL and FU was examined using a regions-of-interest (ROI) approach. The region-specific variability of this relationship was analyzed using a voxel-based method. The longitudinal analysis revealed a statistically significant association between the amount of BL-WMH and the progression of amyloid load between BL and FU (p = 0.006, adjusted R2 = 0.375, standardized coefficient \u03b2 = 0.384). The association was particularly observed in parieto-occipital regions and tended to be closer in regions adjacent to the brain surface. According to our knowledge, this is the first in vivo study in human being supporting the hypothesis that impaired amyloid clearance along perivascular drainage pathways may contribute to \u03b2-amyloid deposition in sporadic AD. The extent of WMH might be a relevant factor to be assessed in antiamyloid drug trials."}
{"id": "22410450", "title": "Primary progressive aphasia and transient global amnesia.", "content": "Primary progressive aphasia and transient global amnesia. To describe 3 patients with a history of transient global amnesia (TGA) who developed primary progressive aphasia (PPA). Case series. Tertiary care center. The study included 3 patients who presented to the neurology clinic with language complaints. Presence of recurrent TGA and PPA. Three patients with a history of TGA were subsequently diagnosed as having PPA. All patients had recurrent attacks of TGA. The diagnoses of PPA were supported by speech pathology evaluations, neuropsychometric testing results, and imaging findings. Positron emission tomography revealed left posterior frontal hypometabolism in 1 patient and predominantly left temporal parietal hypometabolism in 1 patient, while single-photon emission computed tomography demonstrated decreased perfusion in the anterior left temporal and frontal lobes in the third patient. There may be a relationship between recurrent TGA and the development of PPA."}
{"id": "22409939", "title": "Shapes of the trajectories of 5 major biomarkers of Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Shapes of the trajectories of 5 major biomarkers of Alzheimer disease. To characterize the shape of the trajectories of Alzheimer disease biomarkers as a function of Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score. Longitudinal registries from the Mayo Clinic and the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative. Two different samples (n = 343 and n = 598) were created that spanned the cognitive spectrum from normal to Alzheimer disease dementia. Subgroup analyses were performed in members of both cohorts (n = 243 and n = 328) who were amyloid positive at baseline. The shape of biomarker trajectories as a function of MMSE score, adjusted for age, was modeled and described as baseline (cross-sectional) and within-subject longitudinal effects. Biomarkers evaluated were cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) A\u03b242 and tau levels, amyloid and fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography imaging, and structural magnetic resonance imaging. Baseline biomarker values generally worsened (ie, nonzero slope) with lower baseline MMSE score. Baseline hippocampal volume, amyloid positron emission tomography, and fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography values plateaued (ie, nonlinear slope) with lower MMSE score in 1 or more analyses. Longitudinally, within-subject rates of biomarker change were associated with worsening MMSE score. Nonconstant within-subject rates (deceleration) of biomarker change were found in only 1 model. Biomarker trajectory shapes by MMSE score were complex and were affected by interactions with age and APOE status. Nonlinearity was found in several baseline effects models. Nonconstant within-subject rates of biomarker change were found in only 1 model, likely owing to limited within-subject longitudinal follow-up. Creating reliable models that describe the full trajectories of Alzheimer disease biomarkers will require significant additional longitudinal data in individual participants."}
{"id": "22404851", "title": "Intraindividual cognitive decline using a brief computerized cognitive screening test.", "content": "Intraindividual cognitive decline using a brief computerized cognitive screening test. Progressive intraindividual decline in memory and cognition is characteristic of dementia and may be useful in detecting very early Alzheimer's disease pathology. This study evaluated the slopes of cognitive performance over a 12-month period in 263 healthy, community-dwelling, adult volunteers aged \u226550 years. Participants completed a brief computerized battery of cognitive tests (CogState) at baseline and during 3-, 6-, 9-, and 12-month follow-up assessments. Linear mixed models were used to estimate age-adjusted mean slopes and 95% confidence intervals of change for each of the cognitive measures. By defining age-adjusted mean slopes, and 95% confidence intervals for a measure of episodic memory, individuals with greater than expected decline (equal to or lower than the fifth percentile level of decline) were identified. From these, four individuals completed a full medical, neurologic, and neuropsychological evaluation, with none of them fulfilling criteria for mild cognitive impairment, but three (75%) having positive amyloid-positron emission tomographic scans. Intraindividual decline in cognitive performance can be detected in otherwise healthy, community-dwelling, older persons, and this may deserve further study as a potential indicator of early Alzheimer's disease pathology."}
{"id": "22401755", "title": "Prediction of cognitive decline based on hemispheric cortical surface maps of FDDNP PET.", "content": "Prediction of cognitive decline based on hemispheric cortical surface maps of FDDNP PET. A cross-sectional study to establish whether a subject's cognitive state can be predicted based on regional values obtained from brain cortical maps of FDDNP Distribution Volume Ratio (DVR), which shows the pattern of beta amyloid and neurofibrillary binding, along with those of early summed FDDNP PET images (reflecting the pattern of perfusion) was performed. Dynamic FDDNP PET studies were performed in a group of 23 subjects (8 control (NL), 8 Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) and 7 Alzheimer's Disease (AD) subjects). FDDNP DVR images were mapped to the MR derived hemispheric cortical surface map warped into a common space. A set of Regions of Interest (ROI) values of FDDNP DVR and early summed FDDNP PET (0-6 min post tracer injection), were thus calculated for each subject which along with the MMSE score were used to construct a linear mathematical model relating ROI values to MMSE. After the MMSE prediction models were developed, the models' predictive ability was tested in a non-overlapping set of 8 additional individuals, whose cognitive status was unknown to the investigators who constructed the predictive models. Among all possible subsets of ROIs, we found that the standard deviation of the predicted MMSE was 1.8 by using only DVR values from medial and lateral temporal and prefrontal regions plus the early summed FDDNP value in the posterior cingulate gyrus. The root mean square prediction error for the eight new subjects was 1.6. FDDNP scans reflect progressive neuropathology accumulation and can potentially be used to predict the cognitive state of an individual."}
{"id": "22398958", "title": "Comparison of 11C-PiB and 18F-florbetaben for A\u03b2 imaging in ageing and Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Comparison of 11C-PiB and 18F-florbetaben for A\u03b2 imaging in ageing and Alzheimer's disease. Amyloid imaging with (18)F-labelled radiotracers will allow widespread use of this technique, facilitating research, diagnosis and therapeutic development for Alzheimer's disease (AD). The purpose of this analysis was to compare data on cortical A\u03b2 deposition in subjects who had undergone both (11)C-PiB (PiB) and (18)F-florbetaben (FBB) PET imaging. We identified ten healthy elderly controls (HC) and ten patients with AD who had undergone PET imaging after intravenous injection of 370 MBq of PiB and 300 MBq of FBB under separate research protocols. PiB and FBB images were coregistered so that placement of regions of interest was identical on both scans and standard uptake value ratios (SUVR) using the cerebellar cortex as reference region were calculated between 40 and 70 min and between 90 and 110 min after injection for PiB and FBB, respectively. Significantly higher SUVR values (p\u2009<\u20090.0001) in most cortical areas were observed in AD patients when compared with HC with both radiotracers. Global SUVR values in AD patients were on average 75% higher than in HC with PiB and 56% higher with FBB. There was an excellent linear correlation between PiB and FBB global SUVR values (r = 0.97, p < 0.0001) with similar effect sizes for distinguishing AD from HC subjects for both radiotracers (Cohen's d 3.3 for PiB and 3.0 for FBB). FBB, while having a narrower dynamic range than PiB, clearly distinguished HC from AD patients, with a comparable effect size. FBB seems a suitable (18)F radiotracer for imaging AD pathology in vivo."}
{"id": "22398375", "title": "Toward a dynamic biomarker model in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Toward a dynamic biomarker model in Alzheimer's disease. Biomarkers, both biological and imaging, are indicators of specific changes that characterize Alzheimer's disease (AD) progression in vivo. Knowing the precise relationship between biomarkers and disease severity would allow for accurate disease staging and possible forecasting of decline. Jack et al. suggested as an initial hypothesis that this relationship be sigmoidal; the objective of this article is to determine, using large-scale population data from ADNI, the precise shape of this association. We considered six different models (linear; quadratic; robust quadratic; local quadratic regression; penalized B-spline; and sigmoid) and used the Akaike Information Criterion to gauge how well these models compare in conforming to the data. We included 576 subjects (229 controls, 193 AD, and 154 mild cognitive impairment subjects who converted to AD) from the ADNI study, for whom baseline data on cerebrospinal fluid amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2)42, phosphorylated tau (p-tau), and total-tau (t-tau), hippocampal volumes, and FDG-PET were available. Analysis of this cross-sectional dataset showed that a local quadratic regression model was 42% more likely than a sigmoid to be the best model for A\u03b242. This ratio augments to 22% and 73% for Penalized B-Spline in the case of p-tau and t-tau, respectively; to 3500% for the linear model for FDG-PET; and to 6700% for the Penalized B-Spline for hippocampal volumes. Preliminary, cross-sectional evidence therefore indicates that the shape of the association with disease severity is non-linear and differs between biomarkers."}
{"id": "22391726", "title": "11C-acetate PET/CT in bladder urothelial carcinoma: intraindividual comparison with 11C-choline.", "content": "11C-acetate PET/CT in bladder urothelial carcinoma: intraindividual comparison with 11C-choline. We present a first study of the use of 11C-acetate (ACET) positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) in bladder urothelial carcinoma (UC) and an intraindividual comparison with 11C-choline (CHOL) PET/CT. Fourteen patients with biopsy-proven UC (11 T2, 3 T1 refractory to treatment) were prospectively evaluated before radical cystectomy and excision of pelvic lymph nodes (LNs), with ACET and CHOL PET/CT scans performed within 1 week. Image acquisition started 5 minutes after intravenous injection of 12 to 14 mCi for both tracers. Standardized uptake values (SUVs) and tumor-to-background ratios (TBR) were calculated for all tumor and nodal findings and correlated with histopathology and follow-up. ACET and CHOL were taken up in all UCs, involved LNs, and prostate pathology. SUVs were on average slightly, nonsignificantly higher for CHOL uptake (SUV) in UCs and significantly higher for ACET in LNs. TBR was nonsignificantly higher with CHOL for UC and significantly higher for LNs. In this preliminary series, 11C-ACET and 11C-CHOL PET/CT showed equivalent results in the preoperative evaluation of UC. Both tracers have the potential to contribute to selecting patients who would benefit from combined treatment--neoadjuvant chemotherapy and surgery--by identifying pathologic LNs or from surgery only, thanks to their high negative predictive value for LN involvement."}
{"id": "22383132", "title": "Assessment of dementia risk in aging adults using both FDG-PET and FDDNP-PET imaging.", "content": "Assessment of dementia risk in aging adults using both FDG-PET and FDDNP-PET imaging. In a previous study, positron emission tomography (PET) with 2-(1-{6-[(2-[F-18]fluoroethyl)(methyl)amino]-2-naphthyl}ethylidene)malononitrile (FDDNP), a molecule that binds to plaques and tangles in vitro, identified three subgroups of non-demented subjects according to FDDNP binding patterns: low global (LG) binding; high frontal, parietal, medial temporal binding (HF/PA); and high medial and lateral temporal and posterior cingulate (HT/PC) binding. In this follow-up investigation, we compared 2-deoxy-2-[F-18]fluoro- d-glucose (FDG)-PET cerebral metabolic patterns in the three FDDNP-PET binding subgroups. Fifty-four subjects with normal aging (N\u2009=\u200928) or amnestic forms of mild cognitive impairment (N\u2009=\u200926) underwent FDDNP-PET and FDG-PET scanning. Subjects in the LG, HF/PA, and HT/PC FDDNP subgroups were compared according to visual ratings, statistical parametric mapping, and automated region of interest analyses of their FDG-PET data. The FDDNP-PET subgroups demonstrated different glucose metabolic patterns according to visual ratings, region of interest, and statistical parametric mapping analyses of FDG-PET data. The LG FDDNP subgroup showed no areas of significant hypometabolism relative to the other subgroups and had low Alzheimer's disease risk by FDG-PET standards. The HF/PA FDDNP subgroup demonstrated hypometabolism in bilateral inferior parietal/parietotemporal, bilateral posterior cingulate, perisylvian, mid-temporal gyrus, and dorsolateral prefrontal regions, which is a pattern suggestive of high Alzheimer's disease risk. The HT/PC FDDNP subgroup demonstrated heterogeneous FDG-PET patterns with predominant anterior frontal and anterior temporal hypometabolism, suggestive of mixed etiologies, including fronto-temporal dementia risk. The FDG-PET data provided independent validation that different patterns of FDDNP-PET binding in non-demented individuals may be associated with differential dementia risk."}
{"id": "22382657", "title": "Molecular approaches to the treatment, prophylaxis, and diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: novel PET/SPECT imaging probes for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Molecular approaches to the treatment, prophylaxis, and diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease: novel PET/SPECT imaging probes for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disease of the brain associated with irreversible cognitive decline, memory impairment, and behavioral changes. Postmortem brains of AD patients reveal neuropathologic features, in particular the presence of senile plaques (SPs) and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), which contain \u03b2-amyloid peptides and highly phosphorylated tau proteins. Currently, AD can only be definitively confirmed by postmortem histopathologic examination of SPs and NFTs in the brain. Therefore, SPs and NFTs in the brain may be useful as biomarkers for the differential diagnosis of AD; the detection of individual SPs and NFTs in vivo by positron-emission tomography (PET) or single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) should improve diagnosis and also accelerate discovery of effective therapeutic agents for AD. Many PET/SPECT imaging probes for SPs have already been developed. Several of the PET probes have been shown in clinical trials to be useful for the imaging of \u03b2-amyloid plaques in living brain tissue. More recently, the development of PET/SPECT probes for in vivo imaging of NFTs is an active area of study in the field of molecular imaging because the appearance of NFT pathology correlates well with clinical severity of dementia. We will review current research on the development of PET/SPECT imaging probes for in vivo detection of SPs and NFTs and their application to diagnosis and therapy of AD."}
{"id": "22377499", "title": "Encapsulated cell biodelivery of nerve growth factor to the Basal forebrain in patients with Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Encapsulated cell biodelivery of nerve growth factor to the Basal forebrain in patients with Alzheimer's disease. Degeneration of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain correlates with cognitive decline in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Targeted delivery of exogenous nerve growth factor (NGF) has emerged as a potential AD therapy due to its regenerative effects on the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in AD animal models. Here we report the results of a first-in-man study of encapsulated cell (EC) biodelivery of NGF to the basal forebrain of AD patients with the primary objective to explore safety and tolerability. This was an open-label, 12-month study in 6 AD patients. Patients were implanted stereotactically with EC-NGF biodelivery devices targeting the basal forebrain. Patients were monitored with respect to safety, tolerability, disease progression and implant functionality. All patients were implanted successfully with bilateral single or double implants without complications or signs of toxicity. No adverse events were related to NGF or the device. All patients completed the study, including removal of implants at 12 months. Positive findings in cognition, EEG and nicotinic receptor binding in 2 of 6 patients were detected. This study demonstrates that surgical implantation and removal of EC-NGF biodelivery to the basal forebrain in AD patients is safe, well tolerated and feasible."}
{"id": "22367437", "title": "The significance of neuronal lateralisation in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "The significance of neuronal lateralisation in Parkinson's disease. The destruction of the dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) and consequent depletion of striatal dopamine elicits the main movement deficits related to Parkinson's disease (PD). In the early stages of the illness, the motor symptoms are often exhibited asymmetrically. Thus, the onset of PD features starts on either the right or left side. The side of onset appears to determine the prognosis of the disorder and other features, such as right-side tremor dominance has a better prognosis in contrast to left-side dominant bradykinesia-rigidity. In addition, left-side onset of motor features is associated with cognitive decline. Therefore, an intricate relation appears to exist between the side of disease onset and progression/severity and other non-motor symptoms. Unilateral PD in turn corresponds to neuronal nigrostriatal degeneration in the contralateral hemisphere. Indeed positron emission tomography has demonstrated a positive correlation between symptom asymmetry and brain function (Hoorn et al. Parkinsonism Relat Disord 17:58-60, 2011), which corresponds to a unilateral pattern of degeneration. This phenomenon appears to be exclusive to PD. Additionally, the variation in motor symptom(s) dominance exhibited in the disorder conforms to the notion that PD is a spectrum disease with many sub-groups. Thus, clinical and post mortem studies on \"lateralisation\" may serve as a vital tool in understanding the mechanism(s) eliciting the characteristic destruction of the SN neurons. Additionally, it may be employed as a predictive indicator for the symptomology and prognosis of the illness thus allowing selective treatment strategies targeted at the pronounced hemispheric degeneration."}
{"id": "22366793", "title": "Characterization of frontotemporal dementia and/or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis associated with the GGGGCC repeat expansion in C9ORF72.", "content": "Characterization of frontotemporal dementia and/or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis associated with the GGGGCC repeat expansion in C9ORF72. Numerous kindreds with familial frontotemporal dementia and/or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis have been linked to chromosome 9, and an expansion of the GGGGCC hexanucleotide repeat in the non-coding region of chromosome 9 open reading frame 72 has recently been identified as the pathogenic mechanism. We describe the key characteristics in the probands and their affected relatives who have been evaluated at Mayo Clinic Rochester or Mayo Clinic Florida in whom the hexanucleotide repeat expansion were found. Forty-three probands and 10 of their affected relatives with DNA available (total 53 subjects) were shown to carry the hexanucleotide repeat expansion. Thirty-six (84%) of the 43 probands had a familial disorder, whereas seven (16%) appeared to be sporadic. Among examined subjects from the 43 families (n = 63), the age of onset ranged from 33 to 72 years (median 52 years) and survival ranged from 1 to 17 years, with the age of onset <40 years in six (10%) and >60 in 19 (30%). Clinical diagnoses among examined subjects included behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia with or without parkinsonism (n = 30), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (n = 18), frontotemporal dementia/amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with or without parkinsonism (n = 12), and other various syndromes (n = 3). Parkinsonism was present in 35% of examined subjects, all of whom had behavioural variant frontotemporal dementia or frontotemporal dementia/amyotrophic lateral sclerosis as the dominant clinical phenotype. No subject with a diagnosis of primary progressive aphasia was identified with this mutation. Incomplete penetrance was suggested in two kindreds, and the youngest generation had significantly earlier age of onset (>10 years) compared with the next oldest generation in 11 kindreds. Neuropsychological testing showed a profile of slowed processing speed, complex attention/executive dysfunction, and impairment in rapid word retrieval. Neuroimaging studies showed bilateral frontal abnormalities most consistently, with more variable degrees of parietal with or without temporal changes; no case had strikingly focal or asymmetric findings. Neuropathological examination of 14 patients revealed a range of transactive response DNA binding protein molecular weight 43 pathology (10 type A and four type B), as well as ubiquitin-positive cerebellar granular neuron inclusions in all but one case. Motor neuron degeneration was detected in nine patients, including five patients without ante-mortem signs of motor neuron disease. While variability exists, most cases with this mutation have a characteristic spectrum of demographic, clinical, neuropsychological, neuroimaging and especially neuropathological findings."}
{"id": "22365486", "title": "Resting metabolic connectivity in prodromal Alzheimer's disease. A European Alzheimer Disease Consortium (EADC) project.", "content": "Resting metabolic connectivity in prodromal Alzheimer's disease. A European Alzheimer Disease Consortium (EADC) project. We explored resting-state metabolic connectivity in prodromal Alzheimer's disease (pAD) patients and in healthy controls (CTR), through a voxel-wise interregional correlation analysis of 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET) by means of statistical parametric mapping. Baseline 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography of 36 patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment who converted to Alzheimer's disease (AD) dementia after an average time of 2 years (pAD) and of 105 CTR were processed. The area of hypometabolism in pAD showed less metabolic connectivity in patients than in CTR (autocorrelation and correlation with large temporal and frontal areas, respectively). pAD patients showed limited correlation even in selected nonhypometabolic areas, including the hippocampi and the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLFC). On the contrary, in CTR group correlation was highlighted between hippocampi and precuneus/posterior cingulate and frontal cortex, and between dorsolateral prefrontal cortex and caudate nuclei and parietal cortex. The reduced metabolic connections both in hypometabolic and nonhypometabolic areas in pAD patients suggest that metabolic disconnection (reflecting early diaschisis) may antedate remote hypometabolism (early sign of synaptic degeneration)."}
{"id": "22365049", "title": "Longitudinal imaging pattern analysis (SPARE-CD index) detects early structural and functional changes before cognitive decline in healthy older adults.", "content": "Longitudinal imaging pattern analysis (SPARE-CD index) detects early structural and functional changes before cognitive decline in healthy older adults. This article investigates longitudinal imaging characteristics of early cognitive decline during normal aging, leveraging on high-dimensional imaging pattern classification methods for the development of early biomarkers of cognitive decline. By combining magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and resting positron emission tomography (PET) cerebral blood flow (CBF) images, an individualized score is generated using high-dimensional pattern classification, which predicts subsequent cognitive decline in cognitively normal older adults of the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging. The resulting score, termed SPARE-CD (Spatial Pattern of Abnormality for Recognition of Early Cognitive Decline), analyzed longitudinally for 143 cognitively normal subjects over 8 years, shows functional and structural changes well before (2.3-2.9 years) changes in neurocognitive testing (California Verbal Learning Test [CVLT] scores) can be measured. Additionally, this score is found to be correlated to the [(11)C] Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) PET mean distribution volume ratio at a later time. This work indicates that MRI and PET images, combined with advanced pattern recognition methods, may be useful for very early detection of cognitive decline."}
{"id": "22359740", "title": "Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in Richardson\u2019s syndrome and progressive supranuclear palsy-parkinsonism.", "content": "Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography in Richardson\u2019s syndrome and progressive supranuclear palsy-parkinsonism. We hypothesized that postural instability and cognitive decline in patients with Richardson\u2019s syndrome could be a consequence of reduced thalamic and frontal metabolism. Severe Parkinsonian signs in patients with progressive supranuclear palsy-parkinsonism may be reflected by alterations in putaminal metabolism. Eleven patients with Richardson\u2019s syndrome, 8 patients with progressive supranuclear palsy-parkinsonism, 12 with Parkinson\u2019s disease, and 10 controls underwent clinical assessment and fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (PET). Richardson\u2019s syndrome patients showed pronounced thalamic hypometabolism, and patients with progressive supranuclear palsy-parkinsonism pronounced putaminal hypometabolism, compared to all other investigated groups. The putamen/thalamus uptake ratio differentiated progressive supranuclear palsy-parkinsonism from Richardson\u2019s syndrome (area under the curve 5 0.86) and from Parkinson\u2019s disease (area under the curve 5 0.80) with acceptable accuracy. Frontal hypometabolism was predominantly found in Richardson\u2019s syndrome patients. Richardson\u2019s syndrome, progressive supranuclear palsy-parkinsonism and Parkinson\u2019s disease showed different metabolic patterns in fluorodeoxyglucose PET."}
{"id": "22359096", "title": "Family history and APOE-4 genetic risk in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Family history and APOE-4 genetic risk in Alzheimer's disease. Identifying risk factors for Alzheimer's disease, such as carrying the APOE-4 allele, and understanding their contributions to disease pathophysiology or clinical presentation is critical for establishing and improving diagnostic and therapeutic strategies. A first-degree family history of Alzheimer's disease represents a composite risk factor, which reflects the influence of known and unknown susceptibility genes and perhaps non-genetic risks. There is emerging evidence that investigating family history risk associated effects may contribute to advances in Alzheimer's disease research and ultimately clinical practice."}
{"id": "22354138", "title": "Correlation of amyloid PET ligand florbetapir F 18 binding with A\u03b2 aggregation and neuritic plaque deposition in postmortem brain tissue.", "content": "Correlation of amyloid PET ligand florbetapir F 18 binding with A\u03b2 aggregation and neuritic plaque deposition in postmortem brain tissue. Florbetapir F 18 (F-AV-45) is a positron emission tomography imaging ligand for the detection of amyloid aggregation associated with Alzheimer disease. Earlier data showed that florbetapir F 18 binds with high affinity to \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) plaques in human brain homogenates (Kd=3.7 nM) and has favorable imaging pharmacokinetic properties, including rapid brain penetration and washout. This study used human autopsy brain tissue to evaluate the correlation between in vitro florbetapir F 18 binding and A\u03b2 density measured by established neuropathologic methods. The localization and density of florbetapir F 18 binding in frozen and formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded sections of postmortem brain tissue from 40 patients with a varying degree of neurodegenerative pathology was assessed by standard florbetapir F 18 autoradiography and correlated with the localization and density of A\u03b2 identified by silver staining, thioflavin S staining, and immunohistochemistry. There were strong quantitative correlations between florbetapir F 18 tissue binding and both A\u03b2 plaques identified by light microscopy (Silver staining and thioflavin S fluorescence) and by immunohistochemical measurements of A\u03b2 using 3 antibodies recognizing different epitopes of the A\u03b2 peptide. Florbetapir F 18 did not bind to neurofibrillary tangles. Florbetapir F 18 selectively binds A\u03b2 in human brain tissue. The binding intensity was quantitatively correlated with the density of A\u03b2 plaques identified by standard neuropathologic techniques and correlated with the density of A\u03b2 measured by immunohistochemistry. As A\u03b2 plaques are a defining neuropathologic feature for Alzheimer disease, these results support the use of florbetapir F 18 as an amyloid positron emission tomography ligand to identify the presence of Alzheimer disease pathology in patients with signs and symptoms of progressive late-life cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "22348880", "title": "Correlations between FDG PET glucose uptake-MRI gray matter volume scores and apolipoprotein E \u03b54 gene dose in cognitively normal adults: a cross-validation study using voxel-based multi-modal partial least squares.", "content": "Correlations between FDG PET glucose uptake-MRI gray matter volume scores and apolipoprotein E \u03b54 gene dose in cognitively normal adults: a cross-validation study using voxel-based multi-modal partial least squares. We previously introduced a voxel-based, multi-modal application of the partial least square algorithm (MMPLS) to characterize the linkage between patterns in a person's complementary complex datasets without the need to correct for multiple regional comparisons. Here we used it to demonstrate a strong correlation between MMPLS scores to characterize the linkage between the covarying patterns of fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET) measurements of regional glucose metabolism and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measurements of regional gray matter associated with apolipoprotein E (APOE) \u03b54 gene dose (i.e., three levels of genetic risk for late-onset Alzheimer's disease (AD)) in cognitively normal, late-middle-aged persons. Coregistered and spatially normalized FDG PET and MRI images from 70% of the subjects (27 \u03b54 homozygotes, 36 \u03b54 heterozygotes and 67 \u03b54 non-carriers) were used in a hypothesis-generating MMPLS analysis to characterize the covarying pattern of regional gray matter volume and cerebral glucose metabolism most strongly correlated with APOE-\u03b54 gene dose. Coregistered and spatially normalized FDG PET and MRI images from the remaining 30% of the subjects were used in a hypothesis-testing MMPLS analysis to generate FDG PET-MRI gray matter MMPLS scores blind to their APOE genotype and characterize their relationship to APOE-\u03b54 gene dose. The hypothesis-generating analysis revealed covarying regional gray matter volume and cerebral glucose metabolism patterns that resembled those in traditional univariate analyses of AD and APOE-\u03b54 gene dose and PET-MRI scores that were strongly correlated with APOE-\u03b54 gene dose (p<1 \u00d7 10(-16)). The hypothesis-testing analysis results showed strong correlations between FDG PET-MRI gray matter scores and APOE-\u03b54 gene dose (p = 8.7 \u00d7 10(-4)). Our findings support the possibility of using the MMPLS to analyze complementary datasets from the same person in the presymptomatic detection and tracking of AD."}
{"id": "22347510", "title": "Lithium treatment of APPSwDI/NOS2-/- mice leads to reduced hyperphosphorylated tau, increased amyloid deposition and altered inflammatory phenotype.", "content": "Lithium treatment of APPSwDI/NOS2-/- mice leads to reduced hyperphosphorylated tau, increased amyloid deposition and altered inflammatory phenotype. Lithium is an anti-psychotic that has been shown to prevent the hyperphosphorylation of tau protein through the inhibition of glycogen-synthase kinase 3-beta (GSK3\u03b2). We recently developed a mouse model that progresses from amyloid pathology to tau pathology and neurodegeneration due to the genetic deletion of NOS2 in an APP transgenic mouse; the APPSwDI/NOS2-/- mouse. Because this mouse develops tau pathology, amyloid pathology and neuronal loss we were interested in the effect anti-tau therapy would have on amyloid pathology, learning and memory. We administered lithium in the diets of APPSwDI/NOS2-/- mice for a period of eight months, followed by water maze testing at 12 months of age, immediately prior to sacrifice. We found that lithium significantly lowered hyperphosphorylated tau levels as measured by Western blot and immunocytochemistry. However, we found no apparent neuroprotection, no effect on spatial memory deficits and an increase in histological amyloid deposition. A\u03b2 levels measured biochemically were unaltered. We also found that lithium significantly altered the neuroinflammatory phenotype of the brain, resulting in enhanced alternative inflammatory response while concurrently lowering the classical inflammatory response. Our data suggest that lithium may be beneficial for the treatment of tauopathies but may not be beneficial for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "22343644", "title": "Novel MRI approaches for assessing cerebral hemodynamics in ischemic cerebrovascular disease.", "content": "Novel MRI approaches for assessing cerebral hemodynamics in ischemic cerebrovascular disease. Changes in cerebral hemodynamics underlie a broad spectrum of ischemic cerebrovascular disorders. An ability to accurately and quantitatively measure hemodynamic (cerebral blood flow and cerebral blood volume) and related metabolic (cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen) parameters is important for understanding healthy brain function and comparative dysfunction in ischemia. Although positron emission tomography, single-photon emission tomography, and gadolinium-MRI approaches are common, more recently MRI approaches that do not require exogenous contrast have been introduced with variable sensitivity for hemodynamic parameters. The ability to obtain hemodynamic measurements with these new approaches is particularly appealing in clinical and research scenarios in which follow-up and longitudinal studies are necessary. The purpose of this review is to outline current state-of-the-art MRI methods for measuring cerebral blood flow, cerebral blood volume, and cerebral metabolic rate of oxygen and provide practical tips to avoid imaging pitfalls. MRI studies of cerebrovascular disease performed without exogenous contrast are synopsized in the context of clinical relevance and methodological strengths and limitations."}
{"id": "22343502", "title": "Summary metrics to assess Alzheimer disease-related hypometabolic pattern with 18F-FDG PET: head-to-head comparison.", "content": "Summary metrics to assess Alzheimer disease-related hypometabolic pattern with 18F-FDG PET: head-to-head comparison. In the recently revised diagnostic criteria for Alzheimer disease (AD), the National Institute on Aging and Alzheimer Association suggested that confidence in diagnosing dementia due to AD and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) due to AD could be improved by the use of certain biomarkers, such as (18)F-FDG PET evidence of hypometabolism in AD-affected brain regions. Three groups have developed automated data analysis techniques to characterize the AD-related pattern of hypometabolism in a single measurement. In this study, we sought to directly compare the ability of these three (18)F-FDG PET data analysis techniques--the PMOD Alzheimer discrimination analysis tool, the hypometabolic convergence index, and a set of meta-analytically derived regions of interest reflecting AD hypometabolism pattern (metaROI)--to distinguish moderate or mild AD dementia patients and MCI patients who subsequently converted to AD dementia from cognitively normal older adults. One hundred sixty-six (18)F-FDG PET patients from the AD Neuroimaging Initiative, 308 from the Network for Efficiency and Standardization of Dementia Diagnosis, and 176 from the European Alzheimer Disease Consortium PET study were categorized, with masking of group classification, as AD, MCI, or healthy control. For each AD-related (18)F-FDG PET index, receiver-operating-characteristic curves were used to characterize and compare subject group classifications. The 3 techniques were roughly comparable in their ability to distinguish each of the clinical groups from cognitively normal older adults with high sensitivity and specificity. Accuracy of classification (in terms of area under the curve) in each clinical group varied more as a function of dataset than by technique. All techniques were differentially sensitive to disease severity, with the classification accuracy for MCI due to AD to moderate AD varying from 0.800 to 0.949 (PMOD Alzheimer tool), from 0.774 to 0.967 (metaROI), and from 0.801 to 0.983 (hypometabolic convergence index). The 3 tested techniques have the potential to help detect AD in research and clinical settings. Additional efforts are needed to clarify their ability to address particular scientific and clinical questions. Their incremental diagnostic value over other imaging and biologic markers makes them easier to implement by other groups for these purposes."}
{"id": "22342372", "title": "Applications of positron emission tomography in animal models of neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders.", "content": "Applications of positron emission tomography in animal models of neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders. Positron emission tomography (PET) provides dynamic images of the biodistribution of radioactive tracers in the brain. Through application of the principles of compartmental analysis, tracer uptake can be quantified in terms of specific physiological processes such as cerebral blood flow, cerebral metabolic rate, and the availability of receptors in brain. Whereas early PET studies in animal models of brain diseases were hampered by the limited spatial resolution of PET instruments, dedicated small-animal instruments now provide molecular images of rodent brain with resolution approaching 1mm, the theoretic limit of the method. Major applications of PET for brain research have consisted of studies of animal models of neurological disorders, notably Parkinson's disease (PD), Alzheimer's disease (AD), and Huntington's disease (HD), stroke, epilepsy and traumatic brain injury; these studies have particularly benefited from selective neurochemical lesion models (PD), and also transgenic rodent models (AD, HD). Due to their complex and uncertain pathophysiologies, corresponding models of neuropsychiatric disorders have proven more difficult to establish. Historically, there has been an emphasis on PET studies of dopamine transmission, as assessed with a range of tracers targeting dopamine synthesis, plasma membrane transporters, and receptor binding sites. However, notable recent breakthroughs in molecular imaging include the development of greatly improved tracers for subtypes of serotonin, cannabinoid, and metabotropic glutamate receptors, as well as noradrenaline transporters, amyloid-\u03b2 and neuroinflammatory changes. This article reviews the considerable recent progress in preclinical PET and discusses applications relevant to a number of neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders in humans."}
{"id": "22341369", "title": "Common and differential pathophysiological features accompany comparable cognitive impairments in medication-free patients with schizophrenia and in healthy aging subjects.", "content": "Common and differential pathophysiological features accompany comparable cognitive impairments in medication-free patients with schizophrenia and in healthy aging subjects. Dysfunction of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) and parahippocampal region along with poor working memory are common neurophysiological and behavioral features associated with schizophrenia and normal aging. It is, however, unknown whether the associated patterns of neural activation differ between these two groups when their cognitive performance is closely matched in a pairwise manner. The authors sought to pinpoint common and differential pathophysiological features that accompany comparable working memory impairments in schizophrenia and healthy aging. Fifty-three subjects were scanned with oxygen-15 water positron emission tomography regional cerebral blood flow measurements during working memory. Seventeen medication-free patients with schizophrenia were individually matched for working memory performance with 17 healthy aging subjects. Brain activation of the two index groups were compared with each other and with 19 young healthy individuals. Patients with schizophrenia showed right DLPFC hypoactivation, both when compared with age-matched control subjects and after direct comparison with working memory performance-matched elderly subjects. Moreover, both groups with working memory deficits shared an inability to suppress parahippocampal and anterior medial prefrontal cortex activation. These results provide new insights into the mechanisms by which impaired working memory performance can arise by showing that both common (parahippocampal/anterior medial PFC) and differential (DLPFC) pathophysiological features accompany similar cognitive impairments. The aging data also demonstrate that poor performance is not necessarily accompanied by the DLPFC hypofunction that was seen in schizophrenia. Finally, these results more closely link the DLPFC functional abnormalities in schizophrenia to the pathophysiology of the disorder rather than to poor performance per se."}
{"id": "22335970", "title": "Self-reported memory impairment and brain PET of amyloid and tau in middle-aged and older adults without dementia.", "content": "Self-reported memory impairment and brain PET of amyloid and tau in middle-aged and older adults without dementia. Whether perceived changes in memory parallel changes in brain pathology is uncertain. Positron emission tomography (PET) scans using 2-(1-{6-[(2-[F-18]fluoroethyl)(methyl)amino]-2-naphthyl}ethylidene)malononitrile (FDDNP) can measure levels of amyloid plaques and tau neurofibrillary tangles in vivo. Here we investigate whether degree of self-reported memory impairment is associated with FDDNP-PET binding levels in persons without dementia. Fifty-seven middle-aged and older adults without dementia (mean age \u00b1standard deviation = 66.3 \u00b1 10.6 years), including 25 with normal aging and 32 with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), were assessed. The outcome measures were the four factor scores of the Memory Functioning Questionnaire (MFQ) (frequency of forgetting, seriousness of forgetting, retrospective functioning, and mnemonics use) and FDDNP-PET binding levels in medial temporal, lateral temporal, posterior cingulate, parietal, frontal, and global (overall average) regions of interest. After controlling for age, higher reported frequency of forgetting was associated with greater medial temporal (r = -0.29, p = 0.05), parietal (r = -0.30, p = 0.03), frontal (r = -0.35, p = 0.01), and global FDDNP-PET binding levels (r = -0.33, p = 0.02). The remaining MFQ factor scores were not significantly associated with FDDNP-PET binding levels, and no significant differences were found between normal aging and MCI subjects. Item analysis of the frequency of forgetting factor revealed five questions that yielded similar results as the full 32-question scale (r = -0.52, p = 0.0002). These findings suggest that some forms of memory self-awareness, in particular the reported frequency of forgetting, may reflect the extent of cerebral amyloid and tau brain pathology."}
{"id": "22332189", "title": "Subjective cognition and amyloid deposition imaging: a Pittsburgh Compound B positron emission tomography study in normal elderly individuals.", "content": "Subjective cognition and amyloid deposition imaging: a Pittsburgh Compound B positron emission tomography study in normal elderly individuals. To study the relationship between subjective cognition and the neuropathological hallmark of Alzheimer disease (AD), amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) deposition, using carbon 11-labeled Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB) positron emission tomography in normal elderly individuals. Cross-sectional analysis. Forty-eight cognitively normal elderly subjects (11 with high PiB uptake and 28 with low PiB uptake) were included. All underwent clinical and neuropsychological evaluations, magnetic resonance imaging, and positron emission tomography. Berkeley Aging Cohort Study. Relationship between PiB uptake and subjective cognition measures. Subjects with high PiB uptake showed significantly lower performance than those with low PiB uptake on an episodic memory measure and were less confident about their general memory abilities when required to evaluate themselves relative to other people of the same age. High and low PiB uptake groups did not differ on the accuracy of their cognitive self-reports compared with objective cognitive performance. General memory self-reports from the whole group were significantly correlated with regional PiB uptake in the right medial prefrontal cortex and anterior cingulate cortex and in the right precuneus and posterior cingulate cortex. Reduced confidence about memory abilities was associated with greater PiB uptake in these brain regions. All results were independent of demographic variables and depressive affects. A decrease of self-confidence about memory abilities in cognitively normal elderly subjects may be related to the neuropathological hallmark of AD measured with PiB-positron emission tomography. Subjective cognitive impairment may represent a very early clinical manifestation of AD."}
{"id": "22332188", "title": "Prediction of cognitive decline by positron emission tomography of brain amyloid and tau.", "content": "Prediction of cognitive decline by positron emission tomography of brain amyloid and tau. To determine whether 2-(1-{6-[(2-fluorine 18-labeled fluoroethyl)methylamino]-2-napthyl}ethylidene) malononitrile ([(18)F]FDDNP) brain regional values in individuals without dementia predict and correlate with future cognitive change. Two-year, longitudinal follow-up study. A university research institute. Volunteer sample of 43 middle-aged and older persons (median age, 64 years), including 21 with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 22 with normal aging. Longitudinal [(18)F]FDDNP positron emission tomography (PET) binding values in the medial and lateral temporal, posterior cingulate, parietal, frontal, and global (mean) regions of interest; neuropsychological test battery measuring 5 cognitive domains, including memory, language, attention (and information-processing speed), executive functioning, and visuospatial ability. For the entire study group (MCI and normal aging), increases in frontal, posterior cingulate, and global binding at follow-up correlated with progression of memory decline (r\u00a0=\u00a0-0.32 to -0.37, P\u00a0=\u00a0.03 to .01) after 2 years. Moreover, higher baseline [(18)F]FDDNP binding was associated with future decline in most cognitive domains, including language, attention, executive, and visuospatial abilities (r\u00a0=\u00a0-0.31 to -0.56, P\u00a0=\u00a0.05 to .002). For the MCI group, frontal and parietal [(18)F]FDDNP binding yielded the greatest diagnostic accuracy in identifying converters to Alzheimer disease vs nonconverters after 2 years, with an area under the receiver operating characteristic curve of 0.88 (95% CI, 0.72-1.00) compared with 0.68 (95% CI, 0.45-0.91) for medial temporal binding. [(18)F]FDDNP PET regional binding patterns are consistent with known neuropathologic patterns of plaque and tangle brain accumulation, spreading from the medial temporal to other neocortical regions as disease progresses. Because binding patterns predict future cognitive decline and increase over time along with clinical decline, [(18)F]FDDNP PET scanning may have practical utility in identifying people at risk for future cognitive decline and in tracking the effectiveness of novel interventions designed to prevent or delay neurodegeneration and cognitive decline."}
{"id": "22331215", "title": "Performance characteristics of amyloid PET with florbetapir F 18 in patients with alzheimer's disease and cognitively normal subjects.", "content": "Performance characteristics of amyloid PET with florbetapir F 18 in patients with alzheimer's disease and cognitively normal subjects. The objectives of this study were to examine the effective dose range and the test-retest reliability of florbetapir F 18 using, first, visual assessment by independent raters masked to clinical information and, second, semiautomated quantitative measures of cortical target area to cerebellum standardized uptake value ratios (SUVr) as primary outcome measures. Visual ratings of PET image quality and tracer retention or \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) binding expressed as SUVrs were compared after intravenous administration of either 111 MBq (3 mCi) or 370 MBq (10 mCi) of florbetapir F 18 in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) (n = 9) and younger healthy controls (YHCs) (n = 11). In a separate set of subjects (AD, n = 10; YHCs, n = 10), test-retest reliability was evaluated by comparing intrasubject visual read ratings and SUVrs for 2 PET images acquired within 4 wk of each other. There were no meaningful differences between the 111-MBq (3-mCi) and 370-MBq (10-mCi) dose in the visual rating or SUVr. The difference in the visual quality across 111 and 370 MBq showed a trend toward lower image quality, but no statistical significance was achieved (t test; t(1) = -1.617, P = 0.12) in this relatively small sample of subjects. At both dose levels, visual ratings of amyloid burden identified 100% of AD subjects as A\u03b2-positive and 100% of YHCs as A\u03b2-negative. Mean intrasubject test-retest variability for cortical average SUVrs with the cerebellum as a reference over the 50- to 70-min period was 2.4% \u00b1 1.41% for AD subjects and 1.5% \u00b1 0.84% for controls. The overall SUVr test-retest correlation coefficient was 0.99. The overall \u03ba-statistic for test-retest agreement for A\u03b2 classification of the masked reads was 0.89 (95% confidence interval, 0.69-1.0). Florbetapir F 18 appears to have a wide effective dose range and a high test-retest reliability for both quantitative (SUVr) values and visual assessment of the ligand. These imaging performance properties provide important technical information on the use of florbetapir F 18 and PET to detect cerebral amyloid aggregates."}
{"id": "22329653", "title": "Anti-inflammatory effects of physical activity in relationship to improved cognitive status in humans and mouse models of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Anti-inflammatory effects of physical activity in relationship to improved cognitive status in humans and mouse models of Alzheimer's disease. Physical activity has been correlated with a reduced incidence of cognitive decline and Alzheimer's disease in human populations. Although data from intervention-based randomized trials is scarce, there is some indication that exercise may confer protection against age-related deficits in cognitive function. Data from animal models suggests that exercise, in the form of voluntary wheel running, is associated with reduced amyloid deposition and enhanced clearance of amyloid beta, the major constituent of plaques in Alzheimer's disease. Treadmill exercise has also been shown to ameliorate the accumulation of phosphorylated tau, an essential component of neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's models. A common therapeutic theme arising from studies of exercise-induced neuroprotection in human populations and in animal models involves reduced inflammation in the central nervous system. In this respect, physical activity may promote neuronal resilience by reducing inflammation."}
{"id": "22329529", "title": "Transthyretin cardiac amyloidoses in older North Americans.", "content": "Transthyretin cardiac amyloidoses in older North Americans. The amyloidoses are a group of hereditary or acquired disorders caused by the extracellular deposition of insoluble protein fibrils that impair tissue structure and function. All amyloidoses result from protein misfolding, a common mechanism for disorders in older persons, including Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Abnormalities in the protein transthyretin (TTR), a serum transporter of thyroxine and retinol, is the most common cause of cardiac amyloidoses in elderly adults. Mutations in TTR can result in familial amyloidotic cardiomyopathy, and wild-type TTR can result in senile cardiac amyloidosis. These underdiagnosed disorders are much more common than previously thought. The resulting restrictive cardiomyopathy can cause congestive heart failure, arrhythmias, and advanced conduction system disease. Although historically difficult to make, the diagnosis of TTR cardiac amyloidosis has become easier in recent years with advances in cardiac imaging and more widespread use of genetic analysis. Although therapy has largely involved supportive medical care, avoidance of potentially toxic agents, and rarely organ transplantation, the near future brings the possibility of targeted pharmacotherapies designed to prevent TTR misfolding and amyloid deposition. Because these disease-modifying agents are designed to prevent disease progression, it has become increasingly important that older persons with TTR amyloidosis be expeditiously identified and considered for enrollment in clinical registries and trials."}
{"id": "22328918", "title": "VIP enhances phagocytosis of fibrillar beta-amyloid by microglia and attenuates amyloid deposition in the brain of APP/PS1 mice.", "content": "VIP enhances phagocytosis of fibrillar beta-amyloid by microglia and attenuates amyloid deposition in the brain of APP/PS1 mice. Vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) is a multifunctional neuropeptide with demonstrated immunosuppressive and neuroprotective activities. It has been shown to inhibit Amyloid beta (A\u03b2)-induced neurodegeneration by indirectly suppressing the production and release of a variety of inflammatory and neurotoxic factors by activated microglia. We demonstrated that VIP markedly increased microglial phagocytosis of fibrillar A\u03b242 and that this enhanced phagocytotic activity depended on activation of the Protein kinase C (PKC) signaling pathway. In addition, VIP suppressed the release of tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-\u03b1) and nitric oxide (NO) from microglia activated by combined treatment with fibrillar A\u03b242 and low dose interferon-\u03b3 (IFN-\u03b3). We utilized an adenovirus-mediated gene delivery method to overexpress VIP constitutively in the hippocampus of APPswPS1 transgenic mice. The A\u03b2 load was significantly reduced in the hippocampus of this animal model of Alzheimer's disease, possibly due to the accumulation and activation of cd11b-immunoactive microglial cells. The modulation of microglial activation, phagocytosis, and secretion by VIP is a promising therapeutic option for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease (AD)."}
{"id": "22323782", "title": "Clinical validation of 18F-AZD4694, an amyloid-\u03b2-specific PET radioligand.", "content": "Clinical validation of 18F-AZD4694, an amyloid-\u03b2-specific PET radioligand. Pioneered with the invention of (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B, amyloid-\u03b2 imaging using PET has facilitated research in Alzheimer disease (AD). This imaging approach has promise for diagnostic purposes and evaluation of disease-modifying therapies. Broad clinical use requires an (18)F-labeled amyloid-\u03b2 radioligand with high specific and low nonspecific binding. The aim of the present PET study was to examine the radioligand (18)F-AZD4694 in human subjects. Six control subjects and 10 clinically diagnosed AD patients underwent PET examination with (18)F-AZD4694 and a structural MRI scan. Of these, 4 controls and 4 patients underwent a second PET examination for test-retest analysis. Arterial sampling was done to derive a metabolite-corrected plasma input function for traditional compartment modeling. Besides, several simplified quantitative approaches were applied, including the reference Logan approach and simple ratio methods. After intravenous injection of (18)F-AZD4694, radioactivity appeared rapidly in brain. In patients, radioactivity was high in regions expected to contain amyloid-\u03b2, whereas in controls, radioactivity was low and homogenously distributed. Binding in cerebellum, a reference region, was low and similar between the groups. Specific binding was reversible and peaked at about 27 min after injection in regions with high radioactivity. The time-activity curves could be described using the 2-tissue-compartment model. Distribution volume ratio estimates obtained using compartment models and simplified methods were highly correlated. Standardized uptake value ratios calculated at late times and distribution volume ratios estimated with the reference Logan approach were, in gray matter, significantly lower in control subjects (1.08 [11%] and 1.01 [6%], respectively) than in AD patients (2.15 [24%] and 1.62 [18%], respectively). Among noninvasive methods, the lowest test-retest variability was found with reference Logan, varying between 4% and 6% across brain regions. Noninvasive quantitative approaches provide valid estimates of amyloid-\u03b2 binding. Because of the radioisotope ((18)F) used for labeling, the radioligand has potential for wide clinical application. (18)F-AZD4694 satisfies the requirements for a promising amyloid-\u03b2 radioligand both for diagnostic use and for evaluation of disease-modifying therapies in AD."}
{"id": "22310250", "title": "\u2076\u2078Ga-DOTANOC PET/CT in patients with carcinoma of unknown primary of neuroendocrine origin.", "content": "\u2076\u2078Ga-DOTANOC PET/CT in patients with carcinoma of unknown primary of neuroendocrine origin. To evaluate the role of \u2076\u2078Ga-DOTANOC (\u2076\u2078Gallium-labeled [1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane-1,4,7,10-tetraacetic acid]-1-NaI\u00b3-octreotide) PET/CT for localization of the primary tumor in patients with carcinoma of unknown primary of neuroendocrine origin. Twenty patients (median age, 55 years; male 10) with histopathologically proven metastatic neuroendocrine tumor and no localization of primary tumor on conventional imaging were included in the study. PET/CT was done after injection of 132-222 MBq (4-6 mCi) of \u2076\u2078Ga-DOTANOC. Images were evaluated by 2 experienced nuclear medicine physicians both qualitatively as well as quantitatively (maximum standardized uptake value). Histopathology (when available) and/or follow-up imaging with biochemical markers were taken as reference standard. \u2076\u2078Ga-DOTANOC PET/CT localized the primary tumor in 12/20 (60%) patients. Midgut was the most common site of primary tumor (n = 9); duodenum (4), ileum (4), and colon (1). In 1 patient each the primary was localized to the pancreas, stomach, and lung. In these 12 patients, significant correlation was found between maximum standardized uptake value of primary tumor and metastasis (\u03c1 = 0.615; P = 0.041). Even in patients in whom no primary tumor was localized, additional sites of metastatic disease were observed when compared with conventional imaging, mostly in lymph nodes and bones. There was a change in management in 3/20 patients (15%), who underwent surgery. In the remaining 17 patients, demonstration of somatostatin receptor expression by PET/CT made them suitable candidate for peptide receptor radionuclide therapy. \u2076\u2078Ga-DOTANOC PET/CT seems to be a promising modality for detecting primary tumor in patients with carcinoma of unknown primary of neuroendocrine origin."}
{"id": "22310247", "title": "Diagnostic value of recombinant human thyrotropin-stimulated \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I whole-body scintigraphy in the follow-up of patients with differentiated thyroid cancer.", "content": "Diagnostic value of recombinant human thyrotropin-stimulated \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I whole-body scintigraphy in the follow-up of patients with differentiated thyroid cancer. Published data on recombinant human thyrotropin- (rhTSH-) stimulated iodine-123 (\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I) diagnostic whole-body scintigraphy (DxWBS) in differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) surveillance after initial treatment are limited. We sought to evaluate this modality's diagnostic value in this setting. We retrospectively compared rhTSH-stimulated \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I DxWBS results with DTC status concurrently determined by stimulated serum thyroglobulin (Tg) measurement, neck ultrasonography, and other imaging studies. Disease was considered present based on stimulated Tg level \u22651 \u03bcg/L without interfering Tg autoantibodies with or without positive imaging or biopsy-proven DTC. We also compared scan positivity and disease detection rates of rhTSH-stimulated DxWBS scans obtained with \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I with those acquired with iodine-131 (\u00b9\u00b3\u00b9I) during the same period. The sample comprised 105 consecutive totally thyroidectomized patients undergoing rhTSH-aided DxWBS with I-123 (n = 67) or with \u00b9\u00b3\u00b9I (n = 38) for diagnostic follow-up. rhTSH, 0.9 mg/d, was injected intramuscularly on 2 consecutive days. Oral diagnostic activities of 5 to 10 mCi (185-370 MBq) \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I or 3 mCi (111 MBq) \u00b9\u00b3\u00b9I were given on the third day. DxWBS was performed 24 hours (\u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I) or 48 to 72 hours (\u00b9\u00b3\u00b9I) later. rhTSH-aided \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I DxWBS scans showed 35.3% sensitivity, 98.0% specificity, 85.7% positive predictive value, and 81.6% negative predictive value. rhTSH-stimulated \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I and \u00b9\u00b3\u00b9I DxWBS did not differ in scan positivity (10.4% vs. 13.2%, P = 0.75) or disease detection rates (35.3% vs. 27.8%, P = 1.00). In DTC, rhTSH-aided \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I DxWBS achieves comparable results in diagnostic follow-up with those of rhTSH-aided \u00b9\u00b3\u00b9I DxWBS. Future studies should address the preablation setting and scan activity and timing."}
{"id": "22306804", "title": "Can target-to-pons ratio be used as a reliable method for the analysis of [11C]PIB brain scans?", "content": "Can target-to-pons ratio be used as a reliable method for the analysis of [11C]PIB brain scans? (11)C]PIB is the most widely used PET imaging marker for amyloid in dementia studies. In the majority of studies the cerebellum has been used as a reference region. However, cerebellar amyloid may be present in genetic Alzheimer's (AD), cerebral amyloid angiopathy and prion diseases. Therefore, we investigated whether the pons could be used as an alternative reference region for the analysis of [(11)C]PIB binding in AD. The aims of the study were to: 1) Evaluate the pons as a reference region using arterial plasma input function and Logan graphical analysis of binding. 2) Assess the power of target-to-pons ratios to discriminate controls from AD subjects. 3) Determine the test-retest reliability in AD subjects. 4) Demonstrate the application of target-to-pons ratio in subjects with elevated cerebellar [(11)C]PIB binding. 12 sporadic AD subjects aged 65 \u00b1 4.5 yrs with a mean MMSE 21.4 \u00b1 4 and 10 age-matched control subjects had [(11)C]PIB PET with arterial blood sampling. Three additional subjects (two subjects with pre-symptomatic presenilin-1 mutation carriers and one probable familial AD) were also studied. Object maps were created by segmenting individual MRIs and spatially transforming the gray matter images into standard stereotaxic MNI space and then superimposing a probabilistic atlas. Cortical [(11)C]PIB binding was assessed with an ROI (region of interest) analysis. Parametric maps of the volume of distribution (V(T)) were generated with Logan analysis. Additionally, parametric maps of the 60-90 min target-to-cerebellar ratio (RATIO(CER)) and the 60-90 min target-to-pons ratio (RATIO(PONS)) were computed. All three approaches were able to differentiate AD from controls (p<0.0001, nonparametric Wilcoxon rank sum test) in the target regions with RATIO(CER) and RATIO(PONS) differences higher than V(T) with use of an arterial input function. All methods had a good reproducibility (intraclass correlation coefficient>0.83); RATIO(CER) performed best closely followed by RATIO(PONS). The two subjects with presenilin-1 mutations and the probable familial AD case showed no significant differences in cortical binding using RATIO(CER), but the RATIO(PONS) approach revealed higher [(11)C]PIB binding in cortex and cerebellum. This study established 60-90 min target-to-pons RATIOs as a reliable method of analysis in [(11)C]PIB PET studies where cerebellum is not an appropriate reference region."}
{"id": "22302550", "title": "\u03b2-Amyloid burden in healthy aging: regional distribution and cognitive consequences.", "content": "\u03b2-Amyloid burden in healthy aging: regional distribution and cognitive consequences. Several lines of evidence suggest that pathologic changes underlying Alzheimer disease (AD) begin years prior to the clinical expression of the disease, underscoring the need for studies of cognitively healthy adults to capture these early changes. The overall goal of the current study was to map the cortical distribution of \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) in a healthy adult lifespan sample (aged 30-89), and to assess the relationship between elevated amyloid and cognitive performance across multiple domains. A total of 137 well-screened and cognitively normal adults underwent A\u03b2 PET imaging with radiotracer (18)F-florbetapir. A\u03b2 load was estimated from 8 cortical regions. Participants were genotyped for APOE and tested for processing speed, working memory, fluid reasoning, episodic memory, and verbal ability. A\u03b2 deposition is distributed differentially across the cortex and progresses at varying rates with age across cortical brain regions. A subset of cognitively normal adults aged 60 and over show markedly elevated deposition, and also had a higher rate of APOE \u03b54 (38%) than nonelevated adults (19%). A\u03b2 burden was linked to poorer cognitive performance on measures of processing speed, working memory, and reasoning. Even in a highly selected lifespan sample of adults, A\u03b2 deposition is apparent in some adults and is influenced by APOE status. Greater amyloid burden was related to deleterious effects on cognition, suggesting that subtle cognitive changes accrue as amyloid progresses."}
{"id": "22302548", "title": "Accelerated cortical atrophy in cognitively normal elderly with high \u03b2-amyloid deposition.", "content": "Accelerated cortical atrophy in cognitively normal elderly with high \u03b2-amyloid deposition. Given the recent and growing interest in the concepts of prodromal and presymptomatic Alzheimer disease, it is crucial to determine whether the presence of \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) in the brain of asymptomatic elderly individuals is a pathologic condition associated with accelerated neuronal and synaptic loss. The aim of the present study was to assess whether A\u03b2 influences the rate of atrophy in cognitively normal elderly individuals. Seventy-four healthy elderly individuals underwent an MRI scan and a 11C-Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) PET scan at baseline and a second MRI scan 18 months later. Voxel-wise analyses were performed using maps of annual rate of atrophy generated from the serial MRI scans, including comparison between individuals with high vs low neocortical PiB and correlation with baseline neocortical PiB. The rate of atrophy was significantly higher in the normal elderly individuals with high PiB compared with those with low PiB and was significantly correlated with baseline neocortical PiB, with the highest significance in the temporal neocortex and the posterior cingulate cortex. Our findings show that the presence of A\u03b2 in the brain, known to occur in about one-third of asymptomatic elderly individuals, is actually a pathologic state associated with accelerated atrophy. They also suggest that therapy aimed to reduce the neurodegenerative process should be commenced in presymptomatic individuals with high PiB."}
{"id": "22301812", "title": "Relationship between memory performance and \u03b2-amyloid deposition at different stages of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Relationship between memory performance and \u03b2-amyloid deposition at different stages of Alzheimer's disease. Postmortem studies have suggested that \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) deposition was only weakly related to the degree of cognitive impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The development of A\u03b2 ligands for in vivo PET imaging has greatly facilitated the assessment of this question. The objective of the present study was to provide an overview of our current knowledge regarding the relationship between A\u03b2 deposition and episodic memory deficits in nondemented elderly and in patients with mild cognitive impairment or AD. Information was obtained both from studies comparing memory performance in individuals with high Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) and those with low PiB and from studies performing correlation analyses between memory performance and PiB retention considered as a continuous variable. Previous studies assessing the relationship between memory and global neocortical PiB reported conflicting findings, and overall suggest that this link is weak, probably indirect, and detectable only in early stages. Assessing the relationship with regional instead of global neocortical PiB, we found a specific relationship between episodic memory deficits and neocortical temporal PiB, independent from hippocampal atrophy, in the predementia stage of the disease. There is a relationship between regional A\u03b2 deposition and episodic memory deficits in the presymptomatic stage of AD."}
{"id": "22301718", "title": "Combination of biomarkers: PET [18F]flutemetamol imaging and structural MRI in dementia and mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Combination of biomarkers: PET [18F]flutemetamol imaging and structural MRI in dementia and mild cognitive impairment. The New National Institute on Aging-Alzheimer's Association diagnostic guidelines for Alzheimer's disease (AD) incorporate biomarkers in the diagnostic criteria and suggest division of biomarkers into two categories: A\u03b2 accumulation and neuronal degeneration or injury. It was the aim of this study to compute hippocampus volume from MRI and a neocortical standard uptake value ratio (SUVR) from [(18)F]flutemetamol PET and investigate the performance of these biomarkers when used individually and when combined. Fully automated methods for hippocampus segmentation and for computation of neocortical SUVR were applied to MR and scans with the investigational imaging agent [(18)F]flutemetamol in a cohort comprising 27 AD patients, 25 healthy volunteers (HVs) and 20 subjects with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Clinical follow-up was performed 2 years after the initial assessment. Hippocampus volumes showed extensive overlap between AD and HV cases while PET SUVRs showed clear group clustering. When both measures were combined, there was a relatively compact cluster of HV scans and a less compact AD cluster. MCI cases had a bimodal distribution of SUVRs. [(18)F]Flutemetamol-positive MCI subjects showed a large variability in hippocampus volumes, indicating that these subjects were in different stages of neurodegeneration. Some [(18)F]flutemetamol-negative MCI scans had hippocampus volumes that were well below the HV range. Clinical follow-up showed that 8 of 9 MCI to AD converters came from the [(18)F]flutemetamol-positive group. Combining [(18)F]flutemetamol PET with structural MRI provides additional information for categorizing disease and potentially predicting shorter time to progression from MCI to AD, but this has to be validated in larger longitudinal studies."}
{"id": "22300023", "title": "Novel approaches to study the involvement of \u03b17-nAChR in human diseases.", "content": "Novel approaches to study the involvement of \u03b17-nAChR in human diseases. The alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (\u03b17 nAChR) is widely distributed in the human brain and has been implicated in a number of human central nervous system (CNS) diseases, including Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia and autism. Recently, new roles for \u03b17 nAChRs in lung cancer and heart disease have been elucidated. Despite the importance of this receptor in human pathology, many technical difficulties are still encountered when investigating the role of \u03b17 nAChRs. Electrophysiological analysis of the receptor upon heterologous expression or in human tissues was limited by the fast desensitization of \u03b17-mediated nicotinic currents and by tissue availability. In addition, animal models for the human diseases related to \u03b17 nAChRs have long been unavailable. The recent development of new imaging and analysis approaches such as PET and receptor microtransplantation have rendered the study of \u03b17 nAChRs increasingly feasible, paving new roads to the design of therapeutic drugs. This review summarizes the current knowledge and recent findings obtained by these novel approaches."}
{"id": "22297644", "title": "Value of diagnostic tests to predict conversion to Alzheimer's disease in young and old patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Value of diagnostic tests to predict conversion to Alzheimer's disease in young and old patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment. Using the database of the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative, we examined the value of neuropsychological assessment, structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, and FDG-PET scanning with respect to prediction of conversion from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to Alzheimer's disease (AD). We tested the hypothesis that CSF biomarkers and FDG-PET would lose prognostic value when applied in patients older than 75 years, whereas MRI and neuropsychological testing would not. At baseline 175 patients had MCI, mostly amnestic. They were followed during a mean of 2.7 years, and 81 patients converted to AD after a mean of 1.6 years. Logistic regression analyses showed that neuropsychological assessment and MRI variables predicted conversion with 63 to 67% classification success both in patients younger and older than 75 years, while CSF biomarkers attained this success rate only in patients younger than 75 years. For FDG-PET, this rate was 57% in the total sample. We conclude that the diagnostic yield of different techniques in predicting conversion from MCI to AD is moderate, and that it is affected by age of the subject under study. MRI and neuropsychological assessment remain informative in patients older than 75 years, unlike CSF biomarkers."}
{"id": "22297461", "title": "Positron emission tomography imaging in neurological disorders.", "content": "Positron emission tomography imaging in neurological disorders. Positron emission tomography (PET) is a powerful tool for in vivo imaging investigations of human brain function. It provides non-invasive quantification of brain metabolism, receptor binding of various neurotransmitter systems, and alterations in regional blood flow. The use of PET in a clinical setting is still limited due to the high costs of cyclotrons and radiochemical laboratories. However, once these limitations can be bypassed, PET could aid clinical practice by providing a useful imaging technique for the diagnosis, the planning of treatment, and the prediction outcome in various neurological diseases.This review aims to explain the PET imaging technique and its applications in neurological disorders such as Parkinson\u2019s disease, Huntington\u2019s disease, multiple sclerosis, and dementias."}
{"id": "22295910", "title": "Postmortem findings in a patient with cerebral amyloid angiopathy actively treated with corticosteroid.", "content": "Postmortem findings in a patient with cerebral amyloid angiopathy actively treated with corticosteroid. We examined histopathological changes in cerebrovascular amyloid deposition in a patient with cerebral amyloid angiopathy receiving corticosteroid therapy. A 69-year-old female developed subacute onset cognitive decline, and magnetic resonance image (MRI) showed subarachnoid hemorrhage with leptomeningeal enhancement. She entered in an apathetic state due to communicating hydrocephalus and a ventricle-peritoneal (V-P) shunt operation was performed. Brain biopsy disclosed multiple cortical microhemorrhages and severe Congophilic angiopathy with positive A\u03b2-immunoreactivity in most vessels. Inflammatory mononuclear cells surrounded a few severe amyloid-laden leptomeningeal vessels. She received high-dose corticosteroid, which was slowly tapered. She gradually recovered but finally died 1.5 years later with no recurrence of CAA-related hemorrhages. Postmortem examination of the brain showed multiple old microhemorrhages in the cortex and extensive degeneration of cerebral white matter. The cortical and leptomeningeal vascular walls showed a few Congophilic amyloid deposits, but small deposits with A\u03b2-immunoreactivity were frequently seen. There was no infiltration of inflammatory cells in either leptomeninges or vascular walls. Electron microscopy revealed sparse aggregation of amyloid fibrils in significant numbers of vascular walls. Biochemical analysis disclosed that A\u03b21-40-immunoreactive amyloid protein fractions obtained from the patient's leptomeninges were very small in amount. Comparing the previous biopsy findings with those at autopsy, the total disappearance of the inflammatory cell infiltration and diminishing of the cerebrovascular amyloid deposits were noted."}
{"id": "22292754", "title": "Differential expressions of matrix metalloproteinases, a disintegrin and metalloproteinases, and a disintegrin and metalloproteinases with thrombospondin motifs and their endogenous inhibitors among histologic subtypes of lung cancers.", "content": "Differential expressions of matrix metalloproteinases, a disintegrin and metalloproteinases, and a disintegrin and metalloproteinases with thrombospondin motifs and their endogenous inhibitors among histologic subtypes of lung cancers. Lung cancer is a heterogeneous disease with several histologic subtypes. The two major pathologies, which account for approximately 70% of lung cancers, are adenocarcinoma (AD) and squamous cell carcinoma (SQ). Traditionally, these two subtypes have been categorized as non-small-cell lung cancer and treated similarly. However, they are different not only pathologically, but also functionally. For example, \u00b9\u2078F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), which assesses glucose metabolism in tumor tissues, shows that SQ has higher glucose metabolism than does AD. Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) and their inhibitors play pleiotropic roles in cancer development, carcinogenesis, apoptosis, angiogenesis, invasion and metastasis. Expression of MMPs and their associated molecules is different among the subtypes of lung cancer. Expression levels of MMP-2, MMP-7, reversion-inducing cysteine-rich protein with Kazal motifs (RECK), tissue inhibitors of metalloproteinase (TIMP)-1, and TIMP-2 are higher in AD than in SQ. In contrast, expression levels of MMP-1, MMP-8, MMP-9 and TIMP-3 are higher in SQ than in AD. Serum levels of a disintegrin and metalloproteinase (ADAM)-8 and ADAM-28 are higher in lung cancer patients than in healthy controls. High expression of ADAM-28 correlates with metastasis and recurrence, but there is no significant difference in ADAM-8 or ADAM-28 expression between AD and SQ. It is necessary to recognize the differential expression patterns of MMPs, their endogenous inhibitors and associated molecules for each subtype of lung cancer in order to develop clinical markers, therapeutic inhibitors and treatment strategies using MMP inhibitors."}
{"id": "22289965", "title": "Neurocognitive and atrophic patterns in Parkinson's disease based on subjective memory complaints.", "content": "Neurocognitive and atrophic patterns in Parkinson's disease based on subjective memory complaints. Ample evidence has suggested that individuals with subjective memory complaints are at a higher risk for cognitive decline. Nevertheless, the significance of subjective memory complaints in Parkinson\u2019s disease has not been studied until now. We investigated whether the patterns of cognitive profiles and gray matter density differed in cognitively normal patients with Parkinson\u2019s disease based on the presence of subjective memory complaints. Using a single question with a yes or no answer, cognitively normal patients with Parkinson\u2019s disease were classified as with (n = 20) or without subjective memory complaints (n = 15). Cognitive profiles and gray matter density were examined using standardized neuropsychological tests and voxel-based morphometry. No significant differences in demographic characteristics were observed between groups. The detailed neuropsychological tests demonstrated that Parkinson\u2019s disease patients with subjective memory complaints had significantly decreased verbal fluency and slightly lower scores on the backward digit-span test compared with those without subjective memory complaints. A voxel-based morphometry analysis revealed that Parkinson\u2019s disease patients with subjective memory complaints had significantly decreased gray matter density in the anterior cingulate gyrus and right inferior parietal lobule compared with those without subjective memory complaints. Our data demonstrated that Parkinson\u2019s disease patients with subjective memory complaints showed a poorer performance on tasks related to verbal fluency and attention with more severe cortical atrophy compared to those without subjective memory complaints, suggesting that subjective memory complaints in patients with Parkinson\u2019s disease may represent an early manifestation of underlying Parkinson\u2019s disease-related pathological changes."}
{"id": "22288409", "title": "Sigma-1 receptor agonists as therapeutic drugs for cognitive impairment in neuropsychiatric diseases.", "content": "Sigma-1 receptor agonists as therapeutic drugs for cognitive impairment in neuropsychiatric diseases. Cognitive impairment is a core feature of patients with neuropsychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia and psychotic depression. The drugs currently used to treat cognitive impairment have significant limitations, ensuring that the search for more effective therapies remains active. Endoplasmic reticulum protein sigma-1 receptors are unique binding sites in the brain that exert a potent effect on multiple neurotransmitter systems. Accumulating evidence suggests that sigma-1 receptors play a role in both the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric diseases, and the mechanistic action of some therapeutic drugs, such as the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), donepezil and neurosteroids. Among SSRIs, fluvoxamine, a potent sigma-1 receptor agonist, has the highest affinity at sigma-1 receptors. Sigma-1 receptor agonists greatly potentiate nerve-growth factor (NGF)-induced neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells, an effect that is antagonized by treatment with the selective sigma-1 receptor antagonist NE-100. Furthermore, phencyclidine (PCP)-induced cognitive impairment, associated with animal models of schizophrenia is significantly improved by sub-chronic administration of sigma-1 receptor agonists such as fluvoxamine, SA4503 (cutamesine) and donepezil. This effect is antagonized by co-administration of NE-100. A positron emission tomography (PET) study using the specific sigma-1 receptor ligand [11C]SA4503 demonstrates that fluvoxamine and donepezil bind to sigma-1 receptors in the healthy human brain. In clinical studies, some sigma-1 receptor agonists, including fluvoxamine, donepezil and neurosteroids, improve cognitive impairment and clinical symptoms in neuropsychiatric diseases. In this article, we review the recent findings on sigma-1 receptor agonists as potential therapeutic drugs for the treatment of cognitive impairment in schizophrenia and psychotic depression."}
{"id": "22287381", "title": "Severe olfactory dysfunction is a prodromal symptom of dementia associated with Parkinson's disease: a 3 year longitudinal study.", "content": "Severe olfactory dysfunction is a prodromal symptom of dementia associated with Parkinson's disease: a 3 year longitudinal study. Dementia is one of the most debilitating symptoms of Parkinson's disease. A recent longitudinal study suggests that up to 80% of patients with Parkinson's disease will eventually develop dementia. Despite its clinical importance, the development of dementia is still difficult to predict at early stages. We previously identified olfactory dysfunction as one of the most important indicators of cortical hypometabolism in Parkinson's disease. In this study, we investigated the possible associations between olfactory dysfunction and the risk of developing dementia within a 3-year observation period. Forty-four patients with Parkinson's disease without dementia underwent the odour stick identification test for Japanese, memory and visuoperceptual assessments, (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography scans and magnetic resonance imaging scans at baseline and 3 years later. A subgroup of patients with Parkinson's disease who exhibited severe hyposmia at baseline showed more pronounced cognitive decline at the follow-up survey. By the end of the study, 10 of 44 patients with Parkinson's disease had developed dementia, all of whom had severe hyposmia at baseline. The multivariate logistic analysis identified severe hyposmia and visuoperceptual impairment as independent risk factors for subsequent dementia within 3 years. The patients with severe hyposmia had an 18.7-fold increase in their risk of dementia for each 1 SD (2.8) decrease in the score of odour stick identification test for Japanese. We also found an association between severe hyposmia and a characteristic distribution of cerebral metabolic decline, which was identical to that of dementia associated with Parkinson's disease. Furthermore, volumetric magnetic resonance imaging analyses demonstrated close relationships between olfactory dysfunction and the atrophy of focal brain structures, including the amygdala and other limbic structures. Together, our findings suggest that brain regions related to olfactory function are closely associated with cognitive decline and that severe hyposmia is a prominent clinical feature that predicts the subsequent development of Parkinson's disease dementia."}
{"id": "22285638", "title": "Amyloid imaging in dementias with atypical presentation.", "content": "Amyloid imaging in dementias with atypical presentation. With the potential emergence of disease specific therapies, an accurate biomarker of Alzheimer's Disease pathology is needed in cases in which the underlying etiology is uncertain. We explored the potential value of amyloid imaging in patients with atypical presentations of dementia. Twenty-eight patients with atypical dementia underwent positron emission tomography imaging with the amyloid imaging tracer Pittsburgh compound B (PiB). Twenty-six had [18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography scans. After extensive clinical evaluation, this group of patients generated considerable diagnostic uncertainty and received working diagnoses that included possible Alzheimer's disease (AD), focal dementias (e.g., posterior cortical atrophy [PCA]), or cases in which no clear diagnostic category could be determined (dementia of uncertain etiology). Patients were classified as PiB-positive, PiB-negative, or PiB-intermediate, based on objective criteria. Anterior-posterior and left-right indices of PiB and [18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose uptake were calculated to examine differences in distribution of amyloid pathology and metabolic changes associated with clinical phenotype. Eleven patients (39%) were PiB positive, 16 were PiB negative (57%), and one (4%) was PiB intermediate. By diagnostic category, three of 10 patients (30%) with dementia of uncertain etiology, one of five (20%) with primary progressive aphasia, three of five (60%) with PCA, and four of seven (57%) with possible AD were PiB positive. Brain metabolism of both PiB-positive and PiB-negative patients was generally similar by phenotype, but appeared to differ from typical AD. PCA patients also appeared to differ in their relative distribution of PiB compared with typical AD, consistent with their atypical phenotype. AD pathology is frequently present in atypical presentations of dementia and can be identified by amyloid imaging. Clinical phenotype is more related to the pattern of cerebral hypometabolism than the presence/absence of amyloid pathology. These findings have diagnostic, prognostic, and therapeutic implications."}
{"id": "22284733", "title": "Molecular neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Molecular neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease. This article reviews current amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) imaging with particular attention to Pittsburgh compound-B (PiB), the most extensively investigated and validated tracer. PiB specifically binds to fibrillar \u03b2-amyloid deposits such as those found in the cerebral cortex and striatum. PiB-PET imaging is a sensitive and specific biologic marker for underlying amyloid deposition, which is an early event on the path to dementia. Amyloid imaging in healthy controls and patients with mild cognitive impairment may detect those at high risk of future Alzheimer's disease, identifying them as candidates for early preventive measures if and when they become available."}
{"id": "22284730", "title": "The molecular pathology of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "The molecular pathology of Alzheimer's disease. Neurofibrillary pathology in Alzheimer's disease consists of paired helical filaments comprising tau protein. This pathology is correlated with dementia, but can appear in the first two decades of life. Extracellular amyloid \u03b2-protein arises through proteolytic processing of a transmembrane precursor, which involves the action of several enzymes. Mutations in the genes for the precursor and presenilin proteins accelerate the deposition of A\u03b2. Tau mutations cause other tauopathies in the absence of amyloid deposition, indicating that amyloid deposition is not a prerequisite for dementia. An improved understanding of Alzheimer's disease awaits to be obtained by molecular imaging of these pathologies."}
{"id": "22275725", "title": "Diffuse pulmonary uptake on FDG-PET with normal CT diagnosed as intravascular large B-cell lymphoma: a case report and a discussion of the causes of diffuse FDG uptake in the lungs.", "content": "Diffuse pulmonary uptake on FDG-PET with normal CT diagnosed as intravascular large B-cell lymphoma: a case report and a discussion of the causes of diffuse FDG uptake in the lungs. A 71-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital with asthenia, weight loss, fever, cognitive impairment and shortness of breath. Physical examination showed hemiparesis and cerebellar ataxia. There was no superficial lymphadenopathy. Blood tests showed raised levels of C-reactive protein and lactate dehydrogenase. Bone marrow aspiration and biopsy were negative. [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG)-positron emission tomography (PET)/computed tomography (CT) showed intense uptake within a right apical nodule and intense and diffuse uptake of FDG in the lungs without corresponding structural CT abnormality. Lung biopsy showed intravascular large B-cell lymphoma (IVLBCL). FDG-PET findings in IVLBCL and causes of diffuse FDG lung uptake with and without CT abnormalities are discussed."}
{"id": "22273569", "title": "Selectivity requirements for diagnostic imaging of neurofibrillary lesions in Alzheimer's disease: a simulation study.", "content": "Selectivity requirements for diagnostic imaging of neurofibrillary lesions in Alzheimer's disease: a simulation study. Whole-brain imaging is a promising strategy for premortem detection of tau-bearing neurofibrillary lesions that accumulate in Alzheimer's disease. However, the approach is complicated by the high concentrations of potentially confounding binding sites presented by beta-amyloid plaques. To predict the contributions of relative binding affinity and binding site density to the imaging-dynamics and selectivity of a hypothetical tau-directed radiotracer, a nonlinear, four-tissue compartment pharmacokinetic model of diffusion-mediated radiotracer uptake and distribution was developed. Initial estimates of nonspecific binding and brain uptake parameters were made by fitting data from a previously published kinetic study of Pittsburgh Compound B, an established amyloid-directed radiotracer. The resulting estimates were then used to guide simulations of tau binding selectivity while assuming early-stage accumulation of disease pathology. The simulations suggest that for tau aggregates to represent at least 80% of specific binding signal, binding affinity or density selectivities for tau over beta-amyloid should be at least 20- or 50-fold, respectively. The simulations also suggest, however, that overcoming nonspecific binding will be an additional challenge for tau-directed radiotracers owing to low concentrations of available binding sites. Overall, nonlinear modeling can provide insight into the performance characteristics needed for tau-directed radiotracers in vivo."}
{"id": "22273117", "title": "Late-adult onset Leigh syndrome.", "content": "Late-adult onset Leigh syndrome. We report an illustrative case of a 74-year-old man who, in the absence of intercurrent illness, presented with rapid cognitive decline. MRI showed bilateral, symmetrical, high T2-weighted signal in the anterior basal ganglia and medial thalami, extending to the periaqueductal grey matter, basal ganglia and basal frontal lobes. A (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography scan showed widespread reduction of metabolism in the cortex of the frontal, temporal and parietal lobes, posterior cingulate gyrus, precuneus and caudate nuclei, with sparing of the sensorimotor cortex, thalami and lentiform nuclei. A mild vitamin B12 deficiency was found and despite normal thiamine levels, intravenous (IV) thiamine and vitamin B therapy was commenced, with a short course of IV methylprednisolone and tetracycline. Repeat neuropsychological assessment four weeks following treatment revealed increased alertness and interactiveness but significant cognitive decline persisted. Unexpectedly, the patient suffered a transmural anterior myocardial infarction six weeks after presentation and died within 24hours. An a autopsy showed: global reduction in cytochrome oxidase (COX) activity in all skeletal muscles examined; bilateral, symmetrical, hypervascular, focally necrotizing lesions in the substantia nigra, periaqueductal grey matter, superior colliculi, medial thalami anteriorly and posteriorly, as well as in the putamena but the mammillary bodies were not affected. Biochemical analysis of fresh muscle confirmed selective deficiency of complex IV of the oxidative phosphorylation chain. A diagnosis of late-adult onset Leigh syndrome was made. Multiple genetic studies failed to identify the specific underlying mutation. The relevant literature is reviewed."}
{"id": "22272179", "title": "Cerebrospinal fluid BACE1 activity and brain amyloid load in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cerebrospinal fluid BACE1 activity and brain amyloid load in Alzheimer's disease. The secretase BACE1 is fundamentally involved in the development of cerebral amyloid pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD). It has not been studied so far to what extent BACE1 activity in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) mirrors in vivo amyloid load in AD. We explored associations between CSF BACE1 activity and fibrillar amyloid pathology as measured by carbon-11-labelled Pittsburgh Compound B positron emission tomography ([\u00b9\u00b9C]PIB PET). [\u00b9\u00b9C]PIB and CSF studies were performed in 31 patients with AD. Voxel-based linear regression analysis revealed significant associations between CSF BACE1 activity and [\u00b9\u00b9C]PIB tracer uptake in the bilateral parahippocampal region, the thalamus, and the pons. Our study provides evidence for a brain region-specific correlation between CSF BACE1 activity and in-vivo fibrillar amyloid pathology in AD. Associations were found in areas close to the brain ventricles, which may have important implications for the use of BACE1 in CSF as a marker for AD pathology and for antiamyloid treatment monitoring."}
{"id": "22271235", "title": "Association of lifetime cognitive engagement and low \u03b2-amyloid deposition.", "content": "Association of lifetime cognitive engagement and low \u03b2-amyloid deposition. To assess the association between lifestyle practices (cognitive and physical activity) and \u03b2-amyloid deposition, measured with positron emission tomography using carbon 11-labeled Pittsburgh Compound B ([(11)C]PiB), in healthy older individuals. Cross-sectional clinical study. Berkeley, California. Volunteer sample of 65 healthy older individuals (mean age, 76.1 years), 10 patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) (mean age, 74.8 years), and 11 young controls (mean age, 24.5 years) were studied from October 31, 2005, to February 22, 2011. Cortical [(11)C]PiB average (frontal, parietal, lateral temporal, and cingulate regions) and retrospective, self-report scales assessing participation in cognitive activities (eg, reading, writing, and playing games) and physical exercise. Greater participation in cognitively stimulating activities across the lifespan, but particularly in early and middle life, was associated with reduced [(11)C]PiB uptake (P<.001, accounting for age, sex, and years of education). Older participants in the highest cognitive activity tertile had [(11)C]PiB uptake comparable to young controls, whereas those in the lowest cognitive activity tertile had [(11)C]PiB uptake comparable to patients with AD. Although greater cognitive activity was associated with greater physical exercise, exercise was not associated with [(11)C]PiB uptake. Individuals with greater early- and middle-life cognitive activity had lower [(11)C]PiB uptake. The tendency to participate in cognitively stimulating activities is likely related to engagement in a variety of lifestyle practices that have been implicated in other studies showing reduced risk of AD-related pathology. We report a direct association between cognitive activity and [(11)C]PiB uptake, suggesting that lifestyle factors found in individuals with high cognitive engagement may prevent or slow deposition of \u03b2-amyloid, perhaps influencing the onset and progression of AD."}
{"id": "22271153", "title": "Early AD pathology in a [C-11]PiB-negative case: a PiB-amyloid imaging, biochemical, and immunohistochemical study.", "content": "Early AD pathology in a [C-11]PiB-negative case: a PiB-amyloid imaging, biochemical, and immunohistochemical study. Amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) deposits are detectable in the brain in vivo using positron emission tomography (PET) and [C-11]-labeled Pittsburgh Compound B ([C-11]PiB); however, the sensitivity of this technique is not well understood. In this study, we examined A\u03b2 pathology in an individual who had clinical diagnoses of probable dementia with Lewy bodies and possible Alzheimer's disease (AD) but with no detectable [C-11]PiB PET retention ([C-11]PiB(-)) when imaged 17 months prior to death. Brain samples were processed in parallel with region-matched samples from an individual with a clinical diagnosis of probable AD and a positive [C-11]PiB PET scan ([C-11]PiB(+)) when imaged 10 months prior to death. In the [C-11]PiB(-) case, A\u03b2 plaques were sparse, occupying less than 2% cortical area, and were weakly labeled with 6-CN-PiB, a highly fluorescent derivative of PiB. In contrast, A\u03b2 plaques occupied up to 12% cortical area in the [C-11]PiB(+) case, and were intensely labeled with 6-CN-PIB. The [C-11]PiB(-) case had low levels of [H-3]PiB binding (< 100 pmol/g) and A\u03b21-42 (< 500 pmol/g) concentration except in the frontal cortex where A\u03b21-42 values (788 pmol/g) approached cortical values in the [C-11]PiB(+) case (800-1, 700 pmol/g). In several cortical regions of the [C-11]PiB(-) case, A\u03b21-40 levels were within the range of cortical A\u03b21-40 values in the [C-11]PiB(+) case. Antemortem [C-11]PiB DVR values correlated well with region-matched postmortem measures of A\u03b21-42 and A\u03b21-40 in the [C-11]PiB(+), and with A\u03b21-42 only in the [C-11]PiB(-) case. The low ratios of [H-3]PiB binding levels to A\u03b2 concentrations and 6-CN-PiB to A\u03b2 plaque loads in the [C-11]PiB(-) case indicate that A\u03b2 pathology in the brain may be associated with low or undetectable levels of [C-11]PiB retention. Studies in greater numbers of [C-11]PiB PET autopsy cases are needed to define the A\u03b2 concentration and [H-3]PiB binding levels required to produce a positive [C-11]PiB PET signal."}
{"id": "22270508", "title": "Correlation of early-phase 18F-florbetapir (AV-45/Amyvid) PET images to FDG images: preliminary studies.", "content": "Correlation of early-phase 18F-florbetapir (AV-45/Amyvid) PET images to FDG images: preliminary studies. (18)F-Florbetapir (AV-45/Amyvid) is a novel positron emission tomography (PET) tracer for imaging plaque pathology in Alzheimer's disease (AD), while PET images of fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) for cerebral glucose metabolism can provide complementary information to amyloid plaque images for diagnosis of AD. The goal of this preliminary study was to investigate the perfusion-like property of relative cerebral blood flow estimates (R(1)) and summed early-phase AV-45 images [perfusion AV-45 (pAV-45)] and optimize the early time frame for pAV-45. Dynamic AV-45 PET scans (0-180 min) were performed in seven subjects. pAV-45, late-phase AV-45, and FDG images were spatially normalized to the Montreal Neurological Institute template aided by individual MRI images, and the corresponding standardized uptake value ratio (SUVR) was computed. The R(1) images were derived from a simplified reference tissue model. Correlations between regional and voxelwise R(1) and the corresponding FDG images were calculated. An optimization of time frames of pAV-45 was conducted in terms of correlation to FDG images. The optimal early time frame was validated in a separate cohort. The regional distribution in the R(1) images correlated well (R = 0.91) to that of the FDG within subjects. Consistently high correlation was noted across a long range of time frames. The maximal correlation of pAV-45 to FDG SUVR of R = 0.95 was observed at the time frame of 1-6 min, while the peak correlation of R = 0.99 happened at 0-2 min between pAV-45 and R(1). A similar result was achieved in the validation cohort. Preliminary results showed that the distribution patterns of R(1) and pAV-45 images are highly correlated with normalized FDG images, and the initial 5-min early time frame of 1-6 min is potentially useful in providing complementary FDG-like information to the amyloid plaque density by late-phase AV-45 images."}
{"id": "22262751", "title": "Genetic variation at CR1 increases risk of cerebral amyloid angiopathy.", "content": "Genetic variation at CR1 increases risk of cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Accumulated evidence suggests that a variant within the CR1 gene (single nucleotide polymorphism rs6656401), known to increase risk for Alzheimer disease (AD), influences \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) deposition in brain tissue. Given the biologic overlap between AD and cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA), a leading cause of intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) in elderly individuals, we investigated whether rs6656401 increases the risk of CAA-related ICH and influences vascular A\u03b2 deposition. We performed a case-control genetic association study of 89 individuals with CAA-related ICH and 280 individuals with ICH unrelated to CAA and compared them with 324 ICH-free control subjects. We also investigated the effect of rs6656401 on risk of recurrent CAA-ICH in a prospective longitudinal cohort of ICH survivors. Finally, association with severity of histopathologic CAA was investigated in 544 autopsy specimens from 2 longitudinal studies of aging. rs6656401 was associated with CAA-ICH (odds ratio [OR] = 1.61, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.19-2.17, p = 8.0 \u00d7 10(-4)) as well as with risk of recurrent CAA-ICH (hazard ratio = 1.35, 95% CI 1.04-1.76, p = 0.024). Genotype at rs6656401 was also associated with severity of CAA pathology at autopsy (OR = 1.34, 95% CI 1.05-1.71, p = 0.009). Adjustment for parenchymal amyloid burden did not cancel this effect, suggesting that, despite the correlation between parenchymal and vascular amyloid pathology, CR1 acts independently on both processes, thus increasing risk of both AD and CAA. The CR1 variant rs6656401 influences risk and recurrence of CAA-ICH, as well as the severity of vascular amyloid deposition."}
{"id": "22261556", "title": "Toward a multifactorial model of Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Toward a multifactorial model of Alzheimer disease. Relations among antecedent biomarkers of Alzheimer disease (AD) were evaluated using causal modeling; although correlation cannot be equated to causation, causation does require correlation. Individuals aged 43 to 89 years (N = 220) enrolled as cognitively normal controls in longitudinal studies had clinical and psychometric assessment, structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers, and brain amyloid imaging via positron emission tomography with Pittsburgh Compound B (PIB) obtained within 1 year. CSF levels of A\u03b2(42) and tau were minimally correlated, indicating they represent independent processes. A\u03b2(42), tau, and their interaction explained 60% of the variance in PIB. Effects of APOE genotype and age on PIB were indirect, operating through CSF markers. Only spurious relations via their common relation with age were found between the biomarkers and regional brain volumes or cognition. Hence, at least 2 independent hypothesized processes, one reflected by CSF A\u03b2(42) and one by CSF tau, contribute to the development of fibrillar amyloid plaques preclinically. The lack of correlation between these 2 processes and brain volume in the regions most often affected in AD suggests the operation of a third process related to brain atrophy."}
{"id": "22261520", "title": "Differential diagnosis in Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies via VMAT2 and amyloid imaging.", "content": "Differential diagnosis in Alzheimer's disease and dementia with Lewy bodies via VMAT2 and amyloid imaging. The noninvasive evaluation of nigrostriatal dopaminergic integrity by PET can provide useful information for the differential diagnosis between dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). To evaluate the diagnostic potential of imaging striatal monoaminergic terminal integrity with the novel vesicular monoamine transporter type 2 (VMAT2) radioligand [(18)F]AV-133 and PET to distinguish DLB from AD. Fifty participants [9 DLB, 11 AD, 20 Parkinson's disease (PD) and 10 healthy age-matched control subjects (HC)] underwent [(18)F]AV-133 PET studies. Additionally, 20 participants underwent amyloid imaging PET scans with either [(11)C]PiB or (18)F-florbetaben. VMAT2 density was calculated through normalized tissue uptake value ratios (R(T)) at 120-140 min after injection using the primary visual or the cerebellar cortex as reference region. Comparison of the R(T) for [(18)F]AV-133 was done between the different clinical diagnostic groups. Significantly lower striatal VMAT2 densities were observed in DLB and PD when compared to AD and HC, especially in the posterior putamen. In contrast to PD and DLB, no reductions were observed in AD patients when compared to HC. [(18)F]AV-133 allows assessment of nigrostriatal degeneration in Lewy body diseases. In contrast to amyloid imaging, VMAT2 imaging with [(18)F]AV-133 can robustly detect reductions of dopaminergic nigrostriatal afferents in DLB patients, assisting in the differential diagnosis from AD."}
{"id": "22257044", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of 18 F-FDG and 11 C-PIB-PET for prediction of short-term conversion to Alzheimer's disease in subjects with mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of 18 F-FDG and 11 C-PIB-PET for prediction of short-term conversion to Alzheimer's disease in subjects with mild cognitive impairment. In recent years, the role of PET imaging in the prediction of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to Alzheimer's disease (AD) conversion has been the subject of many longitudinal studies. The purpose of this study was to perform a meta-analysis to estimate the diagnostic accuracy of (18) F-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) and (11) C-Pittsburgh Compound B-positron emission tomography (PIB-PET) for prediction of short-term conversion to AD in patients with MCI. The MEDLINE and EMBASE databases were systematically searched for relevant studies. Methodological quality of the included studies was assessed. Sensitivities and specificities of PET in individual studies were calculated and meta-analysis was undertaken with a random-effects model. A summary receiver operating characteristic (SROC) curve was constructed with the Moses-Shapiro-Littenberg method. Heterogeneity was tested, and the presence of publication bias was assessed. Potential sources for heterogeneity were explored by assessing whether or not certain covariates significantly influenced the relative diagnostic odds ratio (DOR). Pooled estimates of sensitivity, specificity, positive likelihood ratio (LR+), negative likelihood ratio (LR-), DOR and the SROC curve of each PET imaging were determined. A total of 13 research studies (seven FDG-PET and six PIB-PET) met inclusion criteria and had sufficient data for statistical analysis. FDG-PET pooled estimates had 78.7% sensitivity (95% CI, 68.7-86.6%),74.0% specificity (95% CI, 67.0-80.3%), 18.1 LR+(95% CI, 7.3-45.0) and 0.32 LR-(95% CI, 0.16-0.61); and PIB-PET pooled estimates had 93.5% sensitivity (95%CI, 71.3-99.9%), 56.2% specificity (95% CI, 47.2-64.8%), 2.01 LR+ (95% CI, 1.57-2.58) and 0.17 LR-(95% CI, 0.08-0.36). Overall DOR was 17.3 (95% CI, 5.08-59.2) for FDG-PET and 12.8 (95% CI, 5.35-30.54) for PIB-PET. Area under the SROC curve was 0.88 \u00b1 0.05 for FDG-PET and 0.85 \u00b1 0.04 for PIB-PET. The data from FDG-PET research studies had high heterogeneity and funnel plot suggested a publication bias. The diagnostic accuracy determined for both FDG-PET and PIB-PET in this meta-analysis suggests that they are potentially valuable techniques for prediction of progression in patients with MCI. Both have their advantages and their combined use is a promising option for prediction purposes depending on availability and experience."}
{"id": "22252613", "title": "A randomized study comparing yttrium-90 ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin) and high-dose BEAM chemotherapy versus BEAM alone as the conditioning regimen before autologous stem cell transplantation in patients with aggressive lymphoma.", "content": "A randomized study comparing yttrium-90 ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin) and high-dose BEAM chemotherapy versus BEAM alone as the conditioning regimen before autologous stem cell transplantation in patients with aggressive lymphoma. High-dose chemotherapy combined with autologous stem-cell transplantation (ASCT) is the standard therapy for refractory/relapsed aggressive lymphoma. In the era of rituximab-containing frontline regimens, it is becoming more challenging to salvage patients in this setting, and novel approaches are required. This is a randomized study evaluating the safety and efficacy of standard-dose ibritumomab tiuxetan (Zevalin) combined with high-dose BEAM chemotherapy (Z-BEAM) and ASCT in refractory/relapsed aggressive lymphoma. Forty-three patients with CD20(+) -aggressive lymphoma were randomized to a treatment arm (Z-BEAM, n = 22) or control arm (BEAM alone, n = 21). Ibritumomab tiuxetan was given at 0.4 mCi/kg on day -14 before ASCT. Patient characteristics, engraftment kinetics, and toxicity profile were similar between the 2 groups. Two-year progression-free survival (PFS) for all patients was 48% (95% confidence interval, 32%-64%): 59% and 37% after Z-BEAM and BEAM alone, respectively (P = .2). Multivariate analysis identified advanced age (hazard ratio [HR], 8.3; P = .001), high-risk disease (relapse within 12 months of diagnosis and/or secondary International Prognostic Index >2; HR, 2.8; P = .04), positive positron emission tomography-computed tomography pretransplant (HR, 2.4; P = .07), and BEAM alone (HR, 2.8; P = .03) as poor prognostic factors. Intermediate-risk patients with 1 or 2 risk factors had better PFS with Z-BEAM compared with BEAM: 69% and 29%, respectively (P = .07). Two-year overall survival was 91% and 62% after Z-BEAM and BEAM, respectively (P = .05). Similar prognostic factors determined survival. The HR for BEAM alone in the multivariate analysis was 8.1 (P = .01). Standard-dose ibritumomab tiuxetan combined with BEAM high-dose chemotherapy is safe and possibly more effective than BEAM alone as a conditioning regimen for ASCT in the era of rituximab-containing chemotherapy regimens."}
{"id": "22251554", "title": "Tumor dosimetry and response for 153Sm-ethylenediamine tetramethylene phosphonic acid therapy of high-risk osteosarcoma.", "content": "Tumor dosimetry and response for 153Sm-ethylenediamine tetramethylene phosphonic acid therapy of high-risk osteosarcoma. (153)Sm-ethylenediamine tetramethylene phosphonic acid ((153)Sm-EDTMP) therapy for osteosarcoma is being investigated. In this study, we analyzed the influence of (153)Sm-EDTMP administered activity (AA), osteosarcoma tumor density, mass, and the shape of the tumor on absorbed dose (AD). We also studied the biologic implication of the nonuniform tumor AD distribution using radiobiologic modeling and examined the relationship between tumor AD and response. Nineteen tumors in 6 patients with recurrent, refractory osteosarcoma enrolled in a phase I or II clinical trial of (153)Sm-EDTMP were analyzed using the 3-dimensional radiobiologic dosimetry (3D-RD) software package. Patients received a low dose of (153)Sm-EDTMP (37.0-51.8 MBq/kg), followed on hematologic recovery by a second, high dose (222 MBq/kg). Treatment response was evaluated using either CT or MRI after each therapy. SPECT/CT of the tumor regions were obtained at 4 and 48 h or 72 h after (153)Sm-EDTMP therapy for 3D-RD analysis. Mean tumor AD was also calculated using the OLINDA/EXM unit-density sphere model and was compared with the 3D-RD estimates. On average, a 5-fold increase in the AA led to a 4-fold increase in the mean tumor AD over the high- versus low-dose-treated patients. The range of mean tumor AD and equivalent uniform dose (EUD) for low-dose therapy were 1.48-14.6 and 0.98-3.90 Gy, respectively. Corresponding values for high-dose therapy were 2.93-59.3 and 1.89-12.3 Gy, respectively. Mean tumor AD estimates obtained from OLINDA/EXM were within 5% of the mean AD values obtained using 3D-RD. On an individual tumor basis, both mean AD and EUD were positively related to percentage tumor volume reduction (P = 0.031 and 0.023, respectively). The variations in tumor density, mass, and shape seen in these tumors did not affect the mean tumor AD estimation significantly. The tumor EUD was approximately 2- and 3-fold lower than the mean AD for low- and high-dose therapy, respectively. A dose-response relationship was observed for transient tumor volume shrinkage."}
{"id": "22250011", "title": "Glucose hypometabolism in primary visual cortex is commonly associated with clinical features of dementia with Lewy bodies regardless of cognitive conditions.", "content": "Glucose hypometabolism in primary visual cortex is commonly associated with clinical features of dementia with Lewy bodies regardless of cognitive conditions. Although metabolic reduction in the primary visual cortex on [(18) F]-fluoro-d-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomographic (PET) scans is the hallmark of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) for differential diagnosis from Alzheimer's disease, the clinical significance of the metabolic pattern in patients without dementia remains unknown. The purpose of this study was to investigate the clinical profiles of patients without dementia with the metabolic pattern and its relevance to DLB. Of 145 individuals who underwent (18) F-FDG PET, 25 patients with glucose hypometabolism in the primary visual cortex were identified based on three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection images through comparison with a normative database. The frequency of core and suggestive clinical features of DLB was compared between the groups with and without the metabolic pattern. Of 25 patients with glucose hypometabolism in the primary visual cortex, 12 exhibited more than two core features of DLB (probable DLB group) and 6 had rapid eye movement sleep behavior disorder (possible DLB group). Three patients exhibited memory loss without any core or suggestive features but with reduced cardiac iodine-123 metaiodobenzylguanidine uptake. Ten of these 21 patients exhibited no dementia. The proportion of individuals in the probable and possible DLB groups was significantly higher in the group with glucose hypometabolism in the primary visual cortex. Glucose hypometabolism in the primary visual cortex is commonly associated with the clinical features of DLB regardless of cognitive conditions. Continued follow-up of these patients without dementia with the metabolic pattern is warranted to determine if they represent the prodromal state of DLB."}
{"id": "22248049", "title": "Prolonged oral cannabinoid administration prevents neuroinflammation, lowers \u03b2-amyloid levels and improves cognitive performance in Tg APP 2576 mice.", "content": "Prolonged oral cannabinoid administration prevents neuroinflammation, lowers \u03b2-amyloid levels and improves cognitive performance in Tg APP 2576 mice. Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain shows an ongoing inflammatory condition and non-steroidal anti-inflammatories diminish the risk of suffering the neurologic disease. Cannabinoids are neuroprotective and anti-inflammatory agents with therapeutic potential. We have studied the effects of prolonged oral administration of transgenic amyloid precursor protein (APP) mice with two pharmacologically different cannabinoids (WIN 55,212-2 and JWH-133, 0.2 mg/kg/day in the drinking water during 4 months) on inflammatory and cognitive parameters, and on \u00b9\u2078F-fluoro-deoxyglucose (\u00b9\u2078FDG) uptake by positron emission tomography (PET). Novel object recognition was significantly reduced in 11 month old Tg APP mice and 4 month administration of JWH was able to normalize this cognitive deficit, although WIN was ineffective. Wild type mice cognitive performance was unaltered by cannabinoid administration. Tg APP mice showed decreased \u00b9\u2078FDG uptake in hippocampus and cortical regions, which was counteracted by oral JWH treatment. Hippocampal GFAP immunoreactivity and cortical protein expression was unaffected by genotype or treatment. In contrast, the density of Iba1 positive microglia was increased in Tg APP mice, and normalized following JWH chronic treatment. Both cannabinoids were effective at reducing the enhancement of COX-2 protein levels and TNF-\u03b1 mRNA expression found in the AD model. Increased cortical \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) levels were significantly reduced in the mouse model by both cannabinoids. Noteworthy both cannabinoids enhanced A\u03b2 transport across choroid plexus cells in vitro. In summary we have shown that chronically administered cannabinoid showed marked beneficial effects concomitant with inflammation reduction and increased A\u03b2 clearance."}
{"id": "22244855", "title": "Inhibition of amyloid formation.", "content": "Inhibition of amyloid formation. Amyloid is aggregated protein in the form of insoluble fibrils. Amyloid deposition in human tissue-amyloidosis-is associated with a number of diseases including all common dementias and type II diabetes. Considerable progress has been made to understand the mechanisms leading to amyloid formation. It is, however, not yet clear by which mechanisms amyloid and protein aggregates formed on the path to amyloid are cytotoxic. Strategies to prevent protein aggregation and amyloid formation are nevertheless, in many cases, promising and even successful. This review covers research on intervention of amyloidosis and highlights several examples of how inhibition of protein aggregation and amyloid formation has been achieved in practice. For instance, rational design can provide drugs that stabilize a native folded state of a protein, protein engineering can provide new binding proteins that sequester monomeric peptides from aggregation, small molecules and peptides can be designed to block aggregation or direct it into non-cytotoxic paths, and monoclonal antibodies have been developed for therapies towards neurodegenerative diseases based on inhibition of amyloid formation and clearance."}
{"id": "22244088", "title": "Quantitative EEG and LORETA: valuable tools in discerning FTD from AD?", "content": "Quantitative EEG and LORETA: valuable tools in discerning FTD from AD? Drawing a clinical distinction between frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) is tricky, particularly at the early stages of disease. This study evaluates the possibility in differentiating 39 FTD, 39 AD, and 39 controls (CTR) by means of power spectral analysis and standardized low resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (sLORETA) within delta, theta, alpha 1 and 2, beta 1, 2, and 3 frequency bands. Both analyses revealed in AD patients, relative to CTR, higher expression of diffuse delta/theta and lower central/posterior fast frequency (from alpha1 to beta2) bands. FTD patients showed diffuse increased theta power compared with CTR and lower delta relative to AD patients. Compared with FTD, AD patients showed diffuse higher theta power at spectral analysis and, at sLORETA, decreased alpha2 and beta1 values in central/temporal regions. Spectral analysis and sLORETA provided complementary information that might help characterizing different patterns of electroencephalogram (EEG) oscillatory activity in AD and FTD. Nevertheless, this differentiation was possible only at the group level because single patients could not be discerned with sufficient accuracy."}
{"id": "22241913", "title": "Radiation dosimetry and biodistribution of the TSPO ligand 11C-DPA-713 in humans.", "content": "Radiation dosimetry and biodistribution of the TSPO ligand 11C-DPA-713 in humans. Whole-body PET/CT was used to characterize the radiation dosimetry of (11)C-DPA-713, a specific PET ligand for the assessment of translocator protein. Six healthy control subjects, 3 men and 3 women, underwent whole-body dynamic PET scans after bolus injection of (11)C-DPA-713. Subjects were scanned from head to mid thigh with 7 passes performed, with a total PET acquisition of approximately 100 min. Time-activity curves were generated in organs with visible tracer uptake, and tissue residence times were calculated. Whole-body dosimetry was calculated using OLINDA 1.1 software, assuming no voiding. The absorbed dose is highest in the lungs, spleen, kidney, and pancreas. The lungs were determined to be the dose-limiting organ, with an average absorbed dose of 2.01 \u00d7 10(-2) mSv/MBq (7.43 \u00d7 10(-2) rem/mCi). On the basis of exposure limits outlined in the U.S. Food and Drug Administration Code of Federal Regulations (21CFR361.1), the single-dose limit for (11)C-DPA-713 radiotracer injection is 2,487.6 MBq (67.3 mCi). (11)C-DPA-713 has an uptake pattern that is consistent with the biodistribution of translocator protein and yields a dose burden that is comparable to that of other (11)C-labeled PET tracers."}
{"id": "22239531", "title": "Cerebral microglial activation in patients with hepatitis C: in vivo evidence of neuroinflammation.", "content": "Cerebral microglial activation in patients with hepatitis C: in vivo evidence of neuroinflammation. Patients with chronic hepatitis C infection may exhibit neuropsychological symptoms and cognitive impairment. Post-mortem studies of hepatitis C virus HCV quasispecies and replicative intermediates indicate that the brain might act as a separate compartment for viral replication and microglia may be the locus for infection and subsequent neuroinflammatory activity. We sought to use two independent in vivo imaging techniques to determine evidence of neuroinflammation in patients with histologically mild chronic hepatitis C. Using positron emission tomography (PET) with a ligand for microglial/brain macrophage activation, (11)C-(R)-PK11195 (PK11195) and cerebral proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy, we determined whether there was evidence of neuroinflammation in a pilot study of 11 patients with biopsy-proven mild chronic hepatitis C, compared to healthy volunteers. Patients were characterized by cognitive testing and the fatigue impact scale to assess for CNS impairment. PK11195 binding potential was significantly increased in the caudate nucleus of patients, compared to normal controls (P = 0.03). The caudate and thalamic binding potential were more significantly increased in six patients with genotype 1 infection (P = 0.007) and positively correlated with viraemia (r = 0.77, P = 0.005). Basal ganglia myo-inositol/creatine and choline/creatine ratios were also significantly elevated in patients with chronic hepatitis C compared to normal controls (P = 0.0004 and P = 0.01, respectively). Using PET, we demonstrated evidence of microglial activation, which positively correlated with HCV viraemia and altered cerebral metabolism in the brains of patients with mild hepatitis C. This provides further in vivo evidence for a neurotropic role for HCV."}
{"id": "22238418", "title": "Cerebral hemodynamics and cognitive impairment: baseline data from the RECON trial.", "content": "Cerebral hemodynamics and cognitive impairment: baseline data from the RECON trial. To determine whether unihemispheral hemodynamic failure is independently associated with cognitive impairment among participants in the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke-sponsored, multicenter, randomized clinical trial, Randomized Evaluation of Carotid Occlusion and Neurocognition (RECON). Forty-three patients were randomized into RECON after recent symptomatic carotid artery occlusion and asymmetrically increased oxygen extraction fraction (OEF) by PET (OEF ratio >1.13), indicating stage II hemodynamic failure on the side of occlusion. The PET-positive patients were compared with 28 RECON-enrolled patients who met all clinical and radiographic inclusion/exclusion criteria but had no OEF asymmetry. A multivariable regression compared patients with PET OEF >1.13 or \u22641.13, stratifying by TIA vs. stroke as the qualifying event. The dependent variable was a composite neurocognitive score derived from averaging age-normalized z scores on a test battery that included global and internal carotid artery (ICA) side-relevant hemisphere-specific tests. There were no differences in demographic, clinical, or radiologic characteristics between the PET-positive and PET-negative patients except for PET OEF asymmetry. The unadjusted average neurocognitive z score was -1.45 for the PET-positive and -1.25 for the PET-negative patients, indicating cognitive impairment in both groups but no difference between them (p = 0.641). After adjustment for age, education, side of occlusion, depression, and previous stroke, there was a significant difference between PET-positive and PET-negative patients among those with TIA as a qualifying event (average z score = -1.41 vs. -0.76, p = 0.040). Older age and right ICA side were also significant in this model. Hemodynamic failure is independently associated with cognitive impairment in patients with carotid occlusion. This finding establishes the physiologic parameter upon which the extracranial-intracranial bypass will be tested."}
{"id": "22236449", "title": "Multi-region analysis of longitudinal FDG-PET for the classification of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Multi-region analysis of longitudinal FDG-PET for the classification of Alzheimer's disease. Imaging biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease are desirable for improved diagnosis and monitoring, as well as drug discovery. Automated image-based classification of individual patients could provide valuable diagnostic support for clinicians, when considered alongside cognitive assessment scores. We investigate the value of combining cross-sectional and longitudinal multi-region FDG-PET information for classification, using clinical and imaging data from the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative. Whole-brain segmentations into 83 anatomically defined regions were automatically generated for baseline and 12-month FDG-PET images. Regional signal intensities were extracted at each timepoint, as well as changes in signal intensity over the follow-up period. Features were provided to a support vector machine classifier. By combining 12-month signal intensities and changes over 12 months, we achieve significantly increased classification performance compared with using any of the three feature sets independently. Based on this combined feature set, we report classification accuracies of 88% between patients with Alzheimer's disease and elderly healthy controls, and 65% between patients with stable mild cognitive impairment and those who subsequently progressed to Alzheimer's disease. We demonstrate that information extracted from serial FDG-PET through regional analysis can be used to achieve state-of-the-art classification of diagnostic groups in a realistic multi-centre setting. This finding may be usefully applied in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, predicting disease course in individuals with mild cognitive impairment, and in the selection of participants for clinical trials."}
{"id": "22234338", "title": "Functional significance of central D1 receptors in cognition: beyond working memory.", "content": "Functional significance of central D1 receptors in cognition: beyond working memory. The role of dopamine D1 receptors in prefrontal cortex function, including working memory, is well acknowledged. However, relatively little is known about their role in other cognitive or emotional functions. We measured both D1 and D2 receptors in the brain using positron emission tomography in healthy subjects, with the aim of elucidating how regional D1 and D2 receptors are differentially involved in cognitive and emotional functions beyond working memory. We found an inverted U-shaped relation between prefrontal D1 receptor availability and Wisconsin Card Sorting Test performance, indicating that too little or too much D1 receptor stimulation impairs working memory or set shifting. In addition, variability of D1 receptor availability in the amygdala and striatum was related to individual differences in emotional responses and decision-making processes, respectively. These observations suggest that the variability of available D1 receptors might be associated with individual differences in brain functions that require phasic dopamine release. An interdisciplinary approach combining molecular imaging of dopamine neurotransmission with cognitive neuroscience and clinical psychiatry will provide new perspectives for understanding the neurobiology of neuropsychiatric disorders such as schizophrenia, addiction and Parkinson's disease, as well as novel therapeutics for cognitive impairments observed in them."}
{"id": "22233763", "title": "Magnetic resonance imaging based clinical research in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Magnetic resonance imaging based clinical research in Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common cause of dementia in elderly people in western countries. However important goals are unmet in the issue of early diagnosis and the development of new drugs for treatment. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and volumetry of the medial temporal lobe structures are useful tools for diagnosis. Positron emission tomography is one of the most sensitive tests for making an early diagnosis of AD but the cost and limited availability are important caveats for its utilization. The importance of magnetic resonance techniques has increased gradually to the extent that most clinical works based on AD use these techniques as the main aid to diagnosis. However, the accuracy of structural MRI as biomarker of early AD generally reaches an accuracy of 80%, so additional biomarkers should be used to improve predictions. Other structural MRI (diffusion weighted, diffusion-tensor MRI) and functional MRI have also added interesting contribution to the understanding of the pathophysiology of AD. Magnetic resonance spectroscopy has proven useful to monitor progression and response to treatment in AD, as well as a biomarker of early AD in mild cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "22232345", "title": "11C-PiB imaging of human immunodeficiency virus-associated neurocognitive disorder.", "content": "11C-PiB imaging of human immunodeficiency virus-associated neurocognitive disorder. To evaluate whether the amyloid-binding agent carbon 11-labeled Pittsburgh Compound B ((11)C-PiB) could differentiate Alzheimer disease (AD) from human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND) in middle-aged HIV-positive participants. (11)C-PiB scanning, clinical assessment, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) analysis were performed. Both \u03c7(2) and t tests assessed differences in clinical and demographic variables between HIV-positive participants and community-living individuals observed at the Knight Alzheimer's Disease Research Center (ADRC). Analysis of variance assessed for regional differences in amyloid-\u03b2 protein 1-42 (A\u03b242) using (11)C-PiB. An ADRC and HIV clinic. Sixteen HIV-positive participants (11 cognitively normal and 5 with HAND) and 19 ADRC participants (8 cognitively normal and 11 with symptomatic AD). Mean and regional (11)C-PiB binding potentials. Participants with symptomatic AD were older (P\u00a0<\u00a0.001), had lower CSF A\u03b242 levels (P\u00a0<\u00a0.001), and had higher CSF tau levels (P\u00a0<\u00a0.001) than other groups. Regardless of degree of impairment, HIV-positive participants did not have increased (11)C-PiB levels. Mean and regional binding potentials were elevated for symptomatic AD participants (P\u00a0<\u00a0.001). Middle-aged HIV-positive participants, even with HAND, do not exhibit increased (11)C-PiB levels, whereas symptomatic AD individuals have increased fibrillar A\u03b242 deposition in cortical and subcortical regions. Observed dissimilarities between HAND and AD may reflect differences in A\u03b242 metabolism. (11)C-PiB may provide a diagnostic biomarker for distinguishing symptomatic AD from HAND in middle-aged HIV-positive participants. Future cross-sectional and longitudinal studies are required to assess the utility of (11)C-PiB in older individuals with HAND."}
{"id": "22232206", "title": "Exercise Engagement as a Moderator of the Effects of APOE Genotype on Amyloid Deposition.", "content": "Exercise Engagement as a Moderator of the Effects of APOE Genotype on Amyloid Deposition. APOE \u03b54 status has been associated with greater cortical amyloid deposition, whereas exercise has been associated with less in cognitively normal adults. The primary objective here was to examine whether physical exercise moderates the association between APOE genotype and amyloid deposition in cognitively normal adults. APOE genotyping data and answers to a questionnaire on physical exercise engagement over the last decade were obtained in conjunction with cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples and amyloid imaging with carbon 11-labeled Pittsburgh Compound B ([(11)C]PiB) positron emission tomography. Participants were classified as either low or high exercisers based on exercise guidelines of the American Heart Association. Knight Alzheimer's Disease Research Center at Washington University, St Louis, Missouri. A total of 201 cognitively normal adults (135 of whom were women) aged 45 to 88 years were recruited from the Knight Alzheimer's Disease Research Center. Samples of CSF were collected from 165 participants. Amyloid imaging was performed for 163 participants. APOE \u03b54 carriers evidenced higher [(11)C]PiB binding (P<.001) and lower CSF A\u03b242 levels (P<.001) than did noncarriers. Our previous findings of higher [(11)C]PiB binding (P=.005) and lower CSF A\u03b242 levels (P=.009) in more sedentary individuals were replicated. Most importantly, we observed a novel interaction between APOE status and exercise engagement for [(11)C]PiB binding (P=.008) such that a more sedentary lifestyle was significantly associated with higher [(11)C]PiB binding for \u03b54 carriers (P=.013) but not for noncarriers (P=.20). All findings remained significant after controlling for age; sex; educational level; body mass index; the presence or history of hypertension, diabetes mellitus, heart problems, or depression; and the interval between assessments. Collectively, these results suggest that cognitively normal sedentary APOE \u03b54-positive individuals may be at augmented risk for cerebral amyloid deposition."}
{"id": "22232010", "title": "Identification of putative molecular imaging probes for BACE-1 by accounting for protein flexibility in virtual screening.", "content": "Identification of putative molecular imaging probes for BACE-1 by accounting for protein flexibility in virtual screening. \u03b2-secretase (BACE-1), an enzyme critical in the process of amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) peptides deposition in human brain, is closely associated with the onset and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). A strong need exists, therefore, to identify molecular imaging probes homing at BACE-1 for use with positron emission tomography (PET) that is recognized as an effective tool for detecting AD. Through this imaging, an early diagnosis of AD could be made. Herein, to identify suitable molecular probes for use with PET, we searched the Molecular Imaging and Contrast Agent Database (MICAD), an online database warehousing scientific information regarding molecular imaging and contrast agents, and applied a virtual screening approach against the different confirmations of BACE-1 obtained from the World Wide Protein Database. The lack of considering receptor flexibility is a key drawback in virtual screening for drug discovery. Therefore, we incorporated protein flexibility into the virtual screening by using an ensemble of 143 experimental BACE-1 structures derived from the Protein Data Bank. Finally, the best performing affinity was recorded and used in the ranking of each ligand. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first virtual screening approach used to identify four new molecular probes that could target BACE-1 with favorable affinity, a discovery that can lead to the development of new PET probes for the early detection and therapy of AD. However, the actual utility of these probes can only be ascertained after in vitro and in vivo investigations."}
{"id": "22232000", "title": "Clusterin mRNA and protein in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Clusterin mRNA and protein in Alzheimer's disease. Clusterin, a multifunctional lipoprotein is expressed in a number of tissues but expression is particularly high in the brain, where it binds to amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2), possibly facilitating A\u03b2 transport into the bloodstream. Its concentration in peripheral blood was identified as a potential biomarker for Alzheimer's disease (AD) and predicted retention of (11)C-Pittsburgh Compound B in the temporal lobe. Single-nucleotide polymorphisms in the clusterin gene, CLU, are associated with the risk of developing AD. We measured clusterin mRNA levels in control and AD brains and investigated the relationship of the clusterin protein to soluble, insoluble, and plaque-associated A\u03b2. Clusterin mRNA levels were unchanged when normalized to GAPDH but modestly increased in the frontal and temporal cortex in AD in relation to NSE and MAP-2. Levels of NSE and MAP-2 mRNA were reduced in the AD frontal cortex. Clusterin protein concentration was unchanged and did not correlate with the amount of A\u03b2 present. In the frontal cortex, clusterin concentration was higher in APOE \u03b54-negative brains but no effect of APOE was detected in the temporal cortex or thalamus. Overall clusterin mRNA and protein levels are unaltered in the neocortex in AD and clusterin concentration does not reflect A\u03b2 content. The increase in clusterin noted in peripheral blood in AD may reflect increased passage of this chaperone protein across the blood-brain barrier but further work is needed to determine how CLU variants influence the development of AD."}
{"id": "22226798", "title": "Cardiovascular fitness is associated with altered cortical glucose metabolism during working memory in \u025b4 carriers.", "content": "Cardiovascular fitness is associated with altered cortical glucose metabolism during working memory in \u025b4 carriers. The possibility that \u025b4 may modulate the effects of fitness in the brain remains controversial. The present exploratory FDG-PET study aimed to better understand the relationship among \u025b4, fitness, and cerebral metabolism in 18 healthy aged women (nine carriers, nine noncarriers) during working memory. Participants were evaluated using maximal level of oxygen consumption, California Verbal Learning Test, and FDG-PET, which were collected at rest and during completion of the Sternberg working memory task. Resting FDG-PET did not differ between carriers and noncarriers. Significant effects of fitness on FDG-PET during working memory were noted in the \u025b4 carriers only. High fit \u025b4 carriers had greater glucose uptake in the temporal lobe than the low fit \u025b4 carriers, but low fit \u025b4 carriers had greater glucose uptake in the frontal and parietal lobes. We demonstrate that fitness differentially affects cerebral metabolism in \u025b4 carriers only, consistent with previous findings that the effects of fitness may be more pronounced in populations genetically at risk for cognitive decline."}
{"id": "22226025", "title": "Preclinical studies of potential amyloid binding PET/SPECT ligands in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Preclinical studies of potential amyloid binding PET/SPECT ligands in Alzheimer's disease. Visualizing the neuropathological hallmarks amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles of Alzheimer's disease in vivo using positron emission tomography (PET) or single photon emission computed tomography will be of great value in diagnosing the individual patient and will also help in our understanding of the disease. The successful introduction of [(11)C]PIB as a PET tracer for the amyloid plaques less than 10 years ago started an intensive research, and numerous new compounds for use in molecular imaging of the amyloid plaques have been developed. The candidates are based on dyes like thioflavin T, Congo red and chrysamine G, but also on other types such as benzoxazoles, curcumin and stilbenes. In the present review, we present methods of the radiochemistry and preclinical evaluation as well as the main properties of some of these compounds."}
{"id": "22226022", "title": "Synthesis and preliminary evaluation of [18F]-labeled 2-oxoquinoline derivatives for PET imaging of cannabinoid CB2 receptor.", "content": "Synthesis and preliminary evaluation of [18F]-labeled 2-oxoquinoline derivatives for PET imaging of cannabinoid CB2 receptor. The cannabinoid receptor type 2 (CB(2)) is an important target for development of drugs and imaging agents for diseases, such as neuroinflammation, neurodegeneration and cancer. Recently, we reported synthesis and results of in vitro receptor binding of a focused library of fluorinated 2-oxoquinoline derivatives as CB(2) receptor ligands. Some of the compounds demonstrated to be good CB(2)-specific ligands with Ki values in the nanomolar to subnanomolar concentrations; therefore, we pursued the development of their (18)F-labeled analogues that should be useful for positron emission tomography (PET) imaging of CB(2) receptor expression. Here, we report the radiosynthesis of two (18)F-labeled 2-oxoquinoline derivatives and the preliminary in vitro and ex vivo evaluation of one compound as a CB(2)-specific radioligand. 4-[(18)F]fluorobenzyl amine [(18)F]-3 was prepared by radiofluorination of 4-cyano-N,N,N-trimethylanilinium triflate salt followed by reduction with LiAlH(4) and then coupled with acid chlorides 11 and 12 to afford [(18)F]-13 and [(18)F]-14. In vitro CB(2) receptor binding assay was performed using U87 cells transduced with CB(2) and CB(1) receptor. Ex vivo autoradiography was performed with [(18)F]-14 on spleen and on CB(2)- and CB(1)-expressing and wild-type U87 subcutaneous tumors grown in mice. The radiochemical yields of [(18)F]-13 and [(18)F]-14 were 10%-15.0% with an average of 12% (n=10); radiochemical purity was >99% with specific activity 1200 mCi/\u03bcmol. The dissociation constant Kd for [(18)F]-14 was 3.4 nM. Ex vivo autoradiography showed accumulation of [(18)F]-14 in the CB(2)-expressing tumor. Two new [(18)F]-labeled CB(2) ligands have been synthesized. Compound [(18)F]-14 appears to be a potential PET imaging agent for the assessment of CB(2) receptor expression; however, poor solubility restrain its use in vivo."}
{"id": "22226010", "title": "Writing errors in ALS related to loss of neuronal integrity in the anterior cingulate gyrus.", "content": "Writing errors in ALS related to loss of neuronal integrity in the anterior cingulate gyrus. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by loss of motor neuron and various cognitive deficits including writing errors. (11)C-flumazenil (FMZ), the positron emission tomography (PET) GABA(A) receptor ligand, is a marker of cortical dysfunction. The objective of this study was to investigate the relationship between cognitive deficits and loss of neuronal integrity in ALS patients using (11)C-FMZ PET. Ten patients with ALS underwent both neuropsychological tests and (11)C-FMZ-PET. The binding potential (BP) of FMZ was calculated from (11)C-FMZ PET images. There were no significant correlations between the BP and most test scores except for the writing error index (WEI), which was measured by the modified Western Aphasia Battery - VB (WAB-IVB) test. The severity of writing error was associated with loss of neuronal integrity in the bilateral anterior cingulate gyrus with mild right predominance (n=9; x=4 mm, y=36 mm, z=4 mm, Z=5.1). The results showed that writing errors in our patients with ALS were related to dysfunction in the anterior cingulate gyrus."}
{"id": "22223504", "title": "[A case of paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis associated with malignant lymphoma presenting with a late-onset bilateral thalamic lesion].", "content": "[A case of paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis associated with malignant lymphoma presenting with a late-onset bilateral thalamic lesion]. A 63-year-old man presented with cognitive impairment including disturbance of memory functions and character change. Fluid-attenuated inversion recovery (FLAIR) magnetic resonance (MR) imaging revealed signal hyperintensities in the bilateral medial temporal lobes. Cerebrospinal fluid analysis revealed high protein concentrations, positive results for the oligoclonal band, and a slightly positive result for glutamate receptor \u03b52 (GluR\u03b52) antibody. Voltage-gated potassium channel (VGKC) antibody was slightly positive in serum. Computed tomography showed enlargement of the left supraclavicular, left axillary, and renal hilar lymph nodes, and 18 F-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography revealed increased uptake at the same sites. Lymph node biopsy findings were consistent with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma. Based on these findings, the patient was diagnosed with paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis (PLE) associated with malignant lymphoma. The patient received intravenous injection of immunoglobulin and R-CHOP chemotherapy, but his neurological condition deteriorated. MR imaging showed atrophic changes in the medial temporal lobes during immunotherapy and chemotherapy. FLAIR/T2-weighted imaging revealed signal hyperintensities in the bilateral thalami after the first course of R-CHOP chemotherapy. This is the first report of PLE associated with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma presenting with late-onset bilateral thalamic lesions."}
{"id": "22221288", "title": "Type II focal cortical dysplasia: electroclinical phenotype and surgical outcome related to imaging.", "content": "Type II focal cortical dysplasia: electroclinical phenotype and surgical outcome related to imaging. Type II focal cortical dysplasia (TTFCD), a highly epileptogenic lesion with severe epilepsy curable by surgery, is missed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in about one third of cases. Little is known about the electroclinical presentation in these MRI-negative patients and a poor surgical outcome is frequently reported. We compared the clinical and neurophysiologic features in MRI-negative and MRI-positive cases in order to better identify candidates for surgery. Among 62 consecutive TTFCD patients (38 male, 24 female; 7-52 years old; 22 children) operated for intractable epilepsy, 25 (40%) presented negative MRI findings. We compared the history of epilepsy; the type, frequency, and distribution of seizures; neurologic examination cognitive and psychiatric impairment; interictal-ictal electroencephalography (EEG) and stereo-EEG (SEEG) data, fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) data, neuropathologic findings; and surgical outcome in the MRI-negative and the MRI-positive groups. Severe partial epilepsy beginning in childhood, high seizure frequency including status epilepticus, stereotyped seizures suggestive of precise brain localization, extratemporal location and functional area involvement were characteristic and similarly found in both groups. On EEG, pseudorhythmic activity was found in about 40% of patients in each group. SEEG recordings demonstrated the typical pattern characterizing TTFCD in both groups. FDG-PET had a localization value in 84% of the MRI-negative cases and helped to delineate the dysplastic cortex in 65% of the MRI-positive cases. The combination of imaging and neurophysiologic data allowed us to perform safe and restricted resections, limited to a single gyrus in more than half of all cases. In addition, we were able to avoid invasive monitoring in most MRI-positive cases and even in some selected MRI-negative cases. The proportion of patients with a favorable surgical outcome was comparable in both groups (88% in MRI-negative and 94% in MRI-positive cases). The main difference between the groups was a significantly higher frequency of sleep-related epilepsy in the MRI-negative group (p = 0.028). This phenotypic characteristic provides a new argument for TTFCD in MRI-negative extratemporal epilepsy. These results lead us to consider that children or adult patients in whom electroclinical data suggest TTFCD, are highly suitable for surgery, especially for cryptogenic sleep-related epilepsy."}
{"id": "22220910", "title": "It was the best of times, it was the worst of times: a psychophysiologist's view of cognitive aging.", "content": "It was the best of times, it was the worst of times: a psychophysiologist's view of cognitive aging. This paper reviews research on age-related changes in working memory and attention control. This work is interpreted within a framework labeled \"GOLDEN aging\" (growing of lifelong differences explains normal aging), which is based on the idea that normal aging (as opposed to pathological aging) represents maturational processes causing progressive shifts in the distributions of mental abilities over the lifespan. As such, brain phenomena observed in normal aging are already apparent, under appropriate conditions, in younger adults. Among the phenomena that can be interpreted according to the GOLDEN aging framework are reductions in working memory capacity, impairments of inhibitory processes, increases in frontal lobe activation, and lack of suppression of responses as a function of repetition."}
{"id": "22218879", "title": "A\u03b2 Imaging: feasible, pertinent, and vital to progress in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "A\u03b2 Imaging: feasible, pertinent, and vital to progress in Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "22213821", "title": "Evidence for astrocytosis in prodromal Alzheimer disease provided by 11C-deuterium-L-deprenyl: a multitracer PET paradigm combining 11C-Pittsburgh compound B and 18F-FDG.", "content": "Evidence for astrocytosis in prodromal Alzheimer disease provided by 11C-deuterium-L-deprenyl: a multitracer PET paradigm combining 11C-Pittsburgh compound B and 18F-FDG. Astrocytes colocalize with fibrillar amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) plaques in postmortem Alzheimer disease (AD) brain tissue. It is therefore of great interest to develop a PET tracer for visualizing astrocytes in vivo, enabling the study of the regional distribution of both astrocytes and fibrillar A\u03b2. A multitracer PET investigation was conducted for patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), patients with mild AD, and healthy controls using (11)C-deuterium-L-deprenyl ((11)C-DED) to measure monoamine oxidase B located in astrocytes. Along with (11)C-DED PET, (11)C-Pittsburgh compound B ((11)C-PIB; fibrillar A\u03b2 deposition), (18)F-FDG (glucose metabolism), T1 MRI, cerebrospinal fluid, and neuropsychologic data were acquired from the patients. (11)C-DED PET was performed in MCI patients (n = 8; mean age \u00b1 SD, 62.6 \u00b1 7.5 y; mean Mini Mental State Examination, 27.5 \u00b1 2.1), AD patients (n = 7; mean age, 65.1 \u00b1 6.3 y; mean Mini Mental State Examination, 24.4 \u00b1 5.7), and healthy age-matched controls (n = 14; mean age, 64.7 \u00b1 3.6 y). A modified reference Patlak model, with cerebellar gray matter as a reference, was chosen for kinetic analysis of the (11)C-DED data. (11)C-DED data from 20 to 60 min were analyzed using a digital brain atlas. Mean regional (18)F-FDG uptake and (11)C-PIB retention were calculated for each patient, with cerebellar gray matter as a reference. ANOVA analysis of the regional (11)C-DED binding data revealed a significant group effect in the bilateral frontal and bilateral parietal cortices related to increased binding in the MCI patients. All patients, except 3 with MCI, showed high (11)C-PIB retention. Increased (11)C-DED binding in most cortical and subcortical regions was observed in MCI (11)C-PIB+ patients relative to controls, MCI (11)C-PIB (negative) patients, and AD patients. No regional correlations were found between the 3 PET tracers. Increased (11)C-DED binding throughout the brain of the MCI (11)C-PIB+ patients potentially suggests that astrocytosis is an early phenomenon in AD development."}
{"id": "22201342", "title": "HIV-associated neurological disorders: a guide to pharmacotherapy.", "content": "HIV-associated neurological disorders: a guide to pharmacotherapy. In the era of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND) continues to be a common and significant morbidity among individuals infected with HIV. The term HAND encompasses a spectrum of progressively severe CNS involvement, ranging from asymptomatic neurocognitive impairment and minor neurocognitive disorder through to the most severe form of HIV-associated dementia (HAD). While the incidence of HAD has declined significantly with HAART, the milder forms of HAND persist. In addition, HAND now develops in individuals with less advanced immunosuppression. The reasons for the persistence of milder forms of HAND in individuals treated with HAART are not entirely known. There are several hypotheses to explain this phenomenon that include the legacy effect, a failure of antiretroviral agents to reverse neurological damage, poor access of antiretroviral agents to the CNS, chronic systemic immune activation associated with microbial translocation products, sustained CNS inflammation, the improved survival of HIV-seropositive individuals and the possible contribution from aging, amyloid deposition and other co-morbidities. In contrast, the incidence of HIV-associated CNS opportunistic processes including progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, tuberculosis, CNS toxoplasmosis, cytomegalovirus encephalitis, cryptococcosis and primary CNS lymphoma has declined dramatically with the introduction of HAART. This review briefly summarizes our current understanding of HAND and the pathological mechanisms involved, namely direct injury from HIV-1 and viral proteins, indirect neurotoxicity from proinflammatory cytokines and chronic, sustained immune activation in the CNS. To date, only HAART has been shown to benefit HAND despite numerous controlled trials of adjunctive 'anti-inflammatory' agents. Although HAART has a profound impact on the incidence and severity of HAND, there exists a 'therapeutic gap' as even HAART that is effective at inducing durable virological suppression may only partially reverse HAND. In addition, there may be potential CNS adverse effects of antiretroviral agents. There is an ongoing multicentre clinical trial to investigate the role of the CNS Penetration-Effectiveness index, an indicator of drug permeability and availability in the CNS, to help guide the choice of antiretroviral agents in the treatment of HAND. With recent recommendations for earlier treatment intervention with HAART for HIV-1 infection, it remains to be seen the effects of this on HAND. There is an urgent need to better define the therapeutic guidelines for the prevention and treatment of HAND."}
{"id": "22198698", "title": "Chronological age impacts immunotherapy and monocyte uptake independent of amyloid load.", "content": "Chronological age impacts immunotherapy and monocyte uptake independent of amyloid load. One vexing issue in biomedical research is the failure of many therapies to translate from success in animal models to effective treatment of human disease. One significant difference between the animal models and the human disease is the age of the subject. Cancer, stroke and Alzheimer's occur mainly in humans beyond the 75% mean survival age, while most mouse models use juvenile or young adult animals. Here we compare two mouse models of amyloid deposition, the Tg2576 APP model and the more aggressive APP+PS1 model in which a mutant presenilin1 gene is overexpressed with Tg2576. Middle-aged APP+PS1 mice and aged APP mice have similar degrees of amyloid pathology with a few differences that may partially explain some of the differences between the two age cohorts. The first study evaluated production of microhemorrhage by a monoclonal anti-A\u03b2 antibody. We found that in spite of greater amyloid clearance in middle-aged APP+PS1 mice than aged APP mice, the microhemorrhage only developed in old animals. This argues that preclinical studies of immunotherapy in young or middle-aged mice may not predict this potential liability in clinical trials. A second study evaluated the infiltration of systemically injected GFP labeled monocytes into the CNS. Here we find that infiltration is greater in aged mice than middle-aged mice, in spite of greater total A\u00df staining in the middle-aged animals. We conclude that preclinical studies should be conducted in aged animal models as well as young mice to better prepare for unintended consequences in the human trial."}
{"id": "22197787", "title": "Comparative evaluation of Logan and relative-equilibrium graphical methods for parametric imaging of dynamic [18F]FDDNP PET determinations.", "content": "Comparative evaluation of Logan and relative-equilibrium graphical methods for parametric imaging of dynamic [18F]FDDNP PET determinations. Logan graphical analysis with cerebellum as reference region has been widely used for the estimation of the distribution volume ratio (DVR) of [(18)F]FDDNP as a measure of amyloid burden and tau deposition in human brain because of its simplicity and computational ease. However, spurious parametric DVR images may be produced with shorter scanning times and when the noise level is high. In this work, we have characterized a relative-equilibrium-based (RE) graphical method against the Logan analysis for parametric imaging and region-of-interest (ROI) analysis. Dynamic [(18)F]FDDNP PET scans were performed on 9 control subjects and 12 patients diagnosed with Alzheimer's disease. Using the cerebellum as reference input, regional DVR estimates were derived using both the Logan analysis and the RE plot approach. Effects on DVR estimates obtained at voxel and ROI levels by both graphical approaches using data in different time windows were investigated and compared with the standard values derived using the Logan analysis on a voxel-by-voxel basis for the time window of 35-125 min used in previous studies. Larger bias and variability were observed for DVR estimates obtained by the Logan graphical analysis at the voxel level when short time windows (85-125 and 45-65 min) were used, because of high noise levels in voxel-wise parametric imaging. However, when the Logan graphical analysis was applied at the ROI level over those short time windows, the DVR estimates did not differ significantly from the standard values derived using the Logan analysis on the voxel level for the time window of 35-125 min, and their bias and variability were remarkably lower. Conversely, the RE plot approach was more robust in providing DVR estimates with less bias and variability even when short time windows were used. The DVR estimates obtained at voxel and ROI levels were consistent. No significant differences were observed in DVR estimates obtained by the RE plot approach for all paired comparisons with the standard values. The RE plot approach provides less noisy parametric images and gives consistent and reliable regional DVR estimates at both voxel and ROI levels, indicating that it is preferred over the Logan graphical analysis for analyzing [(18)F]FDDNP PET data."}
{"id": "22196492", "title": "Language impairment associated with arachnoid cysts: recovery after surgical treatment.", "content": "Language impairment associated with arachnoid cysts: recovery after surgical treatment. Supporting data from the literature, we observe that large arachnoid cysts may affect cognitive function. Neuropsychologic assessment plus magnetic resonance imaging allowed for documentation of associations between left temporal arachnoid cysts, language impairment, and other cognitive dysfunctions. Significant cognitive improvements were evident soon after cysto-peritoneal shunting. These observations reinforce the rationale for neuropsychologic assessments of patients with developmental delay and arachnoid cysts, and support the potential benefit of surgical decompression for arachnoid cysts associated with neurologic deficits, even if surgery is performed well after the occurrence of neurologic deficits."}
{"id": "22193845", "title": "Molecular imaging of amyloidosis: will the heart be the next target after the brain?", "content": "Molecular imaging of amyloidosis: will the heart be the next target after the brain? Amyloidosis is a heterogeneous group of diseases with a common feature of extracellular deposition and infiltration of different types of amyloid fibrils in various organs. For example, Alzheimer's disease is characterized by deposition of amyloid \u03b2 in the brain. Radiolabeled positron emission tomography (PET) tracers, mainly derivatives of thioflavin-T, were recently introduced for identification of amyloid \u03b2 plaques in Alzheimer's patients. Such advances of amyloid \u03b2 plaque imaging of the brain may shed light into imaging of other organs in amyloidosis patients, such as the heart. Cardiac infiltration of amyloid confers poor clinical outcomes, which renders early diagnosis for appropriate clinical management. At present, nuclear imaging of cardiac amyloidosis is predominantly accomplished with bone-seeking radiotracers, such as 99m-technetium-labeled pyrophosphate ((99m)Tc-PYP), 99m-technetium-methylene diphosphonate ((99m)Tc-MDP), and 99m-technetium-3,3,-diphosphono-1,2-propanodicarboxylic acid ((99m)Tc-DPD), with conflicting results in terms of diagnostic performance, with the exception for (99m)Tc-DPD, which may differentiate light-chain amyloidosis from transthyretin-related cardiac amyloidosis. Although other non-bone-seeking radiotracers such as iodine-123-labeled amyloid P component ((123)I-SAP), 123-iodine-Meta-iodobenzylguanidine ((123)I-mIBG), 99m-technetium-labeled protease inhibitor, and indium-111-labeled amyloid antibodies have also shown some success in identifying cardiac amyloidosis, the future, however, may lie in labeling derivatives of thioflavin-T. With the recent success of visualizing deposition of amyloid \u03b2 in the brain, the US Food and Drug Administration-approved PET imaging agent (18)F-florbetapir may be used to target cardiac amyloidosis next."}
{"id": "22192243", "title": "Lack of association between prior depressive episodes and cerebral [11C]PiB binding.", "content": "Lack of association between prior depressive episodes and cerebral [11C]PiB binding. Depressive symptoms are frequent in Alzheimer's disease (AD), but it is controversial whether depression is a risk factor for AD. This study measured for the first time cortical amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) levels using [(11)C] Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB) positron emission tomography (PET) in a group of nondemented patients with prior depressive episodes. Twenty-eight elderly patients (mean age 61 years, range 51-75, 18 women) with onset of first depressive episode more than 6 years ago but now remitted from depression and 18 healthy subjects (mean age 61 years, range 50-76, 12 women) were included. All subjects were investigated with cognitive testing, 3T magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and [(11)C]PiB high resolution research tomography (HRRT) positron emission tomography scan. There was no between-groups difference in [(11)C]PiB binding (p = 0.5) and no associations to number of depressive episodes, cognitive performance, or antidepressant treatment. Patients with late onset of depression had increased severity of white matter lesions (p = 0.04). In this study depressive episodes were not associated with increased levels of [(11)C]PiB. Thus, our results do not support the notion that depressive episodes previously in life are a risk factor for developing AD."}
{"id": "22189452", "title": "APOE modifies the association between A\u03b2 load and cognition in cognitively normal older adults.", "content": "APOE modifies the association between A\u03b2 load and cognition in cognitively normal older adults. To determine the relationship between \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) load as measured by [(11)C]-Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) PET and cognitive function in cognitively normal older adults. We studied 408 cognitively normal older adults who participated in the population-based Mayo Clinic Study of Aging (MCSA) from January 2009 through March 2011. The participants underwent PiB PET and neuropsychometric testing within 6 months. The association between PiB retention and cognitive function was measured by partial correlation and an interaction with APOE status was tested using linear regression after adjusting for age, sex, and education. Higher PiB retention was associated with cognitive performance (Spearman partial r = -0.18; p < 0.01), specifically the memory, language, attention/executive, and visual-spatial processing domains in the whole group of participants. The association between PiB retention and cognition was modified by the APOE status on linear regression analysis even after controlling for the differences in the distribution of PiB values among APOE \u03b54 carriers and noncarriers (p = 0.02). Cognitive performance was associated with the A\u03b2 deposition in the frontal, temporal, and parietal lobe association cortices in APOE \u03b54 carriers on SPM analysis (p < 0.001). There is a modest association between PiB retention and cognitive function in cognitively normal older adults and this relationship between A\u03b2 load and cognitive function is modified by APOE status. Whereas A\u03b2 load is associated with greater cognitive impairment in APOE \u03b54 carriers, the cognitive function in APOE \u03b54 noncarriers is influenced less by the A\u03b2 load, suggesting that APOE isoforms modulate the harmful effects of A\u03b2 on cognitive function."}
{"id": "22188720", "title": "Glucose metabolism and gray-matter concentration in apolipoprotein E \u03b54 positive normal subjects.", "content": "Glucose metabolism and gray-matter concentration in apolipoprotein E \u03b54 positive normal subjects. Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) \u03b54 is known as a genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). This study investigated the prevalence of imaging abnormalities suggestive of AD in cognitively normal ApoE \u03b54 carriers using (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) and voxel-based morphometry (VBM). Forty-five cognitive normal ApoE \u03b54 allele carriers and 45 noncarriers underwent both FDG positron emission tomography and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). A total of 90 normal database sets were generated for the individual 45 \u03b54 carriers and 45 noncarriers. Mean z-scores in the predefined AD-specific regions of interest (ROI) were calculated for each \u03b54 carrier and noncarrier using the individually defined normal database. The prevalence of AD-like hypometabolism and atrophy in the \u03b54 carriers was 8.9% and 17.7%, respectively, and did not differ significantly from those in the noncarriers (8.9%, 8.8%). The majority of \u03b54 carriers showed preserved FDG uptake or gray matter concentration."}
{"id": "22188425", "title": "Amyloid generation and dysfunctional immunoproteasome activation with disease progression in animal model of familial Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Amyloid generation and dysfunctional immunoproteasome activation with disease progression in animal model of familial Alzheimer's disease. Double-transgenic amyloid precursor protein/presenilin 1 (APP/PS1) mice express a chimeric mouse/human APP bearing the Swedish mutation (Mo/HuAPP695swe) and a mutant human PS1-dE9 both causative of familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD). Transgenic mice show impaired memory and learning performance from the age of 6 months onwards. Double-transgenic APP/PS1 mice express altered APP and PS1 mRNAs and proteins, reduced \u03b2-secretase 1 (BACE1) mRNA and normal BACE1 protein, all of which suggest a particular mechanism of amyloidogenesis when compared with sporadic AD. The first \u03b2-amyloid plaques in APP/PS1 mice appear at 3 months, and they increase in number and distribution with disease progression in parallel with increased levels of brain soluble \u03b2-amyloid 1-42 and 1-40, but also with reduced 1-42/1-40 ratio with age. Amyloid deposition in plaques is accompanied by altered mitochondria and increased oxidative damage, post-translational modifications and accumulation of altered proteins at the dystrophic neurites surrounding plaques. Degradation pathways are also modified with disease progression including activation of the immunoproteasome together with variable alterations of the different protease activities of the ubiquitin-proteasome system. Present observations show modifications in the production of \u03b2-amyloid and activation and malfunction of the subcellular degradation pathways that have general implications in the pathogenesis of AD and more particularly in specificities of FAD amyloidogenesis."}
{"id": "22184615", "title": "Executive deficits are related to the inferior frontal junction in early dementia.", "content": "Executive deficits are related to the inferior frontal junction in early dementia. Executive functions describe a wide variety of higher order cognitive processes that allow the flexible modification of thought and behaviour in response to changing cognitive or environmental contexts. Their impairment is common in neurodegenerative disorders. Executive deficits negatively affect everyday activities and hamper the ability to cope with other deficits, such as memory impairment in Alzheimer's disease or behavioural disorders in frontotemporal lobar degeneration. Our study aimed to characterize the neural correlates of executive functions by relating respective deficits to regional hypometabolism in early dementia. Executive functions were assessed with two classical tests, the Stroop and semantic fluency test and various subtests of the behavioural assessment of the dysexecutive syndrome test battery capturing essential aspects of executive abilities relevant to daily living. Impairments in executive functions were correlated with reductions in brain glucose utilization as measured by [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography and analysed voxelwise using statistical parametric mapping in 54 subjects with early dementia, mainly Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal lobar degeneration, and its prodromal stages: subjective and mild cognitive impairment. Although the analysis revealed task-specific frontoparietal networks, it consistently showed that hypometabolism in one region in the left lateral prefrontal cortex-the inferior frontal junction area-was related to performance in the various neuropsychological tests. This brain region has recently been related to the three component processes of cognitive control-working memory, task switching and inhibitory control. Group comparisons additionally showed hypometabolism in this area in Alzheimer's disease and frontotemporal lobar degeneration. Our study underlines the importance of the inferior frontal junction area for cognitive control in general and for executive deficits in early dementia."}
{"id": "22173840", "title": "Effectiveness and safety of 18F-FDG PET in the evaluation of dementia: a review of the recent literature.", "content": "Effectiveness and safety of 18F-FDG PET in the evaluation of dementia: a review of the recent literature. Imaging that can detect pathophysiologic change in the brain holds great promise for diagnostic assessment of patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) and dementia. Although a previous metaanalysis centering on literature from 1990 to 2000 showed a summary accuracy of 86% for (18)F-FDG PET for AD diagnosis, the clinical value was considered uncertain because of methodologic shortcomings. Review of the recent literature since 2000 demonstrates that the evidence for (18)F-FDG PET in assessment of dementia has increased with new studies that include autopsy confirmation, wide-diagnostic-spectrum recruitment in primary care settings, historical and prospective cohort studies, and multicenter data analyses. These data support the role of (18)F-FDG PET as an effective and useful adjunct to other diagnostic information in the assessment of patients with symptoms of dementia. Findings are in line with recently revised diagnostic criteria of AD that for the first time recognize the unique role of biomarker evidence in disease definition."}
{"id": "22173784", "title": "Education and occupation provide reserve in both ApoE \u03b54 carrier and noncarrier patients with probable Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Education and occupation provide reserve in both ApoE \u03b54 carrier and noncarrier patients with probable Alzheimer's disease. According to the reserve hypothesis, a high educational/occupational attainment can modulate Alzheimer's disease (AD) clinical expression. The impact of the Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) \u03b54 allele on the reserve mechanism in AD has not been assessed. Aim of this European multicenter study was to evaluate the metabolic correlates of reserve and ApoE genotype in early probable AD. 51 AD subjects, 27 \u03b54 carriers, and 24 noncarriers, underwent FDG-PET brain imaging. We used the general linear model as implemented in SPM2 to test for the linear correlation of a reserve index, accounting for both educational and occupational level, with brain glucose metabolism, controlling for demographic variables (age and gender) and for cognitive performance. We found an inverse correlation between a reserve index, accounting for educational/occupational level, and metabolism in the posterior cingulate cortex and precuneus in both \u03b54 carriers and noncarriers, and no significant difference between the groups. We show that education and occupation act as proxies for reserve in \u03b54 carriers, compensating for an unfavorable genetic background; we also show that the degree of compensation does not differ significantly by ApoE \u03b54 status."}
{"id": "22173295", "title": "Brain imaging in the study of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Brain imaging in the study of Alzheimer's disease. Over the last 20 years, there has been extraordinary progress in brain imaging research and its application to the study of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Brain imaging researchers have contributed to the scientific understanding, early detection and tracking of AD. They have set the stage for imaging techniques to play growing roles in the clinical setting, the evaluation of disease-modifying treatments, and the identification of demonstrably effective prevention therapies. They have developed ground-breaking methods, including positron emission tomography (PET) ligands to measure fibrillar amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) deposition, new magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) pulse sequences, and powerful image analysis techniques, to help in these endeavors. Additional work is needed to develop even more powerful imaging methods, to further clarify the relationship and time course of A\u03b2 and other disease processes in the predisposition to AD, to establish the role of brain imaging methods in the clinical setting, and to provide the scientific means and regulatory approval pathway needed to evaluate the range of promising disease-modifying and prevention therapies as quickly as possible. Twenty years from now, AD may not yet be a distant memory, but the best is yet to come."}
{"id": "22169936", "title": "Positron emission tomography experience with 2-[\u00b9\u2078F]fluoro-3-(2(S)-azetidinylmethoxy)pyridine (2-[\u00b9\u2078F]FA) in the living human brain of smokers with paranoid schizophrenia.", "content": "Positron emission tomography experience with 2-[\u00b9\u2078F]fluoro-3-(2(S)-azetidinylmethoxy)pyridine (2-[\u00b9\u2078F]FA) in the living human brain of smokers with paranoid schizophrenia. Utilizing postmortem data (Breese et al. [2000] Neuropsychopharmacology 23:351-364), we hypothesized that the densities of high-affinity neuronal \u03b14\u03b22 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) in the brain exist in a continuum from highest to lowest as follows: smokers without schizophrenia > smokers with schizophrenia > nonsmokers without schizophrenia > nonsmokers with schizophrenia. Application of the Kruskal-Wallis Test (Statacorp, 2003) to the postmortem data (Breese et al. [2000] Neuropsychopharmacology 23:351-364) confirmed the hypothesized order in the cortex and the hippocampus and attained significance in the caudate and the thalamus. Positron emission tomography (PET) was performed for 60 min at 6 h after the intravenous administration of 444 megabequerels [MBq] (12 mCi) 2-[\u00b9\u2078F]fluoro-3-(2(S)-azetidinylmethoxy)pyridine (2-[\u00b9\u2078F]FA), a radiotracer for high-affinity neuronal \u03b14\u03b22 nAChRs, as a bolus plus continuous infusion to 10 adults (seven men and three women) (six smokers including five with paranoid schizophrenia and four nonsmokers) ranging in age from 22 to 56 years (mean 40.1, standard deviation 13.6). The thalamic nondisplaceable binding potential (BP(ND) ) was 1.32 \u00b1 0.19 (mean \u00b1 standard deviation) for healthy control nonsmokers; 0.50 \u00b1 0.19 for smokers with paranoid schizophrenia; and 0.51 for the single smoker without paranoid schizophrenia. The thalamic BP(ND) s of nonsmokers were significantly higher than those of smokers who smoked cigarettes a few hours before the scans (P = 0.0105) (StataCorp, 2003), which was likely due to occupancy of nAChRs by inhaled nicotine in smokers. Further research is needed to rule out the effects of confounding variables."}
{"id": "22166468", "title": "PET studies in Parkinson's disease motor and cognitive dysfunction.", "content": "PET studies in Parkinson's disease motor and cognitive dysfunction. Positron emission tomography (PET) has led to significant advances in the knowledge of the neurobiology and pathophysiology of Parkinson's disease (PD) and has also greatly contributed to the understanding of potential mechanisms involved in the development of treatment-induced complications. Initially, PET was mostly used to assess in vivo the severity of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic dysfunction and the resulting motor symptomatology in PD. It has been demonstrated that PET measurements of putaminal dopaminergic function, as measured by [(18)F]-Fluorodopa uptake, correlate well with stages of disease and symptom severity in PD patients, particularly with bradykinesia and rigidity. Analysis of metabolic changes across the brain has identified specific brain networks associated with the main motor features of the disease, including bradykinesia and tremor. In more recent years, the growing availability of new imaging radiotracers for monoaminergic and cholinergic neurons has enabled the evaluation of the non-dopaminergic brain pathways that are likely to be involved in the pathophysiology of non motor symptoms of PD, including depression, fatigue, sleep disorders, and cognitive impairment. Finally, \u03b2-amyloid imaging agents have been used to assess the influence of coexistent cortical Alzheimer pathology in PD. This review summarizes the findings from PET studies that have investigated pathophysiology and treatment of motor dysfunction and cognitive impairment in PD."}
{"id": "22166456", "title": "18F-FDG PET study on the idiopathic Parkinson's disease from several parkinsonian-plus syndromes.", "content": "18F-FDG PET study on the idiopathic Parkinson's disease from several parkinsonian-plus syndromes. To investigate the difference in glucose metabolism on (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography ((18)F-FDG PET) imaging for differential diagnosis of idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) from several parkinsonian-plus syndromes using SPM2 approach. (18)F-FDG PET was performed for 18 IPD patients, 22 multiple system atrophy (MSA) patients, 13 progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) patients, 5 corticobasal degeneration (CBD) patients, 7 dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) patients and 1 normal pressure hydrocephalus (NPH) patient. Imaging-based diagnosis was obtained by statistical parametric mapping (SPM2) software to analyze the differences and overlaps among these groups. The (18)F-FDG PET images analyzed with SPM2 demonstrated that a reduction in glucose metabolism occurred in bilateral parietal area for IPD, in bilateral putamen for MSA-P, in bilateral cerebellum for MSA-C, in midbrain and the middle frontal cortex for PSP, in asymmetrical metabolism of the cortex and the basal ganglia for CBD, in bilateral occipital and parieto-occipital areas for DLB. The metabolic reductions in a patient of NPH group were observed in the ventricular system. This study identifies different patterns of glucose metabolism in parkinsonism. (18)F-FDG PET imaging may contribute to early differential diagnosis in clinically ambiguous cases of parkinsonism."}
{"id": "22166451", "title": "Mild cognitive impairment associated with underlying Alzheimer's disease versus Lewy body disease.", "content": "Mild cognitive impairment associated with underlying Alzheimer's disease versus Lewy body disease. The objective of this paper is to compare and contrast the clinical, neuropsychological, and neuroimaging findings in patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) associated with underlying Alzheimer's disease (AD) versus Lewy body disease (LBD) pathology. MCI refers to a clinical syndrome with impairment in one or more cognitive domains, with essentially normal performance of activities of daily living. Patients with the amnesic subtype of MCI often develop the dementia syndrome and neuroimaging findings characteristic of AD [e.g., hippocampal atrophy on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), temporoparietal and posterior cingulate hypometabolism on fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), positive uptake on amyloid PET, normal striatonigral uptake on dopamine transporter scanning (DAT), etc.]. In contrast, the MCI syndrome associated with LBD pathology regardless of the coexisting presence or absence of parkinsonism is usually characterized by impairment in the executive and/or visuospatial domains, and the cognitive features are often preceded by REM sleep behavior disorder by many years. There is minimal hippocampal atrophy on MRI, minimal if any cortical uptake on amyloid-PET, and one would predict that hypometabolism would be maximal in the occipital cortex on FDG-PET and uptake would be decreased on DAT. The early data suggests that differentiating underlying AD vs LBD in the MCI phase will be feasible."}
{"id": "22166447", "title": "Parkinson's disease: diagnosis.", "content": "Parkinson's disease: diagnosis. In established PD the Queen Square Brain Bank criteria applied by experts show 90% sensitivity and specificity for the presence of midbrain Lewy bodies. However, in early disease clinical diagnosis is less straightforward. PD diagnosis made in the community by non-experts is associated with a 25% error rate. Nigral abnormalities can now be detected in vivo with 7 tesla MRI and diffusion tensor MRI. Magnetisation transfer can demonstrate melanin loss in the substantia nigra. Transcranial sonography (TCS) detects midbrain hyperechogenicity in both sporadic and genetic PD. PET and SPECT ligands can demonstrate the presence of dopamine terminal dysfunction in early and preclinical disease and an abnormal covariance pattern between levels of resting brain blood flow metabolism in cortical and subcortical regions. In the atypical parkinsonian syndrome multiple system atrophy (MSA) T2-weighted MRI can reveal characteristic changes including reduced putmen signal due to iron deposition and the pontine 'hot cross bun' sign as transverse fibres become visible. Progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is associated with midbrain atrophy and 3(rd) ventricular widening. In both these conditions diffusion weighted MRI shows increased striatal water diffusivity but the middle cerebellar peduncle is targeted in MSA and the superior peduncle in PSP. In this review the role of structural and functional imaging for supporting the differential diagnosis of the various degenerative parkinsonian syndromes will be discussed."}
{"id": "22156048", "title": "Amyloid imaging with AV45 ((18)F-florbetapir) in a cognitively normal A\u03b2PP duplication carrier.", "content": "Amyloid imaging with AV45 ((18)F-florbetapir) in a cognitively normal A\u03b2PP duplication carrier. We report the case of a 62-year-old asymptomatic carrier of A\u03b2PP gene duplication. He was investigated by MRI and the amyloid ligand (18)F-AV45, and compared to Alzheimer's disease patients (n = 11) and healthy controls (n = 11). The neuropsychological examination was normal. Cortical thickness and AV45 retention were comparable to Alzheimer's disease patients. A\u03b2PP duplication was diagnosed because cerebral amyloid angiopathy and Alzheimer's disease pathology were found on the neuropathological examination of his youngest brother, who died at 42 from intracerebral hemorrhage. This is the first description of a pre-symptomatic A\u03b2PP duplication carrier over 60, despite widespread cerebral amyloid angiopathy, \"Alzheimer's like\" atrophy, and amyloid deposition."}
{"id": "22155259", "title": "What happens to personal identity when semantic knowledge degrades? A study of the self and autobiographical memory in semantic dementia.", "content": "What happens to personal identity when semantic knowledge degrades? A study of the self and autobiographical memory in semantic dementia. While the self has been extensively explored in amnesic patients with severe episodic but not semantic memory disturbance, little is known about the self in semantic dementia (SD), which generally features the reverse pattern of impairment. In the present study, we investigated the structural (self-representations) and functional (consciousness) dimensions of the self in a group of eight SD patients in the early to moderate stages of the disease. We used two original tasks designed to probe both structural characteristics, namely the strength and the certainty of self-concept and the episodic/semantic nature of self-representations, and functional characteristics, namely autonoetic/noetic level of consciousness, self-evaluation and self-projection into the past, present and future. Results for the structural self showed impairment on the semantic aspects of the self-representations, except for those related to the present. Moreover, SD patients were affected regardless of the episodic or semantic nature of self-representations into the future. As regards the functional self, self-projection and level of consciousness were only impaired for the future. This study confirms the persistence of a feeling of identity in SD over time for the past and present selves. However, it also highlights the loss of the future self in SD patients. These results are discussed in relation to models of long-term memory and future thinking focusing on the interplay of episodic and semantic memory and mental time travel."}
{"id": "22149630", "title": "Cerebral blood flow and neuropsychological functioning in elderly vascular disease patients.", "content": "Cerebral blood flow and neuropsychological functioning in elderly vascular disease patients. This study was designed to determine the relationships between positron emission tomography (PET)-based quantitative measures of cerebral blood flow and cerebrovascular reserve and neuropsychological functioning in elderly individuals with atherosclerotic vascular disease. It was hypothesized that cerebrovascular function would be significantly associated with neuropsychological functioning. Results showed that both baseline global cerebral blood flow and cerebrovascular reserve were significantly associated with global neuropsychological functioning, when controlling for age and sex. Cerebrovascular reserve was additionally associated with performance on measures of memory and attention. Additional research is needed to determine whether measures of cerebral blood flow can be used to predict cognitive decline."}
{"id": "22143171", "title": "Patterns of myocardial perfusion in humans evaluated with contrast-enhanced 320 multidetector computed tomography.", "content": "Patterns of myocardial perfusion in humans evaluated with contrast-enhanced 320 multidetector computed tomography. Left ventricular (LV) myocardial contrast enhancement can be recorded using 320 multi detector computed tomography (MDCT). We aimed to (1) assess patterns of regional myocardial perfusion at rest and compare them with NH(3) positron emission tomography (PET) (2) and to assess the effect of intravenous adenosine infusion on regional myocardial perfusion. To evaluate myocardial perfusion patterns at rest, we scanned 14 healthy subjects with PET and 14 age and gender matched subjects with 320 MDCT. To evaluate the effect of adenosine stress on relative perfusion patterns 14 subjects with near-normal epicardial coronary arteries were studied at rest and during adenosine stress. Relative perfusion was assessed as attenuation density (AD) in 16 segments of the LV, and each segment was divided into 3 layers: endo-, mid- and epi-cardial. During rest the relative AD by MDCT was lower in the lateral wall compared with the remainder of the LV (P < 0.002). A similar pattern was found by PET-imaging. LV endocardial AD was higher than mid- and epicardial AD (P < 0.05). At rest the endocardial/epicardial ratio in the septum was 0.99 compared with 1.23 in non-septal segments (P < 0.001). During adenosine infusion transmural AD increased due to significant increases in the mid- and epicardium and the endocardial/epicardial ratio decreased by 18% in non-septal segments (from 1.23 to 1.05 P < 0.001). Relative perfusion at rest is lower in the lateral wall of the LV with both PET and MDCT compared to the remainder of the myocardium. During adenosine stress endocardial/epicardial ratio decrease significantly."}
{"id": "22142818", "title": "Neuropsychological and radiological assessments of two cases with apparent idiopathic rapid eye movement sleep behaviour disorder.", "content": "Neuropsychological and radiological assessments of two cases with apparent idiopathic rapid eye movement sleep behaviour disorder. We examined two male patients (64 and 70 years old) with rapid eye movement sleep behaviour disorder (RBD) using cognitive tests, myocardial (123)I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scintigraphy, and dopamine positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. One patient had impaired social cognition and decision-making skills and reduced MIBG reuptake, and dopamine PET imaging indicated striatal terminal loss. The other patient had normal social cognition and reduced MIBG reuptake, but no abnormalities were detected by dopamine PET imaging. Both patients reported constipation. This study supports the hypothesis by Braak et al. [Mov Disord 2006;21:2042-2051] that impairment of the amygdala and striatum occurs at the same stage as \u03b1-synucleinopathy, and the findings suggest that autonomic dysfunctions such as reduced MIBG reuptake and constipation are the earliest symptoms of RBD. Detailed neuropsychological and radiological assessments of these 2 cases revealed that idiopathic RBD could develop in various clinical situations and include cognitive and autonomic changes. Further longitudinal studies with larger sample sizes will help understand the neuropsychology and pathophysiology of RBD."}
{"id": "22136889", "title": "Fluorine-18 labeling of three novel D-peptides by conjugation with N-succinimidyl-4-[18F]fluorobenzoate and preliminary examination by postmortem whole-hemisphere human brain autoradiography.", "content": "Fluorine-18 labeling of three novel D-peptides by conjugation with N-succinimidyl-4-[18F]fluorobenzoate and preliminary examination by postmortem whole-hemisphere human brain autoradiography. \u03b2-Amyloid (A\u03b2) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles are the main characteristics of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Positron emission tomography (PET), a high-resolution, sensitive, and noninvasive imaging technique, has been widely utilized in visualizing the localization of plaques and tangles and thereby distinguishing between AD and healthy controls. A small 12-mer D-enantiomeric peptide (amino acid sequence=QSHYRHISPAQV), denoted as D1, has high binding affinity to A\u03b2 in vitro in the sub-micromolar range, and consequently, its radiolabeled analogues have a potential as radioligands for visualizing amyloid plaques in vivo by PET. The aims of the present work were to develop three different potent D1 derivative peptides labeled with fluorine-18 and to examine them in the AD and control postmortem human brain by autoradiography (ARG). Three different D1 derivative peptides were radiolabeled with fluorine-18 ([(18)F]ACI-87, [(18)F]ACI-88, [(18)F]ACI-89) using the prosthetic group N-succinimidyl-4-[(18)F]fluorobenzoate ([(18)F]SFB) and purified by high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC). Preliminary ARG measurements were performed in AD and control brains. The three fluorine-18-labeled d-peptides were obtained in a total synthesis time of 140 min with radiochemical purity higher than 98%. The specific radioactivities of the three different D1 derivative peptides were between 9 and 113 GBq/\u03bcmol. ARG demonstrated a higher radioligand uptake in the cortical gray matter and the hippocampus in the AD brain as compared to age-matched control brain. Fluorine-18 labeling of the three novel D1 derivative peptides using [(18)F]SFB was successfully accomplished. Higher contrast between AD and control brain slices demonstrates their potential applicability for further use in vivo by PET."}
{"id": "22135130", "title": "Imaging approaches for dementia.", "content": "Imaging approaches for dementia. Brain imaging has progressed from exclusion of rare treatable mass lesions to a specific antemortem diagnosis. MR imaging-derived hippocampal atrophy and WMH are regarded as imaging biomarkers of AD and CVD respectively. Abnormal FP-CIT SPECT or cardiac iodobenzamide SPECT is a useful supportive imaging feature in the diagnosis of DLB. Frontal and/or anterior temporal atrophy and anterior defects on molecular imaging with FDG-PET or perfusion SPECT are characteristic of FTDs. Whole-body FDG-PET may be helpful in patients with rapidly progressing \"autoimmune dementias,\" and FLAIR and DWI are indicated in suspected CJD. A major role of imaging is in the development of new drugs and less costly biomarkers."}
{"id": "22129938", "title": "Early detection of dementia with Lewy bodies in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment using 123I-MIBG cardiac scintigraphy.", "content": "Early detection of dementia with Lewy bodies in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment using 123I-MIBG cardiac scintigraphy. Increasing clinical attention has been focused on cardiac sympathetic denervation for the differential diagnosis of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) from Alzheimer's disease (AD) with the development of [123I] metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) scintigraphy. Decreased MIBG uptake, which reflects cardiac sympathetic denervation, has been detected in DLB, but not in AD. However, the time course of detected cardiac sympathetic degeneration is poorly understood in DLB. Herein, the authors report two patients with a clinical diagnosis of amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI) who had cardiac sympathetic denervation, detected by cardiac (123)I-MIBG scintigraphy, without the core clinical features of DLB. One amnestic MCI patient had nocturnal dream enactment behavior, consistent with clinically probable REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD), and converted to probable DLB with the development of recurrent visual hallucination and spontaneous parkinsonism two years after MCI is diagnosed. The other amnestic MCI patient exhibited occipital metabolic reduction on [18F]-fluoro-d-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) scan, which is the preferentially affected region in DLB patients, although she had no core or suggestive clinical features of DLB. Both patients had abnormal findings on electrocardiogram at annual health checkups despite having no cardiac-related symptoms. Detailed clinical examinations, including angiography and echocardiogram, revealed no overt etiology, supporting the idea that cardiac sympathetic denervation is due to underlying Lewy body disease. The clinical courses of these patients suggest that (123)I-MIBG cardiac scintigraphy is useful for the detection of DLB in the predementia phase, even before core clinical features appear."}
{"id": "22120145", "title": "Blood-brain barrier P-glycoprotein function in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Blood-brain barrier P-glycoprotein function in Alzheimer's disease. A major pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease is accumulation of amyloid-\u03b2 in senile plaques in the brain. Evidence is accumulating that decreased clearance of amyloid-\u03b2 from the brain may lead to these elevated amyloid-\u03b2 levels. One of the clearance pathways of amyloid-\u03b2 is transport across the blood-brain barrier via efflux transporters. P-glycoprotein, an efflux pump highly expressed at the endothelial cells of the blood-brain barrier, has been shown to transport amyloid-\u03b2. P-glycoprotein function can be assessed in vivo using (R)-[(11)C]verapamil and positron emission tomography. The aim of this study was to assess blood-brain barrier P-glycoprotein function in patients with Alzheimer's disease compared with age-matched healthy controls using (R)-[(11)C]verapamil and positron emission tomography. In 13 patients with Alzheimer's disease (age 65\u2009\u00b1\u20097 years, Mini-Mental State Examination 23\u2009\u00b1\u20093), global (R)-[(11)C]verapamil binding potential values were increased significantly (P\u2009=\u20090.001) compared with 14 healthy controls (aged 62\u2009\u00b1\u20094 years, Mini-Mental State Examination 30\u2009\u00b1\u20091). Global (R)-[(11)C]verapamil binding potential values were 2.18\u2009\u00b1\u20090.25 for patients with Alzheimer's disease and 1.77\u2009\u00b1\u20090.41 for healthy controls. In patients with Alzheimer's disease, higher (R)-[(11)C]verapamil binding potential values were found for frontal, parietal, temporal and occipital cortices, and posterior and anterior cingulate. No significant differences between groups were found for medial temporal lobe and cerebellum. These data show altered kinetics of (R)-[(11)C]verapamil in Alzheimer's disease, similar to alterations seen in studies where P-glycoprotein is blocked by a pharmacological agent. As such, these data indicate that P-glycoprotein function is decreased in patients with Alzheimer's disease. This is the first direct evidence that the P-glycoprotein transporter at the blood-brain barrier is compromised in sporadic Alzheimer's disease and suggests that decreased P-glycoprotein function may be involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "22118570", "title": "Resveratrol mitigates lipopolysaccharide- and A\u03b2-mediated microglial inflammation by inhibiting the TLR4/NF-\u03baB/STAT signaling cascade.", "content": "Resveratrol mitigates lipopolysaccharide- and A\u03b2-mediated microglial inflammation by inhibiting the TLR4/NF-\u03baB/STAT signaling cascade. Activation of microglia, the resident macrophages of the brain, around the amyloid plaques is a key hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent evidence in mouse models indicates that microglia are required for the neurodegenerative process of AD. Amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) peptides, the core components of the amyloid plaques, can trigger microglial activation by interacting with several Toll-like receptors (TLRs), including TLR4. In this study, we show that resveratrol, a natural polyphenol associated with anti-inflammatory effects and currently in clinical trials for AD, prevented the activation of murine RAW 264.7 macrophages and microglial BV-2 cells treated with the TLR4 ligand, lipopolysaccharide (LPS). Resveratrol preferentially inhibited nuclear factor \u03ba-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NF-\u03baB) activation upon LPS stimulation by interfering with IKK and I\u03baB phosphorylation, an effect that potently reduced the transcriptional stimulation of several NF-\u03baB target genes, including tumor necrosis factor-\u03b1 and interleukin-6. Consequently, downstream phosphorylation of signal transducer and activator of transcription (STAT)1 and STAT3 upon LPS stimulation was also inhibited by resveratrol. We found that resveratrol acted upstream in the activation cascade by interfering with TLR4 oligomerization upon receptor stimulation. Resveratrol treatment also prevented the pro-inflammatory effect of fibrillar A\u03b2 on macrophages by potently inhibiting the effect of A\u03b2 on I\u03baB phosphorylation, activation of STAT1 and STAT3, and on tumor necrosis factor-\u03b1 and interleukin-6 secretion. Importantly, orally administered resveratrol in a mouse model of cerebral amyloid deposition lowered microglial activation associated with cortical amyloid plaque formation. Together this work provides strong evidence that resveratrol has in vitro and in vivo anti-inflammatory effects against A\u03b2-triggered microglial activation. Further studies in cell culture systems showed that resveratrol acted via a mechanism involving the TLR4/NF-\u03baB/STAT signaling cascade."}
{"id": "22115832", "title": "The use of PIB-PET as a dual pathological and functional biomarker in AD.", "content": "The use of PIB-PET as a dual pathological and functional biomarker in AD. Amyloid imaging with positron emission tomography (PET) is presently used in Alzheimer's disease (AD) research. In this study we investigated the possibility to use early frames (ePIB) of the PIB scans as a rough index of CBF by comparing normalised early PIB values with cerebral glucose metabolism (rCMRglc). PIB-PET and FDG-PET were performed in 37 AD patients, 21 subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 6 healthy controls (HC). The patients were divided based on their PIB retention (amyloid load) as either PIB positive (PIB+) or PIB negative (PIB-). Data of the unidirectional influx K(1) from a subset of the subjects including 7 AD patients and 3 HC was used for correlative analysis. Data was analysed using regions of interest (ROI) analysis. A strong, positive correlation was observed across brain regions between K(1) and ePIB (r=0.70; p\u22640.001). The ePIB values were significantly lower in the posterior cingulate (p\u22640.001) and the parietal cortices (p=0.002) in PIB+ subjects compared to PIB-, although the group difference were stronger for rCMRglc in cortical areas (p\u22640.001). Strong positive correlations between ePIB and rCMRglc were observed in all cortical regions analysed, especially in the posterior cingulate and parietal cortices (p\u22640.001). A single dynamic PIB-PET scan may provide information about pathological and functional changes (amyloidosis and impaired blood flow). This might be important for diagnosis of AD, enrichment of patients in clinical trials and evaluation of treatment effects. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Imaging Brain Aging and Neurodegenerative disease."}
{"id": "22108786", "title": "[\u00b3H]Chiba-1001(methyl-SSR180711) has low in vitro binding affinity and poor in vivo selectivity to nicotinic alpha-7 receptor in rodent brain.", "content": "[\u00b3H]Chiba-1001(methyl-SSR180711) has low in vitro binding affinity and poor in vivo selectivity to nicotinic alpha-7 receptor in rodent brain. Neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) agonists active at the alpha-7 (\u03b1-7) receptor subtype are potential therapeutics for cognitive deficits in schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, and other mental disorders. SSR180711, an \u03b1-7 selective partial agonist, has been shown to improve preclinical cognition. A novel positron emission tomography (PET) radioligand, \u00b9\u00b9C-Chiba1001, is a close analog of SSR180711. We labeled Chiba-1001 with tritium in order to evaluate its utility as a preclinical radioligand tool. In vitro, the binding affinity of [\u00b3H]Chiba-1001 at the \u03b1-7 receptor was low (K(d) = 120-180 nM) in both HEK239 cell membranes expressing human \u03b1-7 receptor and in native rat hippocampus membranes. The \u03b1-7 selective ligands AZD0328, ARR17779, and MLA did not inhibit [\u00b3H]Chiba-1001 binding (K(i) > 10,000 nM). In rat hippocampal membranes, Chiba-1001 and SSR180711 inhibited [\u00b3H]Chiba-1001 binding (K(i) = 220 and 230 nM, respectively), consistent with the literature reports. The in vivo binding profile of the radioligand was examined in normal rat, wild type mouse, and \u03b1-7 knockout mouse brain. We found that [\u00b3H]Chiba-1001 lacks adequate and specific brain regional uptake in rat and mouse brain. No significant inhibition of the radioligand binding was obtained following pretreatment of the animal with AZ11637326, AZD0328, or MLA. Our results indicate that [\u00b3H]Chiba-1001 has low affinity for \u03b1-7 nAChRs in vitro and poor \u03b1-7 regional and pharmacological selectivity in the rodent brain."}
{"id": "22108203", "title": "PET amyloid-beta imaging in preclinical Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "PET amyloid-beta imaging in preclinical Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the leading cause of dementia, accounting for 60-70% of all cases [Hebert et al., 2003, 1]. The need for effective therapies for AD is great. Current approaches, including cholinesterase inhibitors and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists, are symptomatic treatments for AD but do not prevent disease progression. Many diagnostic and therapeutic approaches to AD are currently changing due to the knowledge that underlying pathology starts 10 to 20 years before clinical signs of dementia appear [Holtzman et al., 2011, 2]. New therapies which focus on prevention or delay of the onset or cognitive symptoms are needed. Recent advances in the identification of AD biomarkers now make it possible to detect AD pathology in the preclinical stage of the disease, in cognitively normal (CN) individuals; this biomarker data should be used in the selection of high-risk populations for clinical trials. In vivo visualization of AD neuropathology and biological, biochemical or physiological confirmation of the effects of treatment likely will substantially improve development of novel pharmaceuticals. Positron emission tomography (PET) is the leading neuroimaging tool to detect and provide quantitative measures of AD amyloid pathology in vivo at the early stages and follow its course longitudinally. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Imaging Brain Aging and Neurodegenerative disease."}
{"id": "22107995", "title": "Optimization of the CT acquisition protocol to reduce patient dose without compromising the diagnostic quality for PET-CT: a phantom study.", "content": "Optimization of the CT acquisition protocol to reduce patient dose without compromising the diagnostic quality for PET-CT: a phantom study. We conducted a phantom study to optimize the computed tomography (CT) acquisition protocol, to reduce patient dose without compromising the diagnostic quality of PET-CT study. We conducted 42 PET-CT phantom studies. The jaszczak phantom was filled with 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose activity (1.4, 4, 6, 8, 10, and 12 mCi, on different settings) and PET-CT was acquired at different tube currents of 16, 25, 30, 35, 40, 45, and 50 mAs, keeping all the other parameters constant. Two nuclear medicine physicians qualitatively evaluated 252 images for their diagnostic quality (contrast, resolution, and number of lesion detected). The images were also evaluated qualitatively for noise on CT (the physical measure of image quality) and standardized uptake value (mean) on PET images. The weighted CT dose index (CTDIw) was measured for calculating the changes in the radiation dose with the change in tube current. The 42 images provided same diagnostic information in CT images at different tube currents. However, there was a gradual increase in noise in the image acquired at lower values of the tube current, in mAs. The modulation of CT tube current had no effect on the PET images as well as the PET-CT images. Standardized uptake value mean values were also not affected with lowering of tube current. On reducing the tube current from 50 to 16 mAs, a reduction in the radiation dose (CTDIw) to almost 68% was achieved. It is possible to reduce the tube current of the CT tube of PET-CT to a much lower level, without any loss of diagnostic information of a PET-CT image. Moreover, this can significantly reduce the radiation dose."}
{"id": "22100791", "title": "Distribution and binding of 18F-labeled and 125I-labeled analogues of ACI-80, a prospective molecular imaging biomarker of disease: a whole hemisphere post mortem autoradiography study in human brains obtained from Alzheimer's disease patients.", "content": "Distribution and binding of 18F-labeled and 125I-labeled analogues of ACI-80, a prospective molecular imaging biomarker of disease: a whole hemisphere post mortem autoradiography study in human brains obtained from Alzheimer's disease patients. One of the major pathological landmarks of Alzheimer's disease and other neurodegenerative diseases is the presence of amyloid deposits in the brain. The early non-invasive visualization of amyloid is a major objective of recent diagnostic neuroimaging approaches, including positron emission tomography (PET), with an eye on follow-up of disease progression and/or therapy efficacy. The development of molecular imaging biomarkers with binding affinity to amyloid in the brain is therefore in the forefront of imaging biomarker and radiochemistry research. Recently, a dodecamer peptide (amino acid sequence=QSHYRHISPAQV; denominated D1 or ACI-80) was identified as a prospective ligand candidate, binding with high ex vivo affinity to L-A\u03b2-amyloid (K(d): 0.4 \u03bcM). In order to assess the ligand's capacity to visualize amyloid in Alzheimer's disease (AD), two (125)I labeled and three (18)F labeled analogues of the peptide were synthesized and tested in post mortem human autoradiography experiments using whole hemisphere brain slices obtained from deceased AD patients and age matched control subjects. The (18)F-labeled radioligands showed more promising visualization capacity of amyloid that the (125)I-labeled radioligands. In the case of each (18)F radioligands the grey matter uptake in the AD brains was significantly higher than that in control brains. Furthermore, the grey matter: white matter uptake ratio was over ~2, the difference being significant for each (18)F-radioligands. The regional distribution of the uptake of the various radioligands systematically shows a congruent pattern between the high uptake regions and spots in the autoradiographic images and the disease specific signals obtained in adjacent or identical brain slices labeled with histological, immunohistochemical or autoradiographic stains for amyloid deposits or activated astrocytes. The present data, using post mortem human brain autoradiography in whole hemisphere human brains obtained from deceased AD patients and age matched control subjects, support the visualization capacity of the radiolabeled ACI-80 analogues of amyloid deposits in the human brain. Further studies are warranted to explore the usefulness of the (18)F-labeled analogues as in vivo molecular imaging biomarkers in diagnostic PET studies."}
{"id": "22096221", "title": "Imaging carotid body chemodectomas with \u2076\u2078Ga-DOTA-NOC PET-CT.", "content": "Imaging carotid body chemodectomas with \u2076\u2078Ga-DOTA-NOC PET-CT. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the role of 68-gallium-1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane-1,4,7,10-tetraacetic acid-1-Nal3-octreotide ((68)Ga-DOTA-NOC) positron emission tomography CT (PET-CT) in carotid body chemodectomas (CBCs). 5 patients with known CBCs (conventional imaging and angiography) were evaluated retrospectively (3 males, 2 females; mean age 36.6 years). All underwent PET-CT after injection of 148 MBq (4 mCi) of (68)Ga-DOTA-NOC. At baseline there were four bilateral CBCs and one unilateral CBC with an additional glomus tympanicum and bilateral glomus jugulare tumour in these five patients. All these lesions showed intense uptake on (68)Ga-DOTA-NOC PET-CT. Apart from these known lesions, additional tumours were detected in three patients; glomus jugulare in one, aortic body tumour and multiple abdominal paragangliomas in another and unsuspected vertebral metastasis in the last. Overall it led to a change in management in 3 of the 5 patients (60%). (68)Ga-DOTA-NOC PET-CT is a promising non-invasive imaging modality in the detection and characterisation of CBCs."}
{"id": "22081102", "title": "Striatal hypermetabolism in limbic encephalitis.", "content": "Striatal hypermetabolism in limbic encephalitis. Striatal hypermetabolism on 18FDG-PET scan is a neuroradiological finding that has been described in association with autoimmune disorders such as Sydenham chorea, lupus or antiphospholipid syndrome. Here, we report three patients with non-paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis characterized by 18FDG-PET hypermetabolism of both striata, in contrast with diffuse hypometabolism in the rest of the brain. All patients developed subacute dementia, and antibodies to voltage-gated potassium channels were found in all cases. Brain metabolism and neurological status improved within a few months of immunosuppressive therapy. The finding of striatal hypermetabolism on 18FDG-PET images could thus be highly indicative of limbic encephalitis associated with anti-neuropil antibodies. It could be of significant help in the diagnosis of this rare and treatable condition, and may also provide a useful marker of disease outcome."}
{"id": "22079452", "title": "A short-scan method for k(3) estimation with moderately reversible PET ligands: application of irreversible model to early-phase PET data.", "content": "A short-scan method for k(3) estimation with moderately reversible PET ligands: application of irreversible model to early-phase PET data. Long dynamic scans (60-120 min) are often required for estimating the k(3) value, an index of receptor density, by positron emission tomography (PET). However, the precision of k(3) is usually low in kinetic analyses for reversible PET ligands compared with irreversible ligands. That is largely due to unstable estimation of the dissociation rate constant, k(4). We propose a novel '3P+' method for estimating k(3) of moderately reversible ligands, where a 3-parameter model without k(4) is applied to early-phase PET data to obtain a good model-fit of k(3) estimation. By using [(11)C] Pittsburgh compound B (PIB) (k(4) = 0.018/min) as an example of a moderately reversible ligand, the 3P+ method simulation with a 28 min PET scan yielded less than 3% k(3) relative bias with a +100% k(3) change. In [(11)C]PIB PET scans of 15 normal controls (NC) and nine patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), the 3P+ method provided a precise k(3) estimate (mean SE of 13.6% in parietal cortex; covariance matrix method). The results revealed linear correlations (r = 0.964) of parietal k(3) values in 24 subjects between 28minute 3P+ method and conventional 90 minute 4-parameter method. A good separation of k(3) between NC and AD groups (P < 0.001; t-test) was replicated in 28 minute 3P+ method. The short-scan 3P+ method may be a practical alternative method for analyzing reversible ligands."}
{"id": "22079258", "title": "Asymmetric loss of parietal activity causes spatial bias in prodromal and mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Asymmetric loss of parietal activity causes spatial bias in prodromal and mild Alzheimer's disease. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), loss of effective neuronal activity is reflected by cortical glucose hypometabolism. Hypometabolism in the posterior parietal cortex (PPC) is among the first in vivo signs of AD; however, its functional impact on large-scale brain mechanisms and behavior is poorly understood. The lateral PPC contributes to spatial attention constituting a basic function of the human brain. We hypothesized 1) that lateral PPC hypometabolism is associated with impaired spatial attention in very early AD and 2) that impaired competition of effective neuronal activity across hemispheres might underlie this deficit in terms of brain mechanisms. A model-based imaging approach was applied to assess patients with prodromal (n = 28) and mild (n = 7) AD. Quantitative attention parameters, derived from performance on simple psychophysical tasks and analyzed by Bundesen's computational theory of visual attention, were related to brain metabolism, measured by (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography. Patients' left and right lateral PPC metabolism was reduced. Nine patients had significant spatial attentional bias on the left side and two patients on the right. Direction and degree of spatial bias was correlated with direction and degree of an interhemispheric metabolism bias in the inferior parietal lobe and temporoparietal junction. Our data provide evidence that in very early AD, asymmetric hypometabolism of the lateral PPC causes spatial attentional bias. Results are broadly consistent with the model that asymmetrically impaired effective neuronal PPC activity in AD biases the competition of visual objects for cortical representation and access to awareness to one side."}
{"id": "22079157", "title": "Increased regional cerebral glucose uptake in an APP/PS1 model of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Increased regional cerebral glucose uptake in an APP/PS1 model of Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common age-related neurodegenerative disorder, is characterized by the invariant cerebral accumulation of \u03b2-amyloid peptide. This event occurs early in the disease process. In humans, [18F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose ([18F]-FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) is largely used to follow-up in vivo cerebral glucose utilization (CGU) and brain metabolism modifications associated with the Alzheimer's disease pathology. Here, [18F]-FDG positron emission tomography was used to study age-related changes of cerebral glucose utilization under resting conditions in 3-, 6-, and 12-month-old APP(SweLon)/PS1(M146L), a mouse model of amyloidosis. We showed an age-dependent increase of glucose uptake in several brain regions of APP/PS1 mice but not in control animals and a higher [18F]-FDG uptake in the cortex and the hippocampus of 12-month-old APP/PS1 mice as compared with age-matched control mice. We then developed a method of 3-D microscopic autoradiography to evaluate glucose uptake at the level of amyloid plaques and showed an increased glucose uptake close to the plaques rather than in amyloid-free cerebral tissues. These data suggest a macroscopic and microscopic reorganization of glucose uptake in relation to cerebral amyloidosis."}
{"id": "22078485", "title": "Coronary risk correlates with cerebral amyloid deposition.", "content": "Coronary risk correlates with cerebral amyloid deposition. This study investigated the hypothesis that vascular risk factors are amyloidogenic. Participants were 43 persons, most with normal cognition or mild cognitive impairment. Vascular risk was quantified using the Framingham Coronary Risk Profile (FCRP) score. Cerebral amyloid was measured by [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound B (PIB) positron emission tomography (PET) and quantified with a Global PIB index, which is the average of distribution volume ratios in selected cortical regions of interest. In a bivariate model FCRP accounted for 16% of the variance in PIB index (p < 0.008) and the positive association remained significant controlling for age and sex. The effect of FCRP was independent of apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype, which was also associated as expected with PIB. Carotid intima-media thickness was not associated with PIB index. Effects of individual FCRP component risk factors, cholesterol, and glycemic status on PIB index were all nonsignificant, suggesting an aggregate effect of risk factors. Although this is a correlational observation it may represent a causal relationship as there are multiple, plausible, amyloidogenic mechanisms of vascular risk factors."}
{"id": "22057784", "title": "Selective tau tyrosine nitration in non-AD tauopathies.", "content": "Selective tau tyrosine nitration in non-AD tauopathies. Previously, we reported the characterization of two novel antibodies that react with tau nitrated at tyrosine 197 (Tau-nY197) and tyrosine 394 (Tau-nY394) in Alzheimer's disease (AD). In this report, we examined whether tau nitration at these sites also occurs in corticobasal degeneration (CBD), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) and Pick's disease (PiD), three neurodegenerative tauopathies that contain abundant tau deposits within glial and neuronal cell types but lack amyloid deposition. The reactivity of these antibodies was also compared to two previously characterized antibodies Tau-nY18 and Tau-nY29, specific for tau nitrated at tyrosine 18 and tyrosine 29, respectively. In the present experiments, Tau-nY18 did not label the classical pathological lesions of CBD or PSP but did label the neuronal lesions associated with PiD to a limited extent. In contrast, Tau-nY29 revealed some, but not all classes of tau inclusions associated with both CBD and PSP but did label numerous Pick body inclusions in PiD. Tau-nY197 was restricted to the neuropil threads in both CBD and PSP; however, similar to Tau-nY29, extensive Pick body pathology was clearly labeled. Tau-nY394 did not detect any of the lesions associated with these disorders. In contrast, extensive neuronal and glial tau pathology within these diseases was labeled by Tau-Y197, a monoclonal antibody that reacts within the Y-197-containing proline-rich region of the molecule. Based on our Western and IHC experiments, it appears that nitration of tau at tyrosine 29 is a pathological modification that might be associated with neurodegeneration. Collectively, our data suggest that site-specific tau tyrosine nitration events occur in a disease and lesion-specific manner, indicating that nitration appears to be a highly controlled modification in AD and non-AD tauopathies."}
{"id": "22057028", "title": "The dying of the light: mitochondrial failure in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "The dying of the light: mitochondrial failure in Alzheimer's disease. Impaired brain energy production, reflected by reduced cortical glucose metabolism seen on 2-FDG PET scans, has emerged as a robust biomarker of mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Progression from MCI to Alzheimer's disease (AD) shows further decline of cortical 2-FDG uptake, implying worsening bioenergetics. We characterized respiration, respiratory protein levels, and gene expressions for mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), mitochondrial biogenesis, and antioxidative signaling in preparations from postmortem AD and control frontal cortex. Mitochondrial respiration was maintained in frozen brain mitochondria and reduced by approximately two-thirds in AD due to loss of mitochondrial mass. Levels of most respiratory proteins were preserved, but expressions of gene families for mtDNA, mitobiogenesis, and mitochondrial/cytosolic antioxidant enzymes were reduced in AD cortex. None of these changes in AD were related to elevated levels of amyoid-\u03b21-42 peptide. For unclear reasons, mitochondrial biogenesis is suppressed in AD frontal cortex, leading to reduced mitochondrial mass and impaired mitochondrial respiratory capacity. Downregulation of antioxidant proteins further threatens neuronal function. Altering progression of AD appears to require both correction of impaired mitobiogenesis and restoration of antioxidant protection."}
{"id": "22056484", "title": "A\u03b2 plaque-associated glial reaction as a determinant of apoptotic neuronal death and cortical gliogenesis: a study in APP mutant mice.", "content": "A\u03b2 plaque-associated glial reaction as a determinant of apoptotic neuronal death and cortical gliogenesis: a study in APP mutant mice. The purpose of this study was to investigate the microglia-driven apoptosis and the A\u03b2 deposits triggered generation of new microglial cells in the neocortex of TgCRND8 mice. Three- and seven-month-old TgCRND8 mice, displaying an early and widespread amyloid deposition, respectively, were used. In 7-month-old TgCRND8 mice the A\u03b2-associated glial reaction was accompanied by an intense immunoreactivity of both TNF-\u03b1 and inducible nitric oxide synthase, increased immunoreactivity of the pro-apoptotic protein Bax and a decrease in levels of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2.Cortical and hippocampal neurons of TgCRND8 mice displayed higher immunoreactivity and higher nuclear expression of the transcription factor NF-kB than controls. It is possible that such an increase could represent a defence/compensatory response to degeneration. These findings indicate that A\u03b2 deposits activate brain-resident microglia population and astrocytes, and induce overproduction of inflammatory mediators that enhance pro- and anti-apoptotic cascades. In both 3- and 7-month-old TgCRND8 mice apparent gliogenesis was present in the vicinity of A\u03b2 plaques in the neocortex, indicating that microglia have a high proliferative rate which might play a more complex role than previously acknowledge."}
{"id": "22056004", "title": "Amyloid PET imaging with 11C-PIB in two patients with cognitive impairment.", "content": "Amyloid PET imaging with 11C-PIB in two patients with cognitive impairment."}
{"id": "22051030", "title": "Right temporal variant frontotemporal dementia with motor neuron disease.", "content": "Right temporal variant frontotemporal dementia with motor neuron disease. Patterns of atrophy in frontotemporal dementia (FTD) correlate with the clinical subtypes of behavioral variant FTD (bvFTD), semantic dementia, progressive non-fluent aphasia (PNFA) and FTD with motor neuron disease (FTD-MND). Right temporal variant FTD is associated with behavioral dyscontrol and semantic impairment, with tau abnormalities more common in right temporal bvFTD and TDP-43 accumulation in right temporal semantic dementia. However, no clinical and anatomical correlation has been described for patients with predominant right temporal atrophy and FTD-MND. Therefore, we performed a database screen for all patients diagnosed with FTD-MND at Mayo Clinic and reviewed their MRI scans to identify those with striking, dominant, right temporal lobe atrophy. For cases with volumetric MRI we performed voxel based morphometry and for those with brain tissue we performed pathological examination. Of three such patients identified, each patient had different presenting behavioral and/or aphasic characteristics. MRI, including diffusion tensor imaging in one patient, and FDG positron emission tomography revealed striking and dominant right temporal lobe atrophy, right corticospinal tract degeneration, and right temporal hypometabolism. Archived brain tissue was available in two patients; both demonstrating TDP-43 type 3 pathology (Mackenzie scheme) with predominant neuronal cytoplasmic inclusions. In one case, neurofibrillary tangles (Braak V) and neuritic plaques were also present in keeping with a diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. There appears to be an association between FTD-MND and severe right temporal lobe atrophy. Until further characterization of such cases are determined, they may be best classified as right temporal variant FTD-MND."}
{"id": "22050514", "title": "Serotonin 1A receptors, depression, and memory in temporal lobe epilepsy.", "content": "Serotonin 1A receptors, depression, and memory in temporal lobe epilepsy. Memory deficits and depression are common in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Previous positron emission tomography (PET) studies have shown reduced mesial temporal 5HT1A-receptor binding in these patients. We examined the relationships among verbal memory performance, depression, and 5HT1A-receptor binding measured with 18F-trans-4-fluoro-N-2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)piperazin-1-yl]ethyl-N-(2-pyridyl) cyclohexane carboxamide (18FCWAY) PET in a cross-sectional study. We studied 40 patients (24 male; mean age 34.5 \u00b1 10.7 years) with TLE. Seizure diagnosis and focus localization were based on ictal video-electroencephalography (EEG) recording. Patients had neuropsychological testing with Wechsler Adult Intelligence Score III (WAIS III) and Wechsler Memory Score III (WMS III) on stable antiepileptic drug (AED) regimens at least 24 h since the last seizure. Beck Depression Inventory (BDI) scores were obtained. We performed interictal PET with 18FCWAY, a fluorinated derivative of WAY 100635, a highly specific 5HT1A ligand, and structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans to estimate partial volume and plasma free fraction corrected 18FCWAY volume of distribution (V/f1). Hippocampal V/f1 was significantly lower in area ipsilateral than contralateral to the epileptic focus (73.7 \u00b1 27.3 vs. 95.4 \u00b1 28.4; p < 0.001). We found a significant relation between both left hippocampal 18FCWAY V/f1 (r = 0.41; p < 0.02) and left hippocampal volume (r = 0.36; p < 0.03) and delayed auditory memory score. On multiple regression, there was a significant effect of the interaction of left hippocampal 18FCWAY V/f1 and left hippocampal volume on delayed auditory memory, but not of either alone. High collinearity was present. In an analysis of variance including the side of the seizure focus, the effect of left hippocampal 18FCWAY V/f1 but not focus laterality retained significance. Mean BDI was 8.3 \u00b1 7.0. There was a significant inverse relation between BDI and 18FCWAY V/f1 ipsilateral to the patient's epileptic focus (r = 0.38 p < 0.02). There was no difference between patients with a right or left temporal focus. There was no relation between BDI and immediate or delayed auditory memory. Our study suggests that reduced left hippocampal 5HT1A-receptor binding may play a role in memory impairment in patients with TLE."}
{"id": "22050286", "title": "Glucose metabolism in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: a statistical parametric mapping analysis of (18) F-FDG PET.", "content": "Glucose metabolism in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease: a statistical parametric mapping analysis of (18) F-FDG PET. Reports describing functional neuroimaging techniques, such as positron emission tomography (PET) and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), in sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (sCJD) have consistently suggested that these tools are sensitive for the identification of areas of hypoperfusion or hypometabolism, even in the early stages of sCJD. However, there are few reports on the use of [18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) PET in sCJD, and most of them are single case reports. Only two small cohort studies based on visual inspection or a region of interest method have been published to date. Using a statistical parametric mapping (SPM) analysis of (18) F-FDG PET, we investigated whether there are brain regions preferentially affected in sCJD. After controlling for age and gender, using SPM 2, we compared the glucose metabolism between (i) 11 patients with sCJD and 35 controls and (ii) the subset of five patients with the Heidenhain variant of sCJD and 35 controls. The patients with sCJD showed decreased glucose metabolism in bilateral parietal, frontal and occipital cortices. The Heidenhain variant of sCJD showed glucose hypometabolism mainly in bilateral occipital areas. Glucose hypometabolism in sCJD was detected in extensive cortical regions; however, it was not found in the basal ganglia or thalamus, which are frequently reported to be affected on diffusion-weighted images. The medial temporal area, which is possibly resistant to the prion deposits, was also less involved in sCJD."}
{"id": "22047634", "title": "The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative: a review of papers published since its inception.", "content": "The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative: a review of papers published since its inception. The Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) is an ongoing, longitudinal, multicenter study designed to develop clinical, imaging, genetic, and biochemical biomarkers for the early detection and tracking of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The study aimed to enroll 400 subjects with early mild cognitive impairment (MCI), 200 subjects with early AD, and 200 normal control subjects; $67 million funding was provided by both the public and private sectors, including the National Institute on Aging, 13 pharmaceutical companies, and 2 foundations that provided support through the Foundation for the National Institutes of Health. This article reviews all papers published since the inception of the initiative and summarizes the results as of February 2011. The major accomplishments of ADNI have been as follows: (1) the development of standardized methods for clinical tests, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET), and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers in a multicenter setting; (2) elucidation of the patterns and rates of change of imaging and CSF biomarker measurements in control subjects, MCI patients, and AD patients. CSF biomarkers are consistent with disease trajectories predicted by \u03b2-amyloid cascade (Hardy, J Alzheimers Dis 2006;9(Suppl 3):151-3) and tau-mediated neurodegeneration hypotheses for AD, whereas brain atrophy and hypometabolism levels show predicted patterns but exhibit differing rates of change depending on region and disease severity; (3) the assessment of alternative methods of diagnostic categorization. Currently, the best classifiers combine optimum features from multiple modalities, including MRI, [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose-PET, CSF biomarkers, and clinical tests; (4) the development of methods for the early detection of AD. CSF biomarkers, \u03b2-amyloid 42 and tau, as well as amyloid PET may reflect the earliest steps in AD pathology in mildly symptomatic or even nonsymptomatic subjects, and are leading candidates for the detection of AD in its preclinical stages; (5) the improvement of clinical trial efficiency through the identification of subjects most likely to undergo imminent future clinical decline and the use of more sensitive outcome measures to reduce sample sizes. Baseline cognitive and/or MRI measures generally predicted future decline better than other modalities, whereas MRI measures of change were shown to be the most efficient outcome measures; (6) the confirmation of the AD risk loci CLU, CR1, and PICALM and the identification of novel candidate risk loci; (7) worldwide impact through the establishment of ADNI-like programs in Europe, Asia, and Australia; (8) understanding the biology and pathobiology of normal aging, MCI, and AD through integration of ADNI biomarker data with clinical data from ADNI to stimulate research that will resolve controversies about competing hypotheses on the etiopathogenesis of AD, thereby advancing efforts to find disease-modifying drugs for AD; and (9) the establishment of infrastructure to allow sharing of all raw and processed data without embargo to interested scientific investigators throughout the world. The ADNI study was extended by a 2-year Grand Opportunities grant in 2009 and a renewal of ADNI (ADNI-2) in October 2010 through to 2016, with enrollment of an additional 550 participants."}
{"id": "22047632", "title": "Is Alzheimer's disease amyloidosis the result of a repair mechanism gone astray?", "content": "Is Alzheimer's disease amyloidosis the result of a repair mechanism gone astray? Here, we synthesize several lines of evidence supporting the hypothesis that at least one function of amyloid-\u03b2 is to serve as a part of the acute response to brain hemodynamic disturbances intended to seal vascular leakage. Given the resilient and adhesive physicochemical properties of amyloid, an abluminal hemostatic repair system might be highly advantageous, if deployed on a limited and short-term basis, in young individuals. However, in the aged, inevitable cardiovascular dysfunction combined with brain microvascular lesions may yield global chronic hypoperfusion that may lead to continuous amyloid deposition and consequential negative effects on neuronal viability. A large body of experimental evidence supports the hypothesis of an amyloid-\u03b2 rescue function gone astray. Preventing or inducing the removal of amyloid in Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been simultaneously successful and disappointing. Amyloid deposits clearly play major roles in AD, but they may not represent the preeminent factor in dementia pathogenesis. Successful application of AD preventative approaches may hinge on an accurate and comprehensive view of comorbidities, including cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and head trauma."}
{"id": "22045495", "title": "Corticotrophin releasing factor accelerates neuropathology and cognitive decline in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Corticotrophin releasing factor accelerates neuropathology and cognitive decline in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Chronic stress has been suggested to influence the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, the mechanism underlying this influence remains unknown. In this study, we created a triple transgenic mouse model that overexpresses corticotrophin-releasing factor (CRF) and human amyloid-\u03b2 protein precursor (A\u03b2PP), to investigate whether increases in the expression of CRF can mimic the effects of stress on amyloid metabolism and the neurodegeneration. Tg2576 mice that overexpresses human A\u03b2PP gene were crossbreed with Tetop-CRF (CRF) mice and CaMKII-tTA (tTA) mice to create a novel triple transgenic mouse model that conditioned overexpresses CRF in forebrain and overexpresses human A\u03b2PP (called A\u03b2PP+/CRF+/tTA+, or TT mice). Then we evaluated serial neuro-anatomical and behavioral phenotypes on TT mice using histological, biochemical, and behavioral assays. TT mice showed a Cushingoid-like phenotype starting at 3 months of age. At 6 months of age, these mice demonstrated increases in tissue-soluble amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) and A\u03b2 plaques in the cortex and hippocampus, as compared to control mice. Moreover, TT mice characterized substantial decreases in dendritic branching and dendritic spine density in pyramidal neurons in layer 4 of the frontal cortex and CA1 of the hippocampus. Finally, TT mice showed significantly impaired working memory and contextual memory, with a modest increase in anxiety-like behavior. Our results suggested genetic increases in the brain of CRF expression mimicked chronic stress on the effects of amyloid deposition, neurodegeneration, and behavioral deficits. The novel transgenic mouse model will provide a unique tool to further investigate the mechanisms between stress and AD."}
{"id": "22044023", "title": "Stage-dependent agreement between cerebrospinal fluid proteins and FDG-PET findings in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Stage-dependent agreement between cerebrospinal fluid proteins and FDG-PET findings in Alzheimer's disease. Cerebral hypometabolism and abnormal levels of amyloid beta (A\u03b2), total (t-tau) and phosphorylated tau (ptau) proteins in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are established biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We examined the agreement between these biomarkers in a single center study of patients with AD of severity extending over a wide range. Forty seven patients (MMSE 21.4 \u00b1 3.6, range 13-28 points) with incipient and probable AD underwent positron emission tomography with [18F]-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET) and lumbar puncture for CSF assays of A\u03b21-42, p-tau181, and t-tau. All findings were classified as either positive or negative for AD. Statistical analyses were performed for the whole sample (n=47) and for the subgroups stratified as mild (MMSE > 20 points, n=30) and moderate (MMSE < 21 points, n=17) AD. In the whole patient sample, the agreement with the FDG-PET finding was 77% (chance-corrected kappa [\u03ba]=0.34, p=0.016) for t-tau, 68% (\u03ba=0.10, n.s.) for p-tau181, and 68% (\u03ba=0.04, n.s.) for A\u03b21-42. No significant agreement was found in the mild AD subgroup, while there was a strong agreement for t-tau (94%, \u03ba=0.77, p=0.001) and p-tau181 (88%, \u03ba=0.60, p=0.014) in the moderate AD group. A significant agreement between the FDG-PET and CSF tau findings in patients with AD supports the view that both are markers of neurodegeneration. CSF tau proteins and FDG-PET might substitute each other as supportive diagnostic tools in patients with suspected moderate-to-severe Alzheimer's dementia, while this is not the case in subjects at an earlier disease stage."}
{"id": "22041339", "title": "Neuropathological investigation of the hypometabolic regions on positron emission tomography with [18F] fluorodeoxyglucose in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Neuropathological investigation of the hypometabolic regions on positron emission tomography with [18F] fluorodeoxyglucose in patients with dementia with Lewy bodies. We performed a quantitative neuropathological examination of the hypometabolic regions on FDG PET in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), Alzheimer's disease (AD) and control cases. When the DLB cases were divided into two groups according to concomitant AD pathology (ADP), neuronal loss in the temporo-parietal association area was milder in the DLB groups than in the AD group, although there were no differences between the two DLB groups. Tau and A\u03b2 immunoreactivities were observed in the AD group and the DLB group with ADP, but were rare in the DLB group without ADP. Tau and A\u03b2 immunoreactivities as well as numbers of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and neuritic plaques (NPs) were more common in the AD group than in the DLB group with ADP. There was no difference in neuronal loss in the occipital area among the three groups. \u03b1-Synuclein immunoreactivity was observed in the DLB groups but not in the AD group. There were no differences in \u03b1-synuclein immunoreactivity and number of Lewy bodies (LBs) between the two DLB groups. These findings indicate that the neuropathological bases of the hypometabolic regions in the temporo-parietal association and occipital area in DLB may be AD pathology and Lewy pathology, respectively."}
{"id": "22038908", "title": "CSF biomarker and PIB-PET-derived beta-amyloid signature predicts metabolic, gray matter, and cognitive changes in nondemented subjects.", "content": "CSF biomarker and PIB-PET-derived beta-amyloid signature predicts metabolic, gray matter, and cognitive changes in nondemented subjects. Beta-amyloid (A\u03b2) is a histopathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease dementia, but high levels of A\u03b2 in the brain can also be found in a substantial proportion of nondemented subjects. Here we investigated which 2-year rate of brain and cognitive changes are present in nondemented subjects with high and low A\u03b2 levels, as assessed with cerebrospinal fluid and molecular positron emission tomography (PET)-based biomarkers of A\u03b2. In subjects with mild cognitive impairment, increased brain A\u03b2 levels were associated with significantly faster cognitive decline, progression of gray matter atrophy within temporal and parietal brain regions, and a trend for a faster decline in parietal Fludeoxyglucose (FDG)-PET metabolism. Changes in gray matter and FDG-PET mediated the association between A\u03b2 and cognitive decline. In contrast, elderly cognitively healthy controls (HC) with high A\u03b2 levels showed only a faster medial temporal lobe and precuneus volume decline compared with HC with low A\u03b2. In conclusion, the current results suggest not only that both functional and volumetric brain changes are associated with high A\u03b2 years before the onset of dementia but also that HC with substantial A\u03b2 levels show higher A\u03b2 pathology resistance, lack other pathologies that condition neurotoxic effects of A\u03b2, or accumulated A\u03b2 for a shorter time period."}
{"id": "22033022", "title": "Radiolabeled Cu-ATSM as a novel indicator of overreduced intracellular state due to mitochondrial dysfunction: studies with mitochondrial DNA-less \u03c10 cells and cybrids carrying MELAS mitochondrial DNA mutation.", "content": "Radiolabeled Cu-ATSM as a novel indicator of overreduced intracellular state due to mitochondrial dysfunction: studies with mitochondrial DNA-less \u03c10 cells and cybrids carrying MELAS mitochondrial DNA mutation. Radiolabeled Cu-diacetyl-bis (N(4)-methylthiosemicarbazone) (*Cu-ATSM), including (60/62/64)Cu-ATSM, is a potential imaging agent of hypoxic tumors for positron emission tomography (PET). We have reported that *Cu-ATSM is trapped in tumor cells under intracellular overreduced states, e.g., hypoxia. Here we evaluated *Cu-ATSM as an indicator of intracellular overreduced states in mitochondrial disorders using cell lines with mitochondrial dysfunction. Mitochondrial DNA-less \u03c1(0)206 cells; the parental 143B human osteosarcoma cells; the cybrids carrying mutated mitochondria from a patient of mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis and stroke-like episodes (MELAS) (2SD); and that carrying wild-type one (2SA) were used. Cells were treated under normoxia or hypoxia, and (64)Cu-ATSM uptake was examined to compare it with levels of biological reductant NADH and NADPH. \u03c1(0)206 cells showed higher (64)Cu-ATSM uptake than control 143B cells under normoxia, whereas (64)Cu-ATSM uptake was not significantly increased under hypoxia in \u03c1(0)206 cells. Additionally, (64)Cu-ATSM uptake showed correlate change to the NADH and NADPH levels, but not oxygenic conditions. 2SD cells showed increased (64)Cu-ATSM uptake under normoxia as compared with the control 2SA, and (64)Cu-ATSM uptake followed NADH and NADPH levels, but not oxygenic conditions. (64)Cu-ATSM accumulated in cells with overreduced states due to mitochondrial dysfunction, even under normoxia. We recently reported that (62)Cu-ATSM-PET can visualize stroke-like episodes maintaining oxygen supply in MELAS patients. Taken together, our data indicate that *Cu-ATSM uptake reflects overreduced intracellular states, despite oxygenic conditions; thus, *Cu-ATSM would be a promising marker of intracellular overreduced states for disorders with mitochondrial dysfunction, such as MELAS, Parkinson's disease and Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "22023291", "title": "[18F]Fallypride PET measurement of striatal and extrastriatal dopamine D 2/3 receptor availability in recently abstinent alcoholics.", "content": "[18F]Fallypride PET measurement of striatal and extrastriatal dopamine D 2/3 receptor availability in recently abstinent alcoholics. Positron emission tomography (PET) shows reduced binding of the dopamine D(2/3) antagonist [(11) C]raclopride in striatum of withdrawn psychostimulant abusers, but not consistently in patients with alcohol dependence (AD). We make first use of the high affinity ligand [(18) F]fallypride to obtain serial measures of D(2/3) receptor availability in striatal and extrastriatal regions of AD patients undergoing detoxification. Seventeen patients (mean age 44\u2003\u00b1\u20035y) with AD and 14 age-matched healthy volunteers participated. Each patient underwent [(18) F]fallypride PET upon hospital admission, and again 1-2\u2003weeks later; two patients achieving abstinence, and two with substantial harm reduction had additional PET follow-up at 1\u2003year. Dynamic 180-minute PET recordings were used for volume of interest (VOI)-based and voxel-wise analysis of [(18) F]fallypride binding potential (BP(ND) ). Mean baseline BP(ND) in striatum of the AD patients (15.7\u2003\u00b1\u20033.6) was unaltered during short-term follow-up, and did not differ from that in healthy controls (16.8\u2003\u00b1\u20033.0); however, BP(ND) was 10-20% lower in thalamus, hippocampus, and insular and temporal cortex of the AD patients (P\u2003<\u20030.05). Age-dependent declines in BP(ND) were very small in controls, but more pronounced and widespread in the AD group. Striatal and thalamic BP(ND) increased by 30% in four patients with long-term abstinence or reduced alcohol consumption. VOI-based [(18) F]fallypride PET analyses revealed group differences in D(2/3) receptor availability primarily in extra-striatal regions. Age-related loss of dopamine D(2/3) receptors was more pronounced in AD patients. Receptor availability was unaltered by acute withdrawal, but increased in the subgroup of patients with long-term follow-up, suggesting reversibility of receptor changes."}
{"id": "22018896", "title": "Multimodality imaging characteristics of dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Multimodality imaging characteristics of dementia with Lewy bodies. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) is the second most common cause of neurodegenerative dementia after Alzheimer's disease (AD). Our objective was to determine whether the (11)C-Pittsburgh Compound-B (PiB) retention and regional hypometabolism on positron emission tomography (PET) and regional cortical atrophy on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) are complementary in characterizing patients with DLB and differentiating them from AD. We studied age-, gender-, and education-matched patients with a clinical diagnosis of DLB (n = 21), AD (n = 21), and cognitively normal subjects (n = 42). Hippocampal atrophy, global cortical PiB retention and occipital lobe metabolism in combination distinguished DLB from AD better than any of the measurements alone (area under the receiver operating characteristic = 0.98). Five of the DLB and AD patients who underwent autopsy were distinguished through multimodality imaging. These data demonstrate that magnetic resonance imaging and PiB positron emission tomography contribute to characterizing the distinct pathological mechanisms in patients with AD compared with DLB. Occipital and posterior parietotemporal lobe hypometabolism is a distinguishing feature of DLB and this regional hypometabolic pattern is independent of the amyloid pathology."}
{"id": "22018493", "title": "Direct comparison of fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography and arterial spin labeling magnetic resonance imaging in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Direct comparison of fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography and arterial spin labeling magnetic resonance imaging in Alzheimer's disease. The utility of fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) imaging in Alzheimer's disease (AD) diagnosis has been well established. Recently, measurement of cerebral blood flow using arterial spin labeling magnetic resonance imaging (ASL-MRI) has shown diagnostic potential in AD, although it has never been directly compared with FDG-PET. We used a novel imaging protocol to obtain FDG-PET and ASL-MRI images concurrently in 17 AD patients and 19 age-matched control subjects. Paired FDG-PET and ASL-MRI images from 19 control subjects and 15 AD patients were included for qualitative analysis, and paired images from 18 control subjects and 13 AD patients were suitable for quantitative analyses. The combined imaging protocol was well tolerated. Both modalities revealed similar regional abnormalities in AD, as well as comparable sensitivity and specificity for the detection of AD after visual review by two expert readers. Interobserver agreement was better for FDG-PET (\u03ba: 0.75, standard error: 0.12) than ASL-MRI (\u03ba: 0.51, standard error: 0.15); intermodality agreement was moderate to strong (\u03ba: 0.45-0.61); and readers were more confident of FDG-PET reads. Simple quantitative analysis of global cerebral fluorodeoxyglucose uptake (FDG-PET) or whole-brain cerebral blood flow (ASL-MRI) showed excellent diagnostic accuracy for both modalities, with area under receiver operating characteristic curves of 0.90 for FDG-PET (95% confidence interval: 0.79-0.99) and 0.91 for ASL-MRI (95% confidence interval: 0.80-1.00). Our results demonstrate that FDG-PET and ASL-MRI identify similar regional abnormalities and have comparable diagnostic accuracy in a small population of AD patients, and support the further study of ASL-MRI in dementia diagnosis."}
{"id": "22017494", "title": "Exogenous seeding of cerebral \u03b2-amyloid deposition in \u03b2APP-transgenic rats.", "content": "Exogenous seeding of cerebral \u03b2-amyloid deposition in \u03b2APP-transgenic rats. Deposition of the amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) peptide in senile plaques and cerebral A\u03b2 angiopathy (CAA) can be stimulated in A\u03b2-precursor protein (APP)-transgenic mice by the intracerebral injection of dilute brain extracts containing aggregated A\u03b2 seeds. Growing evidence implicates a prion-like mechanism of corruptive protein templating in this phenomenon, in which aggregated A\u03b2 itself is the seed. Unlike prion disease, which can be induced de novo in animals that are unlikely to spontaneously develop the disease, previous experiments with A\u03b2 seeding have employed animal models that, as they age, eventually will generate A\u03b2 lesions in the absence of seeding. In the present study, we first established that a transgenic rat model expressing human APP (APP21 line) does not manifest endogenous deposits of A\u03b2 within the course of its median lifespan (30\u2003months). Next, we injected 3-month-old APP21 rats intrahippocampally with dilute Alzheimer brain extracts containing aggregated A\u03b2. After a 9-month incubation period, these rats had developed senile plaques and CAA in the injected hippocampus, whereas control rats remained free of such lesions. These findings underscore the co-dependence of agent and host in governing seeded protein aggregation, and show that cerebral A\u03b2-amyloidosis can be induced even in animals that are relatively refractory to the spontaneous origination of parenchymal and vascular deposits of A\u03b2."}
{"id": "22009379", "title": "Amyloid-\u03b2 imaging with PET in Alzheimer's disease: is it feasible with current radiotracers and technologies?", "content": "Amyloid-\u03b2 imaging with PET in Alzheimer's disease: is it feasible with current radiotracers and technologies?"}
{"id": "22008371", "title": "Individual subject classification for Alzheimer's disease based on incremental learning using a spatial frequency representation of cortical thickness data.", "content": "Individual subject classification for Alzheimer's disease based on incremental learning using a spatial frequency representation of cortical thickness data. Patterns of brain atrophy measured by magnetic resonance structural imaging have been utilized as significant biomarkers for diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, brain atrophy is variable across patients and is non-specific for AD in general. Thus, automatic methods for AD classification require a large number of structural data due to complex and variable patterns of brain atrophy. In this paper, we propose an incremental method for AD classification using cortical thickness data. We represent the cortical thickness data of a subject in terms of their spatial frequency components, employing the manifold harmonic transform. The basis functions for this transform are obtained from the eigenfunctions of the Laplace-Beltrami operator, which are dependent only on the geometry of a cortical surface but not on the cortical thickness defined on it. This facilitates individual subject classification based on incremental learning. In general, methods based on region-wise features poorly reflect the detailed spatial variation of cortical thickness, and those based on vertex-wise features are sensitive to noise. Adopting a vertex-wise cortical thickness representation, our method can still achieve robustness to noise by filtering out high frequency components of the cortical thickness data while reflecting their spatial variation. This compromise leads to high accuracy in AD classification. We utilized MR volumes provided by Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) to validate the performance of the method. Our method discriminated AD patients from Healthy Control (HC) subjects with 82% sensitivity and 93% specificity. It also discriminated Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) patients, who converted to AD within 18 months, from non-converted MCI subjects with 63% sensitivity and 76% specificity. Moreover, it showed that the entorhinal cortex was the most discriminative region for classification, which is consistent with previous pathological findings. In comparison with other classification methods, our method demonstrated high classification performance in both categories, which supports the discriminative power of our method in both AD diagnosis and AD prediction."}
{"id": "21992749", "title": "Multi-modal multi-task learning for joint prediction of multiple regression and classification variables in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Multi-modal multi-task learning for joint prediction of multiple regression and classification variables in Alzheimer's disease. Many machine learning and pattern classification methods have been applied to the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and its prodromal stage, i.e., mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Recently, rather than predicting categorical variables as in classification, several pattern regression methods have also been used to estimate continuous clinical variables from brain images. However, most existing regression methods focus on estimating multiple clinical variables separately and thus cannot utilize the intrinsic useful correlation information among different clinical variables. On the other hand, in those regression methods, only a single modality of data (usually only the structural MRI) is often used, without considering the complementary information that can be provided by different modalities. In this paper, we propose a general methodology, namely multi-modal multi-task (M3T) learning, to jointly predict multiple variables from multi-modal data. Here, the variables include not only the clinical variables used for regression but also the categorical variable used for classification, with different tasks corresponding to prediction of different variables. Specifically, our method contains two key components, i.e., (1) a multi-task feature selection which selects the common subset of relevant features for multiple variables from each modality, and (2) a multi-modal support vector machine which fuses the above-selected features from all modalities to predict multiple (regression and classification) variables. To validate our method, we perform two sets of experiments on ADNI baseline MRI, FDG-PET, and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) data from 45 AD patients, 91 MCI patients, and 50 healthy controls (HC). In the first set of experiments, we estimate two clinical variables such as Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) and Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-Cognitive Subscale (ADAS-Cog), as well as one categorical variable (with value of 'AD', 'MCI' or 'HC'), from the baseline MRI, FDG-PET, and CSF data. In the second set of experiments, we predict the 2-year changes of MMSE and ADAS-Cog scores and also the conversion of MCI to AD from the baseline MRI, FDG-PET, and CSF data. The results on both sets of experiments demonstrate that our proposed M3T learning scheme can achieve better performance on both regression and classification tasks than the conventional learning methods."}
{"id": "21987394", "title": "Mechanism of amyloid removal in patients with Alzheimer disease treated with gantenerumab.", "content": "Mechanism of amyloid removal in patients with Alzheimer disease treated with gantenerumab. Gantenerumab is a fully human anti-A\u03b2 monoclonal antibody in clinical development for the treatment of Alzheimer disease (AD). To investigate whether treatment with gantenerumab leads to a measurable reduction in the level of A\u03b2 amyloid in the brain and to elucidate the mechanism of amyloid reduction. A multicenter, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, ascending-dose positron emission tomographic study. Additionally, ex vivo studies of human brain slices from an independent sample of patients who had AD were performed. Three university medical centers. Patients with mild-to-moderate AD. Two consecutive cohorts of patients received 2 to 7 infusions of intravenous gantenerumab (60 or 200 mg) or placebo every 4 weeks. Brain slices from patients who had AD were coincubated with gantenerumab at increasing concentrations and with human microglial cells. Percent change in the ratio of regional carbon 11-labeled Pittsburgh Compound B retention in vivo and semiquantitative assessment of gantenerumab-induced phagocytosis ex vivo. Sixteen patients with end-of-treatment positron emission tomographic scans were included in the analysis. The mean (95% CI) percent change from baseline difference relative to placebo (n = 4) in cortical brain amyloid level was -15.6% (95% CI, -42.7 to 11.6) for the 60-mg group (n = 6) and -35.7% (95% CI, -63.5 to -7.9) for the 200-mg group (n = 6). Two patients in the 200-mg group showed transient and focal areas of inflammation or vasogenic edema on magnetic resonance imaging scans at sites with the highest level of amyloid reduction. Gantenerumab induced phagocytosis of human amyloid in a dose-dependent manner ex vivo. Gantenerumab treatment resulted in a dose-dependent reduction in brain amyloid level, possibly through an effector cell-mediated mechanism of action."}
{"id": "21983184", "title": "Quantitative magnetization transfer provides information complementary to grey matter atrophy in Alzheimer's disease brains.", "content": "Quantitative magnetization transfer provides information complementary to grey matter atrophy in Alzheimer's disease brains. Preliminary studies, based on a region-of-interest approach, suggest that quantitative magnetization transfer (qMT), an extension of magnetization transfer imaging, provides complementary information to conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in the characterisation of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The aim of this study was to extend these findings to the whole brain, using a voxel-wise approach. We recruited 19AD patients and 11 healthy subjects (HS). All subjects had an MRI acquisition at 3.0T including a T(1)-weighted volume, 12 MT-weighted volumes for qMT, and data for computing T(1) and B(1) maps. The T(1)-weighted volumes were processed to yield grey matter (GM) volumetric maps, while the other sequences were used to compute qMT parametric maps of the whole brain. qMT maps were warped to standard space and smoothed, and subsequently compared between groups. Of all the qMT parameters considered, only the forward exchange rate, RM(0)(B), showed significant group differences. These images were therefore retained for the multimodal statistical analysis, designed to locate brain regions of RM(0)(B) differences between AD and HS groups, adjusting for local GM atrophy. Widespread areas of reduced RM(0)(B) were found in AD patients, mainly located in the hippocampus, in the temporal lobe, in the posterior cingulate and in the parietal cortex. These results indicate that, among qMT parameters, RM(0)(B) is the most sensitive to AD pathology. This quantity is altered in the hippocampus of patients with AD (as found by previous works) but also in other brain areas, that PET studies have highlighted as involved with both, reduced glucose metabolism and amyloid \u03b2 deposition. RM(0)(B) might reflect, through the measurement of the efficiency of MT exchange, some information with a specific pathological counterpart. Given previous evidence of a strict relationship between RM(0)(B) and intracellular pH, an intriguing speculation is that our findings might reflect metabolic changes related to mitochondrial dysfunction, which has been proposed as a contributor to neurodegeneration in AD."}
{"id": "21975260", "title": "Diagnostic accuracy of \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-FP-CIT (DaTSCAN) in dementia with Lewy bodies: a meta-analysis of published studies.", "content": "Diagnostic accuracy of \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-FP-CIT (DaTSCAN) in dementia with Lewy bodies: a meta-analysis of published studies. A systematic meta-analysis of published studies on the diagnostic accuracy of presynaptic dopaminergic imaging with \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-FP-CIT (DaTSCAN) in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). We included (a) studies in which DaTSCAN was performed in cases of diagnostic uncertainty to differentiate between DLB and non-DLB dementia and (b) studies of patients with already established diagnoses of DLB, non-DLB dementia, or normalcy, against which the diagnostic accuracy of DaTSCAN was tested. We applied fixed-effects Mantel-Haenszel and hierarchical logistic regression models for meta-analysis of the diagnostic test's accuracy. The pooled sensitivity, specificity and diagnostic odds ratio (DOR) were estimated. Heterogeneity among studies was estimated by calculating the corresponding I\u00b2 statistic. We tested for publication or other bias by creating the respective funnel plot. Four studies, with a total of 419 subjects, were judged to be suitable for meta-analysis. According to hierarchical models, the estimated pooled sensitivity of DaTSCAN in differentiating DLB versus no DLB was 86.5% [95% Confidence Intervals (CI): 72-94.1%], the specificity was 93.6% (95% CI: 88.5-96.6%), and the DOR was 94.2 (95% CI: 25.7-345). The Mantel-Haenszel estimate of overall DOR was calculated at 48.95 (95% CI: 26.16-91.59). There was some heterogeneity among studies (I\u00b2 = 45%), but this was not found statistically significant (\u03c7\u00b2 test for heterogeneity p value = 0.142). Funnel plot analysis showed no significant bias. Allowing for the small number of studies in the meta-analysis, our results showed high diagnostic accuracy of DaTSCAN in DLB diagnosis, especially in terms of specificity."}
{"id": "21958592", "title": "Empirical derivation of the reference region for computing diagnostic sensitive \u00b9\u2078fluorodeoxyglucose ratios in Alzheimer's disease based on the ADNI sample.", "content": "Empirical derivation of the reference region for computing diagnostic sensitive \u00b9\u2078fluorodeoxyglucose ratios in Alzheimer's disease based on the ADNI sample. Careful selection of the reference region for non-quantitative positron emission tomography (PET) analyses is critically important for Region of Interest (ROI) data analyses. We introduce an empirical method of deriving the most suitable reference region for computing neurodegeneration sensitive (18)fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET ratios based on the dataset collected by the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) study. Candidate reference regions are selected based on a heat map of the difference in coefficients of variation (COVs) of FDG ratios over time for each of the Automatic Anatomical Labeling (AAL) atlas regions normalized by all other AAL regions. Visual inspection of the heat map suggests that the portion of the cerebellum and vermis superior to the horizontal fissure is the most sensitive reference region. Analyses of FDG ratio data show increases in significance on the order of ten-fold when using the superior portion of the cerebellum as compared with the traditionally used full cerebellum. The approach to reference region selection in this paper can be generalized to other radiopharmaceuticals and radioligands as well as to other disorders where brain changes over time are hypothesized and longitudinal data is available. Based on the empirical evidence presented in this study, we demonstrate the usefulness of the COV heat map method and conclude that intensity normalization based on the superior portion of the cerebellum may be most sensitive to measuring change when performing longitudinal analyses of FDG-PET ratios as well as group comparisons in Alzheimer's disease. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Imaging Brain Aging and Neurodegenerative disease."}
{"id": "21942937", "title": "Alzheimer's disease camouflaged by histrionic personality disorder.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease camouflaged by histrionic personality disorder. A common condition in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is unawareness of deficits. Different concepts try to elucidate the nature of this symptom. An essential question relates to the interaction of organic and psychogenic factors. Here we present a patient who displayed her cognitive deficits as attention-seeking behaviour. There was a history of histrionic personality disorder according to ICD-10 criteria. Unexpectedly, the final diagnosis after extensive diagnostic work-up was AD. The unusual coincidence of AD and a histrionic personality disorder hampered the clinical process of diagnosing dementia. We discuss unawareness as a complex concept incorporating neuroanatomical, psychiatric, and psychosocial aspects."}
{"id": "21914569", "title": "NMF-SVM based CAD tool applied to functional brain images for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "NMF-SVM based CAD tool applied to functional brain images for the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. This paper presents a novel computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) technique for the early diagnosis of the Alzheimer's disease (AD) based on nonnegative matrix factorization (NMF) and support vector machines (SVM) with bounds of confidence. The CAD tool is designed for the study and classification of functional brain images. For this purpose, two different brain image databases are selected: a single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) database and positron emission tomography (PET) images, both of them containing data for both Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and healthy controls as a reference. These databases are analyzed by applying the Fisher discriminant ratio (FDR) and nonnegative matrix factorization (NMF) for feature selection and extraction of the most relevant features. The resulting NMF-transformed sets of data, which contain a reduced number of features, are classified by means of a SVM-based classifier with bounds of confidence for decision. The proposed NMF-SVM method yields up to 91% classification accuracy with high sensitivity and specificity rates (upper than 90%). This NMF-SVM CAD tool becomes an accurate method for SPECT and PET AD image classification."}
{"id": "21911660", "title": "Effects of age and amyloid deposition on A\u03b2 dynamics in the human central nervous system.", "content": "Effects of age and amyloid deposition on A\u03b2 dynamics in the human central nervous system. The amyloid hypothesis predicts that increased production or decreased clearance of \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) leads to amyloidosis, which ultimately culminates in Alzheimer disease (AD). To investigate whether dynamic changes in A\u03b2 levels in the human central nervous system may be altered by aging or by the pathology of AD and thus contribute to the risk of AD. Repeated-measures case-control study. Washington University School of Medicine in St Louis, Missouri. Participants with amyloid deposition, participants without amyloid deposition, and younger normal control participants. In this study, hourly cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) A\u03b2 concentrations were compared with age, status of amyloid deposition, electroencephalography, and video recording data. Linear increases were observed over time in the A\u03b2 levels in CSF samples obtained from the younger normal control participants and the older participants without amyloid deposition, but not from the older participants with amyloid deposition. Significant circadian patterns were observed in the A\u03b2 levels in CSF samples obtained from the younger control participants; however, circadian amplitudes decreased in both older participants without amyloid deposition and older participants with amyloid deposition. A\u03b2 diurnal concentrations were correlated with the amount of sleep but not with the various activities that the participants participated in while awake. A reduction in the linear increase in the A\u03b2 levels in CSF samples that is associated with amyloid deposition and a decreased CSF A\u03b2 diurnal pattern associated with increasing age disrupt the normal physiology of A\u03b2 dynamics and may contribute to AD."}
{"id": "21909018", "title": "Anomalous PiB enhancement in the superior sagittal and transverse venous sinuses.", "content": "Anomalous PiB enhancement in the superior sagittal and transverse venous sinuses. Pittsburgh compound-B (PiB), an amyloid-binding positron emission tomography (PET) tracer, is widely used for imaging amyloid-\u03b2 in those with and at risk for Alzheimer disease. Here, we report on an otherwise normal 68-year-old female with abnormally high and very focal PiB retention. Coregistered T1-weighted magnetic resonance imaging and dynamic 2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) images confirmed that the focal PiB enhancement was in the superior sagittal and transverse sinuses, outside of the adjacent cortex. Flow through the venous vasculature was normal as assessed by dynamic FDG PET imaging. These features supported the conclusion that PiB retention was not simply due to a hemodynamic abnormality, but may have represented PiB binding to fibrillar deposits of a \u03b2-sheet protein (ie, amyloid), whose nature is currently unclear."}
{"id": "21907609", "title": "Diffuse cortical hypometabolism on (18)F-FDG-PET scan in a case of an adult variant cerebello-brainstem dominant form of ALD manifesting dementia.", "content": "Diffuse cortical hypometabolism on (18)F-FDG-PET scan in a case of an adult variant cerebello-brainstem dominant form of ALD manifesting dementia."}
{"id": "21901424", "title": "Amyloid pathway-based candidate gene analysis of [(11)C]PiB-PET in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) cohort.", "content": "Amyloid pathway-based candidate gene analysis of [(11)C]PiB-PET in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) cohort. Amyloid imaging with [(11)C]Pittsburgh Compound-B (PiB) provides in vivo data on plaque deposition in those with, or at risk for, Alzheimer's disease (AD). We performed a gene-based association analysis of 15 quality-controlled amyloid-pathway associated candidate genes in 103 Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative participants. The mean normalized PiB uptake value across four brain regions known to have amyloid deposition in AD was used as a quantitative phenotype. The minor allele of an intronic SNP within DHCR24 was identified and associated with a lower average PiB uptake. Further investigation at whole-brain voxel-wise level indicated that non-carriers of the minor allele had higher PiB uptake in frontal regions compared to carriers. DHCR24 has been previously shown to confer resistance against beta-amyloid and oxidative stress-induced apoptosis, thus our findings support a neuroprotective role. Pathway-based genetic analysis of targeted molecular imaging phenotypes appears promising to help elucidate disease pathophysiology and identify potential therapeutic targets."}
{"id": "21884802", "title": "Not quite PIB-positive, not quite PIB-negative: slight PIB elevations in elderly normal control subjects are biologically relevant.", "content": "Not quite PIB-positive, not quite PIB-negative: slight PIB elevations in elderly normal control subjects are biologically relevant. Researchers employing Pittsburgh Compound B positron emission tomography (PIB-PET) imaging have consistently indentified old normal control (oNC) subjects with elevated tracer uptake, suggesting the presence of beta-amyloid deposition in these individuals. However, a consensus regarding the level at which PIB reveals a biologically meaningful signal does not exist (ie. an appropriate cutoff value for PIB positivity remains unclear). In this exploratory study, we sought to investigate the range of PIB distribution volume ratio (DVR) values present in our oNC cohort (N=75, age range=58-97). oNC subjects were classified based on global PIB index values (average DVR across prefrontal, parietal, lateral temporal and cingulate cortices) by employing two approaches: (1) an iterative outlier approach that revealed a cutoff value of 1.16 (IO-cutoff) and (2) an approach using data from a sample of young normal control subjects (N=11, age range=20-30) that yielded a cutoff value of 1.08 (yNC-cutoff). oNC subjects falling above the IO-cutoff had values similar to AD subjects (\"PIB+\", 15%). Subjects falling between the 2 cutoffs were considered to have ambiguous PIB status (\"Ambig\", 20%) and the remaining oNC were considered \"PIB-\" (65%). Additional measures capturing focal DVR magnitude and extent of elevated DVR values were consistent with the classification scheme using PIB index values, and revealed evidence for elevated DVR values in a subset of PIB- oNC subjects. Furthermore, there were a greater proportion of ambiguously elevated values compared to low values, and these elevated values were present in regions known to show amyloid deposition. The analyses presented in this study, in conjunction with recently published pathological data, suggest a biological relevance of slight PIB elevations in aging."}
{"id": "21879994", "title": "Structural and functional neuroimaging methods in the diagnosis of dementias: a retrospective chart and brain imaging review.", "content": "Structural and functional neuroimaging methods in the diagnosis of dementias: a retrospective chart and brain imaging review. Assess the contribution of structural and functional neuroimaging methods to the diagnosis of dementia. This was a retrospective chart and imaging review. Participants were 24 inpatient dementia cases from a general hospital-based, university medical psychiatry unit. Data from clinical charts and imaging results were reviewed. Most common initial diagnoses were dementia NOS and vascular dementia (VD); most common discharge diagnoses were VD, Alzheimer's, Dementia NOS and dementia with Lewy bodies. Most diagnostic changes occurred following family meetings or SPECT/PET, with fewer changes after CT/MRI. Diagnostic steps that contributed the most to the final diagnosis were the family meeting and the functional neuroimaging evaluation."}
{"id": "21879327", "title": "Parkinson's disease showing progressive conduction aphasia.", "content": "Parkinson's disease showing progressive conduction aphasia. Patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) may develop progressive dementia late in their clinical course. Dementia in PD is mostly related to neuropathological findings of extensive Lewy bodies (LBs), with or without the coexistence of Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology. Aphasia has been reported in patients with LB diseases with AD pathology; however, there have been no reports of typical PD patients developing progressive aphasia during their clinical course. We describe a female PD patient who later developed progressive conduction aphasia characterized by phonemic paraphasia and disturbance in repetition of short sentences without disturbance in writing or auditory comprehension. No episodes of fluctuations of attention, memory complaints, or planning errors were observed. She experienced episodes of visual hallucination. Her low scores on the Mini-Mental State Examination suggested impairment of orientation and attention, and her scores on Raven's Coloured Progressive Matrices test indicated impaired visuospatial functions. However, her cognitive deficits were not sufficiently severe to impair her daily life. Brain magnetic resonance images revealed atrophy of the left superior temporal gyrus and widening of the left sylvian fissure. [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography revealed glucose hypometabolism in the left cerebral hemisphere. These findings may be related to conduction aphasia. During the progression of PD lesions, the brainstem LB is assumed to take an upward course, extend to the limbic system, and then extend to the neocortex. Conduction aphasia observed in our patient may be associated with an unusual progression of the LB pathology from the brainstem to the left temporoparietal lobe."}
{"id": "21855172", "title": "Posterior cingulate atrophy and metabolic decline in early stage Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Posterior cingulate atrophy and metabolic decline in early stage Alzheimer's disease. To test the hypothesis that Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients with posterior cingulate/precuneus (PCP) atrophy would be a distinct disease form in view of metabolic decline. Eighty-one AD patients underwent (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) and structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Positron emission tomography and voxel-based morphometry (VBM) Z-score maps were generated for the individual patients using age-specific normal databases. The patients were classified into 3 groups based on atrophic patterns (no-Hipp-PCP, atrophy in neither hippocampus nor PCP; Hipp, hippocampal atrophy; PCP, PCP atrophy). There were 16 patients classified as no-Hipp-PCP, 55 as Hipp, and 10 as PCP. The Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE) score was similar among the groups. The greater FDG decline than atrophy was observed in all groups, including the no-Hipp-PCP. The PCP group was younger, and was associated with a greater degree of FDG decline in PCP than the others. There are diverse atrophic patterns in a spectrum of AD. In particular, a subset of patients show PCP atrophy, which is associated with greater metabolic burden."}
{"id": "21848585", "title": "Abnormal tau deposition in neurons, but not in glial cells in the cerebral tissue surrounding arteriovenous malformation.", "content": "Abnormal tau deposition in neurons, but not in glial cells in the cerebral tissue surrounding arteriovenous malformation. We report an autopsy case of arteriovenous malformation (AVM) of the right frontal lobe in a 50-year-old man, in whom post mortem examination revealed massive tau deposition in the affected cerebral cortex. The patient was diagnosed as having AVM at the age of 21 years, and died of unknown cause at the age of 50 years. Immunostaining with anti-phosphorylated tau antibody (AT8) revealed many NFTs and neuropil threads, but not glial tau accumulation, in the right frontal cortex surrounding the AVM. The NFTs and neuropil threads contained both 3-repeat and 4-repeat tau. Ultrastructurally, the NFTs consisted of paired helical filaments. In the other brain areas, a few NFTs were found in the parahippocampal gyrus. There was no amyloid deposition in the brain. A variety of disease conditions, including brain tumor, viral encephalitis, angioma and cervical spondylotic myelopathy, have been reported to show Alzheimer-type NFTs. The present findings indicate that abnormal tau deposition can occur in neurons, but not in glial cells, of the affected cerebral cortex surrounding AVM."}
{"id": "21822699", "title": "Atypical presentation of a novel Presenilin 1 R377W mutation: sporadic, late-onset Alzheimer disease with epilepsy and frontotemporal atrophy.", "content": "Atypical presentation of a novel Presenilin 1 R377W mutation: sporadic, late-onset Alzheimer disease with epilepsy and frontotemporal atrophy. Mutations within Presenilin 1 (PSEN1) represent the most common cause of monogenic Alzheimer Disease (AD). The clinical phenotype is highly variable, even if early onset disease with an autosomal dominant pattern of inheritance and presenting memory deficits usually occur. In the present work, we described the case of a late-onset AD patient, without any positive family history for dementia, and associated with seizures and behavioural symptoms. Structural and functional neuroimaging showed frontotemporal changes without posterior biparietal brain abnormalities. Cerebrospinal analysis was consistent with AD pattern, with decreased A\u03b242 and increased Tau and phospho-Tau. A novel pathogenetic mutation within PSEN1 gene was detected within exon 8, leading to a substitution from arginine to tryptophan (AGG > TGG: R377W), affecting a splice junction and protein function. The case herein reported further confirms the heterogeneity of PSEN1 mutations and the need to take into account genetic screening in those cases with atypical presentation."}
{"id": "21821316", "title": "Blood pressure is associated with higher brain amyloid burden and lower glucose metabolism in healthy late middle-age persons.", "content": "Blood pressure is associated with higher brain amyloid burden and lower glucose metabolism in healthy late middle-age persons. Epidemiological studies suggest that elevated blood pressure (BP) in midlife is associated with increased risk of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in late life. In this preliminary study, we investigated the extent to which BP measurements are related to positron emission tomography (PET) measurements of fibrillar amyloid-beta burden using Pittsburgh Compound-B (PiB) and fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) PET measures of cerebral metabolic rate for glucose metabolism (CMRgl) in cognitively normal, late middle-aged to older adult apolipoprotein E (APOE) \u03b54 homozygotes, heterozygotes and noncarriers. PiB PET results revealed that systolic BP (SBP) and pulse pressure (PP) were each positively correlated with cerebral-to-cerebellar PiB distribution volume ratio (DVR) in frontal, temporal, and posterior-cingulate/precuneus regions, whereas no significant positive correlations were found between PiB distribution volume ratios and diastolic BP (DBP). FDG PET results revealed significant inverse correlations between each of the BP measures and lower glucose metabolism in frontal and temporal brain regions. These preliminary findings provide additional evidence that higher BP, likely a reflection of arterial stiffness, during late midlife may be associated with increased risk of presymptomatic AD."}
{"id": "21777941", "title": "Relationship between amyloid deposition and intracellular structural changes in familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy.", "content": "Relationship between amyloid deposition and intracellular structural changes in familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy. Transthyretin-related familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy is a systemic amyloidosis caused by mutations in the transthyretin gene. Extracellular deposition of amyloid is the common pathologic hallmark of amyloidoses including Alzheimer disease, AL amyloidosis, AA amyloidosis, and familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy. However, the exact relationship between amyloid deposition and cell death has not yet been clarified. To elucidate this relationship, we studied the effect of transthyretin amyloid fibrils and prefibrillar aggregates on cells by using autopsy tissues obtained from 8 patients with familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy, as well as cultured cell lines. Ultrastructural studies of amyloid-laden cardiomyocytes showed that intracellular structural changes correlated with the degree of amyloid deposition and may reflect metabolic disturbances caused by physical limitations imposed by the amyloid deposits. Amyloid-laden vascular endothelial cells, mesangial cells, smooth muscle cells, Schwann cells, and cardiomyocytes, however, had well-preserved cell nuclei and showed no apoptotic changes, even when cells were completely surrounded by prefibrillar transthyretin aggregates and amyloid fibrils. Synthesized prefibrillar transthyretin aggregates, transthyretin fibrils, and amyloid fibrils obtained from patients with familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy evidenced no cytotoxicity in cell culture experiments. Our data thus indicate that neither transthyretin amyloid fibrils nor prefibrillar transthyretin aggregates directly induced apoptosis. However, cellular metabolic disturbances caused by cells' being physically confined by amyloid deposits may induce cell degeneration."}
{"id": "21721045", "title": "Biomarkers in dementia with Lewy bodies: a review.", "content": "Biomarkers in dementia with Lewy bodies: a review. Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) shares common clinical, neuropsychological and pathological features with other dementia subtypes, such as Alzheimer's disease (AD), making it difficult to differentiate in clinical practice. Despite the development of consensus diagnostic criteria, many cases are missed, and biomarkers to assist with diagnosis would represent important advances. Our aim was to review the literature to identify potential biomarkers that may distinguish DLB from other dementia subtypes, especially AD. The literature search was performed using Medline up to October 2010 for imaging studies [single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT), positron emission tomography (PET), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and amyloid imaging] and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) markers in DLB. Individual articles were examined for additional references. The abstracts of the identified articles were read to determine the most relevant papers, which became the basis for this review. The most robust evidence available was for striatal dopamine transporter activity visualised by (123) I-labelled N-(3-fluoropropyl)-2\u03b2-carbomethoxy-3\u03b2-(4-iodophenyl)nortropane ((123) I-FP-CIT) SPECT. Several other imaging techniques have also reported promising results, such as [(18) F]fluorodopa PET, which assesses nigrostriatal integrity; [(18) F]fluorodeoxyglucose PET, which assesses metabolic deficits; and meta-iodobenzylguanidine imaging, which assesses sympathetic cardiac denervation. Data from studies using CSF measures of amyloid and tau, occipital hypoperfusion on SPECT and preservation of medial temporal lobe structures on MRI suggest that they may offer less diagnostic discrimination. Several potential biomarkers have shown good diagnostic accuracy for DLB, but apart from FP-CIT SPECT, there is now a need for larger clinical multi-site studies, as well as for studies with pathological verification of diagnosis, before their use could be recommended for routine clinical practice."}
{"id": "21683475", "title": "Different \u03b2-amyloid oligomer assemblies in Alzheimer brains correlate with age of disease onset and impaired cholinergic activity.", "content": "Different \u03b2-amyloid oligomer assemblies in Alzheimer brains correlate with age of disease onset and impaired cholinergic activity. In this study, we examined the relationship between various \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) oligomer assemblies in autopsy brain with the levels of fibrillar A\u03b2 and cholinergic synaptic function. Brain tissues obtained from the frontal cortex of 14 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients grouped into early-onset AD (EOAD) and late-onset AD (LOAD) and 12 age-matched control subjects were used to extract and quantify A\u03b2 oligomers in soluble (TBS), detergent soluble (TBST), and insoluble (GuHCl) fractions. The predominant oligomeric A\u03b2 assemblies detected were dodecamers, decamers, and pentamers, and different patterns of expression were observed between EOAD and LOAD patients. There was no association between any of the detected A\u03b2 oligomer assemblies and fibrillar A\u03b2 levels measured by N-methyl[(3)H] 2-(40-methylaminophenyl)-6-hydroxy-benzothiazole ([(3)H]PIB) binding. Levels of pentamers in the soluble fraction significantly correlated with a reduction in choline acetyltransferase activity in AD patients. The number of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors negatively correlated with the total amount of A\u03b2 oligomers in the insoluble fraction in EOAD patients, and with decamers in the soluble fraction in LOAD patients. These novel findings suggest that distinct A\u03b2 oligomers induce impairment of cholinergic neurotransmission in AD pathogenesis."}
{"id": "21679929", "title": "Regional expansion of hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease follows amyloid deposition with temporal delay.", "content": "Regional expansion of hypometabolism in Alzheimer's disease follows amyloid deposition with temporal delay. Cross-sectional imaging studies suggest that patterns of hypometabolism (measured by [(18)F] fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography [FDG-PET]) and amyloid deposition (measured by [(11)C] Pittsburgh Compound B [PiB]- PET) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) show some overlap with each other. This indicates that neuronal dysfunction might spread within the anatomical pattern of amyloid deposition. The aim of this study was to examine longitudinal regional patterns of amyloid deposition and hypometabolism in the same population of mild AD subjects and to establish their regional relationship to each other. Twenty patients with mild AD underwent baseline (BL) and follow-up (FU) examination with [(18)F] FDG-PET and [(11)C] PiB-PET. Voxel-by-voxel statistical group comparison (SPM5) was performed between patient BL- and FU-PET data as well as between patients and 15 PiB-negative elderly control subjects, who had undergone identical imaging procedures. To obtain objective measures of regional overlap, Dice similarity coefficients (DSC) between the imaging findings were calculated. Compared with elderly control subjects, AD patients showed typical patterns of BL hypometabolism and BL amyloid deposition, with a similarity of 40% (DSC). Amyloid deposition was more extended than hypometabolism at BL and showed only minor changes over time, whereas significant expansion of hypometabolism was observed, almost exclusively within areas already affected by BL amyloid deposition. Thus, increased similarity of FU hypometabolism with BL amyloid deposition was found (DSC: 47%). Longitudinal regional expansion of cerebral hypometabolism, as a measure of neuronal dysfunction in AD, seems to follow the anatomical pattern of amyloid deposition with temporal delay. This indicates that amyloid-based disruption of neuronal integrity might contribute to the regional expansion of neuronal dysfunction."}
{"id": "21674695", "title": "Disruption of limbic white matter pathways in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease: a DTI/FDG-PET study.", "content": "Disruption of limbic white matter pathways in mild cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's disease: a DTI/FDG-PET study. Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) affect the limbic system, causing medial temporal lobe (MTL) atrophy and posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) hypometabolism. Additionally, diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) studies have demonstrated that MCI and AD involve alterations in cerebral white matter (WM) integrity. To test if (1) patients with MCI and AD exhibit decreases in the integrity of limbic WM pathways; (2) disconnection between PCC and MTL, manifested as disruption of the cingulum bundle, contributes to PCC hypometabolism during incipient AD. We measured fractional anisotropy (FA) and volume of the fornix and cingulum using DTI in 23 individuals with MCI, 21 with mild-to-moderate AD, and 16 normal control (NC) subjects. We also measured PCC metabolism using (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) in AD and MCI patients. Fornix FA and volume were reduced in MCI and AD to a similar extent. Descending cingulum FA was reduced in AD while volume was reduced in MCI and even more so in AD. Both FA and volume of the fornix and descending cingulum reliably discriminated between NC and AD. Fornix FA and descending cingulum volume also reliably discriminated between NC and MCI. Only descending cingulum volume reliably discriminated between MCI and AD. In the combined MCI-AD cohort, PCC metabolism directly correlated with both FA and volume of the descending cingulum. Disruption of limbic WM pathways is evident during both MCI and AD. Disconnection of the PCC from MTL at the cingulum bundle contributes to PCC hypometabolism during incipient AD."}
{"id": "21666432", "title": "Greater responsiveness to donepezil in Alzheimer patients with higher levels of acetylcholinesterase based on attention task scores and a donepezil PET study.", "content": "Greater responsiveness to donepezil in Alzheimer patients with higher levels of acetylcholinesterase based on attention task scores and a donepezil PET study. The aim of the study was to predict donepezil responders among patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) based on cognitive tests and positron emission tomography. The Mini-Mental State Examination, Digit Symbol subtest (DigSm) of Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale Revised, and Trail-Making Test A were administered for 80 patients with AD to assess global function, attention, and executive function, respectively. The same tests and the Clinical Global Impression (CGI) scale were conducted after treatment with oral donepezil (5 mg/d) for 6 months (study 1). [C]-Donepezil positron emission tomography examinations were conducted before and after treatment for 30 randomly selected patients. The distribution volume (DV), which indicates the density of donepezil-binding sites, was calculated using Logan graphical analysis (study 2). In study 1, 35 patients were identified as responders based on the CGI and Mini-Mental State Examination changes. These patients had higher baseline DigSm scores compared with nonresponders. In study 2, 15 patients were responders. DigSm correlated with DV at baseline. DV at baseline and %DV change in responders were higher than in nonresponders, and these variables correlated with \u0394DigSm and CGI scores. Higher baseline attention may predict responsiveness to donepezil in patients with AD, and higher acetylcholinesterase levels result in a greater clinical effect."}
{"id": "21632046", "title": "Neuroimaging findings in frontotemporal lobar degeneration spectrum of disorders.", "content": "Neuroimaging findings in frontotemporal lobar degeneration spectrum of disorders. Frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD) is a clinically and pathologically heterogeneous spectrum of disorders. In the last few years, neuroimaging has contributed to the phenotypic characterisation of these patients. Complementary to the clinical and neuropsychological evaluations, structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and functional techniques provide important pieces of information for the diagnosis of FTLD. They also appear to be useful in distinguishing FTLD from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Preliminary studies in pathologically proven cases suggested that distinct patterns of tissue loss could assist in predicting in\u00a0vivo the pathological subtype. Recent years have also witnessed impressive advances in the development of novel imaging approaches. Diffusion tensor MRI and functional MRI have improved our understanding of the pathophysiology of the disease, and this should lead to the identification of additional useful markers of disease progression. This reviews discusses comprehensively the state-of-the-art of neuroimaging in the study of FTLD spectrum of disorders, and attempts to envisage which will be new neuroimaging biomarkers that could serve as surrogate measures of the underlying pathology. This will be central in the design of treatment trials of experimental drugs, which are likely to emerge in the near future, to target the pathological processes associated with this condition."}
{"id": "21478204", "title": "11C-PiB PET does not detect PrP-amyloid in prion disease patients including variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.", "content": "11C-PiB PET does not detect PrP-amyloid in prion disease patients including variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease."}
{"id": "21365327", "title": "Human biodistribution and dosimetry of the PET radioligand [\u00b9\u00b9C]flumazenil (FMZ).", "content": "Human biodistribution and dosimetry of the PET radioligand [\u00b9\u00b9C]flumazenil (FMZ). We measure the whole-body distribution of IV injected [\u00b9\u00b9C]Flumazenil (FMZ) as a function of time in adult subjects and determine the absorbed radiation doses. After injection with 770 MBq of [\u00b9\u00b9C]FMZ (nominal), each of six subjects underwent nine consecutive whole body PET scans. Twelve source organs were identified using PET attenuation and emission images. Activity within each organ as a function of time was determined from the sequence of the nine PET scans. Source organ time activity curves were integrated and normalized by the injected dose to yield source organ residence times for the no voiding situation. Separate bladder residence-time calculations were performed for the cases of a 1- and a 2-h voiding interval. Using the source organ residence times as input, the program OLINDA/EXM (Stabin et al. in J Nucl Med. 46:1023-1027, 2005) was used to perform dosimetry calculations for the various body organs and for the whole body. For the no voiding situation, the average whole-body radiation equivalent dose was 3.02\u2009\u00d7\u200910\u207b\u00b3 mSv/MBq of injected [\u00b9\u00b9C]FMZ. The average effective dose and effective dose equivalent was 7.57\u2009\u00d7\u200910\u207b\u00b3 and 1.12\u2009\u00d7\u200910\u207b\u00b2 mSv MBq\u207b\u00b9, respectively. The organ receiving the highest equivalent dose was the urinary bladder wall with an average of 6.32\u2009\u00d7\u200910\u207b\u00b2 mSv MBq\u207b\u00b9. On average, the administration of less than 790 MBq (21 mCi) of [\u00b9\u00b9C]FMZ yields (no voiding model) an organ equivalent dose of under 50 mSv [the single dose limit for research studies under US regulations (21CFR361.1) to body organs other than blood forming organs, gonads or the lens of the eye] to all organs. Equivalent dose to the blood forming organs and gonads from a 790 MBq administered FMZ dose is well under the 30 mSv limit provided under 21CFR361.1. Additionally, administration of less than 1320 MBq (35.7 mCi) yields an effective dose [International Commission on Radiation Protection (ICRP) 60 tissue weighting scheme] of under 10 mSv, which is the ICRP IIb (minor to intermediate) risk category limit."}
{"id": "21298310", "title": "Two cases of dementias with motor neuron disease evaluated by Pittsburgh compound B-positron emission tomography.", "content": "Two cases of dementias with motor neuron disease evaluated by Pittsburgh compound B-positron emission tomography. We described the cases of two patients with dementia associated with motor neuron disease, the former with frontotemporal dementia (FTD) and the latter with Alzheimer's disease (AD), studied by the Pittsburgh compound B-positron emission tomography (PIB-PET). In the FTD patient, the PIB-PET revealed no amyloid accumulation in the cortex, whilst in the AD patient showed amyloid accumulation mainly in the frontal, parietal and lateral temporal lobes, besides the posterior cingulate gyrus and the precuneus. Thus, PIB-PET might facilitate the discrimination of different proteinopathies that cause neurodegenerative diseases, as dementia associated with ALS."}
{"id": "21257982", "title": "Variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease occurring in mother and son.", "content": "Variant Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease occurring in mother and son."}
{"id": "21051106", "title": "Microglial activation in healthy aging.", "content": "Microglial activation in healthy aging. Healthy brain aging is characterized by neuronal loss and decline of cognitive function. Neuronal loss is closely associated with microglial activation and postmortem studies have indeed suggested that activated microglia may be present in the aging brain. Microglial activation can be quantified in vivo using (R)-[(11)C]PK11195 and positron emission tomography. The purpose of this study was to measure specific binding of (R)-[(11)C]PK11195 in healthy subjects over a wide age range. Thirty-five healthy subjects (age range 19-79 years) were included. In all subjects 60-minute dynamic (R)-[(11)C]PK11195 scans were acquired. Specific binding of (R)-[(11)C]PK11195 was calculated using receptor parametric mapping in combination with supervised cluster analysis to extract the reference tissue input function. Increased binding of (R)-[(11)C]PK11195 with aging was found in frontal lobe, anterior and posterior cingulate cortex, medial inferior temporal lobe, insula, hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, thalamus, parietal and occipital lobes, and cerebellum. This indicates that activated microglia appear in several cortical and subcortical areas during healthy aging, suggesting widespread neuronal loss."}
{"id": "20961664", "title": "Antemortem amyloid imaging and \u03b2-amyloid pathology in a case with dementia with Lewy bodies.", "content": "Antemortem amyloid imaging and \u03b2-amyloid pathology in a case with dementia with Lewy bodies. The association between ante mortem [(11)C]-Pittsburgh Compound B (PiB) retention and \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) load, Lewy body (LB) and neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) densities were investigated in a pathologically confirmed case of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). A 76 year old man presenting with a clinical diagnosis of DLB had undergone PiB-positron emission tomography (PET), (18)F FDG-PET and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 18 months before death. The pathologic diagnosis was DLB neocortical-type with low-likelihood of Alzheimer's disease by NIA-Reagan criteria. Sections from regions of interest (ROI) on post-mortem examination were studied. A significant correlation was found between cortical A\u03b2 density and PiB retention in the 17 corresponding ROIs (r = 0.899; p < 0.0001). Bielschowsky silver stain revealed mostly sparse neocortical neuritic plaques, whereas diffuse plaques were frequent. There was no correlation between LB density and PiB retention (r = 0.13; p = 0.66); nor between NFT density and PiB retention (r = -0.36; p = 0.17). The ROI-based analysis of imaging and histopathological data confirms that PiB uptake on PET is a specific marker for A\u03b2 density, but cannot differentiate neuritic from diffuse amyloid plaques in this case with DLB."}
{"id": "20961663", "title": "Characterization of 7- and 19-month-old Tg2576 mice using multimodal in vivo imaging: limitations as a translatable model of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Characterization of 7- and 19-month-old Tg2576 mice using multimodal in vivo imaging: limitations as a translatable model of Alzheimer's disease. With 90% of neuroscience clinical trials failing to see efficacy, there is a clear need for the development of disease biomarkers that can improve the ability to predict human Alzheimer's disease (AD) trial outcomes from animal studies. Several lines of evidence, including genetic susceptibility and disease studies, suggest the utility of fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) as a potential biomarker with congruency between humans and animal models. For example, early in AD, patients present with decreased glucose metabolism in the entorhinal cortex and several regions of the brain associated with disease pathology and cognitive decline. While several of the commonly used AD mouse models fail to show all the hallmarks of the disease or the limbic to cortical trajectory, there has not been a systematic evaluation of imaging-derived biomarkers across animal models of AD, contrary to what has been achieved in recent years in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI) (Miller, 2009). If animal AD models were found to mimic endpoints that correlate with the disease onset, progression, and relapse, then the identification of such markers in animal models could afford the field a translational tool to help bridge the preclinical-clinical gap. Using a combination of FDG-PET and functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we examined the Tg2576 mouse for global and regional measures of brain glucose metabolism at 7 and 19 months of age. In experiment 1 we observed that at younger ages, when some plaque burden and cognitive deficits have been reported, Tg2576 mice showed hypermetabolism as assessed with FDG-PET. This hypermetabolism decreased with age to levels similar to wild type (WT) counterparts such that the 19-month-old transgenic (Tg) mice did not differ from age matched WTs. In experiment 2, using cerebral blood volume (CBV) fMRI, we demonstrated that the hypermetabolism observed in Tg mice at 7 months could not be explained by changes in hemodynamic parameters as no differences were observed when compared with WTs. Taken together, these data identify brain hypermetabolism in Tg2576 mice which cannot be accounted for by changes in vascular compliance. Instead, the hypermetabolism may reflect a neuronal compensatory mechanism. Our data are discussed in the context of disease biomarker identification and target validation, suggesting little or no utility for translational based studies using Tg2576 mice."}
{"id": "20961662", "title": "Cholinergic system function and cognition in mild cognitive impairment.", "content": "Cholinergic system function and cognition in mild cognitive impairment. Evidence for cholinergic dysfunction in very early stages of neurodegeneration like mild cognitive impairment (MCI) is inconclusive. Previous positron emission tomography (PET) studies based on small samples investigated if it is related to memory impairment. We examined whether cortical acetylcholine esterase (AChE) activity is reduced at this stage and correlated with cognitive function. N-[(11)C]-methyl-4-piperidyl acetate ([11C]MP4A), a positron emission tomography tracer for measuring cerebral AChE activity in vivo, was applied in 21 controls and 17 MCI patients. Parametric images of AChE activity were analyzed using standard atlas regions. Principal components analysis (PCA) of regional values of AChE activity and correlation analysis with neuropsychological test results was performed. Cortical AChE activity showed a significant decline in MCI patients compared with controls which was most pronounced in temporal regions. They formed the main part of a principal component that was related significantly to verbal and nonverbal memory, language comprehension and executive function. Cholinergic dysfunction is an early hallmark even before onset of dementia at the clinical stage of MCI. Its impact especially on temporal neocortex is associated with impaired neuropsychological function."}
{"id": "20688420", "title": "Dynamic changes in PET amyloid and FDG imaging at different stages of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Dynamic changes in PET amyloid and FDG imaging at different stages of Alzheimer's disease. In this study 5 patients with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 9 Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients underwent respectively 3- and 5-year follow-up positron emission tomography (PET) studies with N-methyl [(11)C] 2-(4-methylaminophenyl)-6-hydroxy-benzothiazole ((11)C-PIB) and (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose ((18)F-FDG) to understand the time courses in AD disease processes. Significant increase in PIB retention as well as decrease in regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (rCMRglc) was observed at group level in the MCI patients while no significant change was observed in cognitive function. At group level the AD patients showed unchanged high PIB retention at 5-year follow-up compared with baseline. At the individual level, increased, stable, and decreased PIB retention were observed while disease progression was reflected in significant decrease in rCMRglc and cognition. In conclusion, after a long-term follow-up with PET, we observed an increase in fibrillar amyloid load in MCI patients followed by more stable level in clinical AD patients. The rCMRglc starts to decline in MCI patients and became more pronounced in clinical stage which related to continuous decline in cognition."}
{"id": "20687157", "title": "Sigma receptors and their ligands in cancer biology: overview and new perspectives for cancer therapy.", "content": "Sigma receptors and their ligands in cancer biology: overview and new perspectives for cancer therapy. A large number of drugs are known to bind with high affinity to sigma receptors (sigma-Rs) and have been used in the clinic to treat mental disorders for many years. However, recent publications highlighting sigma-R overexpression in many cancer tissues suggest potential applications for sigma-R ligands in cancer diagnosis and therapy. The present review focuses on the involvement of sigma-Rs in cancer biology and the potential therapeutic contributions of their pharmacologic ligands in oncology. After summarizing the current and general knowledge regarding sigma-Rs, we detail data reported in the particular context of oncology. We then investigate the potential and specific signal transduction pathways and mechanisms involved in the actions of sigma-R ligands in cancer biology. These processes include modulations of (1) the plasma membrane and lipid raft components, (2) intracellular calcium levels, (3) cytoskeletal protein functions, and (4) endoplasmic reticulum stress. Finally, we conclude by speculating on the roles of sigma-R overexpression and sigma-R ligands in cancer biology and offer perspectives on cancer therapy."}
{"id": "20510480", "title": "Loss of serotonin 2A receptors exceeds loss of serotonergic projections in early Alzheimer's disease: a combined [11C]DASB and [18F]altanserin-PET study.", "content": "Loss of serotonin 2A receptors exceeds loss of serotonergic projections in early Alzheimer's disease: a combined [11C]DASB and [18F]altanserin-PET study. In patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD), postmortem and imaging studies have revealed early and prominent reductions in cerebral serotonin 2A (5-HT(2A)) receptors. To establish if this was due to a selective disease process of the serotonin system, we investigated the cerebral 5-HT(2A) receptor and the serotonin transporter binding, the latter as a measure of serotonergic projections and neurons. Twelve patients with AD (average Mini Mental State Examination [MMSE]: 24) and 11 healthy age-matched subjects underwent positron emission tomography (PET) scanning with [(18)F]altanserin and [(11)C]N,N-Dimethyl-2-(2-amino-4-cyanopheylthio)benzylamine ([(11)C]DASB). Overall [(18)F]altanserin binding was markedly reduced in AD by 28%-39% (p = 0.02), whereas the reductions in [(11)C]DASB binding were less prominent and mostly insignificant, except for a marked reduction of 33% in mesial temporal cortex (p = .0005). No change in [(11)C]DASB binding was found in the midbrain. We conclude that the prominent reduction in neocortical 5-HT(2A) receptor binding in early AD is not caused by a primary loss of serotonergic neurons or their projections."}
{"id": "20417582", "title": "Cognition, glucose metabolism and amyloid burden in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cognition, glucose metabolism and amyloid burden in Alzheimer's disease. The authors investigated relationships between glucose metabolism, amyloid load, and measures of cognitive and functional impairment in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Patients meeting criteria for probable AD underwent (11)C-labeled Pittsburgh Compound-B ([(11)C]PIB) and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose ([(18)F]FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) imaging and were assessed on a set of clinical measures. The Pittsburgh Compound-B (PIB) Distribution volume ratios and fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) scans were spatially normalized and average PIB counts from regions-of-interest (ROI) were used to compute a measure of global PIB uptake. Separate voxel-wise regressions explored local and global relationships between metabolism, amyloid burden, and clinical measures. Regressions reflected cognitive domains assessed by individual measures, with visuospatial tests associated with more posterior metabolism, and language tests associated with metabolism in the left hemisphere. Correlating regional FDG uptake with these measures confirmed these findings. In contrast, no correlations were found between either voxel-wise or regional PIB uptake and any of the clinical measures. Finally, there were no associations between regional PIB and FDG uptake. We conclude that regional and global amyloid burden does not correlate with clinical status or glucose metabolism in AD."}
{"id": "20359779", "title": "Forebrain-dominant deficit in cerebrovascular reactivity in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Forebrain-dominant deficit in cerebrovascular reactivity in Alzheimer's disease. Epidemiologic evidence and postmortem studies of cerebral amyloid angiopathy suggest that vascular dysfunction may play an important role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, alterations in vascular function under in vivo conditions are poorly understood. In this study, we assessed cerebrovascular-reactivity (CVR) in AD patients and age-matched controls using CO(2)-inhalation while simultaneously acquiring Blood-Oxygenation-Level-Dependent (BOLD) MR images. Compared with controls, AD patients had widespread reduction in CVR in the rostral brain including prefrontal, anterior cingulate, and insular cortex (p < 0.01). The deficits could not be explained by cardiovascular risk factors. The spatial distribution of the CVR deficits differed drastically from the regions of cerebral blood flow (CBF) deficits, which were found in temporal and parietal cortices. Individuals with greater CVR deficit tended to have a greater volume of leukoaraiosis as seen on FLAIR MRI (p = 0.004). Our data suggest that early AD subjects have evidence of significant forebrain vascular contractility deficits. The localization, while differing from CBF findings, appears to be spatially similar to PIB amyloid imaging findings."}
{"id": "22832605", "title": "Altered neuroinflammatory, arachidonic acid cascade and synaptic markers in postmortem Alzheimer's disease brain.", "content": "Altered neuroinflammatory, arachidonic acid cascade and synaptic markers in postmortem Alzheimer's disease brain. Alzheimer's disease (AD), a progressive neurodegenerative disorder, is the leading cause of dementia in the elderly. A recent positron emission tomography imaging study demonstrated upregulated brain arachidonic acid (AA) metabolism in AD patients. Further, a mouse model of AD shows an increase in AA-releasing cytosolic phospholipase A(2) (cPLA(2)) in brain, and a reduction in cPLA(2) activity ameliorated cognitive deficits. These observations led us to hypothesize that there is an upregulation of AA cascade and neuroinflammatory markers in the brain of AD patients. To test this hypothesis, we measured protein and mRNA levels of AA cascade, neuroinflammatory and synaptic markers in postmortem frontal cortex from 10 AD patients and 10 age-matched controls. Consistent with our hypothesis, AD frontal cortex showed significant increases in protein and mRNA levels of cPLA(2)-IVA, secretory sPLA(2)-IIA, cyclooxygenase-1 and -2, membrane prostaglandin (PG) synthase-1 and lipoxygenase-12 and -15. Calcium-independent iPLA(2)-VIA and cytosolic PGE(2) synthase were decreased. In addition, interleukin-1\u03b2, tumor necrosis factor-\u03b1, glial fibrillary acidic protein and CD11b were increased. AD postmortem brain also showed signs of cellular injury, including decreased synaptophysin and drebrin, pre- and postsynaptic markers. These results indicate that increased AA cascade and inflammatory markers could contribute to AD pathology. Altered brain AA cascade enzymes could be considered therapeutic targets for future drug development."}
{"id": "22787852", "title": "[Genetic diagnosis and imaging genetics of Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Genetic diagnosis and imaging genetics of Alzheimer's disease]."}
{"id": "22787851", "title": "[Amyloid PET imaging with [18F]AV-45].", "content": "[Amyloid PET imaging with [18F]AV-45]."}
{"id": "22787850", "title": "[In vivo amyloid imaging using BF-227].", "content": "[In vivo amyloid imaging using BF-227]."}
{"id": "22787849", "title": "[Amyloid imaging with 11C-PiB].", "content": "[Amyloid imaging with 11C-PiB]."}
{"id": "22787845", "title": "[Statistical voxel-based analysis of PET/SPECT images in dementia].", "content": "[Statistical voxel-based analysis of PET/SPECT images in dementia]."}
{"id": "22787844", "title": "[FDG-PET].", "content": "[FDG-PET]."}
{"id": "22787839", "title": "[CT imaging in dementia].", "content": "[CT imaging in dementia]."}
{"id": "22778869", "title": "Rhodanine and thiohydantoin derivatives for detecting tau pathology in Alzheimer's brains.", "content": "Rhodanine and thiohydantoin derivatives for detecting tau pathology in Alzheimer's brains. A novel series of rhodanin (RH) and thiohydantoin (TH) derivatives were designed and synthesized for detecting tau pathology in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). In experiments in vitro using tau and \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) aggregates, the TH derivative, TH2, showed high specific binding to tau aggregates. In hippocampal sections obtained from AD patients, TH2 intensely stained neurofibrillary tangles. In experiments using normal mice, [(125)I]TH2 showed good uptake (1.54%ID/g, 2 min postinjection) into and a rapid washout (0.25%ID/g, 60 min postinjection) from the brain. [(123)I]TH2 should be further investigated as a potential imaging agent for detecting tau pathology."}
{"id": "22689832", "title": "Cognitive changes after stem cell transplantation in a patient with subcortical stroke.", "content": "Cognitive changes after stem cell transplantation in a patient with subcortical stroke. The authors report a case of a 55-year-old Caucasian woman who received autologous bone marrow stem cell transplantation 3 years after a subcortical stroke. She exhibited positive cognitive changes 6 months and 1 year after the surgery without rehabilitation. The blood flow changes, measured with SPECT, were statistical significant in prefrontal areas. During the presurgical neuropsychological assessment, the patient presented a critical speech reduction, reflected in impaired performance in verbal fluency, vocabulary and in each task which required overt verbal response. One year later, she showed improvement in mental flexibility, receptive language, phonological fluency, verbal memory and auditory verbal memory. Positive cognitive changes in verbal and executive functions seem to be contingent on increased blood flow in prefrontal areas. Posterior neuropsychological evaluation 3 and 5 years after transplantation did not show deterioration of the cognitive improvement."}
{"id": "22368988", "title": "Imaging findings of familial dementia with a tau R406W mutation.", "content": "Imaging findings of familial dementia with a tau R406W mutation."}
{"id": "22368970", "title": "Brain FDG-PET changes in ALS and ALS-FTD.", "content": "Brain FDG-PET changes in ALS and ALS-FTD. FDG-PET in ALS most typically demonstrates a primary (and sometimes also supplementary) motor cortex hypometabolism, often associated with more diffuse cortical hypometabolism involving mostly the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, the medial and lateral premotor cortices, and the bilateral insular cortex involvement. In ALS-FTD, extensive temporal hypometabolism is seen in addition to severe diffuse frontal hypometabolism. This study analyses FDG-PET findings in 6 ALS patients and 4 ALS-FTD patients. In addition to earlier described areas of hypometabolism in ALS, we found also reduced FDG-PET metabolism in the medial frontal cortex, the orbitofrontal cortex, and the anterior temporal lobe in our ALS patients. The anterolateral area was the best preserved part of the frontal lobe in ALS patients. In ALS-FTD, frontal and temporal hypometabolism was severe (and parietal hypometabolism was often also present) with relatively preserved perirolandic metabolism. In ALS, more diffuse frontal and temporal FDG-PET hypometabolism was seen than earlier reported, with the anterolateral area as the best preserved part of the frontal lobe. In ALS-FTD, relatively preserved perirolandic metabolism was seen, associated with severe frontal and temporal hypometabolism."}
{"id": "22355538", "title": "Multicolor time-stamp reveals the dynamics and toxicity of amyloid deposition.", "content": "Multicolor time-stamp reveals the dynamics and toxicity of amyloid deposition. The pathogenic role of amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD) remains controversial given poor correlation between plaque burden and cognitive status in clinicopathological studies. However, these postmortem studies cannot provide information about the dynamics of plaque expansion and consequent neurotoxicity. We developed a novel method for plaque birth-dating and growth analysis using sequential labeling with amyloid-binding dyes and postmortem quantitative confocal imaging. Using this technique in an AD mouse model, we find that plaques grow gradually over months with growth slowing in older animals. The degree of neuritic dystrophy correlates with the speed and extent of plaque enlargement suggesting a causal relationship. Surprisingly, new plaques induce a disproportionately large area of neuritic dystrophy whereas with older plaques the degree of injury plateaus despite continued growth. Our results suggest that the kinetics of amyloid deposition is a critical determinant of neurotoxicity, which is completely overlooked by traditional measures of plaque burden."}
{"id": "22255952", "title": "Generalized regional disorder-sensitive-weighting scheme for 3D neuroimaging retrieval.", "content": "Generalized regional disorder-sensitive-weighting scheme for 3D neuroimaging retrieval. 3D functional neuroimaging is used in the diagnosis and management of neurological disorders. The efficient management and analysis of these large imaging datasets has prompted research in the field of content-based image retrieval. In this context, our generalized regional disorder-sensitive-weighting (DSW) scheme gives greater weight to brain regions affected by the diseases than regions that are relatively spared. We used two DSW matrices; one matrix is based on the occurrence maps that highlight abnormal functional regions; the other is based on the regional Fisher discriminant ratio. Our results suggest that our DSW matrices enhance neuroimaging data retrieval and provide a flexible weighting solution for the clinical analysis of different types of neurological disorders."}
{"id": "22255820", "title": "Early detection and characterization of Alzheimer's disease in clinical scenarios using Bioprofile concepts and K-means.", "content": "Early detection and characterization of Alzheimer's disease in clinical scenarios using Bioprofile concepts and K-means. Alzheimer's Disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disease in elderly people. There is a need for objective means to detect AD early to allow targeted interventions and to monitor response to treatment. To help clinicians in these tasks, we propose the creation of the Bioprofile of AD. A Bioprofile should reveal key patterns of a disease in the subject's biodata. We applied k-means clustering to data features taken from the ADNI database to divide the subjects into pathologic and non-pathologic groups in five clinical scenarios. The preliminary results confirm previous findings and show that there is an important AD pattern in the biodata of controls, AD, and Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) patients. Furthermore, the Bioprofile could help in the early detection of AD at the MCI stage since it divided the MCI subjects into groups with different rates of conversion to AD."}
{"id": "22255174", "title": "EEG spectro-temporal modulation energy: a new feature for automated diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "EEG spectro-temporal modulation energy: a new feature for automated diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease. There is recent indication that Alzheimer's disease (AD) can be characterized by atypical modulation of electrophysiological brain activity caused by fibrillar amyloid deposition in specific regions of the brain, such as those related to cognition and memory. In this paper, we propose to objectively characterize EEG sub-band modulation in an attempt to develop an automated noninvasive AD diagnostics tool. First, multi-channel full-band EEG signals are decomposed into five well-known frequency sub-bands: delta, theta, alpha, beta, and gamma. The temporal amplitude envelope of each sub-band is then computed via a Hilbert transformation. The proposed 'spectro-temporal modulation energy' feature measures the rate with which each sub-band is modulated. Modulation energy features are computed for 19 referential EEG signals and seven bipolar signals. Salient features are then selected and used to train four different classifiers, namely, support vector machines, logistic regression, classification and regression trees, and neural networks. Experiments with a database of 34 participants, 22 of which have been clinically diagnosed with probable-AD, show a neural network classifier achieving over 91% accuracy, thus significantly outperforming a classifier trained with conventional spectral-based features."}
{"id": "22212924", "title": "Inflammatory cerebral amyloid angiopathy: the overlap of perivascular (PAN-like) with vasculitic (A\u03b2-related angiitis) form: an autopsy case.", "content": "Inflammatory cerebral amyloid angiopathy: the overlap of perivascular (PAN-like) with vasculitic (A\u03b2-related angiitis) form: an autopsy case. Beside advanced age, cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) and hypertension (HTA) are the two most important risk factors for haemorrhagic stroke. Inflammatory changes of amyloid-laden vessels have been reported only in rare sporadic CAA cases. We present the case of a 78-year-old woman with a history of hypertension, dementia and haemorrhagic stroke of the right frontal lobe 2 years before admission. She was admitted with recurrence of symptoms of transient aphasia and central, right-side facial paresis that occurred an hour before her arrival at the hospital. In the admission unit, she was only slightly confused, with no other neurological deficits. An urgent CT scan revealed a recent haemorrhagic stroke in the left frontal lobe. In an hour her condition suddenly deteriorated. After a generalized seizure she presented with right-side hemiparesis with signs of uncal herniation and remained unconscious. A control CT scan showed a large haemorrhagic expansion that comprised the whole left brain hemisphere with 2 cm midline shift. She died about 10 hours after the onset of symptoms. At autopsy chronic inflammation of the thyroid gland, bronchopneumonia, fibrous and fatty heart degeneration and kidney haemorrhagic infarcts were documented. Amyloid deposition and systemic immune disorders in the inner organs were not demonstrated. In neuropathological examination we diagnosed inflammatory form of CAA with coexistence (the overlap) of two, perivascular and vascular, subtypes of CAA-related inflammation."}
{"id": "22192811", "title": "Resorufin analogs preferentially bind cerebrovascular amyloid: potential use as imaging ligands for cerebral amyloid angiopathy.", "content": "Resorufin analogs preferentially bind cerebrovascular amyloid: potential use as imaging ligands for cerebral amyloid angiopathy. Cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA) is characterized by deposition of fibrillar amyloid \u03b2 (A\u03b2) within cerebral vessels. It is commonly seen in the elderly and almost universally present in patients with Alzheimer's Disease (AD). In both patient populations, CAA is an independent risk factor for lobar hemorrhage, ischemic stroke, and dementia. To date, definitive diagnosis of CAA requires obtaining pathological tissues via brain biopsy (which is rarely clinically indicated) or at autopsy. Though amyloid tracers labeled with positron-emitting radioligands such as [11C]PIB have shown promise for non-invasive amyloid imaging in AD patients, to date they have been unable to clarify whether the observed amyloid load represents neuritic plaques versus CAA due in large part to the low resolution of PET imaging and the almost equal affinity of these tracers for both vascular and parenchymal amyloid. Therefore, the development of a precise and specific non-invasive technique for diagnosing CAA in live patients is desired. We found that the phenoxazine derivative resorufin preferentially bound cerebrovascular amyloid deposits over neuritic plaques in the aged Tg2576 transgenic mouse model of AD/CAA, whereas the congophilic amyloid dye methoxy-X34 bound both cerebrovascular amyloid deposits and neuritic plaques. Similarly, resorufin-positive staining was predominantly noted in fibrillar A\u03b2-laden vessels in postmortem AD brain tissues. Fluorescent labeling and multi-photon microscopy further revealed that both resorufin- and methoxy-X34-positive staining is colocalized to the vascular smooth muscle (VSMC) layer of vessel segments that have severe disruption of VSMC arrangement, a characteristic feature of CAA. Resorufin also selectively visualized vascular amyloid deposits in live Tg2576 mice when administered topically, though not systemically. Resorufin derivatives with chemical modification at the 7-OH position of resorufin also displayed a marked preferential binding affinity for CAA, but with enhanced lipid solubility that indicates their use as a non-invasive imaging tracer for CAA is feasible. To our knowledge, resorufin analogs are the fist class of amyloid dye that can discriminate between cerebrovascular and neuritic forms of amyloid. This unique binding selectivity suggests that this class of dye has great potential as a CAA-specific amyloid tracer that will permit non-invasive detection and quantification of CAA in live patients."}
{"id": "22188660", "title": "Cognitive decline in a patient with anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase autoimmunity; case report.", "content": "Cognitive decline in a patient with anti-glutamic acid decarboxylase autoimmunity; case report. Glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) is the rate-limiting enzyme for producing \u03b3-aminobutyric acid, and it has been suggested that antibodies against GAD play a role in neurological conditions and type 1 diabetes. However, it is not known whether dementia appears as the sole neurological manifestation associated with anti-GAD antibodies in the central nervous system. We describe the clinical, neuropsychological, and neuroradiological findings of a 73-year-old female with cognitive dysfunction and type 1A diabetes. Observation and neuropsychological studies revealed linguistic problems, short-term memory disturbance, and frontal dysfunction. MRI showed no significant lesion except for confluent small T2-hyperintensity areas localized in the left basal ganglia. \u00b9\u2078F-fluorodeoxy glucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) and \u00b9\u00b2\u00b3I-N-isopropyl-p-iodoamphetamine-single photon emission computed tomography (IMP-SPECT) studies showed bifrontal hypometabolism and hypoperfusion. Immunomodulating therapy with intravenous high-dose immunoglobulin resulted in no remission of the cognitive symptoms. Cognitive dysfunction may develop as an isolated neurological manifestation in association with type 1A diabetes and anti-GAD autoimmunity. A systematic study with extensive neuropsychological assessment is indicated in patients with type 1 diabetes and anti-GAD autoimmunity."}
{"id": "22188635", "title": "Use of biomarkers in clinical trials of Alzheimer disease: from concept to application.", "content": "Use of biomarkers in clinical trials of Alzheimer disease: from concept to application. Research progress during the last decades has resulted in an unprecedented accumulation of knowledge regarding the molecular pathogenesis of Alzheimer disease (AD). These important achievements toward clarifying the mechanistic processes underlying AD are being translated into ongoing development of biomarkers and their use in clinical trials. AD biomarkers are biochemical and anatomical variables (e.g. cerebrospinal fluid, positron emission tomography, and structural MRI) that measure AD-related pathologic features (i.e. amyloid deposition and neurodegeneration) in vivo. Biomarkers are utilized as 'diagnostic biomarkers' and/or 'endpoint biomarkers' in symptomatic or disease-modifying clinical trials. Diagnostic biomarkers play an important role in population enrichment by refining selection criteria, stratifying populations, and increasing the statistical power of trials. Endpoint biomarkers may be used as outcome measures to monitor the rate of disease progression and detect treatment effects. AD biomarkers do not reach abnormal levels or peak simultaneously, but do so in a time-dependent order. The choice of biomarkers for a clinical trial must take into consideration the type of therapeutic intervention, the clinical stage of AD, and the time dependence of biomarker changes during disease progression. The combination of amyloid and neurodegeneration biomarkers is highly desirable since they capture different aspects of the disease. Clinical trials for every clinical stage of AD would benefit from quantification and standardization of biomarkers. However, this is still a work in progress."}
{"id": "22162065", "title": "Amyloid-beta plaque growth in cognitively normal adults: longitudinal [11C]Pittsburgh compound B data.", "content": "Amyloid-beta plaque growth in cognitively normal adults: longitudinal [11C]Pittsburgh compound B data. Amyloid-beta (A\u03b2) accumulation was evaluated with 2 [(11)C]Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) positron emission tomography scans about 2.5 years apart in 146 cognitively normal adults. Seventeen of 21 participants with initially elevated A\u03b2 deposition demonstrated subsequent A\u03b2 plaque growth (approximately 8.0% per year), and none reverted to a state of no A\u03b2 deposits. Ten individuals converted from negative to positive PiB status, based on a threshold of the mean cortical binding potential, representing a conversion rate of 3.1% per year. Individuals with an \u03b54 allele of apolipoprotein E demonstrated increased incidence of conversion (7.0% per year). Our findings suggest that the major growth in A\u03b2 burden occurs during a preclinical stage of Alzheimer disease (AD), prior to the onset of AD-related symptoms."}
{"id": "22159114", "title": "Haploinsufficiency of human APOE reduces amyloid deposition in a mouse model of amyloid-\u03b2 amyloidosis.", "content": "Haploinsufficiency of human APOE reduces amyloid deposition in a mouse model of amyloid-\u03b2 amyloidosis. The \u03b54 allele of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) gene is the strongest genetic risk factor for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Evidence suggests that the effect of apoE isoforms on amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) accumulation in the brain plays a critical role in AD pathogenesis. Like in humans, apoE4 expression in animal models that develop A\u03b2 amyloidosis results in greater A\u03b2 and amyloid deposition than with apoE3 expression. However, whether decreasing levels of apoE3 or apoE4 would promote or attenuate A\u03b2-related pathology has not been directly addressed. To determine the effect of decreasing human apoE levels on A\u03b2 accumulation in vivo, we generated human APOE isoform haploinsufficient mouse models by crossing APPPS1-21 mice with APOE isoform knock-in mice. By genetically manipulating APOE gene dosage, we demonstrate that decreasing human apoE levels, regardless of isoform status, results in significantly decreased amyloid plaque deposition and microglial activation. These differences in amyloid load between apoE3- and apoE4-expressing mice were not due to apoE4 protein being present at lower levels than apoE3. These data suggest that current therapeutic strategies to increase apoE levels without altering its lipidation state may actually worsen A\u03b2 amyloidosis, while increasing apoE degradation or inhibiting its synthesis may be a more effective treatment approach."}
{"id": "22159058", "title": "Paraneoplastic syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone mimicking limbic encephalitis.", "content": "Paraneoplastic syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone mimicking limbic encephalitis. To compare the features of paraneoplastic syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone with those of limbic encephalitis. Case study. Academic medical center. A 46-year-old woman with progressive memory impairment, hyponatremia, and seizures. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain, fluoro-2-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography of the body, and immunohistochemical analysis of a resected tumor. Though the patient presented with clinical features of classic limbic encephalitis, magnetic resonance imaging, electroencephalogram, and cerebrospinal fluid analysis findings were unremarkable. Her chronic hyponatremia was ultimately found to be due to ectopic secretion of antidiuretic hormone by a neuroendocrine tumor with Merkel cell carcinoma phenotype. Patients presenting with memory impairment, seizures, and hyponatremia should undergo a thorough workup for occult malignancy. In addition to considering classic immune-mediated paraneoplastic limbic encephalitis, the ectopic secretion of antidiuretic hormone should be included in the differential diagnosis."}
{"id": "22152914", "title": "[Role of biomarkers in the early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease].", "content": "[Role of biomarkers in the early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease]. Alheimer's disease is the most frequent cause of cognitive decline and behavioral abnormalities in adults. Diagnosis is currently made in the advanced phases. An an early diagnosis in the prodromal phase (or earlier if possible) is required for the prevention of this disease, its early management and the development of potential therapies that could alter its natural course. The syndromic concept of mild cognitive impairment (the presence of detectable and quantifiable deterioration in one of the cognitive domains but without affecting -or without substantially affecting- autonomic performance of instrumental function) and its variants has aided understanding of the predementia stages of Alheimer's disease, even though its etiology may involve multiple factors. The use of biomarkers such as determination of the proteins involved in the disease in cerebrospinal fluid (A\u03b2\u2084\u2082-amyloid, total and phosphorylated tau) and measurement of the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex with magnetic resonance imaging and positron emission tomography (both glucose and amyloid measurements), alone or combined, could allow early and etiologic diagnosis. Patients with Alzheimer's disease show reduced A\u03b2\u2084\u2082-amyloid levels and increased total and phosphorylated tau levels in cerebrospinal fluid."}
{"id": "22146229", "title": "A report from the 2011 Alzheimer's Association International Conference (July 16-21 - Paris, France).", "content": "A report from the 2011 Alzheimer's Association International Conference (July 16-21 - Paris, France). Alzheimer's disease (AD) is indeed a source of sadness weighing on all those who after sharing a full life now depend on each other for the most basic functions. Nevertheless, besides the dramatic impact it imposes on the life of sufferers and their caregivers, AD, as well as other forms of dementia that affect the elderly, but also younger patients, also incurs in substantial healthcare costs for patients, their families and others, including society at large. The progressive aging of the population largely depending on improved preventive and curative healthcare is progressively worsening the situation because of the increasing number of elderly people and the consequent increase in dementia sufferers. Effective and cost-effective treatments are thus required for reversing, improving or preventing these cognitive impairments. Fortunately, research has resulted in therapeutic opportunities that were reviewed during the 2011 Alzheimer's Association International Conference (AAIC) in Paris, and will be briefly reviewed in the following report."}
{"id": "22145510", "title": "Utility of 8F-FDG PET/CT in well differentiated thyroid carcinoma with high serum antithyroglobulin antibody.", "content": "Utility of 8F-FDG PET/CT in well differentiated thyroid carcinoma with high serum antithyroglobulin antibody. Evaluate the utility of 18F-FDG PET/CT in the follow-up of differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) patients with high serum antithyroglobulin antibody (TgAb) but negative serum thyroglobulin (Tg) measurements and negative 131I whole-body scans (WBS). The present study included 22 consecutive patients with high serum TgAb levels. They had negative serum Tg measurements and negative 131I WBS. PET/CT was performed 60 min after intravenous injection of 227.55-455.47 MBq (6.15-12.31 mCi) of 18F-FDG using a combined PET/CT scanner. Co-registered CT images were used to differentiate physiologic from pathologic tracer uptake. Findings on 18F-FDG PET/CT were correlated with tissue pathology follow-up imaging or clinical follow-up served as a reference. Twenty-two well differentiated thyroid cancerpatients participated. Twelve had positive findings on 18F-FDG PET/CT six were true positives and six were false-positives. 18F-FDG PET/CT results were true negative in 10 patients and the authors found no false-negative patients in the present study. The overall sensitivity, specificity and accuracy of 18F-FDG PET/CT were 100%, 62.5% and 72.7%, respectively. TgAb levels, which are appropriated for sending DTC patient who are 131I WBS negative but have elevated serum TgAb levels to undergo 18F-FDG PET/CT scan, should be more than or equal to 414.6 IU/ml. Results should be highly consider positive if max SUV value is equal or greater than 4.5. 18F-FDG PET/CT is a useful tool for localizing recurrent or metastatic DTC patients, who have negative 131I WBS but elevated serum TgAb levels. The authors recommend its use in clinical management of selected cases regardless of the TgAb level being more than or equal to 415 IU/ml."}
{"id": "22131545", "title": "A tale of two tracers: the age of wisdom for dementia diagnosis?", "content": "A tale of two tracers: the age of wisdom for dementia diagnosis?"}
{"id": "22131541", "title": "Amyloid vs FDG-PET in the differential diagnosis of AD and FTLD.", "content": "Amyloid vs FDG-PET in the differential diagnosis of AD and FTLD. To compare the diagnostic performance of PET with the amyloid ligand Pittsburgh compound B (PiB-PET) to fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG-PET) in discriminating between Alzheimer disease (AD) and frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD). Patients meeting clinical criteria for AD (n = 62) and FTLD (n = 45) underwent PiB and FDG-PET. PiB scans were classified as positive or negative by 2 visual raters blinded to clinical diagnosis, and using a quantitative threshold derived from controls (n = 25). FDG scans were visually rated as consistent with AD or FTLD, and quantitatively classified based on the region of lowest metabolism relative to controls. PiB visual reads had a higher sensitivity for AD (89.5% average between raters) than FDG visual reads (77.5%) with similar specificity (PiB 83%, FDG 84%). When scans were classified quantitatively, PiB had higher sensitivity (89% vs 73%) while FDG had higher specificity (83% vs 98%). On receiver operating characteristic analysis, areas under the curve for PiB (0.888) and FDG (0.910) were similar. Interrater agreement was higher for PiB (\u03ba = 0.96) than FDG (\u03ba = 0.72), as was agreement between visual and quantitative classification (PiB \u03ba = 0.88-0.92; FDG \u03ba = 0.64-0.68). In patients with known histopathology, overall classification accuracy (2 visual and 1 quantitative classification per patient) was 97% for PiB (n = 12 patients) and 87% for FDG (n = 10). PiB and FDG showed similar accuracy in discriminating AD and FTLD. PiB was more sensitive when interpreted qualitatively or quantitatively. FDG was more specific, but only when scans were classified quantitatively. PiB slightly outperformed FDG in patients with known histopathology."}
{"id": "22120142", "title": "Cerebrovascular lesions induce transient \u03b2-amyloid deposition.", "content": "Cerebrovascular lesions induce transient \u03b2-amyloid deposition. Previous clinical studies have documented a close relationship between cerebrovascular disease and risk of Alzheimer's disease. We examined possible mechanistic interactions through use of experimental stroke models in a transgenic mouse model of \u03b2-amyloid deposition (APPswe/PS1dE9). Following middle cerebral artery occlusion, we observed a rapid increase in amyloid plaque burden in the region surrounding the infarction. In human tissue samples, however, we were unable to detect a localized increase in amyloid burden adjacent to cerebral infarcts. To resolve this discrepancy, we generated cerebral microstrokes in amyloid precursor protein mouse models with the photosensitive dye Rose bengal, and monitored plaque formation in real time using multiphoton microscopy. We observed a striking increase in the number of new plaques and amyloid angiopathy in the area immediately surrounding the infarcted area; however, the effect was transient, potentially resolving the discord between mouse and human tissue. We did not detect changes in candidate proteins related to \u03b2-amyloid generation or degradation such as \u03b2-amyloid-converting enzyme, amyloid precursor protein, presenilin 1, neprylisin or insulin-degrading enzyme. Together, these results demonstrate that strokes can trigger accelerated amyloid deposition, most likely through interference with amyloid clearance pathways. Additionally, this study indicates that focal ischaemia provides an experimental paradigm in which to study the mechanisms of plaque seeding and growth."}
{"id": "22112047", "title": "Multimodal imaging and detection approach to 18F-FDG-directed surgery for patients with known or suspected malignancies: a comprehensive description of the specific methodology utilized in a single-institution cumulative retrospective experience.", "content": "Multimodal imaging and detection approach to 18F-FDG-directed surgery for patients with known or suspected malignancies: a comprehensive description of the specific methodology utilized in a single-institution cumulative retrospective experience. (18)F-FDG PET/CT is widely utilized in the management of cancer patients. The aim of this paper was to comprehensively describe the specific methodology utilized in our single-institution cumulative retrospective experience with a multimodal imaging and detection approach to (18)F-FDG-directed surgery for known/suspected malignancies. From June 2005-June 2010, 145 patients were injected with (18)F-FDG in anticipation of surgical exploration, biopsy, and possible resection of known/suspected malignancy. Each patient underwent one or more of the following: (1) same-day preoperative patient diagnostic PET/CT imaging, (2) intraoperative gamma probe assessment, (3) clinical PET/CT specimen scanning of whole surgically resected specimens (WSRS), research designated tissues (RDT), and/or sectioned research designated tissues (SRDT), (4) micro PET/CT specimen scanning of WSRS, RDT, and/or SRDT, (5) total radioactivity counting of each SRDT piece by an automatic gamma well counter, and (6) same-day postoperative patient diagnostic PET/CT imaging. Same-day (18)F-FDG injection dose was 15.1 (\u00b1 3.5, 4.6-26.1) mCi. Fifty-five same-day preoperative patient diagnostic PET/CT scans were performed. One hundred forty-two patients were taken to surgery. Three of the same-day preoperative patient diagnostic PET/CT scans led to the cancellation of the anticipated surgical procedure. One hundred forty-one cases utilized intraoperative gamma probe assessment. Sixty-two same-day postoperative patient diagnostic PET/CT scans were performed. WSRS, RDT, and SRDT were scanned by clinical PET/CT imaging and micro PET/CT imaging in 109 and 32 cases, 33 and 22 cases, and 49 and 26 cases, respectively. Time from (18)F-FDG injection to same-day preoperative patient diagnostic PET/CT scan, intraoperative gamma probe assessment, and same-day postoperative patient diagnostic PET/CT scan were 73 (\u00b1 9, 53-114), 286 (\u00b1 93, 176-532), and 516 (\u00b1 134, 178-853) minutes, respectively. Time from (18)F-FDG injection to scanning of WSRS, RDT, and SRDT by clinical PET/CT imaging and micro PET/CT imaging were 389 (\u00b1 148, 86-741) and 458 (\u00b1 97, 272-656) minutes, 619 (\u00b1 119, 253-846) and 661 (\u00b1 117, 433-835) minutes, and 674 (\u00b1 186, 299-1068) and 752 (\u00b1 127, 499-976) minutes, respectively. Our multimodal imaging and detection approach to (18)F-FDG-directed surgery for known/suspected malignancies is technically and logistically feasible and may allow for real-time intraoperative staging, surgical planning and execution, and determination of completeness of surgical resection."}
{"id": "22096518", "title": "Abnormal cognition, sleep, EEG and brain metabolism in a novel knock-in Alzheimer mouse, PLB1.", "content": "Abnormal cognition, sleep, EEG and brain metabolism in a novel knock-in Alzheimer mouse, PLB1. Late-stage neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are \u03b2-amyloid (\u03b2A) and hyperphosphorylated tau peptides, aggregated into plaques and tangles, respectively. Corresponding phenotypes have been mimicked in existing transgenic mice, however, the translational value of aggressive over-expression has recently been questioned. As controlled gene expression may offer animal models with better predictive validity, we set out to design a transgenic mouse model that circumvents complications arising from pronuclear injection and massive over-expression, by targeted insertion of human mutated amyloid and tau transgenes, under the forebrain- and neurone-specific CaMKII\u03b1 promoter, termed PLB1(Double). Crossing with an existing presenilin 1 line resulted in PLB1(Triple) mice. PLB1(Triple) mice presented with stable gene expression and age-related pathology of intra-neuronal amyloid and hyperphosphorylated tau in hippocampus and cortex from 6 months onwards. At this early stage, pre-clinical (18)FDG PET/CT imaging revealed cortical hypometabolism with increased metabolic activity in basal forebrain and ventral midbrain. Quantitative EEG analyses yielded heightened delta power during wakefulness and REM sleep, and time in wakefulness was already reliably enhanced at 6 months of age. These anomalies were paralleled by impairments in long-term and short-term hippocampal plasticity and preceded cognitive deficits in recognition memory, spatial learning, and sleep fragmentation all emerging at \u223c12 months. These data suggest that prodromal AD phenotypes can be successfully modelled in transgenic mice devoid of fibrillary plaque or tangle development. PLB1(Triple) mice progress from a mild (MCI-like) state to a more comprehensive AD-relevant phenotype, which are accessible using translational tools such as wireless EEG and microPET/CT."}
{"id": "22094481", "title": "Voxel-level comparison of arterial spin-labeled perfusion MRI and FDG-PET in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Voxel-level comparison of arterial spin-labeled perfusion MRI and FDG-PET in Alzheimer disease. We compared the ability of arterial spin labeling (ASL), an MRI method that measures cerebral blood flow (CBF), to that of FDG-PET in distinguishing patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) from healthy, age-matched controls. Fifteen patients with AD (mean age 72 \u00b1 6 years, Mini-Mental State Examination score [MMSE] 20 \u00b1 6) and 19 age-matched controls (mean age 68 \u00b1 6 years, MMSE 29 \u00b1 1) underwent structural MRI. Participants were injected with 5 mCi of FDG during pseudocontinuous ASL scan, which was followed by PET scanning. Statistical parametric mapping and regions of interest (ROI) analysis were used to compare the ability of the 2 modalities in distinguishing patients from controls. Similarity between the 2 modalities was further assessed with linear correlation maps of CBF and metabolism to neuropsychological test scores. Good agreement between hypoperfusion and hypometabolism patterns was observed, with overlap primarily in bilateral angular gyri and posterior cingulate. ROI results showed similar scales of functional deficit between patients and controls in both modalities. Both ASL and FDG-PET were able to distinguish neural networks associated with different neuropsychological tests with good overlap between modalities. Our voxel-wise results indicated that ASL-MRI provides largely overlapping information with FDG-PET. ROI analysis demonstrated that both modalities detected similar degrees of functional deficits in affected areas. Given its ease of acquisition and noninvasiveness, ASL-MRI may be an appealing alternative for AD studies."}
{"id": "22091601", "title": "Molecular PET imaging in multicenter Alzheimer's therapeutic trials: current trends and implementation strategies.", "content": "Molecular PET imaging in multicenter Alzheimer's therapeutic trials: current trends and implementation strategies. Current therapeutic approaches for Alzheimer's disease (AD) have evolved to target specific molecular biological, metabolic and neuropathologic hallmarks of the disease. Since these approaches are hypothesized to be most effective at the earliest stages of the degenerative process, the ability to accurately detect and monitor progression of AD pathology and metabolic changes in vivo may accelerate the discovery and development of disease-modifying drugs. The use of molecular imaging biomarkers can not only enhance diagnostic accuracy and facilitate patient selection/stratification, but can also serve as key outcomes for clinical trials. In this review, we discuss emerging trends in the use of PET in AD drug development and provide a roadmap for harnessing its promise in multicenter clinical trials."}
{"id": "22085942", "title": "[New diagnostic criteria for Alzheimer disease].", "content": "[New diagnostic criteria for Alzheimer disease]."}
{"id": "22084280", "title": "Teaching NeuroImages: apathetic variant of frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Teaching NeuroImages: apathetic variant of frontotemporal dementia."}
{"id": "22078413", "title": "Synthesis and in vitro evaluation of fluorinated styryl benzazoles as amyloid-probes.", "content": "Synthesis and in vitro evaluation of fluorinated styryl benzazoles as amyloid-probes. The formation of proteinaceous aggregates is a pathognomonic hallmark of several neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. To date, the final diagnostic for these diseases can only be achieved by immunostaining of post-mortem brain tissues with the commonly used congo red and Thioflavin T/S amyloid-dyes. The interest in developing amyloid-avid radioprobes to be used for protein aggregates imaging by positron emission tomography has grown substantialy, due to the promise in assisting diagnosis of these disorders. To this purpose, the present work describes the synthesis and characterization of four novel fluorinated styryl benzazole derivatives 1-4 by means of the Wittig reaction, as well as their in vitro evaluation as amyloid-probing agents. All compounds were obtained as mixtures of geometric E and Z isomers, with the preferable formation of the E isomer. Photoisomerization reactions allowed for the maximization of the minor Z isomers. The authentic 1-4E/Z isomers were isolated after purification by column chromatography under dark conditions. Profiting from the fluorescence properties of the different geometric isomers of 1-4, their binding affinities towards amyloid fibrils of insulin, \u03b1-synuclein and \u03b2-amyloid peptide were also measured. These compounds share similarities with Thioflavin T, interacting specifically with fibrillary species with a red-shift in the excitation wavelengths along with an increase in the fluorescence emission intensity. Apparent binding constants were determined and ranged between 1.22 and 23.96 \u03bcM(-1). The present data suggest that the novel fluorinated styryl benzazole derivatives may prove useful for the design of (18)F-labeled amyloid radioprobes."}
{"id": "22078173", "title": "Alliance for aging research AD biomarkers work group: structural MRI.", "content": "Alliance for aging research AD biomarkers work group: structural MRI. Biomarkers of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are increasingly important. All modern AD therapeutic trials employ AD biomarkers in some capacity. In addition, AD biomarkers are an essential component of recently updated diagnostic criteria for AD from the National Institute on Aging--Alzheimer's Association. Biomarkers serve as proxies for specific pathophysiological features of disease. The 5 most well established AD biomarkers include both brain imaging and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) measures--cerebrospinal fluid Abeta and tau, amyloid positron emission tomography (PET), fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography, and structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). This article reviews evidence supporting the position that MRI is a biomarker of neurodegenerative atrophy. Topics covered include methods of extracting quantitative and semiquantitative information from structural MRI; imaging-autopsy correlation; and evidence supporting diagnostic and prognostic value of MRI measures. Finally, the place of MRI in a hypothetical model of temporal ordering of AD biomarkers is reviewed."}
{"id": "22078172", "title": "CSF biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease: current utility and potential future use.", "content": "CSF biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease: current utility and potential future use. Over the past 15 years, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers have been shown to be useful for both the diagnosis as well as the prognosis in Alzheimer's disease. It has been shown the CSF levels of amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2)(42) are a very good marker for the presence of amyloid deposition in the brain regardless of clinical status and that total tau and phosphorylated forms of tau are useful in detection of neurodegeneration. When combined together, these CSF markers are useful not only in differential diagnosis but also in predicting conversion and rate of progression from mild cognitive impairment/very mild dementia to more severe impairment. The markers are also useful in predicting conversion from cognitive normalcy to very mild dementia. This field is briefly reviewed and recommendations for future studies in this area are provided."}
{"id": "22078170", "title": "Amyloid imaging as a biomarker for cerebral \u03b2-amyloidosis and risk prediction for Alzheimer dementia.", "content": "Amyloid imaging as a biomarker for cerebral \u03b2-amyloidosis and risk prediction for Alzheimer dementia. Since the introduction of amyloid imaging nearly 10 years ago, this technique has gained widespread use and acceptance. More recently, published reports have begun to appear in which amyloid imaging is used to detect the effects of antiamyloid therapies. This review will consider the issues involved in the use of amyloid imaging in the development and evaluation of drugs for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Current evidence regarding the postmortem correlates of in vivo amyloid imaging data are considered. The application of amyloid imaging to screening subjects for trials and use as an outcome measure is discussed in light of longitudinal changes in the in vivo amyloid signal. While the bulk of this review is directed at symptomatic patients with dementia, consideration is given to the use of amyloid imaging in nondemented subjects as well. Similarities and differences of cerebral amyloid assessment by amyloid imaging and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) measurements are delineated and an agenda for further research to improve the applicability of amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) to clinical trials is proposed."}
{"id": "22064086", "title": "Negative amyloid PET imaging in a patient with probable Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Negative amyloid PET imaging in a patient with probable Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "22044532", "title": "Dissociating behavioral disorders in early dementia-An FDG-PET study.", "content": "Dissociating behavioral disorders in early dementia-An FDG-PET study. Behavioral impairments occur frequently in dementia. Studies with magnetic resonance imaging, measuring atrophy, have systematically investigated their neural correlates. Such a systematic approach has not yet been applied to imaging with [(18)F] fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), although regional hypometabolism may precede and exceed atrophy in dementia. The present study related all behavioral disorders as assessed with the Neuropsychiatric Inventory to reductions in brain glucose utilization as measured by FDG-PET with Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM5). It included 54 subjects mainly with early Alzheimer's disease, frontotemporal lobar degeneration, and subjective cognitive impairment. Apathy, disinhibition and eating disorders - most frequent in frontotemporal lobar degeneration - correlated significantly with regional brain hypometabolism. Whereas a single regressor analysis and conjunction analysis revealed largely overlapping frontomedian regions that were associated with all three behavioral domains, a disjunction analysis identified three specific neural networks for each behavioral disorder, independent of dementia severity. Apathy was related to the ventral tegmental area, a component of the motivational dopaminergic network; disinhibition to both anterior temporal lobes including the anterior hippocampi and left amygdala, caudate head, orbitofrontal cortex and insulae; and eating disorders to the right lateral (orbito) frontal cortex/insula. Our study contributes to the understanding of behavioral deficits in early dementia and suggests specific diagnostic and therapeutic approaches."}
{"id": "22040417", "title": "Intracerebroventricular transplantation of human amniotic epithelial cells ameliorates spatial memory deficit in the doubly transgenic mice coexpressing APPswe and PS1\u0394E9-deleted genes.", "content": "Intracerebroventricular transplantation of human amniotic epithelial cells ameliorates spatial memory deficit in the doubly transgenic mice coexpressing APPswe and PS1\u0394E9-deleted genes. Human amniotic epithelial cells (HAECs), which have characteristics of both embryonic and pluripotent stem cells, are therefore a candidate in cell therapy without creating legal or ethical problems. In the present study, we aimed to investigate the effects of intracerebroventricular transplantation of HAECs on doubly transgenic mice of Alzheimer's disease (AD) coexpressing presenilin-1 (PS1) and mutant Sweden amyloid precursor protein (APPswe) genes. The offspring mice genotypes were detected using PCR identification of APPswe and PS1 gene. The doubly transgenic (TG) mice (n = 20) and wild-type (WT) mice (n = 20) were randomly divided into two groups respectively: the transplantation group treated with HAECs and the control group with phosphate buffered saline. Six radial arm water maze test was used to assess the spatial memory in the TG and WT mice. Amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles were analyzed using congo red and acid-silver methenamine staining respectively. Immunofluorescence cytochemistry was used to track the survival of HAECs. Immunohistochemistry was used to determine the expression of octamer-binding protein 4 (Oct-4) and Nanog in the HAECs. High performance liquid chromatography was used to measure acetylcholine in hippocampus. The density of cholinergic neurons in basal forebrain and nerve fibers in hippocampus was measured using acetylcholinesterase staining. Amyloid deposition occurred in hippocampus and frontal cortex in the double TG mice aged 8 months, but not in WT mice. The results also showed that transplanted HAECs can survive for at least 8 weeks and migrate to the third ventricle without immune rejection. The graft HAECs can also express the specific marker Oct-4 and Nanog of stem cell. Compared with the control group, transplantation of HAECs can not only significantly improve the spatial memory of the TG mice, but also increase acetylcholine concentration and the number of hippocampal cholinergic neurites. These results demonstrate that intracerebroventricular transplantation of HAECs can improve the spatial memory of the double TG mice. The higher content of acetylcholine in hippocampus released by more survived cholinergic neurites is one of the causes of this improvement."}
{"id": "22011144", "title": "Multidentate (18)F-polypegylated styrylpyridines as imaging agents for A\u03b2 plaques in cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA).", "content": "Multidentate (18)F-polypegylated styrylpyridines as imaging agents for A\u03b2 plaques in cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). \u03b2-Amyloid plaques (A\u03b2 plaques) in the brain are associated with cerebral amyloid angiopathy (CAA). Imaging agents that could target the A\u03b2 plaques in the living human brain would be potentially valuable as biomarkers in patients with CAA. A new series of (18)F styrylpyridine derivatives with high molecular weights for selectively targeting A\u03b2 plaques in the blood vessels of the brain but excluded from the brain parenchyma is reported. The styrylpyridine derivatives, 8a-c, display high binding affinities and specificity to A\u03b2 plaques (K(i) = 2.87, 3.24, and 7.71 nM, respectively). In vitro autoradiography of [(18)F]8a shows labeling of \u03b2-amyloid plaques associated with blood vessel walls in human brain sections of subjects with CAA and also in the tissue of AD brain sections. The results suggest that [(18)F]8a may be a useful PET imaging agent for selectively detecting A\u03b2 plaques associated with cerebral vessels in the living human brain."}
{"id": "21995345", "title": "Diverse inflammatory responses in transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease and the effect of immunotherapy on these responses.", "content": "Diverse inflammatory responses in transgenic mouse models of Alzheimer's disease and the effect of immunotherapy on these responses. While the presence of an inflammatory response in AD (Alzheimer's disease) is well known, the data on inflammation are conflicting, suggesting that inflammation either attenuates pathology, exacerbates it or has no effect. Our goal was to more fully characterize the inflammatory response in APP (amyloid precursor protein) transgenic mice with and without disease progression. In addition, we have examined how anti-A\u03b2 (amyloid \u03b2-peptide) immunotherapy alters this inflammatory response. We have used quantitative RT-PCR (reverse transcription-PCR) and protein analysis to measure inflammatory responses ranging from pro-inflammatory to anti-inflammatory and repair factors in transgenic mice that develop amyloid deposits only (APPSw) and amyloid deposits with progression to tau pathology and neuron loss [APPSw/NOS2-/- (nitric oxide synthase 2-/-)]. We also examined tissues from previously published immunotherapy studies. These studies were a passive immunization study in APPSw mice and an active vaccination study in APPSw/NOS2-/- mice. Both studies have already been shown to lower amyloid load and improve cognition. We have found that amyloid deposition is associated with high expression of alternative activation and acquired deactivation genes and low expression of pro-inflammatory genes, whereas disease progression is associated with a mixed phenotype including increased levels of some classical activation factors. Immunotherapy targeting amyloid deposition in both mouse models resulted in decreased alternative inflammatory markers and, in the case of passive immunization, a transient increase in pro-inflammatory markers. Our results suggest that an alternative immune response favours retention of amyloid deposits in the brain, and switching away from this state by immunotherapy permits removal of amyloid."}
{"id": "21987561", "title": "[Progressive nonfluent aphasia].", "content": "[Progressive nonfluent aphasia]. Progressive nonfluent aphasia (PNFA) is one of the three clinically defined phenotypes of pathologically determined frontotemporal lobar degeneration (FTLD); the other 2 phenotypes are semantic dementia (SD) and behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD). FTLD is classified on the basis of the accumulated proteins-tau, TDP-43, and FUS. FTLD-TDP-43 is further subclassified into 4 types, including cases with progranulin mutation in type 3, on the basis of immunocytochemical and immunochemical properties. FTLD-tau is classified into the following 4 types: Pick's disease (accumulation of three-repeat tau); corticobasal degeneration (CBD, accumulation of CBD-type four-repeat tau); progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP, accumulation of PSP-type four-repeat tau); and frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17, mutation of the tau gene). Because the Cambridge group included CBD, PSP, and FTDP-17 in FTLD-tau and the Manchester group excluded these 3 disorders from FTLD-tau, different descriptions of the PNFA background pathology are present in the literature. Clinical and pathological correlations have been well established between SD and FTLD-TDP-43 type 3, similar to those observed between Yuasa-Mitsuyama-type amyotrophic lateral sclerosis with dementia (ALSD) and TDP-43 proteinopathy type 2. However, no such correlation has been established between PNFA and bvFTD; the pathological background of PNFA includes PSP, CBD, Pick's disease, FTDP-17, FTLD-TDP-43 type 3, and even Alzheimer disease (AD). Surrogate biomarkers including CSF tau, phosphorylated tau, and A\u03b2 as well as carbon-11-labeled Pittsburgh compound-B ((11)C-PIB) positron emission tomography (PET) scans can be used to differentiate between AD and FTLD. Further clinical, radiological, and pathological studies (dynamic neuropathology) are necessary for elucidating PNFA and bvFTD, which will help in establishing clinical and pathological correlations between these conditions."}
{"id": "21986682", "title": "Investigating white matter injury after mild traumatic brain injury.", "content": "Investigating white matter injury after mild traumatic brain injury. Traumatic brain injury (TBI) often results in traumatic axonal injury (TAI). This is difficult to identify using conventional neuroimaging methods. We review recent work that uses advanced imaging methods to identify TAI following mild (m)TBI. Susceptibility-weighted imaging (SWI) is a highly sensitive way of identifying microbleeds, which are a marker of TAI. Diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) provides a more flexible way of investigating white matter injury. Recent studies largely confirm that DTI is sensitive to white matter damage after mTBI. Distinct DTI abnormalities are observed in the acute and subacute/chronic stages. DTI measurements change dynamically after an injury, reflecting the evolving pathological processes. DTI abnormalities correlate with cognitive and neuropsychiatric impairments. Importantly, DTI can contribute to the prediction of clinical outcome and has begun to be applied to the study of sports and blast injury. DTI and SWI are important advances in MRI that allow more detailed investigation of white matter injury. SWI is a highly sensitive way of identifying microbleeds. DTI is a flexible way of quantifying white matter integrity, and provides a method of diagnosing clinically significant white matter injury when conventional imaging is normal."}
{"id": "21983242", "title": "Clinical trial methodologies for disease-modifying therapeutic approaches.", "content": "Clinical trial methodologies for disease-modifying therapeutic approaches. In recent years, advances in Alzheimer's disease (AD) biomarker research have provided powerful tools to improve trial design. In particular, biomarkers provide powerful methods for the selection of individuals with Alzheimer's disease prior to the onset of dementia. Data suggest that neuroimaging biomarkers will be useful as endpoints for trials in very early, even asymptomatic disease, though further work is necessary to establish validity for regulatory purposes."}
{"id": "21983241", "title": "Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography: emerging roles in the evaluation of putative Alzheimer's disease-modifying treatments.", "content": "Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography: emerging roles in the evaluation of putative Alzheimer's disease-modifying treatments. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with characteristic and progressive reductions in flourodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET) measurements of the regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose. These reductions begin years before the onset of symptoms, are correlated with clinical severity, and may help predict an affected patient's clinical course and neuropathological diagnosis. Like several other AD biomarkers, FDG PET has the potential to accelerate the evaluation of AD-modifying treatments, particularly in the earliest clinical and preclinical stages. This article considers FDG PET's role in the detection and tracking of AD, its emerging roles in the evaluation of disease-slowing treatments, some of the issues involved in the acquisition, analysis, and interpretation of FDG PET data, and the evidence needed to help qualify FDG PET and other biomarkers for use in the accelerated approval of AD-slowing treatments. It recommends scientific strategies and public policies to further establish the role of FDG PET and other AD biomarkers in therapeutic trials and find demonstrably effective disease-modifying and presymptomatic AD treatments as quickly as possible."}
{"id": "21980214", "title": "Neurosurgical advances in the treatment of moyamoya disease.", "content": "Neurosurgical advances in the treatment of moyamoya disease. Moyamoya disease is characterized by chronic stenoocclusive vasculopathy involving the distal supraclinoid internal carotid arteries and presents with ischemic or hemorrhagic symptoms. We review advances in the understanding and management of moyamoya disease. Cerebral revascularization, either direct or indirect, is the cornerstone of treatment for moyamoya disease. Recent advances have been made in understanding the molecular biology and pathophysiology of moyamoya disease, and new genetic mutations and deletions have been identified. Imaging for moyamoya disease is also rapidly improving with new sequences of MRI and better methods of assessing ischemia and cerebrovascular reserve. Positron emission tomography has emerged as an important tool to measure cerebrovascular reserve. Novel surgical techniques assess patency and ischemia during superficial temporal to middle cerebral artery bypass, including indocyanine green videoangiography to evaluate anastomosis patency, and various methods to monitor intraoperative blood flow. Newer methods of indirect revascularization have been described with placement of more tissues supplied by the external carotid artery on the brain surface. Postoperative hyperperfusion to the chronically ischemic brain tissue is a recently identified causative factor of complications. Interestingly, complications from hyperperfusion mimic those caused by ischemia, although they have different treatments, making the role of postoperative blood flow assessment important in distinguishing between the two. Awareness has also increased that even asymptomatic patients can experience significant cognitive decline attributable to chronic ischemia. Whether this reverts after successful revascularization requires investigation. Surgical revascularization with direct, indirect, and combined methods remains the preferred procedure for patients with moyamoya disease."}
{"id": "21971479", "title": "Combinatorial markers of mild cognitive impairment conversion to Alzheimer's disease--cytokines and MRI measures together predict disease progression.", "content": "Combinatorial markers of mild cognitive impairment conversion to Alzheimer's disease--cytokines and MRI measures together predict disease progression. Progression of people presenting with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI) to dementia is not certain and it is not possible for clinicians to predict which people are most likely to convert. The inability of clinicians to predict progression limits the use of MCI as a syndrome for treatment in prevention trials and, as more people present with this syndrome in memory clinics, and as earlier diagnosis is a major goal of health services, this presents an important clinical problem. Some data suggest that CSF biomarkers and functional imaging using PET might act as markers to facilitate prediction of conversion. However, both techniques are costly and not universally available. The objective of our study was to investigate the potential added benefit of combining biomarkers that are more easily obtained in routine clinical practice to predict conversion from MCI to Alzheimer's disease. To explore this we combined automated regional analysis of structural MRI with analysis of plasma cytokines and chemokines and compared these to measures of APOE genotype and clinical assessment to assess which best predict progression. In a total of 205 people with MCI, 77 of whom subsequently converted to Alzheimer's disease, we find biochemical markers of inflammation to be better predictors of conversion than APOE genotype or clinical measures (Area under the curve (AUC) 0.65, 0.62, 0.59 respectively). In a subset of subjects who also had MRI scans the combination of serum markers of inflammation and MRI automated imaging analysis provided the best predictor of conversion (AUC 0.78). These results show that the combination of imaging and cytokine biomarkers provides an improvement in prediction of MCI to AD conversion compared to either datatype alone, APOE genotype or clinical data and an accuracy of prediction that would have clinical utility."}
{"id": "21971473", "title": "Effects of a 6-month cognitive intervention on brain metabolism in patients with amnestic MCI and mild Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Effects of a 6-month cognitive intervention on brain metabolism in patients with amnestic MCI and mild Alzheimer's disease. The effect of cognitive intervention on brain metabolism in AD is largely unexplored. Therefore, we aimed to investigate cognitive parameters and 18FDG PET to test for effects of a cognitive intervention in patients with aMCI or mild AD. Patients with aMCI (N = 24) or mild AD (N = 15) were randomly assigned either to cognitive intervention groups (IGs), receiving weekly sessions of group-based multicomponent cognitive intervention, or active control groups (CGs), receiving pencil-paper exercises for self-study. We obtained resting-state FDG-PET scans and neuropsychological testing at baseline and after six-months. Normalized FDG-PET images were analyzed using voxel-based SPM5 approaches to determine longitudinal changes, group-by-time interactions and correlations with neuropsychological outcome parameters. Primary global cognitive outcome was determined by analyses of covariance with MMSE and ADAS-cog scores as dependent measures. Both, aMCI and AD subgroups of CGs showed widespread bilateral cortical declines in FDG uptake, while the AD subgroup of IGs showed discrete decline or rather no decline in case of the aMCI subgroup. Group by time analyses revealed strongest attenuation of metabolic decline in the aMCI subgroup of the IGs, involving left anterior temporal pole and anterior cingulate gyrus. However, correlation analyses revealed only weak non-significant associations between increased FDG uptake and improvement in primary or secondary outcome parameters. Concurrently, there was significant improvement in global cognitive status in the aMCI subgroup of the IGs. A six-month cognitive intervention imparted cognitive benefits in patients with aMCI, which were concurrent with an attenuated decline of glucose metabolism in cortical regions affected by neurodegenerative AD."}
{"id": "21971457", "title": "Effects of hypoperfusion in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Effects of hypoperfusion in Alzheimer's disease. The role of hypoperfusion in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a vital component to understanding the pathogenesis of this disease. Disrupted perfusion is not only evident throughout disease manifestation, it is also demonstrated during the pre-clinical phase of AD (i.e., mild cognitive impairment) as well as in cognitively healthy persons at high-risk for developing AD due to family history or genetic factors. Studies have used a variety of imaging modalities (e.g., SPECT, MRI, PET) to investigate AD, but with its recent technological advancements and non-invasive use of blood water as an endogenous tracer, arterial spin labeling (ASL) MRI has become an imaging technique of growing popularity. Through numerous ASL studies, it is now known that AD is associated with both global and regional cerebral hypoperfusion and that there is considerable overlap between the regions implicated in the disease state (consistently reported in precuneus/posterior cingulate and lateral parietal cortex) and those implicated in disease risk. Debate exists as to whether decreased blood flow in AD is a cause or consequence of the disease. Nonetheless, hypoperfusion in AD is associated with both structural and functional changes in the brain and offers a promising putative biomarker that could potentially identify AD in its pre-clinical state and be used to explore treatments to prevent, or at least slow, the progression of the disease. Finally, given that perfusion is a vascular phenomenon, we provide insights from a vascular lesion model (i.e., stroke) and illustrate the influence of disrupted perfusion on brain structure and function and, ultimately, cognition in AD."}
{"id": "21971458", "title": "The merits of FDDNP-PET imaging in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "The merits of FDDNP-PET imaging in Alzheimer's disease. 2-(1-{6-[(2-[fluorine-18]fluoroethyl)(methyl)amino]-2-naphthyl}-ethylidene)malononitrile (FDDNP) is the first positron emission tomography (PET) molecular imaging probe to visualize Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathology in living humans. The most unique features of FDDNP are that (1) it is the only currently available radiotracer to image neurofibrillary tangles, beside amyloid aggregates, in living humans; and (2) it is also the only radiotracer to visualize AD pathology in the hippocampal region of living humans. In this article, we discuss FDDNP's unique ability to image tau pathology in living humans. Emphasizing tau pathology imaging capability using FDDNP in AD, as well as other tauopathies, is timely and beneficial considering that (1) post mortem histopathological studies using human specimens have consistently demonstrated that neurofibrillary tangles, compared with amyloid plaques, are better correlated with the disease severity and neuronal death; and (2) recently reported clinical trial failures of disease-modifying drugs in development, based on the amyloid-cascade hypothesis, suggest that some of the basic assumptions of AD causality warrant reassessment and redirection."}
{"id": "21971456", "title": "Florbetaben to trace amyloid-\u03b2 in the Alzheimer brain by means of PET.", "content": "Florbetaben to trace amyloid-\u03b2 in the Alzheimer brain by means of PET. PET imaging of amyloid-\u03b2 has recently emerged as a valuable biomarker to support the in vivo diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). So far, however, no tracer is available suitable for general clinical routine application. Florbetaben is a promising 18F-labeled amyloid-\u03b2-targeted PET tracer currently in Phase 2/3 clinical development. This review provides an overview on the current knowledge and future research activities on florbetaben. Recently, the first worldwide multi-center trial to test the diagnostic performance of amyloid-\u03b2 PET in AD was conducted with this tracer. From this trial, a sensitivity and specificity of 80 and 91% in the discrimination between patients with probable AD and age-matched healthy controls was reported. Ongoing florbetaben PET trials deal with correlating the in vivo PET signal to post mortem histopathology evaluation, and with investigating the value of the tracer to predict progression to AD at the stage of mild cognitive impairment. The preclinical and clinical data currently available verify florbetaben as a safe and efficacious PET tracer suitable for detection of amyloid-\u03b2 deposition in the brain. The results of the ongoing trials will contribute to current knowledge on the characteristics of florbetaben, and will help to determine the future potential of florbetaben PET imaging as a visual adjunct to supplement the routine clinical \"AD diagnostic toolbox\"."}
{"id": "21971455", "title": "Amyloid-\u03b2 and glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Amyloid-\u03b2 and glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease. This study used PET with the amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) imaging agent 11 C Pittsburgh Compound-B (PIB) and the glucose metabolic tracer 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) to map the relationship of A\u03b2 deposition to regional glucose metabolism in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Comparison of 13 AD patients' FDG scans with 11 healthy controls confirmed a typical temporo-parietal hypometabolic pattern in AD. In contrast, PIB distribution-volume-ratios showed a distinct pattern of specific tracer retention in fronto-temporo-parietal regions and striatum in AD with peaks in left frontal cortex, precuneus, temporal cortex, striatum and right posterior cingulate. There were no region-to-region or within region correlations between FDG and PIB uptake in PIB positive AD patients but when the impact of A\u03b2 load on glucose metabolism was assessed via probabilistic maps, increased amyloid burden was coupled with decreased metabolism in temporo-parietal regions and the posterior cingulate. However, importantly, severe A\u03b2 burden was not associated with comparable metabolic decreases in large parts of the frontal lobes, the striatum and the thalamus."}
{"id": "21971454", "title": "Nuclear medicine diagnostic techniques in the era of pathophysiology-based CSF biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Nuclear medicine diagnostic techniques in the era of pathophysiology-based CSF biomarkers for Alzheimer's disease. Nuclear medicine techniques were the first functional imaging techniques used to support the clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). Perfusion-SPECT allows registration of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) which is altered in a characteristic temporal-parietal pattern in AD. Numerous studies have shown the diagnostic value of reduced CBF and metabolic changes using perfusion-SPECT and FDG-PET in AD diagnosis as well as in differential diagnosis against frontotemporal dementia (FTD), dementia with Lewy-Bodies (DLB), and vascular cognitive disorders. This renders perfusion-SPECT an important piece of the puzzle (together with other diagnostic tests) by the clinician is often faced when making a final etiologic dementia diagnosis especially between AD and FTD. A similar diagnostic value can be expected when arterial spin labeling (ASL) MRI sequence is used, but the diagnostic value has yet to be confirmed in lager studies. Recently, more pathophysiology-based biomarkers in CSF and Amyloid-PET tracers have been developed that probably have a higher diagnostic accuracy than the more indirect rCBF changes seen in perfusion-SPECT. In the current review, we describe recent advances in AD biomarkers as well as improvements in the SPECT technique."}
{"id": "21967036", "title": "Environmental enrichment compensates for the effects of stress on disease progression in Tg2576 mice, an Alzheimer's disease model.", "content": "Environmental enrichment compensates for the effects of stress on disease progression in Tg2576 mice, an Alzheimer's disease model. Various environmental factors are known to influence the onset and progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Environmental enrichment was reported to improve cognitive performance in various Alzheimer's transgenic mice via an amyloid-related or unrelated mechanism. However, stress has been found to accelerate amyloid deposition and cognitive deficits in many AD models. The aim of this study was to determine whether environmental enrichment compensates for the effects of stress on disease progression in the Tg2576 mice, an established AD model. We housed Tg2576 mice under environmental enrichment, enrichment plus stress, stress, or control conditions at 3 months of age. In this study, we first report that environmental enrichment counteracts the effects of stress in terms of cognitive deficits, tau phosphorylation, neurogenesis, and neuronal proliferation during AD-like disease progression. These results strongly implicate the importance of environmental factors as a major modulator for the disease progression of AD."}
{"id": "21966405", "title": "New computer-aided diagnosis of dementia using positron emission tomography: brain regional sensitivity-mapping method.", "content": "New computer-aided diagnosis of dementia using positron emission tomography: brain regional sensitivity-mapping method. We devised a new computer-aided diagnosis method to segregate dementia using one estimated index (Total Z score) derived from the Brodmann area (BA) sensitivity map on the stereotaxic brain atlas. The purpose of this study is to investigate its accuracy to differentiate patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) or mild cognitive impairment (MCI) from normal adults (NL). We studied 101 adults (NL: 40, AD: 37, MCI: 24) who underwent (18)FDG positron emission tomography (PET) measurement. We divided NL and AD groups into two categories: a training group with (Category A) and a test group without (Category B) clinical information. In Category A, we estimated sensitivity by comparing the standard uptake value per BA (SUVR) between NL and AD groups. Then, we calculated a summated index (Total Z score) by utilizing the sensitivity-distribution maps and each BA z-score to segregate AD patterns. To confirm the validity of this method, we examined the accuracy in Category B. Finally, we applied this method to MCI patients. In Category A, we found that the sensitivity and specificity of differentiation between NL and AD were all 100%. In Category B, those were 100% and 95%, respectively. Furthermore, we found this method attained 88% to differentiate AD-converters from non-converters in MCI group. The present automated computer-aided evaluation method based on a single estimated index provided good accuracy for differential diagnosis of AD and MCI. This good differentiation power suggests its usefulness not only for dementia diagnosis but also in a longitudinal study."}
{"id": "21958648", "title": "Relationship between occupation attributes and brain metabolism in frontotemporal dementia.", "content": "Relationship between occupation attributes and brain metabolism in frontotemporal dementia. Occupation has been associated with cognitive reserve in healthy aging and Alzheimer's disease. Here we assess the relationship between cerebral metabolic deficits in behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia (bvFTD) and occupation characteristics. Using factor analysis, we derived verbal, physical and visuospatial occupation scores from the US Department of Labor, Occupational Information Network and related these scores to regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose utilization in 31 patients diagnosed with behavioral variant bvFTD, controlling for cognitive status (CERAD neuropsychological assessment battery), gender and education. Regression analyses showed a marked inverse association between glucose metabolism and (a) verbal occupation scores in left prefrontal cortex and, (b) physical occupation characteristics in right supplementary motor area. We concluded that, consistent with the cognitive reserve hypothesis, lifelong occupation characteristics are related to focal cerebral metabolic deficits in bvFTD. Specific occupation demands spanning decades may strengthen cognitive resistance to pathology."}
{"id": "21954186", "title": "Dietary lipids and their oxidized products in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Dietary lipids and their oxidized products in Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the commonest form of dementia in the elderly, characterized by memory dysfunction, loss of lexical access, spatial and temporal disorientation, and impaired judgment. A growing body of scientific literature addresses the implication of dietary habits in the pathogenesis of AD. This review reports recent findings concerning the modulation of AD development by dietary lipids, in animals and humans, focusing on the pathogenetic role of lipid oxidation products. Oxidative breakdown products of \u03c9-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (\u03c9-6 PUFAs), and cholesterol oxidation products (oxysterols), might play a role in favoring \u03b2-amyloid deposition, a hallmark of AD's onset and progression. Conversely, \u03c9-3 PUFAs appear to contribute to preventing and treating AD. However, high concentrations of \u03c9-3 PUFAs can also produce oxidized derivatives reacting with important functions of nervous cells. Thus, altered balances between cholesterol and oxysterols, and between \u03c9-3 and \u03c9-6 PUFAs must be considered in AD's pathophysiology. The use of a diet with an appropriate \u03c9-3/\u03c9-6 PUFA ratio, rich in healthy oils, fish and antioxidants, such as flavonoids, but low in cholesterol-containing foods, can be a beneficial component in the clinical strategies of prevention of AD."}
{"id": "21945201", "title": "Neuroimaging in acute liver failure.", "content": "Neuroimaging in acute liver failure. Acute liver failure (ALF) is frequently complicated by the development of brain edema that can lead to intracranial hypertension and severe brain injury. Neuroimaging techniques allow a none-invasive assessment of brain tissue and cerebral hemodynamics by means of transcranial Doppler ultrasonography, magnetic resonance and nuclear imaging with radioligands. These methods have been very helpful to unravel the pathogenesis of this process and have been applied to patients and experimental models. They allow monitoring the outcome of patients with ALF and neurological manifestations. The increase in brain water can be detected by observing changes in brain volume and disturbances in diffusion weighted imaging. Neurometabolic changes are detected by magnetic resonance spectroscopy, which provides a pattern of abnormalities characterized by an increase in glutamine and a decrease in myo-inositol. Disturbances in cerebral blood flow are depicted by SPECT or PET and can be monitored and the bedside by assessing the characteristics of the waveform provided by transcranial Doppler ultrasonography. Neuroimaging methods, which are rapidly evolving, will undoubtedly lead to future diagnostic and therapeutic progress that could be very helpful for patients with ALF."}
{"id": "21934543", "title": "Effect of an age-mismatched and sex-mismatched normal database on the diagnostic performance of \u00b9\u2078F-FDG PET for Alzheimer's disease: the Ishikawa Brain Imaging Study.", "content": "Effect of an age-mismatched and sex-mismatched normal database on the diagnostic performance of \u00b9\u2078F-FDG PET for Alzheimer's disease: the Ishikawa Brain Imaging Study. \u00b9\u2078F-FDG PET with voxel-based statistical image analysis plays an important role in the diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the effect of an age-matched and sex-matched or mismatched normal database (NDB) on the diagnostic performance of \u00b9\u2078F-FDG PET has not yet been investigated systematically. The aim of this study was to determine whether an age-matched and sex-matched NDB is necessary for the detection of AD using \u00b9\u2078F-FDG PET. We generated 11 NDB sets for \u00b9\u2078F-FDG PET, including six age-specific NDB sets consisting of participants ranging in age from 20 to 70 years, one age-non-specific NDB set, one age-matched NDB set, two sex-specific NDB sets, each consisting of 20 men or 20 women, and one sex-matched NDB set. The average z-scores in predefined AD-specific regions of interest of the PET images were calculated using those NDB sets and a receiver-operating characteristic analysis was carried out to assess the diagnostic performance of \u00b9\u2078F-FDG PET to discriminate 46 patients with AD from 50 normal controls. There was no significant difference in each area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve using either age-matched/mismatched NDB sets or sex-matched/mismatched NDB sets. The diagnostic performance of \u00b9\u2078F-FDG PET was rather insensitive to differences in age or sex in the NDB, indicating that exact age-matched or sex-matched NDB may not be essential for discriminating patients with AD from normal participants using \u00b9\u2078F-FDG PET."}
{"id": "21933145", "title": "Antioxidant pathways in Alzheimer's disease: possibilities of intervention.", "content": "Antioxidant pathways in Alzheimer's disease: possibilities of intervention. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is closely related to the occurrence of oxidative stress. It was claimed that all pathophysiological mechanisms involved in the onset and progression of AD are related to oxidative stress. Thus, it is important to evaluate if there is oxidative stress as well as the mechanism by which this happens in AD patients as well as in animal models of AD. Extracellular plaques of amyloid b peptides (A\u03b2), a hallmark of the disease, have been postulated to be more protective than damaging in terms of oxidative stress because they may be chemical sinks in which heavy metals are placed. More than a decade ago we reasoned that damage due to Ab might be caused not by extracellular, but rather intracellular Ab peptide interacting with normal cell metabolism. Ab binds to mitochondrial membranes, interacts with heme and thus interferes with the normal electron flow through the respiratory chain. This results in a faulty mitochondrial energy metabolism and in an increased production of reactive oxygen species (ROS). The low mitochondrial energy metabolism may important to explain the hypo metabolism observed in AD patients in vivo (measured by positron emission tomography) and in isolated neurons incubated in the presence of Ab peptide. The increased ROS production results in oxidative stress. The occurrence of such stress provides the basis for a putative treatment of AD with antioxidants. Major efforts have been made to determine whether antioxidant supplementation could be a means of preventing, or even treating AD, but this idea is far from being well- established. We found that even though there is oxidative stress in AD, the administration of antioxidant vitamins, particularly vitamin E, is not effective in preventing the progression of the disease in all patients. We termed this the vitamin E paradox in AD. The paradox is the fact that for some patients, vitamin E could even be detrimental whereas for others vitamin E treatment partially prevents the loss memory associated with the progression of the disease. It is clear, however, that increasing the intake of fruits and vegetables rich in antioxidant vitamins, prevents or retards the onset of AD. Thus, the issue of whether antioxidant treatment is of use in AD is not settled and more research is warranted to clarify this point."}
{"id": "21927556", "title": "Determination of the rCBF in the amygdala and rhinal cortex using a FAIR-TrueFISP sequence.", "content": "Determination of the rCBF in the amygdala and rhinal cortex using a FAIR-TrueFISP sequence. Brain perfusion can be assessed non-invasively by modern arterial spin labeling MRI. The FAIR (flow-sensitive alternating inversion recovery)-TrueFISP (true fast imaging in steady precession) technique was applied for regional assessment of cerebral blood flow in brain areas close to the skull base, since this approach provides low sensitivity to magnetic susceptibility effects. The investigation of the rhinal cortex and the amygdala is a potentially important feature for the diagnosis and research on dementia in its early stages. Twenty-three subjects with no structural or psychological impairment were investigated. FAIR-True-FISP quantitative perfusion data were evaluated in the amygdala on both sides and in the pons. A preparation of the radiofrequency FOCI (frequency offset corrected inversion) pulse was used for slice selective inversion. After a time delay of 1.2 sec, data acquisition began. Imaging slice thickness was 5 mm and inversion slab thickness for slice selective inversion was 12.5 mm. Image matrix size for perfusion images was 64 \u00d7 64 with a field of view of 256 \u00d7 256 mm, resulting in a spatial resolution of 4 \u00d7 4 \u00d7 5 mm. Repetition time was 4.8 ms; echo time was 2.4 ms. Acquisition time for the 50 sets of FAIR images was 6:56 min. Data were compared with perfusion data from the literature. Perfusion values in the right amygdala, left amygdala and pons were 65.2 (\u00b1 18.2) mL/100 g/minute, 64.6 (\u00b1 21.0) mL/100 g/minute, and 74.4 (\u00b1 19.3) mL/100 g/minute, respectively. These values were higher than formerly published data using continuous arterial spin labeling but similar to (15)O-PET (oxygen-15 positron emission tomography) data. The FAIR-TrueFISP approach is feasible for the quantitative assessment of perfusion in the amygdala. Data are comparable with formerly published data from the literature. The applied technique provided excellent image quality, even for brain regions located at the skull base in the vicinity of marked susceptibility steps."}
{"id": "21920750", "title": "A dual fluorinated and iodinated radiotracer for PET and SPECT imaging of \u03b2-amyloid plaques in the brain.", "content": "A dual fluorinated and iodinated radiotracer for PET and SPECT imaging of \u03b2-amyloid plaques in the brain. We report a fluorinated and iodinated radiotracer as a probe for PET/SPECT to detect of \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) plaques in the brain of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). We successfully designed and synthesized the fluorinated and iodinated aurone derivative (3) and its radiolabels ([(125)I]3 and [(18)F]3). In binding experiments in vitro, 3 showed high affinity for A\u03b2 aggregates (K(i)=6.81nM). In brain sections of AD model mice, 3 intensely stained A\u03b2 plaques. Furthermore, a specific plaque labeling signal was observed on the autoradiography of postmortem AD brain sections using [(125)I]3. In biodistribution experiments using normal mice, [(125)I]3 and [(18)F]3 displayed good uptake into and a rapid washout from the brain, properties highly desirable for A\u03b2 imaging agents. These results suggest that 3 may function as a PET/SPECT dual imaging agent for detecting A\u03b2 plaques in AD brains."}
{"id": "21914395", "title": "[Clinical features and treatment of dementia with Lewy bodies].", "content": "[Clinical features and treatment of dementia with Lewy bodies]. To investigate the clinical, neuropsychological, neuroimaging features and treatment of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). The clinical, neuropsychological, neuroimaging and therapeutic features of 33 DLB patients were retrospectively analyzed. There were 25 males and 8 females. The mean course from onset to diagnosis was 3.3 years. Sleep disorder, depression, anxiety and constipation were present at 1 - 10 years prior to DLB onset in 10 patients. Memory impairment (52%) and parkinsonism (21%) were initial symptoms. The mean duration from memory impairment to presence of parkinsonism was 17 months. Pattern of extrapyramidal signs showed bilateral, symmetry and axial muscles bias as postural instability and facial impassivity, tremor was less in DLB. Hallucination (70%), sleep disorder (63%), apathy (56%) and delusion (52%) were the major behavioral and psychological symptoms. Hallucination occurred within a mean of 15 months after presence of initial symptoms. Cognition impairment progressed rapidly in half of patients. Neuropsychological tests of mild patients revealed visuospatial dysfunction and relatively preservation of memory. Severe impairment of all domains of cognition was noticed in moderate-severe patients. MRI (magnetic resonance imaging) revealed the preservation of hippocampal structures. And PET (positron emission tomography) showed hypometabolism of occipital lobe. Cholinesterase inhibitors could improve cognitive impairment and behavioral symptoms in a large majority of patients. Neuronal dysfunction may be present at an early stage of DLB. Early presence of hallucination, a high prevalence of sleep disorders, axial rigidity and hypometabolism of occipital lobe on PET may help to distinguish DLB from other types of dementia."}
{"id": "21905987", "title": "Modern neuroimaging in psychiatry: towards the integration of functional and molecular information.", "content": "Modern neuroimaging in psychiatry: towards the integration of functional and molecular information. Thirty-five years of psychiatric imaging along traditional diagnostic boundaries have revealed a great deal about the structural and functional brain changes that accompany mental disorders but not produced reliable biomarkers. One reason may be that clinical syndromes represent the phenotypic expression of many different genotypes and biological pathways. Neuroimaging is now increasingly being used to map out the pathways from genes (obtained from candidate or genome-wide association studies) to the cognitive, emotional and behavioural phenotypes that result in syndromes like schizophrenia or depression. The armamentarium of neuroimaging is becoming increasingly versatile, and now includes methods with considerable spatial, temporal and/or molecular resolution. We can expect that a sophisticated combination of these techniques with genetic and pharmacological information will usher into a new era of psychiatric imaging that will aid a biological classification of mental diseases."}
{"id": "21896306", "title": "Imaging biomarkers in Parkinson's disease.", "content": "Imaging biomarkers in Parkinson's disease. Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by a progressive loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons associated with intracellular Lewy inclusion bodies. The result is poverty of movement, increased muscle rigidity, and tremor at rest and on posture. Midbrain/nigral structural abnormalities can be demonstrated in vivo with both transcranial sonography (TCS) and diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging (DTI) while positron emission tomography (PET) and single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) ligands exist to demonstrate dopamine terminal dysfunction. These radiotracers are markers of dopamine storage capacity, vesicular monoamine and dopamine transporter availability. While loss of putamen dopaminergic function leads to motor disability, Lewy bodies not only target dopamine neurons but have also been observed in serotoninergic, noradrenergic, and cholinergic neurons. As a consequence, non-dopaminergic neurotransmission is also impaired resulting in non-motor symptoms including sleep disturbance, fatigue, depression, dementia, and autonomic dysfunction. PET and SPECT ligands exist to interrogate the function of monoaminergic and cholinergic neurons. Cortical and limbic Lewy body disease is seen in more advanced PD and this can be detected with FDG PET as abnormal covariance between levels of resting brain metabolism in these regions. Additionally, widespread microglial activation can be detected in PD with PET. This review discusses the role of structural and functional imaging for understanding parkinsonian syndromes and aiding in their diagnosis and management."}
{"id": "21891870", "title": "Loss of astrocyte polarization in the tg-ArcSwe mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Loss of astrocyte polarization in the tg-ArcSwe mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Aquaporin-4 (AQP4) is the predominant water channel in brain and is selectively expressed in astrocytes. Astrocytic endfoot membranes exhibit tenfold higher densities of AQP4 than non-endfoot membranes, making AQP4 an excellent marker of astrocyte polarization. Loss of astrocyte polarization is known to compromise astrocytic function and to be associated with impaired water and K+ homeostasis. Here we investigate by a combination of light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry whether amyloid deposition is associated with a loss of astrocyte polarization, using AQP4 as a marker. We used the tg-ArcSwe mouse model of Alzheimer's disease, as this model displays perivascular plaques as well as plaques confined to the neuropil. 3D reconstructions were done to establish the spatial relation between plaques and astrocytic endfeet, the latter known to contain the perivascular pool of AQP4. Changes in AQP4 expression emerge just after the appearance of the first plaques. Typically, there is a loss of AQP4 from endfoot membranes at sites of perivascular amyloid deposits, combined with an upregulation of AQP4 in the neuropil surrounding plaques. By electron microscopy it could be verified that the upregulation reflects an increased concentration of AQP4 in those delicate astrocytic processes that abound in synaptic regions. Thus, astrocytes exhibit a redistribution of AQP4 from endfoot membranes to non-endfoot membrane domains. The present data suggest that the development of amyloid deposits is associated with a loss of astrocyte polarization. The possible perturbation of water and K+ homeostasis could contribute to cognitive decline and seizure propensity in patients with Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "21891868", "title": "Gene signature in Alzheimer's disease and environmental factors: the virus chronicle.", "content": "Gene signature in Alzheimer's disease and environmental factors: the virus chronicle. Genome wide association investigations from large cohorts of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) and non demented controls (CTR) showed that a limited set of genes were associated (p > 10-5) with the disease. A very recent study from our group showed that an additional limited group of SNP in selected genes were associated with AD. In this report we argue that the association of these genes with AD is suggestive of a pivotal role of environmental factors in the pathogenesis of the disease and one of these factors is virus infection. In other words, the genetic signature revealed by genome wide association (GWA) studies discloses a network of genes that might influence the ability of the central nervous system to cope with and fight against the invasion by virus of the herpes family. In fact, Nectin-2 (NC-2); apolipoprotein E (APOE); glycoprotein carcinoembryonic antigen related cell adhesion molecule-16 (CEACAM-16); B-cell lymphoma-3 (Bcl-3); translocase of outer mitochondrial membrane 40 homolog (T0MM-40); complement receptor-1 (CR-l); APOJ or clusterin and C-type lectin domain A family-16 member (CLEC-16A); Phosphatidyl inositol- binding clathrin assembly protein gene (PICALM); ATP-bonding cassette, sub family A, member 7 (ABCA7); membrane spanning A4 (MSA4); CD2 associated protein (CD2AP); cluster of differentiation 33 (CD33); and ephrin receptor A1 (EPHA1) result in a genetic signature that might affect individual brain susceptibility to infection by the herpes virus family during aging, leading to neuronal loss, inflammation, and amyloid deposition."}
{"id": "21889117", "title": "Dementia and Alzheimer's disease: a new direction.The 2010 Jay L. Foster Memorial Lecture.", "content": "Dementia and Alzheimer's disease: a new direction.The 2010 Jay L. Foster Memorial Lecture. The modern era of Alzheimer's disease (AD) research began in the early 1980s with the establishment of AD research centers and expanded research programs at the National Institute on Aging. Over the past 30 years, there has been success in defining criteria for AD and dementia, association of important genetic disorders related to premature dementia in families, the association of apolipoprotein-E(4), and measurement of incidence and prevalence and selected risk factors. However, prevention and treatment have been elusive. The development of new technologies, especially magnetic resonance imaging, positron emission tomography to measure amyloid in\u00a0vivo in the brain and glucose metabolism, cerebrospinal fluid examination, better genetic markers, large-scale longitudinal epidemiology studies, and preventive clinical trials has rapidly begun a new era of research that offers opportunities to better understand etiology, that is, determinants of amyloid biology in the brain, neurofibrillary tangles, synaptic loss, and dementia. There are three major hypotheses related to dementia: amyloid deposition and secondary synaptic loss as a unique disease, vascular injury, and \"aging.\" New research must be hypothesis-driven and lead to testable approaches for treatment and prevention."}
{"id": "21885280", "title": "Synthesis and evaluation of 1-(4-[\u00b9\u2078F]fluoroethyl)-7-(4'-methyl)curcumin with improved brain permeability for \u03b2-amyloid plaque imaging.", "content": "Synthesis and evaluation of 1-(4-[\u00b9\u2078F]fluoroethyl)-7-(4'-methyl)curcumin with improved brain permeability for \u03b2-amyloid plaque imaging. Alzheimer's disease is characterized by the accumulation of \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) plaques and neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) in the brain. We previously developed [(18)F]fluoropropylcurcumin ([(18)F]FP-curcumin), which demonstrated excellent binding affinity (K(i)=0.07 nM) for A\u03b2(1-40) aggregates and good pharmacokinetics in normal mouse brains. However, its initial brain uptake was poor (0.52% ID/g at 2 min post-injection). Therefore, in the present study, fluorine-substituted 4,4'-bissubstituted or pegylated curcumin derivatives were synthesized and evaluated. Their binding affinities for A\u03b2(1-42) aggregates were measured and 1-(4-fluoroethyl)-7-(4'-methyl)curcumin (1) had the highest binding affinity (K(i)=2.12 nM). Fluorescence staining of Tg APP/PS-1 mouse brain sections demonstrated high and specific labeling of A\u03b2 plaques by 1 in the cortex region, which was confirmed with thioflavin-S staining of the same spots in the adjacent brain sections. Radioligand [(18)F]1 was found to have an appropriate partition coefficient (logP(o/w)=2.40), and its tissue distribution in normal mice demonstrated improved brain permeability (1.44% ID/g at 2 min post-injection) compared to that of [(18)F]FP-curcumin by a factor of 2.8 and fast wash-out from mouse brains (0.45% ID/g at 30 min post-injection). These results suggest that [(18)F]1 may hold promise as a PET radioligand for A\u03b2 plaque imaging."}
{"id": "21883100", "title": "Value of neuropsychological tests, neuroimaging, and biomarkers for diagnosing Alzheimer's disease in younger and older age cohorts.", "content": "Value of neuropsychological tests, neuroimaging, and biomarkers for diagnosing Alzheimer's disease in younger and older age cohorts. To examine the influence of age on the value of four techniques for diagnosing Alzheimer's disease (AD). Observational cohort study. Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative. Individuals with mild cognitive impairment (MCI; n = 179), individuals with AD (n = 91), and normal controls (n = 105). Neuropsychological tests, structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), amyloid-beta and tau in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) for the diagnosis of MCI or AD. MCI was defined according to subjective memory complaints corroborated by an informant and an abnormal score on the delayed paragraph recall subtest of the Wechsler Memory Scale-Revised, a Mini-Mental State Examination score greater than 23, and a Clinical Dementia Rating score of 0.5. Participants with AD satisfied National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Diseases and Stroke/Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association criteria of probable AD. Neuropsychological tests and MRI were the most informative techniques, with 84% and 82% correct classifications, respectively, and areas under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUCs) of 0.93 (90% confidence interval (CI) = 0.91-0.95) and 0.88 (90% CI = 0.85-0.91). FDG-PET and CSF assessments had 76% and 73% correct classifications, respectively, (AUC = 0.77, 90% CI = 0.71-0.83; AUC = 0.77, 90% CI = 0.73-0.82). These figures increased slightly when the techniques were combined. All analyses were repeated for the younger (<75) and older (\u2265 75) halves of the sample. FDG-PET and CSF assessment were substantially less informative in the older cohort, and they did not add diagnostic information when all techniques were combined. Structural MRI and neuropsychological assessment are diagnostic methods of first choice if AD is suspected. CSF and FDG-PET add little to these diagnostic techniques, especially in older adults."}
{"id": "21877749", "title": "Modular strategy for the construction of radiometalated antibodies for positron emission tomography based on inverse electron demand Diels-Alder click chemistry.", "content": "Modular strategy for the construction of radiometalated antibodies for positron emission tomography based on inverse electron demand Diels-Alder click chemistry. A modular system for the construction of radiometalated antibodies was developed based on the bioorthogonal cycloaddition reaction between 3-(4-benzylamino)-1,2,4,5-tetrazine and the strained dienophile norbornene. The well-characterized, HER2-specific antibody trastuzumab and the positron emitting radioisotopes (64)Cu and (89)Zr were employed as a model system. The antibody was first covalently coupled to norbornene, and this stock of norbornene-modified antibody was then reacted with tetrazines bearing the chelators 1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclo-dodecane-1,4,7,10-tetraacetic acid (DOTA) or desferrioxamine (DFO) and subsequently radiometalated with (64)Cu and (89)Zr, respectively. The modification strategy is simple and robust, and the resultant radiometalated constructs were obtained in high specific activity (2.7-5.3 mCi/mg). For a given initial stoichiometric ratio of norbornene to antibody, the (64)Cu-DOTA- and (89)Zr-DFO-based probes were shown to be nearly identical in terms of stability, the number of chelates per antibody, and immunoreactivity (>93% in all cases). In vivo PET imaging and acute biodistribution experiments revealed significant, specific uptake of the (64)Cu- and (89)Zr-trastuzumab bioconjugates in HER2-positive BT-474 xenografts, with little background uptake in HER2-negative MDA-MB-468 xenografts or other tissues. This modular system-one in which the divergent point is a single covalently modified antibody stock that can be reacted selectively with various chelators-will allow for both greater versatility and more facile cross-comparisons in the development of antibody-based radiopharmaceuticals."}
{"id": "21876255", "title": "Seizures can precede cognitive symptoms in late-onset Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Seizures can precede cognitive symptoms in late-onset Alzheimer's disease. This study describes late-onset Alzheimer's disease (LOAD) in the mild cognitive impairment (MCI) stage, debuting with seizures in a 72 year-old woman. Prodromal AD was consistently diagnosed with four among amyloidosis and neurodegeneration biomarkers about 1 year after onset of seizures. Genetic assessment demonstrated apolipoprotein E \u03b52/\u03b53 genotype and three intronic single nucleotide substitutions, two in presenilin 1 and one in amyloid-\u03b2 protein precursor genes. This case of seizures at onset of LOAD with severe signs of brain amyloidosis and neurodegeneration but with just MCI leads to a re-appraisal of the intriguing relationship between AD pathology and neuron excitability in humans."}
{"id": "21876253", "title": "Episodic memory decline predicts cortical amyloid status in community-dwelling older adults.", "content": "Episodic memory decline predicts cortical amyloid status in community-dwelling older adults. Intra-individual decline in memory and cognition is characteristic of prodromal Alzheimer's disease (AD) and may allow detection of very early AD pathology. Episodic memory task scores on a brief computerized cognitive battery (CogState) were prospectively evaluated at baseline, and 3-, 6-, 9-, 12-, and 24-months post-baseline. Linear mixed models were conducted to compute age-adjusted slopes. Subjects with slopes declining \u226590th percentile (\"memory decliners\") and age- and gender-matched subjects without such decline (\"non-decliners\") were studied with clinical, neuropsychological, and neuroimaging evaluations. Of 195 who completed 24-month evaluation (age 51 to 80 years), 15 memory decliners (mean age 62.7 years, SD 7.6) were identified, and matched with 33 non-decliners (mean age 63.3 years, SD 8.2). Amyloid-PET imaging was qualitatively abnormal with excess cortical amyloid accumulation in 7 memory decliners (46.7%) and 4 (12.1%) non-decliners (odds ratio 6.34), and quantitatively abnormal with standardized uptake value ratios >1.4 in 5 memory decliners (33.3%) and 2 (6.1%) non-decliners (odds ratio 8.3). One of the memory decliners and none of the non-decliners fulfilled criteria for mild cognitive impairment, but the groups did not differ with respect to subjective memory impairment, neuropsychological evidence of episodic memory impairment, or MRI imaging abnormalities. Intra-individual decline in episodic memory can be detected using a brief computerized cognitive performance test optimized to detect change in community-dwelling non-demented older persons and appears predictive of the presence of cerebral amyloid in about half of these persons. This approach may help detect early prodromal AD pathology in wider-scale community screening programs."}
{"id": "21863421", "title": "Imaging Alzheimer in 2011.", "content": "Imaging Alzheimer in 2011."}
{"id": "21861661", "title": "Role of amyloid \u03b21-42 and neuroimaging biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Role of amyloid \u03b21-42 and neuroimaging biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "21861660", "title": "New diagnostic criteria for Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "New diagnostic criteria for Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "21856969", "title": "Cerebral metabolism, cognition, and functional abilities in Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Cerebral metabolism, cognition, and functional abilities in Alzheimer disease. Patients with Alzheimer disease (AD) exhibit profound difficulties in completing instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs), such as managing finances, organizing medications, and food preparation. It is unclear which brain areas underlie IADL deficits in AD. To address this question, we used voxel-based analysis to correlate the performance of IADLs with resting cerebral metabolism as measured during [(18)F] fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) imaging in 44 patients with AD. Poorer ability to complete IADLs was associated with hypometabolism in right-sided cortical regions, including the parietal lobe, posterior temporal cortex, dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, and frontal pole. Follow-up path analyses examining anatomically defined regions of interest (ROI) demonstrated that the association between metabolism and IADLs was mediated by global cognition in frontal ROIs, and partially mediated by global cognition in the parietal ROI. Findings suggest that hypometabolism of right sided brain regions involved in executive functioning, visuospatial processing, attention, and working memory underlie functional impairments in patients with AD."}
{"id": "21853308", "title": "In vivo imaging of astrocytosis in Alzheimer's disease: an \u00b9\u00b9C-L-deuteriodeprenyl and PIB PET study.", "content": "In vivo imaging of astrocytosis in Alzheimer's disease: an \u00b9\u00b9C-L-deuteriodeprenyl and PIB PET study. Astrocytosis is an important feature of the neuropathology of Alzheimer's disease (AD), yet there is currently no way of detecting this phenomenon in vivo. In this study we examine the retention of the positron emission tomography (PET) tracer (11)C-L-deuteriodeprenyl (DED), thought to bind activated astrocytes, in 9 patients with moderate to severe AD compared with 11 healthy controls. As a measure of amyloid load, (11)C-labelled Pittsburgh Compound B (PIB) retention was determined. Results show a significantly higher (11)C-L-DED retention in the frontal (35.1% increase, p = 0.001), parietal (35.2%, p = 0.001), temporal (30.9%, p = 0.0001) and medial temporal lobes (22.3%, p = 0.001) in AD compared to healthy controls after blood flow correction. DED retention in the sensorimotor and occipital cortices, and in white matter and subcortical structures, did not differ between groups. There was a moderate but statistically significant (r = 0.492, p = 0.01) correlation between DED and PIB retention values. Our conclusion is that DED may serve as an in vivo marker for astrocytosis in AD, providing a window into intermediate processes between amyloidosis and neuronal loss and a means of monitoring immunotherapy."}
{"id": "21846988", "title": "Clinical course of patients with familial early-onset Alzheimer's disease potentially lacking senile plaques bearing the E693\u0394 mutation in amyloid precursor protein.", "content": "Clinical course of patients with familial early-onset Alzheimer's disease potentially lacking senile plaques bearing the E693\u0394 mutation in amyloid precursor protein. Oligomeric amyloid \u03b2 (A\u03b2) is currently considered to induce Alzheimer's disease (AD). We examined 2 patients with familial AD who possessed the Osaka (E693\u0394) mutation in amyloid precursor protein. To the best of our knowledge, these patients are the first AD cases presumably affected with A\u03b2 oligomers in the absence of senile plaques, and they support the A\u03b2 oligomer hypothesis. We evaluated the clinical course, neuropsychological data, cerebrospinal fluid biomarker levels, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans, fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography (PET) scans, and Pittsburgh compound B (PiB)-PET images of these patients. In the early stages, these patients developed memory disturbances in a similar rate to patients with sporadic AD. Despite their memory disturbances, both patients showed only limited brain atrophy on MRI and little amyloid accumulation on PiB-PET. Subsequent to the development of memory disturbances, both patients suffered from motor dysfunction, probably due to cerebellar ataxia, and, within a few years, the patients fell into an apallic state. Familial AD patients with Osaka (E693\u0394) mutation show severe dementia, cerebellar ataxia, and gait disturbances."}
{"id": "21843378", "title": "Dopaminergic imaging: clinical utility now and in the future.", "content": "Dopaminergic imaging: clinical utility now and in the future. Over the past ten years, dopaminergic imaging has become increasingly part of the assessment and diagnosis of dementia. There are numerous PET and SPECT ligands available that target different steps in the process of neurotransmission. Abnormalities in dopaminergic imaging measures are consistent features of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and other parkinsonian syndromes, and can be used to facilitate diagnosis, particularly in distinguishing between DLB and Alzheimer's disease. This review summarizes present knowledge in this area and the implications for current and future clinical practice."}
{"id": "21841458", "title": "Serotonin transporter occupancy and the functional neuroanatomic effects of citalopram in geriatric depression.", "content": "Serotonin transporter occupancy and the functional neuroanatomic effects of citalopram in geriatric depression. The functional neuroanatomic changes associated with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) treatment have been the focus of positron emission tomography (PET) studies of cerebral glucose metabolism in geriatric depression. To evaluate the underlying neurochemical mechanisms, both cerebral glucose metabolism and serotonin transporter (SERT) availability were measured before and during treatment with the SSRI, citalopram. It was hypothesized that SERT occupancy would be observed in cortical and limbic brain regions that have shown metabolic effects, as well as striatal and thalamic regions that have been implicated in prior studies in midlife patients. Psychiatric outpatient clinic. Seven depressed patients who met Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition criteria for current major depressive episode were enrolled. Patients underwent a 12-week open-label trial of the SSRI, citalopram. Patients underwent high-resolution research tomography PET scans to measure changes in cerebral glucose metabolism and SERT occupancy by citalopram treatment (after 8-10 weeks of treatment). Three different tracer kinetic models were applied to the [\u00b9\u00b9C]-DASB region-of-interest data and yielded similar results of an average of greater than 70% SERT occupancy in the striatum and thalamus during citalopram treatment. Voxel-wise analyses showed significant SERT occupancy in these regions, as well as cortical (e.g., anterior cingulate, superior and middle frontal, precuneus, and limbic (parahippocampal gyrus) areas that also showed reductions in glucose metabolism. The findings suggest that cortical and limbic SERT occupancy may be an underlying mechanism for the regional cerebral metabolic effects of citalopram in geriatric depression."}
{"id": "21834676", "title": "Distant, solitary skeletal muscle metastasis in recurrent papillary thyroid carcinoma.", "content": "Distant, solitary skeletal muscle metastasis in recurrent papillary thyroid carcinoma. Papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) is the most common differentiated thyroid carcinoma. Metastases usually occur in regional lymph nodes or to lungs. Distant metastases to skeletal muscle are rare. Here, we report a patient with a solitary metastasis to skeletal muscle. A 31-year-old woman was found on routine physical examination to have a 1-cm nodule in the right thyroid lobe. The patient underwent endoscopic total thyroidectomy with central cervical lymph node dissection in April 2008. Pathological analysis showed a 1.5\u2009\u00d7\u20090.9\u2009cm PTC in the right thyroid lobe with extension into perithyroidal soft tissue and lymph node involvement (all six central lymph nodes examined were positive). After surgery, she received 100 mCi of radioactive iodine. Subsequently, the patient was found to have a lateral neck recurrence and, therefore, underwent right unilateral modified radical neck dissection followed by additional radioactive iodine ablation. In February 2010, her serum thyroglobulin was 19.4\u2009ng/mL, but the neck ultrasound was negative. However, a fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography scan showed focal FDG uptake in the vastus medialis muscle of the right distal femur. A 0.9\u2009\u00d7\u20090.5\u2009cm, well-defined, whitish mass in the vastus medialis muscle was confirmed on histopathology to be metastatic PTC. Here, we report an adult woman who presented with a thyroid nodule that was noted to be PTC on histopathology after total thyroidectomy. Almost 2 years later, she was noted to have had focal FDG uptake consistent in the region of the right femur. A solitary metastasis of PTC in the right vastus medialis muscle was resected. A MEDLINE (Medical Literature Analysis and Retrieval System Online) search showed that this is only the third report of PTC with a distant, solitary skeletal muscle metastasis. Distant skeletal metastasis in PTC is very rare. Until the availability of FDG to detect skeletal metastasis of PTC, they may have been more difficult to discern."}
{"id": "21831859", "title": "Posterior cortical atrophy: evidence for discrete syndromes of early-onset Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Posterior cortical atrophy: evidence for discrete syndromes of early-onset Alzheimer's disease. Posterior cortical atrophy (PCA) may represent a discrete syndrome of Alzheimer's disease (AD) rather than amnestic AD with visual deficits. We separated 30 patients with PCA based on ventral and dorsal visual symptoms using cluster analysis and analyzed the demographic, cognitive, and functional imaging features. This analysis revealed subgroups of 26 dorsal and 4 ventral patients. The ventral subgroup had greater confrontational naming impairment, and the dorsal subgroup had greater hypofunction in the parietal regions. The PCA cohort had memory retrieval rather than encoding deficits, and clinical follow-up showed relative isolation of dorsal and ventral visual manifestations. These results support 2, mostly nonoverlapping syndromes in patients with PCA, with the commonest affecting the dorsal visual pathway; moreover, the memory retrieval difficulty in the patients with PCA was dissimilar to the amnestic pattern in typical AD. These results suggest that, in most cases, PCA syndromes are discrete clinical variants of AD."}
{"id": "21827663", "title": "TLR4 mutation reduces microglial activation, increases A\u03b2 deposits and exacerbates cognitive deficits in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "TLR4 mutation reduces microglial activation, increases A\u03b2 deposits and exacerbates cognitive deficits in a mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. Amyloid plaques, a pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD), are accompanied by activated microglia. The role of activated microglia in the pathogenesis of AD remains controversial: either clearing A\u03b2 deposits by phagocytosis or releasing proinflammatory cytokines and cytotoxic substances. Microglia can be activated via toll-like receptors (TLRs), a class of pattern-recognition receptors in the innate immune system. We previously demonstrated that an AD mouse model homozygous for a loss-of-function mutation of TLR4 had increases in A\u03b2 deposits and buffer-soluble A\u03b2 in the brain as compared with a TLR4 wild-type AD mouse model at 14-16 months of age. However, it is unknown if TLR4 signaling is involved in initiation of A\u03b2 deposition as well as activation and recruitment of microglia at the early stage of AD. Here, we investigated the role of TLR4 signaling and microglial activation in early stages using 5-month-old AD mouse models when A\u03b2 deposits start. Microglial activation and amyloid deposition in the brain were determined by immunohistochemistry in the AD models. Levels of cerebral soluble A\u03b2 were determined by ELISA. mRNA levels of cytokines and chemokines in the brain and A\u03b2-stimulated monocytes were quantified by real-time PCR. Cognitive functions were assessed by the Morris water maze. While no difference was found in cerebral A\u03b2 load between AD mouse models at 5 months with and without TLR4 mutation, microglial activation in a TLR4 mutant AD model (TLR4M Tg) was less than that in a TLR4 wild-type AD model (TLR4W Tg). At 9 months, TLR4M Tg mice had increased A\u03b2 deposition and soluble A\u03b242 in the brain, which were associated with decrements in cognitive functions and expression levels of IL-1\u03b2, CCL3, and CCL4 in the hippocampus compared to TLR4W Tg mice. TLR4 mutation diminished A\u03b2-induced IL-1\u03b2, CCL3, and CCL4 expression in monocytes. This is the first demonstration of TLR4-dependent activation of microglia at the early stage of \u03b2-amyloidosis. Our results indicate that TLR4 is not involved in the initiation of A\u03b2 deposition and that, as A\u03b2 deposits start, microglia are activated via TLR4 signaling to reduce A\u03b2 deposits and preserve cognitive functions from A\u03b2-mediated neurotoxicity."}
{"id": "21816137", "title": "Utility of imaging for nutritional intervention studies in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Utility of imaging for nutritional intervention studies in Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multi-factorial neurodegenerative disorder and the leading cause of dementia, wherein synapse loss is the strongest structural correlate with cognitive impairment. Basic research has shown that dietary supply of precursors and co-factors for synthesis of neuronal membranes enhances the formation of synapses. Daily intake of a medical food containing a mix of these nutrients for 12 weeks in humans improved memory, measured as immediate and delayed verbal recall by the Wechsler Memory Scale-revised, in patients with very mild AD (MMSE 24-26). An improvement of immediate verbal recall was noted following 24 weeks of intervention in an exploratory extension of the study. These data suggest that the intervention may improve synaptic formation and function in early AD. Here we review emerging technologies that help identify changes in pathological hallmarks in AD, including synaptic function and loss of connectivity in the early stages of AD, before cognitive and behavioural symptoms are observable. These techniques include the detection of specific biomarkers in the cerebrospinal fluid, as well as imaging procedures such as fluorine-18 fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET), amyloid PET, structural/functional magnetic resonance imaging, diffusion tensor imaging, magnetoencephalography (MEG) and electroencephalography (EEG). Such techniques can provide new insights into the functional and structural changes in the brain over time, and may therefore help to develop more effective AD therapies. In particular, nutritional intervention studies that target synapse formation and function may benefit from these techniques, especially FDG-PET and EEG/MEG employed in the preclinical or early stages of the disease."}
{"id": "21816039", "title": "Alzheimer's disease - a neurospirochetosis. Analysis of the evidence following Koch's and Hill's criteria.", "content": "Alzheimer's disease - a neurospirochetosis. Analysis of the evidence following Koch's and Hill's criteria. It is established that chronic spirochetal infection can cause slowly progressive dementia, brain atrophy and amyloid deposition in late neurosyphilis. Recently it has been suggested that various types of spirochetes, in an analogous way to Treponema pallidum, could cause dementia and may be involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we review all data available in the literature on the detection of spirochetes in AD and critically analyze the association and causal relationship between spirochetes and AD following established criteria of Koch and Hill. The results show a statistically significant association between spirochetes and AD (P = 1.5 \u00d7 10-17, OR = 20, 95% CI = 8-60, N = 247). When neutral techniques recognizing all types of spirochetes were used, or the highly prevalent periodontal pathogen Treponemas were analyzed, spirochetes were observed in the brain in more than 90% of AD cases. Borrelia burgdorferi was detected in the brain in 25.3% of AD cases analyzed and was 13 times more frequent in AD compared to controls. Periodontal pathogen Treponemas (T. pectinovorum, T. amylovorum, T. lecithinolyticum, T. maltophilum, T. medium, T. socranskii) and Borrelia burgdorferi were detected using species specific PCR and antibodies. Importantly, co-infection with several spirochetes occurs in AD. The pathological and biological hallmarks of AD were reproduced in vitro by exposure of mammalian cells to spirochetes. The analysis of reviewed data following Koch's and Hill's postulates shows a probable causal relationship between neurospirochetosis and AD. Persisting inflammation and amyloid deposition initiated and sustained by chronic spirochetal infection form together with the various hypotheses suggested to play a role in the pathogenesis of AD a comprehensive entity. As suggested by Hill, once the probability of a causal relationship is established prompt action is needed. Support and attention should be given to this field of AD research. Spirochetal infection occurs years or decades before the manifestation of dementia. As adequate antibiotic and anti-inflammatory therapies are available, as in syphilis, one might prevent and eradicate dementia."}
{"id": "21812104", "title": "Phenotypical spectrum of cerebellar ataxia associated with a novel mutation in the CA8 gene, encoding carbonic anhydrase (CA) VIII.", "content": "Phenotypical spectrum of cerebellar ataxia associated with a novel mutation in the CA8 gene, encoding carbonic anhydrase (CA) VIII. We define the neurological characteristics of familial cases from multiple branches of a large consanguineous family with cerebellar ataxia, mental retardation (MR), and dysequilibrium syndrome type 3 caused by a mutation in the recently cloned CA8 gene. The linkage analysis revealed a high logarithm of the odds (LOD) score region on 8q that harbors the CA8 in which a novel homozygous c.484G>A (p.G162R) mutation was identified in all seven affected members. The patients had variable cerebellar ataxia and mild cognitive impairment without quadrupedal gait. The brain MRI showed variable cerebellar volume loss and ill-defined peritrigonal white matter abnormalities. The Fluorodeoxyglucose Positron Emission Tomography (FDG PET) revealed hypometabolic cerebellar hemispheres, temporal lobes, and mesial cortex. This report expands the neurological and radiological phenotype associated with CA8 mutations. CA8 involvement should be considered in the differential diagnosis of other genetically unresolved autosomal recessive cerebellar ataxias."}
{"id": "21805181", "title": "Factors affecting A\u03b2 plasma levels and their utility as biomarkers in ADNI.", "content": "Factors affecting A\u03b2 plasma levels and their utility as biomarkers in ADNI. Previous studies of A\u03b2 plasma as a biomarker for Alzheimer's disease (AD) obtained conflicting results. We here included 715 subjects with baseline A\u03b2(1-40) and A\u03b2(1-42) plasma measurement (50% with 4 serial annual measurements): 205 cognitively normal controls (CN), 348 patients mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and 162 with AD. We assessed the factors that modified their concentrations and correlated these values with PIB PET, MRI and tau and A\u03b2(1-42) measures in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Association between A\u03b2 and diagnosis (baseline and prospective) was assessed. A number of health conditions were associated with altered concentrations of plasma A\u03b2. The effect of age differed according to AD stage. Plasma A\u03b2(1-42) showed mild correlation with other biomarkers of A\u03b2 pathology and were associated with infarctions in MRI. Longitudinal measurements of A\u03b2(1-40) and A\u03b2(1-42) plasma levels showed modest value as a prognostic factor for clinical progression. Our longitudinal study of complementary measures of A\u03b2 pathology (PIB, CSF and plasma A\u03b2) and other biomarkers in a cohort with an extensive neuropsychological battery is significant because it shows that plasma A\u03b2 measurements have limited value for disease classification and modest value as prognostic factors over the 3-year follow-up. However, with longer follow-up, within subject plasma A\u03b2 measurements could be used as a simple and minimally invasive screen to identify those at increased risk for AD. Our study emphasizes the need for a better understanding of the biology and dynamics of plasma A\u03b2 as well as the need for longer term studies to determine the clinical utility of measuring plasma A\u03b2."}
{"id": "21803164", "title": "Impact of apolipoprotein E \u03b54 and HIV on cognition and brain atrophy: antagonistic pleiotropy and premature brain aging.", "content": "Impact of apolipoprotein E \u03b54 and HIV on cognition and brain atrophy: antagonistic pleiotropy and premature brain aging. The apolipoprotein E (APOE) \u03b54 allele may accelerate the progression of HIV disease, and increase the risk for developing HIV-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND). Whether APOE\u03b54 allele(s) and age may influence brain atrophy in HIV patients is unknown and was evaluated. Automated morphometry on magnetic resonance images, using FreeSurfer analyses, neuropsychological testing and APOE genotyping were performed in 139 subjects [70 seronegative controls (SN); 69 clinically-stable HIV subjects]. Compared to SN, HIV subjects had smaller volumes throughout the brain regardless of their HAND status. Compared to APOE\u03b54- subjects, SN controls with APOE\u03b54 had better memory and larger global brain volumes (cerebral white matter and cortex) while HIV subjects with the APOE\u03b54 allele(s) had poorer cognition (verbal fluency, learning, executive function and memory) and smaller cerebral and cerebellar white matter and subcortical structures. Further stratification of age showed that younger (<50 years) APOE\u03b54+SN subjects had larger putamen and cerebral white matter, while younger APOE\u03b54+HIV subjects had poorer performance on verbal fluency and smaller brain volumes [3-way (HIV-status\u00d7APOE\u03b54\u00d7Age) interaction-p-values=0.005 to 0.03]. These findings suggest that APOE\u03b54 allele(s) may show antagonistic pleiotropy on cognition and brain atrophy in SN controls, but may lead to premature aging with neurodegeneration in younger HIV patients prior to the development of HAND. Potential mechanisms for such interactions may include stronger neuro-inflammation or greater amyloid deposition in younger HIV subjects with APOE\u03b54 allele(s). Early screening for the APOE\u03b54 allele and brain atrophy with morphometry may guide neuroprotective intervention of cognitively normal HIV subjects prior to the development of HAND. Longitudinal follow-up studies and larger sample sizes are needed to validate these cross-sectional results."}
{"id": "21795034", "title": "Brain and systemic glucose metabolism in the healthy elderly following fish oil supplementation.", "content": "Brain and systemic glucose metabolism in the healthy elderly following fish oil supplementation. Cerebral metabolic rate of glucose (CMRg) is lower in individuals affected by cognitive decline and dementia, especially in Alzheimer's disease. However, as yet there is no consensus as to whether CMRg decreases during healthy aging. Epidemiological studies show that weekly consumption of fish abundant in \u03c93 fatty acids has a protective effect on cognition during aging. Thus, the primary objective of this human study was to use positron emission tomography analysis with (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose to evaluate whether supplementation with a fish oil rich in \u03c93 fatty acids increases cerebral glucose metabolism in young or elderly adults. Healthy young (23\u00b15y old; n=5) and elderly (76\u00b13y old; n=6) women and men were included in the study. Semi-quantitative expression of the data as 'standardized uptake values' showed that elderly participants had significantly lower cerebral glucose metabolism compared with the young group. However, when expressed quantitatively a CMRg, there was no effect of age or \u03c93 supplementation on glucose metabolism in any of the brains regions studied. Higher plasma triglyceride levels and higher plasma insulin levels were associated with lower CMRg in several regions, suggesting that a trend towards the metabolic syndrome may be associated with cerebral hypometabolism. We conclude that under these experimental conditions, \u03c93 supplementation did not affect brain glucose metabolism in the healthy elderly. Future studies in this area should address whether glucose intolerance or other conditions linked to the metabolic syndrome impact negatively on brain glucose metabolism and cognition."}
{"id": "21792587", "title": "A modified method of 3D-SSP analysis for amyloid PET imaging using [\u00b9\u00b9C]BF-227.", "content": "A modified method of 3D-SSP analysis for amyloid PET imaging using [\u00b9\u00b9C]BF-227. Three-dimensional stereotactic surface projection (3D-SSP) analyses have been widely used in dementia imaging studies. However, 3D-SSP sometimes shows paradoxical results on amyloid positron emission tomography (PET) analyses. This is thought to be caused by errors in anatomical standardization (AS) based on an (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) template. We developed a new method of 3D-SSP analysis for amyloid PET imaging, and used it to analyze (11)C-labeled 2-(2-[2-dimethylaminothiazol-5-yl]ethenyl)-6-(2-[fluoro]ethoxy)benzoxazole (BF-227) PET images of subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and Alzheimer's disease (AD). The subjects were 20 with MCI, 19 patients with AD, and 17 healthy controls. Twelve subjects with MCI were followed up for 3 years or more, and conversion to AD was seen in 6 cases. All subjects underwent PET with both FDG and BF-227. For AS and 3D-SSP analyses of PET data, Neurostat (University of Washington, WA, USA) was used. Method 1 involves AS for BF-227 images using an FDG template. In this study, we developed a new method (Method 2) for AS: First, an FDG image was subjected to AS using an FDG template. Then, the BF-227 image of the same patient was registered to the FDG image, and AS was performed using the transformation parameters calculated for AS of the corresponding FDG images. Regional values were normalized by the average value obtained at the cerebellum and values were calculated for the frontal, parietal, temporal, and occipital lobes. For statistical comparison of the 3 groups, we applied one-way analysis of variance followed by the Bonferroni post hoc test. For statistical comparison between converters and non-converters, the t test was applied. Statistical significance was defined as p < 0.05. Among the 56 cases we studied, Method 1 demonstrated slight distortions after AS of the image in 16 cases and heavy distortions in 4 cases in which the distortions were not observed with Method 2. Both methods demonstrated that the values in AD and MCI patients were significantly higher than those in the controls, in the parietal, temporal, and occipital lobes. However, only Method 2 showed significant differences in the frontal lobes. In addition, Method 2 could demonstrate a significantly higher value in MCI-to-AD converters in the parietal and frontal lobes. Method 2 corrects AS errors that often occur when using Method 1, and has made appropriate 3D-SSP analysis of amyloid PET imaging possible. This new method of 3D-SSP analysis for BF-227 PET could prove useful for detecting differences between normal groups and AD and MCI groups, and between converters and non-converters."}
{"id": "21792570", "title": "Functional implications of hippocampal degeneration in early Alzheimer's disease: a combined DTI and PET study.", "content": "Functional implications of hippocampal degeneration in early Alzheimer's disease: a combined DTI and PET study. Hypometabolism of the posterior cingulate cortex (PCC) in early Alzheimer's disease (AD) is thought to arise in part due to AD-specific neuronal damage to the hippocampal formation. Here, we explored the association between microstructural alterations within the hippocampus and whole-brain glucose metabolism in subjects with AD, also in relation to episodic memory impairment. Twenty patients with early AD (Mini-Mental State Examination 25.7 \u00b1 1.7) were studied with [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography and diffusion tensor imaging. Episodic memory performance was assessed using the free delayed verbal recall task (DVR). Voxel-wise relative FDG uptake was correlated to diffusivity indices of the hippocampus, followed by extraction of FDG uptake values from significant clusters. Linear regression analysis was performed to test for unique contributions of diffusivity and metabolic indices in the prediction of memory function. Diffusivity in the left anterior hippocampus negatively correlated with FDG uptake primarily in the left anterior hippocampus, parahippocampal gyrus and the PCC (p < 0.005). The same correlation pattern was found for right hippocampal diffusivity (p < 0.05). In linear regression analysis, left anterior hippocampal diffusivity and FDG uptake from the PCC cluster were the only significant predictors for performance on DVR, together explaining 60.6% of the variance. We found an inverse association between anterior hippocampal diffusivity and PCC glucose metabolism, which was in turn strongly related to episodic memory performance in subjects with early AD. These findings support the diaschisis hypothesis of AD and implicate a dysfunction of structures along the hippocampal output pathways as a significant contributor to the genesis of episodic memory impairment."}
{"id": "21789693", "title": "[The presymptomatic stage of neurodegenerative disorders].", "content": "[The presymptomatic stage of neurodegenerative disorders]. Neurodegenerative disorders, such as Huntington's disease, spinocerebellar ataxias, Parkinson's disease or Alzheimer's disease, manifest in adult age with insidiously developing, slowly progressing symptoms. At this stage, most patients consult a doctor, and a definite diagnosis can be made. It is, however, well established that the manifest disease is preceded by a presymptomatic disease stage that may last for years. A striking example is Parkinson's disease, in which more than half of the dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra are lost before motor symptoms appear. Studies of the presymptomatic stage of neurodegenerative disorders are pivotal for an advanced understanding of these disorders and the development of preventive strategies aimed at postponing the clinical onset of these disorders. It is therefore important to identify the earliest and most sensitive clinical signs and biological markers that herald the onset of the illness. Furthermore, studies of presymptomatic disease stages are important because they may help to unravel compensatory mechanisms responsible for apparently normal brain function despite ongoing neurodegeneration."}
{"id": "21779719", "title": "Neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease: current role in clinical practice and potential future applications.", "content": "Neuroimaging in Alzheimer's disease: current role in clinical practice and potential future applications. 'Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia and its prevalence is expected to increase in the coming years. Therefore, accurate diagnosis is crucial for patients, clinicians and researchers. Neuroimaging techniques have provided invaluable information about Alzheimer's disease and, owing to recent advances, these methods will have an increasingly important role in research and clinical practice. The purpose of this article is to review recent neuroimaging studies of Alzheimer's disease that provide relevant information to clinical practice, including a new modality: in vivo amyloid imaging. Magnetic resonance imaging, single photon emission computed tomography and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography are currently available for clinical use. Patients with suspected Alzheimer's disease are commonly investigated with magnetic resonance imaging because it provides detailed images of brain structure and allows the identification of supportive features for the diagnosis. Neurofunctional techniques such as single photon emission computed tomography and 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose-positron emission tomography can also be used to complement the diagnostic investigation in cases of uncertainty. Amyloid imaging is a non-invasive technique that uses positron emission tomography technology to investigate the accumulation of the \u03b2-amyloid peptide in the brain, which is a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease. This is a promising test but currently its use is restricted to very few specialized research centers in the world. Technological innovations will probably increase its availability and reliability, which are the necessary steps to achieve robust clinical applicability. Thus, in the future it is likely that amyloid imaging techniques will be used in the clinical evaluation of patients with Alzheimer's disease."}
{"id": "21764078", "title": "Amyloid-\u03b2 and \u03c4 biomarkers in Parkinson's disease-dementia.", "content": "Amyloid-\u03b2 and \u03c4 biomarkers in Parkinson's disease-dementia. Dementia is a frequent and devastating non-motor complication of advanced Parkinson's disease (PD). There is growing evidence of a synergistic role of Alzheimer's-type brain lesions containing \u03c4 and amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) proteins and cortical Lewy aggregates in PD-related dementia (PDD). Therefore, biomarkers of both \u03c4 and A\u03b2 may be seen as diagnostic and predictive markers of PDD. Here, we review the available studies in PD and PDD using cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) total \u03c4, phospho-\u03c4, and/or A\u03b2 levels, and PET probes targeting Alzheimer's-type lesions. Overall, high CSF \u03c4 and phospho-\u03c4 levels and/or low CSF A\u03b2 levels have been found in part of PDD patients, and a longitudinal study has found greater worsening in cognitive performance over time in non-demented PD patients with low baseline CSF A\u03b2 levels. Few studies are available on the use of PET imaging in PD, all of them using the Pittsburgh B compound (PIB), and with figures of about 30% of scans with PIB uptake in the AD-range in PDD. We conclude that these CSF and PET markers deserve further evaluation as candidate biomarkers of dementia in PD. According to this, we are currently undertaking a longitudinal project on the predictive value of dementia of the combined use of CSF \u03c4 and A\u03b2 and (18)F-FDDNP PET in PD."}
{"id": "21762928", "title": "Radionuclide brain imaging correlates of cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD).", "content": "Radionuclide brain imaging correlates of cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD). A subtle cognitive impairment can be detected early in the course of Parkinson's disease (PD). Executive, memory and visuospatial functions are specifically affected, but the underlying pathophysiological basis is not well elucidated yet and may be heterogeneous. The recent identification of a PD-related cognitive metabolic pattern (PDCP), including hypometabolism in associative frontal, parietal and posterior limbic structures, has integrated the classical notion of a striato-frontal syndrome at the basis of cognitive dys-function. Recent evidence suggests that whilst executive dys-function is seen in virtually all PD patients, visuospatial and memory impairment may share a higher risk for the subsequent development of dementia. By means of perfusion SPECT and [18F]FDG-PET, cortical dys-function may be highlighted since the early stages, it is more evident in PD patients with Mild Cognitive Impairment (MCI), and reaches the maximum in PD dementia (PDD). Posterior temporo-parieto-occipital dys-function in associative and limbic cortex, closely resembling that found in Alzheimer's disease patients, is found in PDD, with a more severe occipital hypometabolism and a relatively milder hypometabolism in medial temporal lobe structures. Furthermore, deficit of acetylcholinesterase (AchE) can be found by means of [11C]MP4A-PET already in early stage of PD, especially in posterior regions, then becoming more severe in PDD and in dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Administration of AchE inhibitors to PDD patients increased brain metabolism in bilateral frontal and left parietal regions, and left posterior cingulate. Finally, the recent availability of radiopharmaceuticals able to disclose amyloid brain deposition has allowed to demonstrate amyloid load in a part of patients with PDD, possibly due to diffuse rather than neuritic plaques. Brain PET and SPECT have strongly contributed to the understanding of the pathophysiology of cognitive impairment in PD and may serve as probes to monitor the effects of therapeutic interventions."}
{"id": "21751286", "title": "Decreased brain stiffness in Alzheimer's disease determined by magnetic resonance elastography.", "content": "Decreased brain stiffness in Alzheimer's disease determined by magnetic resonance elastography. To test patient acceptance and reproducibility of the 3D magnetic resonance elastography (MRE) brain exam using a soft vibration source, and to determine if MRE could noninvasively measure a change in the elastic properties of the brain parenchyma due to Alzheimer's disease (AD). MRE exams were performed using an accelerated spin-echo echo planar imaging (EPI) pulse sequence and stiffness was calculated with a 3D direct inversion algorithm. Reproducibility of the technique was assessed in 10 male volunteers, who each underwent four MRE exams separated into two imaging sessions. The effect of AD on brain stiffness was assessed in 28 volunteers, 7 with probable AD, 14 age- and gender-matched PIB-negative (Pittsburgh Compound B, a PET amyloid imaging ligand) cognitively normal controls (CN-), and 7 age- and gender-matched PIB-positive cognitively normal controls (CN+). The median stiffness of the 10 volunteers was 3.07 kPa with a range of 0.40 kPa. The median and maximum coefficients of variation for these volunteers were 1.71% and 3.07%. The median stiffness of the 14 CN- subjects was 2.37 kPa (0.44 kPa range) compared to 2.32 kPa (0.49 kPa range) within the CN+ group and 2.20 kPa (0.33 kPa range) within the AD group. A significant difference was found between the three groups (P = 0.0055, Kruskal-Wallis one-way analysis of variance). Both the CN+ and CN- groups were significantly different from the AD group. 3D MRE of the brain can be performed reproducibly and demonstrates significantly reduced brain tissue stiffness in patients with AD."}
{"id": "21750305", "title": "Pittsburgh compound B-negative dementia: a possibility of misdiagnosis of patients with non-alzheimer disease-type dementia as having AD.", "content": "Pittsburgh compound B-negative dementia: a possibility of misdiagnosis of patients with non-alzheimer disease-type dementia as having AD. Amyloid imaging has been used to detect amyloid deposition in the brain. We performed Pittsburgh compound B (PiB)-positron emission tomography on 63 patients with dementia having cognitive decline or memory disturbance. In addition, we measured the patients' apolipoprotein E4 (apo E4) status and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) levels of amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2)1-42, tau, and P-tau. Finally, the patients were diagnosed as having probable Alzheimer disease (AD) on the basis of their neuropsychological findings and because they met the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke and the Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association criteria. Among the patients diagnosed with probable AD, 10 patients were PiB negative. The CSF levels of P-tau and tau in PiB-negative patients were significantly lower than those in the PiB-positive patients. In addition, the CSF levels of A\u03b21-42 in the PiB-negative patients were significantly higher than those in the PiB-positive patients. None of the PiB-negative patients were apo E4 carriers. These results suggest that the PiB-negative patient group included not only AD patients but also non-AD-type dementia patients. However, our finding is based on a relatively small number of patients and therefore should be replicated in a larger cohort. In addition, it will be necessary to categorize these participants by longitudinal follow-up and postmortem pathological examinations."}
{"id": "21747008", "title": "Using positron emission tomography and florbetapir F18 to image cortical amyloid in patients with mild cognitive impairment or dementia due to Alzheimer disease.", "content": "Using positron emission tomography and florbetapir F18 to image cortical amyloid in patients with mild cognitive impairment or dementia due to Alzheimer disease. To characterize quantitative florbetapir F 18 (hereafter referred to as simply florbetapir) positron emission tomographic (PET) measurements of fibrillar \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) burden in a large clinical cohort of participants with probable Alzheimer disease (AD) or mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and older healthy controls (OHCs). Cerebral-to-whole-cerebellar florbetapir standard uptake value ratios (SUVRs) were computed. Mean cortical SUVRs were compared. A threshold of SUVRs greater than or equal to 1.17 was used to reflect pathological levels of amyloid associated with AD based on separate antemortem PET and postmortem neuropathology data from 19 end-of-life patients. Similarly, a threshold of SUVRs greater than 1.08 was used to signify the presence of any identifiable A\u03b2 because this was the upper limit from a separate set of 46 individuals 18 to 40 years of age who did not carry apolipoprotein E (APOE) \u03b54. Multiple research imaging centers. A total of 68 participants with probable AD, 60 participants with MCI, and 82 OHCs who were 55 years of age or older. Main Outcome Measure Florbetapir-PET activity. All of the participants (ie, those with probable AD or MCI and those who were OHCs) differed significantly in mean (SD) cortical florbetapir SUVRs (1.39 [0.24], 1.17 [0.27], and 1.05 [0.16], respectively; P < 1.0 \u00d7 10\u207b\u2077), in percentage meeting levels of amyloid associated with AD by SUVR criteria (80.9%, 40.0%, and 20.7%, respectively; P < 1.0 \u00d7 10\u207b\u2077), and in percentage meeting SUVR criteria for the presence of any identifiable A\u03b2 (85.3%, 46.6%, and 28.1%, respectively; P < 1.0 \u00d7 10\u207b\u2077). Among OHCs, the percentage of florbetapir positivity increased linearly by age decile (P = .05). For the 54 OHCs with available APOE genotypes, APOE \u03b54 carriers had a higher mean (SD) cortical SUVR than did noncarriers (1.14 [0.2] vs 1.03 [0.16]; P = .048). The findings of our analysis confirm the ability of florbetapir-PET SUVRs to characterize amyloid levels in clinically probable AD, MCI, and OHC groups using continuous and binary measures of fibrillar A\u03b2 burden. It introduces criteria to determine whether an image is associated with an intermediate-to-high likelihood of pathologic AD or with having any identifiable cortical amyloid level above that seen in low-risk young controls."}
{"id": "21747005", "title": "Amyloid imaging: liberal or conservative? Let the data decide.", "content": "Amyloid imaging: liberal or conservative? Let the data decide."}
{"id": "21747004", "title": "Association between in vivo fluorine 18-labeled flutemetamol amyloid positron emission tomography imaging and in vivo cerebral cortical histopathology.", "content": "Association between in vivo fluorine 18-labeled flutemetamol amyloid positron emission tomography imaging and in vivo cerebral cortical histopathology. To determine the correspondence of in vivo quantitative estimates of brain uptake of fluorine 18-labeled flutemetamol with immunohistochemical estimates of amyloid levels in patients who underwent previous biopsy. Cross-sectional study of \u00b9\u2078F-flutemetamol positron emission tomography (PET) findings in patients with prior cortical biopsy specimen stained for the presence or absence of amyloid plaques. University hospital. Patients Seven patients who previously had a prior right frontal cortical biopsy at the site of ventriculoperitoneal placement for presumed normal pressure hydrocephalus were recruited. Inclusion criteria included an adequate biopsy specimen for detection and quantification of \u03b2-amyloid pathology and age older than 50 years. Intervention All patients underwent an \u00b9\u2078F-flutemetamol PET scan. Quantitative measures of \u00b9\u2078F-flutemetamol uptake (standardized uptake value ratio, a ratio of mean target cortex activity divided by that in a cerebellar reference region) were made at a location contralateral to the biopsy site and compared with estimates of amyloid load based on immunohistochemical and histological staining. There was complete agreement between visual reads of \u00b9\u2078F-flutemetamol PET scans (3 blinded readers with majority rule) and histology. A regression model, including time from biopsy as a covariate, demonstrated a significant relationship (P = .01) between \u00b9\u2078F-flutemetamol uptake and percentage of area of amyloid measured by a monoclonal antibody raised against amyloid (NAB228). Similar results were found with the amyloid-specific monoclonal antibody 4G8 and Thioflavin S. To our knowledge, these data are the first to demonstrate the concordance of \u00b9\u2078F-flutemetamol PET imaging with histopathology, supporting its sensitivity to detect amyloid and potential use in the study and detection of Alzheimer disease."}
{"id": "21741254", "title": "[18F]Fluoroazabenzoxazoles as potential amyloid plaque PET tracers: synthesis and in vivo evaluation in rhesus monkey.", "content": "[18F]Fluoroazabenzoxazoles as potential amyloid plaque PET tracers: synthesis and in vivo evaluation in rhesus monkey. An (18)F-labeled positron emission tomography (PET) tracer for amyloid plaque is desirable for early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease, particularly to enable preventative treatment once effective therapeutics are available. Similarly, such a tracer would be useful as a biomarker for enrollment of patients in clinical trials for evaluation of antiamyloid therapeutics. Furthermore, changes in the level of plaque burden as quantified by an amyloid plaque PET tracer may provide valuable insights into the effectiveness of amyloid-targeted therapeutics. This work describes our approach to evaluate and select a candidate PET tracer for in vivo quantification of human amyloid plaque. Ligands were evaluated for their in vitro binding to human amyloid plaques, lipophilicity and predicted blood-brain barrier permeability. Candidates with favorable in vitro properties were radiolabeled with (18)F and evaluated in vivo. Baseline PET scans in rhesus monkey were conducted to evaluate the regional distribution and kinetics of each tracer using tracer kinetic modeling methods. High binding potential in cerebral white matter and cortical grey matter was considered an unfavorable feature of the candidate tracers. [(18)F]MK-3328 showed the most favorable combination of low in vivo binding potential in white matter and cortical grey matter in rhesus monkeys, low lipophilicity (Log D=2.91) and high affinity for human amyloid plaques (IC(50)=10.5\u00b11.3 nM). [(18)F]MK-3328 was identified as a promising PET tracer for in vivo quantification of amyloid plaques, and further evaluation in humans is warranted."}
{"id": "21732103", "title": "Clinical significance of 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography for the assessment of 131I-metaiodobenzylguanidine therapy in malignant phaeochromocytoma.", "content": "Clinical significance of 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose positron emission tomography for the assessment of 131I-metaiodobenzylguanidine therapy in malignant phaeochromocytoma. The aim of this study was to evaluate the significance of 2-[18F]fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) in the assessment of the therapeutic response to 131I-metaiodobenzylguanidine (MIBG) in malignant phaeochromocytoma. We reviewed the records of 11 patients (7 men and 4 women) with malignant phaeochromocytoma who underwent 131I-MIBG therapy (100-200 mCi). 18F-FDG PET and serum catecholamine assays were performed 3 months before and after the first dose of 131I-MIBG. FDG uptake was evaluated in the observed lesions using the maximum standardised uptake value (SUVmax). The average SUVmax of all lesions (ASUV) was calculated. If more than five lesions were identified, the average SUVmax of the five highest SUVmax (ASUV5) was calculated. The ratio of pre- and post-therapy values was calculated for the highest SUVmax (rMSUV), ASUV (rASUV), ASUV5 (rASUV5), CT diameter (rCT) and serum catecholamine (rCA). Responder (R) and non-responder (NR) groups were defined after a clinical follow-up of at least 6 months according to changes in symptoms, CT, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and 123I-MIBG scan. Post-therapy evaluation revealed five R and six NR patients. The size of the target lesions was not significantly different before and after therapy (p>0.05). However, ASUV and ASUV5 were significantly lower in the R group (rASUV 0.64\u00b10.18, rASUV5 0.68\u00b10.17) compared to the NR group (rASUV 1.40\u00b10.54, rASUV5 1.37\u00b10.61) (p<0.05). 18F-FDG PET can be potentially used to evaluate the response of malignant phaeochromocytoma to 131I-MIBG therapy."}
{"id": "21729421", "title": "Perfusion SPECT and FDG-PET.", "content": "Perfusion SPECT and FDG-PET. Both perfusion SPECT and FDG-PET provide images that closely reflect neuronal activity. There is a characteristic regional impairment in Alzheimer\u2019s disease (AD) that involves mainly the temporo-parietal association cortices, mesial temporal structures and to a more variable degree also the frontal association cortex. This pattern of functional impairment can provide a biomarker for diagnosis of AD and other neurodegenerative dementias at the clinical stage of mild cognitive impairment, and for monitoring of progression. FDG-PET is quantitatively more accurate and thus better suited to multicenter studies than perfusion SPECT. Regional metabolic and blood flow changes are closely related to clinical symptoms, and most areas involved in these changes will also develop significant cortical atrophy. FDG-PET is complementary to amyloid PET, which targets a molecular marker that does not have a close relation to current symptoms. Current restrictions in the availability and cost of FDG-PET are being reduced, as oncological FDG-PET is being adopted as a standard clinical service in most countries. Limitations in the availability of trained staff should be overcome by training programs set up by professional organizations. Against the background of the development of new criteria for diagnosing AD before the onset of dementia, FDG-PET is expected to play an increasing role in diagnosing patients at an early stage of AD and in clinical trials of drugs aimed at preventing or delaying the onset of dementia."}
{"id": "21729418", "title": "Amyloid imaging.", "content": "Amyloid imaging. Molecular neuroimaging techniques such as PET are proving valuable in the early and differential diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD).With the advent of new therapeutic strategies aimed at reducing \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) burden in the brain to potentially prevent or delay functional and irreversible cognitive loss, there is increased interest in developing agents that allow assessment of A\u03b2 burden in vivo. Amyloid imaging with PET has proven useful in the discrimination of dementias, showing significantly higher A\u03b2 burden in the gray matter of AD patients when compared with healthy controls or patients with frontotemporal dementia. ApoE \u03b54 carriers, independent of diagnosis or disease severity, present with higher A\u03b2 burden than non-\u03b54 carriers. Amyloid imaging matches histopathological reports in aging and dementia, reflecting the true regional density of A\u03b2 plaques in cortical areas. It also appears to be more sensitive than FDG-PET for the diagnosis of AD. In healthy older people there is an increasing prevalence of amyloid positive scans with age, rising from 20% in the seventh decade to 60% in the ninth decade. Of people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), 40-60% present with detectable cortical A\u03b2 deposition. In both groups, A\u03b2 deposition is associated with a higher risk for cognitive decline and dementia due to AD. These observations suggest that A\u03b2 deposition is not part of normal aging, supporting the hypothesis that it occurs well before the onset of symptoms and is likely to represent preclinical AD in asymptomatic persons and prodromal AD in MCI. Further longitudinal observations, coupled with different disease-specific tracers and biomarkers, are required to confirm this hypothesis and further elucidate the precise role of A\u03b2 deposition in the course of AD."}
{"id": "21726674", "title": "Proteomic identification of specifically carbonylated brain proteins in APP(NLh)/APP(NLh) \u00d7 PS-1(P264L)/PS-1(P264L) human double mutant knock-in mice model of Alzheimer disease as a function of age.", "content": "Proteomic identification of specifically carbonylated brain proteins in APP(NLh)/APP(NLh) \u00d7 PS-1(P264L)/PS-1(P264L) human double mutant knock-in mice model of Alzheimer disease as a function of age. Alzheimer disease (AD) is the most common type of dementia and is characterized pathologically by the presence of neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs), senile plaques (SPs), and loss of synapses. The main component of SP is amyloid-beta peptide (A\u03b2), a 39 to 43 amino acid peptide, generated by the proteolytic cleavage of amyloid precursor protein (APP) by the action of beta- and gamma-secretases. The presenilins (PS) are components of the \u03b3-secretase, which contains the protease active center. Mutations in PS enhance the production of the A\u03b242 peptide. To date, more than 160 mutations in PS1 have been identified. Many PS mutations increase the production of the \u03b2-secretase-mediated C-terminal (CT) 99 amino acid-long fragment (CT99), which is subsequently cleaved by \u03b3-secretase to yield A\u03b2 peptides. A\u03b2 has been proposed to induce oxidative stress and neurotoxicity. Previous studies from our laboratory and others showed an age-dependent increase in oxidative stress markers, loss of lipid asymmetry, and A\u03b2 production and amyloid deposition in the brain of APP/PS1 mice. In the present study, we used APP (NLh)/APP(NLh) \u00d7 PS-1(P246L)/PS-1(P246L) human double mutant knock-in APP/PS-1 mice to identify specific targets of brain protein carbonylation in an age-dependent manner. We found a number of proteins that are oxidatively modified in APP/PS1 mice compared to age-matched controls. The relevance of the identified proteins to the progression and pathogenesis of AD is discussed."}
{"id": "21722919", "title": "P11 expression and PET in bipolar disorders.", "content": "P11 expression and PET in bipolar disorders. Bipolar disorder (BD) is a common mental disorder, subdivided into BD-I and BD-II. Currently, few biomarkers differentiate BD-I from BD-II. However, it is suggested that peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBMC) mRNA levels of p11 and positron emission tomography (PET) might be potential biomarkers for BD. Healthy controls (HCs), BD-I, and BD-II patients in remission (n\u00a0=\u00a020 in each group) underwent a resting PET study with the radiotracer [(18)F]-2-deoxy-2-fluoro-d-glucose ((18)F-FDG). PBMC p11 mRNA levels were determined by quantitative real-time PCR. Comparing BD patients to HCs, normalized glucose metabolism (NGM) was higher in the hippocampus, parahippocampus, and amygdala, but lower in the anterior cingulate cortex (aCC), medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC), insula and thalamus. Compared to BD-II, BD-I had hypometabolism of glucose in the aCC, bilateral middle and inferior gyrus, insula and striatum, and hypermetabolism of glucose in the left parahippocampus. PBMC p11 mRNA was over-expressed in both BD-I and BD-II, although there was no significant difference in its expression levels between BD-I and B-II patients. Further, there were significant positive correlations between PBMC p11 mRNA and NGM in the mPFC, aCC, left insula, bilateral orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), and left middle, inferior and superior temporal gyri. Also, PBMC p11 mRNA was positively correlated to the number of depressive episodes in BD patients, especially in BD-I patients. This study demonstrates that PBMC p11 mRNA expression is associated with neural activation in the brain of BD patients and warrants a larger translational study to determine its clinical utility."}
{"id": "21718750", "title": "Staging Alzheimer's disease progression with multimodality neuroimaging.", "content": "Staging Alzheimer's disease progression with multimodality neuroimaging. Rapid developments in medical neuroimaging have made it possible to reconstruct the trajectory of Alzheimer's disease (AD) as it spreads through the living brain. The current review focuses on the progressive signature of brain changes throughout the different stages of AD. We integrate recent findings on changes in cortical gray matter volume, white matter fiber tracts, neuropathological alterations, and brain metabolism assessed with molecular positron emission tomography (PET). Neurofibrillary tangles accumulate first in transentorhinal and cholinergic brain areas, and 4-D maps of cortical volume changes show early progressive temporo-parietal cortical thinning. Findings from diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) for assessment fiber tract integrity show cortical disconnection in corresponding brain networks. Importantly, the developmental trajectory of brain changes is not uniform and may be modulated by several factors such as onset of disease mechanisms, risk-associated and protective genes, converging comorbidity, and individual brain reserve. There is a general agreement between in vivo brain maps of cortical atrophy and amyloid pathology assessed through PET, reminiscent of post mortem histopathology studies that paved the way in the staging of AD. The association between in vivo and post mortem findings will clarify the temporal dynamics of pathophysiological alterations in the development of preclinical AD. This will be important in designing effective treatments that target specific underlying disease AD mechanisms."}
{"id": "21698414", "title": "PET molecular imaging in stem cell therapy for neurological diseases.", "content": "PET molecular imaging in stem cell therapy for neurological diseases. Human neurological diseases such as Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, spinal cord injury and multiple sclerosis are caused by loss of different types of neurons and glial cells in the brain and spinal cord. At present, there are no effective therapies against these disorders. Discovery of the therapeutic potential of stem cells offers new strategies for the treatment of neurological diseases. Direct assessment of stem cells' survival, interaction with the host and impact on neuronal functions after transplantation requires advanced in vivo imaging techniques. Positron emission tomography (PET) is a potential molecular imaging modality to evaluate the viability and function of transplanted tissue or stem cells in the nervous system. This review focuses on PET molecular imaging in stem cell therapy for neurological diseases."}
{"id": "21696776", "title": "Isolated intracranial Whipple's disease--report of a rare case and review of the literature.", "content": "Isolated intracranial Whipple's disease--report of a rare case and review of the literature. Whipple's disease (WD) is a rare multisystemic infectious disease that can involve a variety of organs namely the gastrointestinal tract, lymphatic system, heart and nervous system. Myorhythmia is a hallmark of WD. Isolated CNS involvement is very rare. We present a 50 year-old African-American woman with rapid cognitive decline, visual hallucinations, insomnia, dysarthria, and gait unsteadiness. She subsequently developed pendular nystagmus and gaze paresis. Serial brain MRI scans showed T2 hyperintense lesions in the left striatum and right parahippocampal gyrus. FDG-PET scan showed marked increase of glucose uptake in the left putamen. Serum and CSF PCR for Tropheryma whipplei was negative. Stereotactic biopsy of the lesion and tissue PCR was consistent with WD. A systematic review identified 24 cases of isolated intracranial presentation of WD since 1975. Cases with systemic and extracranial manifestations were excluded. In patients with rapidly progressive cognitive decline with negative workup for common etiologies, there should be a high index of suspicion for WD. Diagnosis of WD remains a challenge as traditional methods commonly fail to culture T. whipplei. PET scans can help in identifying areas of inflammation that can be biopsied. Our case proves that a negative serum and CSF PCR should not exclude CNS WD and a brain biopsy of the lesion with PCR assay should be performed when possible."}
{"id": "21694463", "title": "Investigation of matrix metalloproteinases, MMP-2 and MMP-9, in plasma reveals a decrease of MMP-2 in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Investigation of matrix metalloproteinases, MMP-2 and MMP-9, in plasma reveals a decrease of MMP-2 in Alzheimer's disease. Pathological changes in the Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain include amyoid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) plaques, and neurofibrillary tangles, as well as neuronal death and synaptic loss. Matrix metalloproteinases MMP-2 and MMP-9 are known to degrade A\u03b2, and their expressions are increased in the AD brain, in particular in the astrocytes surrounding amyloid plaque. To investigate a possible association between plasma metalloproteinases and AD, we quantified MMP-2 and MMP-9 activities in the plasma of healthy controls (HC, n = 56), cases with mild cognitive impairment (MCI, n = 45), and AD (n = 50). All cases had previously been imaged with Pittsburgh compound B (PiB) and had a Mini-Mental Status Examination (MMSE) assessment. MMP-2 and MMP-9 activity was determined using gelatine-zymography. There was a significant 1.5-fold decrease in MMP-2 activity in the AD group compared to HC (p < 0.001) and a 1.4-fold decrease compared to MCI (p < 0.01). There was no difference in MMP-9 levels between the three groups. A positive correlation was identified between MMP-2 plasma activity and MMSE score (r = 0.16, p < 0.05), but there was no association with PiB. This is the first report of a change in MMP-2 activity in AD plasma and these findings may provide some insight into AD pathogenesis."}
{"id": "21694449", "title": "Quantifying the pathophysiological timeline of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Quantifying the pathophysiological timeline of Alzheimer's disease. Hypothetical models of AD progression typically relate clinical stages of AD to sequential changes in CSF biomarkers, imaging, and cognition. However, quantifying the continuous trajectories proposed by these models over time is difficult because of the difficulty in relating the dynamics of different biomarkers during a clinical trial that is significantly shorter than the duration of the disease. We seek to show that through proper synchronization, it is possible to de-convolve these trends and quantify the periods of time associated with different pathophysiological changes associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). We developed a model that replicated the observed progression of ADAS-Cog 13 scores and used this as a more precise estimate of disease-duration and thus pathologic stage. We then synchronized cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and imaging biomarkers according to our new disease timeline. By de-convolving disease progression via ADAS-Cog 13, we were able to confirm the predictions of previous hypothetical models of disease progression as well as establish concrete timelines for different pathobiological events. Specifically, our work supports a sequential pattern of biomarker changes in AD in which reduction in CSF A\u03b2(42) and brain atrophy precede the increases in CSF tau and phospho-tau."}
{"id": "21694448", "title": "Review and meta-analysis of biomarkers and diagnostic imaging in Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Review and meta-analysis of biomarkers and diagnostic imaging in Alzheimer's disease. Mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) is often difficult to differentiate from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) or non-AD dementias. A multitude of diagnostic biomarkers and advanced imaging strategies have been developed to aid in the diagnosis and management of AD. We sought to review and analyze the published evidence on key test characteristics of major diagnostic strategies to formulate best estimates of sensitivity (SN) and specificity (SP). A systematic review was undertaken to locate and abstract all studies of biomarkers or diagnostic imaging for AD published in English from January 1990 to March 2010 that provided estimates of SN and SP. Meta-analysis was performed using a bivariate mixed-effects binary regression model. We calculated -SN, SP, and area under the receiver operating curves (AUROC), with confidence and prediction contours. Of 1,840 unique studies identified, 119 presented primary data sufficient for analysis. SN and SP were calculated against non-demented controls, non-AD dementias with and without MCI, if available. Compared to non-demented controls, FDG-PET demonstrated the highest AUROC (0.96), with 90% SN (95%CI 84% to 94%), and 89% SP (95% CI 81% to 94%). FDG-PET also was most accurate in discriminating AD from demented controls (including MCI) with AUROC 0.91, and 92% SN (95%CI 84% to 96%) and 78% SP (95% CI 69% to 85%). For discrimination of AD from non-AD dementias (excluding MCI), CSF Ptau, and SPECT produced identical AUROC (0.86). Diagnostic strategies for AD show wide variation in test characteristics and some show promise for use in clinical practice."}
{"id": "21673407", "title": "Cerebral serotonin 4 receptors and amyloid-\u03b2 in early Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Cerebral serotonin 4 receptors and amyloid-\u03b2 in early Alzheimer's disease. The 5-HT4 receptor may play a role in memory and learning and 5-HT4 receptor activation has been suggested to modulate acetylcholine release and to reduce amyloid-\u03b2 (A\u03b2) accumulation. The aim of this study was for the first time to investigate the in vivo cerebral 5-HT4 receptor binding in early Alzheimer disease (AD) patients in relation to cortical A\u03b2 burden. Eleven newly diagnosed untreated AD patients (mean MMSE 24, range 19-27) and twelve age- and gender-matched healthy controls underwent a two-hour dynamic [11C]SB207145 PET scan to measure the binding potential of the 5-HT4 receptor. All AD patients and eight healthy controls additionally underwent a [11C]PIB PET scan to measure the cortical A\u03b2 burden. When AD patients were defined on clinical criteria, no difference in cerebral 5-HT4 receptor binding between AD patients and healthy controls was found (p = 0.54). However, when individuals were reassigned to groups according to their amyloid status, the PIB-positive individuals had 13% higher 5-HT4 receptor levels than PIB-negative individuals (p = 0.02) and the importance of classification of groups is emphasized. The 5-HT4 receptor binding was a positively correlated to A\u03b2 burden (p = 0.03) and negatively to MMSE score of the AD patients (p = 0.02). Our data suggests that cerebral 5-HT4 receptor upregulation starts at a preclinical stage of and continues while dementia is still at a mild stage, which contrasts other receptor subtypes. We speculate that this may either be a compensatory effect of decreased levels of interstitial 5-HT, an attempt to improve cognitive function, increase acetylcholine release or to counteract A\u03b2 accumulation."}
{"id": "21640440", "title": "[Molecular neuroimaging in the study of cognitive impairment: contribution of the cerebral blood flow SPECT with 99mTc-HMPAO and 18F-FDG PET/CT scan].", "content": "[Molecular neuroimaging in the study of cognitive impairment: contribution of the cerebral blood flow SPECT with 99mTc-HMPAO and 18F-FDG PET/CT scan]. The aim of this study was to analyze cerebral perfusion and glucose metabolism in patients with cognitive impairment using cerebral blood flow (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT and (18)F-FDG PET/CT scans. Twenty-two patients with cognitive impairment were included: 4 subjective memory complaints (SMC), 8 amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI), 5 prodromic Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 5 AD. In each clinical group, (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT and (18)F-FDG PET/CT scans were performed. (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT showed regions of cerebral hypoperfusion in 15 patients and was normal in 7 of the 22 patients. (18)F-FDG PET/CT scan showed cerebral regional hypometabolism in 19 patients and was normal in the other 3 patients. The distribution of abnormalities on (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT and (18)F-FDG PET/CT scans was similar in 9 patients (2 SMC, 2 amnestic MCI, 2 prodromic AD, and 3 AD). In 6 patients (1 amnestic MCI, 2 prodromic AD, and 3 AD), FDG hypometabolism was more extensive than the cerebral hypoperfusion. Four patients (1SMC, 3 amnestic MCI) had an abnormal (18)F-FDG PET/CT scan and normal (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT. There were 3 patients (1 SMC 2, amnestic MCI) with normal (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT and (18)F-FDG PET/CT scans. (99m)Tc-HMPAO SPECT and (18)F-FDG PET/CT scans showed cerebral hypoperfusion and hypometabolism in patients with cognitive impairment, even in patients with clinical diagnosis of SMC. In patients with a normal cerebral blood flow SPECT, brain glucose cerebral hypometabolism can be detected. In some patients, the extension of FDG hypometabolism is more pronounced than that corresponding to the hypoperfusion area."}
{"id": "21618283", "title": "Frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism presenting as posterior cortical atrophy.", "content": "Frontotemporal dementia with parkinsonism presenting as posterior cortical atrophy."}
{"id": "21605674", "title": "[F-18]FDDNP microPET imaging correlates with brain A\u03b2 burden in a transgenic rat model of Alzheimer disease: effects of aging, in vivo blockade, and anti-A\u03b2 antibody treatment.", "content": "[F-18]FDDNP microPET imaging correlates with brain A\u03b2 burden in a transgenic rat model of Alzheimer disease: effects of aging, in vivo blockade, and anti-A\u03b2 antibody treatment. In vivo detection of Alzheimer's disease (AD) neuropathology in living patients using positron emission tomography (PET) in conjunction with high affinity molecular imaging probes for \u03b2-amyloid (A\u03b2) and tau has the potential to assist with early diagnosis, evaluation of disease progression, and assessment of therapeutic interventions. Animal models of AD are valuable for exploring the in vivo binding of these probes, particularly their selectivity for specific neuropathologies, but prior PET experiments in transgenic mice have yielded conflicting results. In this work, we utilized microPET imaging in a transgenic rat model of brain A\u03b2 deposition to assess [F-18]FDDNP binding profiles in relation to age-associated accumulation of neuropathology. Cross-sectional and longitudinal imaging demonstrated that [F-18]FDDNP binding in the hippocampus and frontal cortex progressively increases from 9 to 18months of age and parallels age-associated A\u03b2 accumulation. Specificity of in vivo [F-18]FDDNP binding was assessed by naproxen pretreatment, which reversibly blocked [F-18]FDDNP binding to A\u03b2 aggregrates. Both [F-18]FDDNP microPET imaging and neuropathological analyses revealed decreased A\u03b2 burden after intracranial anti-A\u03b2 antibody administration. The combination of this non-invasive imaging method and robust animal model of brain A\u03b2 accumulation allows for future longitudinal in vivo assessments of potential therapeutics for AD that target A\u03b2 production, aggregation, and/or clearance. These results corroborate previous analyses of [F-18]FDDNP PET imaging in clinical populations."}
{"id": "21605040", "title": "Molecular targets in the rational design of AD specific PET tracers: tau or amyloid aggregates?", "content": "Molecular targets in the rational design of AD specific PET tracers: tau or amyloid aggregates? A major limitation in finding therapeutic solutions for Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been the lack of a reliable method for early diagnosis of this devastating disease. Besides the development of biomarkers in biological fluids of patients, the search for a pathology-specific neuroimaging tools is critical at the present stage in which almost 30 million people suffer this disease worldwide. Several interesting approaches have been developed, however their clinical impact has been low. One of the difficulties has been to find the proper molecular tracers to specifically tag pathognomonic lesions in AD brain, including not only amyloid aggregates but also filaments of the modified microtubule-associated protein tau. In this review, we analyze the evidence towards developing pathology-specific diagnostic tools for AD. We analyze the current evidence and clinical implications of new imaging technologies for AD, and how tau hypothesis and the amyloid cascade hypothesis will impact on these scientific efforts in the near future."}
{"id": "21601614", "title": "Development of Alzheimer-disease neuroimaging-biomarkers using mouse models with amyloid-precursor protein-transgene expression.", "content": "Development of Alzheimer-disease neuroimaging-biomarkers using mouse models with amyloid-precursor protein-transgene expression. There are important recent developments in Alzheimer's disease (AD) translational research, especially with respect to the imaging of amyloid pathology in vivo using MRI and PET technologies. Here we exploit the most widely used transgenic mouse models of amyloid pathology in order to relate the imaging findings to our knowledge about the histopathological phenotype of these models. The development of new diagnostic criteria of AD necessitates the use of biological markers to diagnose AD even in the absence of overt dementia or early symptomatic mild cognitive impairment. The validity of the diagnosis will depend on the availability of an in vivo marker to reflect underlying neurobiological changes of AD. Transgenic models with essential features of AD pathology and mechanisms provide a test setting for the development and evaluation of new biological imaging markers. Among the best established imaging markers of amyloid pathology in transgenic animals are high-field MRI of brain atrophy, proton spectroscopy of neurochemical changes, high-field MRI of amyloid plaque load, and in vivo plaque imaging using radio-labelled ligands with PET. We discuss the implications of the findings as well as the methodological limitations and the specific requirements of these technologies. We furthermore outline future directions of transgene-imaging research. Transgene imaging is an emerging area of translational research that implies strong multi- and interdisciplinary collaborations. It will become ever more valuable with the introduction of new diagnostic standards and novel treatment approaches which will require valid and reliable biological markers to improve the diagnosis and early treatment of AD patients."}
{"id": "21596699", "title": "Novel FDG-PET findings in anti-NMDA receptor encephalitis: a case based report.", "content": "Novel FDG-PET findings in anti-NMDA receptor encephalitis: a case based report. The clinical manifestation and nuclear imaging findings in a 15-year-old boy with anti-N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) encephalitis are described in this case report. The previously healthy patient presented with new onset hallucinations, seizure, and within a week, his mental status rapidly deteriorated to nonverbal with oro-lingual-facial dyskinesias. An extensive laboratory work-up for encephalopathy was negative. Repeated brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies were normal. On day 26 of admission, nuclear imaging using fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) showed global hypometobolism with a prominent focally intense hypermetabolic lesion in the right cerebellar cortex. Diagnosis of anti-NMDAR encephalitis was confirmed with quantitative serology. The patient showed clinical signs of improvement after 2 courses of intravenous immunoglobulin therapy over 4 weeks. On day 46, repeat brain FDG-PET showed overall improvement but in contrast to the previous, the right cerebellar cortex showed focal hypometabolism. This is the first reported case of such findings using FDG-PET in anti-NMDAR encephalitis."}
{"id": "21590591", "title": "[A case of affective disorder with psychotic symptoms as late manifestation of Huntington's Chorea].", "content": "[A case of affective disorder with psychotic symptoms as late manifestation of Huntington's Chorea]. We report about a woman of 60 years who received psychiatric inpatient treatment for an affective disorder with psychotic symptoms on several occasions. As time elapsed symptoms of dementia became more and more obvious. Despite a comprehensive workup with neuroimaging methods (SPECT, PET) the correct diagnosis of Huntington's Chorea was not attained until the characteristic movements appeared. Up till then pathologic movements had hardly occurred and there were no known cases of Huntington's Chorea in the family. This case is remarkable as the patient was not only treated with different antidepressants and antipsychotics but with a course of ECT too. Beyond this it shows the enormous stress this illness imposes on patients and their caregivers."}
{"id": "21586914", "title": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism after pridopidine (ACR16) treatment in patients with Huntington disease.", "content": "Regional cerebral glucose metabolism after pridopidine (ACR16) treatment in patients with Huntington disease. Huntington disease is a hereditary neurodegenerative disorder resulting in loss of motor, cognitive, and behavioral functions and is characterized by a distinctive pattern of cerebral metabolic abnormalities. Pridopidine (ACR16) belongs to a novel class of central nervous system compounds in development for the treatment of Huntington disease. The objective of the study was to investigate the metabolic changes in patients with Huntington disease before and after pridopidine treatment. [(18)F]Fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomographic imaging was used to measure the regional cerebral metabolic rate of glucose at baseline and after 14 days of open-label pridopidine treatment in 8 patients with Huntington disease. Clinical assessments were performed using the Unified Huntington's Disease Rating Scale. Statistical parametric mapping analysis showed increased metabolic activity in several brain regions such as the precuneus and the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus after treatment. In addition, after pridopidine treatment, the correlation between the clinical status and the cerebral metabolic activity was strengthened. Our findings suggest that pridopidine induces metabolic changes in brain regions implicated as important for mediating compensatory mechanisms in Huntington disease. In addition, the finding of a strong relationship between clinical severity and metabolic activity after treatment also suggests that pridopidine treatment targets a Huntington disease-related metabolic activity pattern."}
{"id": "21529844", "title": "Autonomic dysfunction in PD: a window to early detection?", "content": "Autonomic dysfunction in PD: a window to early detection? It has been suggested that autonomic dysfunction constitutes a biomarker for early detection of the disease process in Parkinson disease (PD). Recent findings based on cardiac sympathetic and striatal dopaminergic imaging in the same patients indicate that this view is overly simple. Although evidence of cardiac sympathetic denervation is associated with other non-motor manifestations such as anosmia, REM behavior disorder, dementia, baroreflex failure, and orthostatic hypotension (OH), across individual patients the severities of OH and of the cardiac sympathetic lesion (indicated by thoracic 6-[(18)F]fluorodopamine PET scanning) are unrelated to the severity of the putamen dopaminergic lesion (indicated by brain 6-[(18)F]fluorodopa PET scanning). Moreover, whereas cases have been reported with neuroimaging evidence of cardiac sympathetic denervation several years before motor onset of PD, in other cases loss of cardiac sympathetic innervation progresses approximately concurrently with the movement disorder or can even occur as a late finding. Bases for independent sympathetic noradrenergic and striatal dopaminergic lesions in Lewy body diseases remain poorly understood. In elderly patients with unexplained OH or other evidence of autonomic failure, it is reasonable for clinicians to look for subtle signs of parkinsonism, such as masked facies, cogwheel rigidity, and shuffling gate."}
{"id": "21515244", "title": "Oxysterols as biomarkers in neurodegenerative diseases.", "content": "Oxysterols as biomarkers in neurodegenerative diseases. In the central nervous system cholesterol is involved in membrane structure and function. Since the blood-brain barrier efficiently prevents cholesterol uptake from the circulation, de novo synthesis is responsible for almost all cholesterol present there. In mature brain neurons down regulate their cholesterol synthesis and rely on delivery from ApoE lipoproteins secreted by astrocytes. ApoE transcription is regulated by 24S-hydroxycholesterol (24OHC) released by neurons, via LXR. In order to maintain homeostasis, excess of cholesterol is converted into 24OHC by the neuronal specific cholesterol 24-hydroxylase (CYP46A1). The brain is the major source of circulating 24OHC. Plasma levels of 24OHC reflect the number of metabolically active neurons in the brain and thus, the volume of the grey matter structures. In neurodegenerative disorders such as Multiple Sclerosis, Alzheimer and Huntington disease, plasma 24OHC was found reduced proportionally to the degree of brain atrophy as measured by MRI. Less than 1% of the total excretion of 24OHC occurs via the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). This small fraction appears to reflect neuronal damage and rate of neuronal loss rather than the total number of metabolically active neuronal cells. In CSF form patients affected by neurodegenerative diseases, increased levels of 24OHC were found. In case of Mild Cognitive Impairment and AD patients, the CSF concentration of 24OHC was correlated with CSF ApoE, cholesterol and Tau. CSF tau is considered related to the neurodegenerative process in AD, ApoE and cholesterol are involved in the \u03b2-amyloid deposition. It is likely that during process of neurodegeneration, the excess of cholesterol converted into 24OHC in neurons up-regulate the expression of ApoE proportionally to the amount of neurodegeneration. 27-Hydroxycholesterol (27OHC), formed outside the brain, cross the blood-brain barrier proportionally to the barrier dysfunction. There is a positive correlation between levels of cholesterol and 27OHC in the circulation. This oxysterol antagonizes the preventive effect of 24OHC on generation of \u03b2-amyloid. A rare hereditary disease, SPG5, due to mutation at CYP7B1, is characterized by massive neurodegeneration associated to high plasma and CSF 27OHC. Since its CSF levels were found higher in MCI and AD patients, 27OHC may be the link between hypercholesterolemia and AD. In conclusion the analysis of oxysterols in plasma and CSF seems to contribute to investigate the role of cholesterol metabolism in pathogenesis of neurodegeneration and is helpful in the study of patients affected by neurodegenerative diseases."}
{"id": "21479849", "title": "In vivo demonstration of amyloid burden in posterior cortical atrophy: a case series with PET and CSF findings.", "content": "In vivo demonstration of amyloid burden in posterior cortical atrophy: a case series with PET and CSF findings. Our objective was to evaluate amyloid deposition in posterior cortical atrophy (PCA), using both cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarker analysis and amyloid imaging. Five PCA patients, selected based on their neuropsychological profile and atrophic changes in posterior regions on MRI, underwent CSF analysis. CSF amyloid-beta 1-42, total tau, and phosphorylated tau at threonine 181 levels were determined. They also had positron emission tomography (PET) with Pittsburgh Compound B ([(11)C]PIB). [(11)C]PIB ratio images were assessed with visual, regional and voxel-based analyses and compared to eight typical Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and eight controls. The biological profile in the five PCA patients, resulting from CSF and [(11)C]PIB images analysis, was consistent with AD. Individual comparisons of PCA patients' [(11)C]PIB images with the AD group with Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) revealed a distinctive posterior uptake in four out of the five patients showing increased amyloid deposition in occipital, temporal, and/or parietal regions. ROI group analysis showed a tendency for higher amyloid deposition in occipital and temporal regions. However, this pattern was not found with SPM group analysis when the global level of [(11)C]PIB uptake was used as a covariate. Our results indicate that amyloid burden can be demonstrated in vivo in PCA suggesting a diagnosis of AD. PCA patients may present a higher global amyloid load than AD that was not related to age at onset, disease severity, disease duration, or educational level in our study. Combined CSF and PET biomarkers seem helpful for in vivo diagnosis of this focal syndrome with underlying AD pathology."}
{"id": "21434859", "title": "PET and SPECT radiotracers to assess function and expression of ABC transporters in vivo.", "content": "PET and SPECT radiotracers to assess function and expression of ABC transporters in vivo. Adenosine triphosphate-binding cassette (ABC) transporters, such as P-glycoprotein (Pgp, ABCB1), breast cancer resistance protein (BCRP, ABCG2) and multidrug resistance-associated proteins (MRPs) are expressed in high concentrations at various physiological barriers (e.g. blood-brain barrier, blood-testis barrier, blood-tumor barrier), where they impede the tissue accumulation of various drugs by active efflux transport. Changes in ABC transporter expression and function are thought to be implicated in various diseases, such as cancer, epilepsy, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease. The availability of a non-invasive imaging method which allows for measuring ABC transporter function or expression in vivo would be of great clinical use in that it could facilitate the identification of those patients that would benefit from treatment with ABC transporter modulating drugs. To date three different kinds of imaging probes have been described to measure ABC transporters in vivo: i) radiolabelled transporter substrates ii) radiolabelled transporter inhibitors and iii) radiolabelled prodrugs which are enzymatically converted into transporter substrates in the organ of interest (e.g. brain). The design of new imaging probes to visualize efflux transporters is inter alia complicated by the overlapping substrate recognition pattern of different ABC transporter types. The present article will describe currently available ABC transporter radiotracers for positron emission tomography (PET) and single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and critically discuss strengths and limitations of individual probes and their potential clinical applications."}
{"id": "21406255", "title": "The role of \u03b2-amyloid peptide in neurodegenerative diseases.", "content": "The role of \u03b2-amyloid peptide in neurodegenerative diseases. Studies of neurodegenerative disorders (NDDs) are drawing more attention of researchers worldwide due to the high incidence of Alzheimer's disease (AD). The pathophysiology of such disorders is, in part, characterized by the transition of a wild-type peptide from its native conformation into a very stable pathological isoform. Subsequently, these abnormal proteins form aggregates of amyloid fibrils that continuously increase in size. Changes in the metabolic processes of neurons (e.g. oxidative stress, hyperphosphorylation of the tau protein, and resulting secondary changes in the cell metabolism) ultimately lead to cell death. We hypothesize that extracellular deposition of \u03b2-amyloid peptide fibrils and neurofibrillary tangles represents the body's adaptation mechanism, aimed at preservation of autonomic functioning; while the cognitive decline is severe, the rest of the organ systems remain unaffected and continue to function. This hypothesis is supported by the fact that destruction of pathological plaques, fibrils, and tangles and the use of vaccines targeting \u03b2-amyloid result in undesirable side effects. To gain a better understanding of the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease and to develop novel therapies, continued studies of the sporadic form of disease and the mechanisms triggering conformational changes in \u03b2-amyloid peptide fragments are essential. This review is focused on studies investigating the formation of amyloid fibrils and their role in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. In addition, we discuss a related disorder--amyloidosis--where formation of fibrils, tangles, and plaques leads to neuronal death which may occur as a result of a failed adaptation process. Further in-depth investigation and comprehensive analysis of alterations in the metabolism of APP, \u03b2-amyloid, and tau protein, which have a pathological effect on cell membrane, alter phosphate exchange, and impair other key metabolic functions of the cell long before the characteristic amyloid deposition takes place, is warranted. A better understanding of intraneuronal processes is crucial in identifying specific inhibitors of pathologic neuronal processes and, consequently, will allow for targeted therapy, thus maximizing efficacy of selected therapeutic regimens."}
{"id": "21383234", "title": "Relationships between \u03b2-amyloid and functional connectivity in different components of the default mode network in aging.", "content": "Relationships between \u03b2-amyloid and functional connectivity in different components of the default mode network in aging. Although beta-amyloid (A\u03b2) deposition is a characteristic feature of Alzheimer's disease (AD), this pathology is commonly found in elderly normal controls (NC). The pattern of A\u03b2 deposition as detected with Pittsburgh compound-B positron emission tomography (PIB-PET) imaging shows substantial spatial overlap with the default mode network (DMN), a group of brain regions that typically deactivates during externally driven cognitive tasks. In this study, we show that DMN functional connectivity (FC) during rest is altered with increasing levels of PIB uptake in NC. Specifically, FC decreases were identified in regions implicated in episodic memory (EM) processing (posteromedial cortex, ventral medial prefrontal cortex, and angular gyrus), whereas connectivity increases were detected in dorsal and anterior medial prefrontal and lateral temporal cortices. This pattern of decreases is consistent with previous studies that suggest heightened vulnerability of EM-related brain regions in AD, whereas the observed increases in FC may reflect a compensatory response."}
{"id": "21335660", "title": "Clinical phenotype of G206D mutation in the presenilin 1 gene in pathologically confirmed familial Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Clinical phenotype of G206D mutation in the presenilin 1 gene in pathologically confirmed familial Alzheimer's disease. Familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) is genetically heterogeneous, autosomal dominant, with nearly 100% penetrance. In FAD, most common causative genetic mutations are presenilin 1 (PSEN1), presenilin 2 and amyloid-\u03b2 protein precursor. We demonstrate a family presenting as early-onset AD with a rapid deterioration course and seizure developed after 1.5 years of symptoms. A histopathological examination of the frontal cortex showed amyloid deposition and abundant phosphorylated tau deposition. In both cases, a single nucleotide mutation from guanine to adenine at exon 7 was found in PSEN1 (c.617G>A, codon change from GGT to GAT). Though G206D mutation in PSEN1 gene was found in FAD, no clinical phenotype or pathological finding was documented. This is the first report of PSEN1 mutation (Gly206Asp) with features of seizure and a rapid progressive cognitive decline in a pathologically confirmed case of FAD."}
{"id": "21329844", "title": "Positron emission tomography measurement of periodontal 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake is associated with histologically determined carotid plaque inflammation.", "content": "Positron emission tomography measurement of periodontal 18F-fluorodeoxyglucose uptake is associated with histologically determined carotid plaque inflammation. This study aimed to test the hypothesis that metabolic activity within periodontal tissue (a possible surrogate for periodontal inflammation) predicts inflammation in a remote atherosclerotic vessel, utilizing (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. Several lines of evidence establish periodontal disease as an important risk factor for atherosclerosis. FDG-PET imaging is an established method for measuring metabolic activity in human tissues and blood vessels. One hundred twelve patients underwent FDG-PET imaging 92 \u00b1 5 min after FDG administration (13 to 25 mCi). Periodontal FDG uptake was measured by obtaining standardized uptake values from the periodontal tissue of each patient, and the ratio of periodontal to background (blood) activity was determined (TBR). Standardized uptake value measurements were obtained in the carotid and aorta as well as in a venous structure. Localization of periodontal, carotid, and aortic activity was facilitated by PET coregistration with computed tomography or magnetic resonance imaging. A subset of 16 patients underwent carotid endarterectomy within 1 month of PET imaging, during which atherosclerotic plaques were removed and subsequently stained with anti-CD68 antibodies to quantify macrophage infiltration. Periodontal FDG uptake was compared with carotid plaque macrophage infiltration. Periodontal FDG uptake (TBR) is associated with carotid TBR (R = 0.64, p < 0.0001), as well as aortic TBR (R = 0.38; p = 0.029). Moreover, a strong relationship was observed between periodontal TBR and histologically assessed inflammation within excised carotid artery plaques (R = 0.81, p < 0.001). FDG-PET measurements of metabolic activity within periodontal tissue correlate with macrophage infiltration within carotid plaques. These findings provide direct evidence for an association between periodontal disease and atherosclerotic inflammation."}
{"id": "21300136", "title": "Apocynin administration does not improve behavioral and neuropathological deficits in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "Apocynin administration does not improve behavioral and neuropathological deficits in a transgenic mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. In addition to mitochondria, NADPH oxidase (NOX) is a source of oxidative stress, which can induce oxidative damage in Alzheimer's disease (AD). For this reason, several groups have investigated the effect of its inhibition. In AD mice, NADPH oxidase 2 (NOX2) deficiency improved behavior and cerebrovascular function, and reduced oxidative stress. In our study, we administered the NOX inhibitor apocynin to Tg19959 mice, and found that it did not improve cognitive and synaptic deficits, and did not decrease amyloid deposition, microgliosis and hyperphosphorylated tau. However, apocynin reduced carbonyl levels in the cerebral cortex but not the hippocampus, which may have not been sufficient to ameliorate symptoms. Also, the reduction of NOX-mediated oxidative stress may not be sufficient to prevent AD, since other sources of reactive oxygen species such as mitochondria may be more important."}
{"id": "21269332", "title": "An immunohistochemical study of the serotonin 1A receptor in the hippocampus of subjects with Alzheimer's disease.", "content": "An immunohistochemical study of the serotonin 1A receptor in the hippocampus of subjects with Alzheimer's disease. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with neuronal degeneration, synaptic loss and deficits in multiple neurotransmitter systems. Alterations in the serotonin 1A (5-HT1A) receptor can contribute to impaired cognitive function in AD, and both in vitro binding and Positron emission tomography (PET) imaging studies have demonstrated that 5-HT1A receptors in the hippocampus/medial temporal cortex are affected early in AD. This neuropathological study examined the localization and immunoreaction intensity of 5-HT1A receptor protein in AD hippocampus with the goal to determine whether neuronal receptor levels are influenced by the severity of NFT severity defined by Braaks' pathological staging and to provide immunohistochemical confirmation of the binding assays and PET imaging studies. Subjects included AD patients and non-AD controls (NC) stratified into three Braaks' stages (Braak 0-II, NC; Braak III/IV and V/VI, AD). In the Braak 0-II group, 5-HT1A-immunoreactivity (ir) was prominent in the neuropil of the CA1 and subiculum, moderate in the dentate gyrus molecular layer (DGml), and low in the CA3 and CA4. No changes in 5-HT1A-ir were observed in the hippocampus of AD subjects in the Braak III/IV group. Hippocampal 5-HT1A-ir intensity was markedly decreased in the CA1 region in 6/11 (54.5%) subjects in the Braak V/VI group. Across all three groups combined, there was a statistically significant association between reduced 5HT1A-ir and neuronal loss in the CA1, but not in the CA3. The present data demonstrate that hippocampal 5-HT1A receptors are mainly preserved until the end-stage of NFT progression in AD. Thus, the utility of PET imaging using a 5-HT1A-specific radiolabeled probe as a marker of hippocampal neuronal loss may be limited to the CA1 field in advanced stage AD cases."}
{"id": "21221517", "title": "[Diagnosis without therapy: early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease in the stage of mild cognitive impairment].", "content": "[Diagnosis without therapy: early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease in the stage of mild cognitive impairment]. Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a histopathologically defined progressive neurodegenerative disorder. Its clinical manifestation can be subdivided into the stage of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and the stage of dementia. According to ICD-10 the diagnosis of AD can only be made in the stage of dementia. The indication for anti-dementia drugs is restricted to the stage of dementia in AD, too. Diagnostic tools to detect AD have improved considerably in recent years. They include the MRI findings of atrophy of the medial temporal lobe, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biomarkers \u03b2-amyloid and \u03c4, the visualisation of metabolic deficits on positron emission tomography (PET) using [(18)F]-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose (FDG) and the emerging possibility to demonstrate amyloid deposits in vivo using PET ligands. The application of these methods allows the diagnosis of AD to be established already in the stage of MCI. While diagnostic methods improve and enable us to make the diagnosis of AD very early, there is no such progress in the development of treatment options. Early diagnosis of AD appears to have benefits and drawbacks. It is most important to include the patient in the decision on early diagnosis and to make clear that there is a lack of therapeutic options if the diagnosis is positive."}
{"id": "21157026", "title": "Long-term effects of galantamine treatment on brain functional activities as measured by PET in Alzheimer's disease patients.", "content": "Long-term effects of galantamine treatment on brain functional activities as measured by PET in Alzheimer's disease patients. The effects of galantamine (16 to 24 mg/day) treatment on brain functional activities (blood flow and glucose metabolism) were examined in 18 patients with mild Alzheimer's disease (AD) in relation to brain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity and nicotinic receptors and cognitive function. The study consisted of an initial double-blind phase of three months (short-term) followed by an open-label phase until twelve months after the beginning of the study (long-term). The AD patients underwent positron emission tomography (PET) studies with the tracers [15O]-H2O for measurement of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) at baseline, 3 weeks, 3 and 12 months treatment, and [18F]-fluoro-deoxyglucose (FDG) for measurement of regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRglc) at baseline and 12 months. A battery of neuropsychological assessments was performed on each patient in order to follow changes in cognition during the treatment period. Throughout the study, different cortical areas showed significant increases in rCBF after galantamine treatment. rCBF positively correlated with AChE activity, nicotinic receptors and cognition. In addition to these positive changes, an increase in rCMRglc in the frontal brain region and stabilization in other cortical areas was observed after 12 months galantamine treatment. This stabilization in rCMRglc was also correlated with a stabilization of cognition. Our results ultimately suggest that treatment with galantamine has a long-term positive effect on brain perfusion and rCMRglc and stabilizes cognition."}
{"id": "20938780", "title": "Early signs of VCP-related frontotemporal dementia: a neuropsychological, FDG-PET and fMRI study.", "content": "Early signs of VCP-related frontotemporal dementia: a neuropsychological, FDG-PET and fMRI study."}
{"id": "20886575", "title": "Distinct functional networks associated with improvement of affective symptoms and cognitive function during citalopram treatment in geriatric depression.", "content": "Distinct functional networks associated with improvement of affective symptoms and cognitive function during citalopram treatment in geriatric depression. Variability in the affective and cognitive symptom response to antidepressant treatment has been observed in geriatric depression. The underlying neural circuitry is poorly understood. This study evaluated the cerebral glucose metabolic effects of citalopram treatment and applied multivariate, functional connectivity analyses to identify brain networks associated with improvements in affective symptoms and cognitive function. Sixteen geriatric depressed patients underwent resting positron emission tomography (PET) studies of cerebral glucose metabolism and assessment of affective symptoms and cognitive function before and after 8 weeks of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor treatment (citalopram). Voxel-wise analyses of the normalized glucose metabolic data showed decreased cerebral metabolism during citalopram treatment in the anterior cingulate gyrus, middle temporal gyrus, precuneus, amygdala, and parahippocampal gyrus. Increased metabolism was observed in the putamen, occipital cortex, and cerebellum. Functional connectivity analyses revealed two networks which were uniquely associated with improvement of affective symptoms and cognitive function during treatment. A subcortical-limbic-frontal network was associated with improvement in affect (depression and anxiety), while a medial temporal-parietal-frontal network was associated with improvement in cognition (immediate verbal learning/memory and verbal fluency). The regions that comprise the cognitive network overlap with the regions that are affected in Alzheimer's dementia. Thus, alterations in specific brain networks associated with improvement of affective symptoms and cognitive function are observed during citalopram treatment in geriatric depression."}
{"id": "20886576", "title": "Extrastriatal dopamine D(2) receptor binding in Huntington's disease.", "content": "Extrastriatal dopamine D(2) receptor binding in Huntington's disease. Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder, primarily affecting medium spiny neurones in the striatum. The density of striatal dopamine D(2) receptors is reduced in HD but there is little known about this biomarker in brain regions outside the striatum. The primary objective of this study was to compare extrastriatal dopamine D(2) receptor binding, in age-matched control subjects and patients with HD. All subjects were examined using a high-resolution positron emission tomography system and the high-affinity dopamine D(2) receptor radioligand [(11) C]FLB 457. A ROI based analysis was used with an atrophy correction method. Dopamine D(2) receptor binding potential was reduced in the striatum of patients with HD. Unlike the striatum, dopamine D(2) receptor binding in thalamic and cortical subregions was not significantly different from that in control subjects. A partial least square regression analysis which included binding potential values from all investigated cortical and subcortical regions revealed a significant model separating patients from controls, conclusively dependent on differences in striatal binding of the radioligand. Some clinical assessments correlated with striatal dopamine D(2) receptor binding, including severity of chorea and cognitive test performance. Hence, the present study demonstrates that dopamine D(2) receptors extrinsic to the striatum are well preserved in early to mid stage patients with HD. This observation may have implication for the development of therapy for HD."}
{"id": "20880270", "title": "The effect of age on motor deficits and cerebral glucose metabolism of Parkinson's disease.", "content": "The effect of age on motor deficits and cerebral glucose metabolism of Parkinson's disease. No systematic study has been made to separate age-related clinical deterioration and dysfunctional brain areas from those associated with Parkinson's disease (PD). This study included 73 de novo patients with PD and 43 age-matched controls. All subjects underwent [(18)F]-fluorodeoxy glucose (FDG) positron emission tomography studies. The severity of parkinsonian motor deficit was measured using unified PD rating scale (UPDRS) motor scores. Multiple linear regression analysis was used to identify those parkinsonian motor deficits for which severity was correlated with the age of the patients and to locate brain areas in which normalized FDG uptake values were inversely correlated with the age of the subjects. Patient age was positively correlated with total UPDRS motor scores and with subscores for bradykinesia and axial motor deficits, but not with subscores for tremor and rigidity. In the control group, an age-related decline in glucose uptake was found only in the cingulate cortex. However, in the patient group, an inverse correlation between age and glucose uptake was observed in the prefrontal, cingulate, orbitofrontal, perisylvian areas, caudate, and thalamus. In PD, widespread age-related decline in cerebral function may exaggerate the deterioration associated with bradykinesia and the axial motor deficits associated with nigral neuronal loss."}
{"id": "20553306", "title": "Seeking brain biomarkers for preventive therapy in Huntington disease.", "content": "Seeking brain biomarkers for preventive therapy in Huntington disease. Huntington disease (HD) is a severe incurable nervous system disease that generally has an onset age of around 35-50, and is caused by a dominantly transmitted expansion mutation. A genetic test allows persons at risk, i.e., offspring or siblings of affected individuals, to discover their genetic status. Unaffected mutation-positive subjects will manifest HD sometime during life. Despite major advances in research on pathogenic mechanisms, no studies have yet fully validated preventive therapy or biomarkers for use before the symptoms become clinically manifest. Seeking brain and peripheral biomarkers is a requisite to develop a cure for HD. Changes in the brain can be observed in vivo using methods such as structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), functional MRI (fMRI), and positron emission tomography (PET), detecting volumetric changes, microstructural and connectivity alterations, abnormalities in brain activity in response to specific tasks, and abnormalities in metabolism and receptor distribution. Although all these imaging techniques can detect early markers in asymptomatic HD gene carriers for premanifest screening and pharmacological responses to therapeutic interventions no single modality has yet provided and validated an optimal marker probably because this task requires an integrative multimodal imaging approach. In this article, we review the findings from imaging procedures in the attempt to identify potential brain markers, so-called dry biomarkers, for possible application to further, yet unavailable, neuroprotective preventive therapies for HD manifestations."}
{"id": "20538374", "title": "Differential levels of apolipoprotein E and butyrylcholinesterase show strong association with pathological signs of Alzheimer's disease in the brain in vivo.", "content": "Differential levels of apolipoprotein E and butyrylcholinesterase show strong association with pathological signs of Alzheimer's disease in the brain in vivo. Recently, we reported that 3 of the known risk factors of Alzheimer's disease (AD), i.e., advanced age, apolipoprotein E (ApoE) \u03b54, and female gender, are associated with differential levels of ApoE proteins and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of AD patients. The ApoE \u03b54 allele and certain BuChE polymorphisms synergistically affect the conversion rate of mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to AD. Here, we investigated interrelationships between ApoE and BuChE levels, and pathological markers of AD in vivo. CSF from patients with probable AD, assessed for cerebral glucose metabolism (CMRglc; n = 50) and Pittsburgh compound B (PIB) retention (\u03b2-amyloid [A\u03b2] load, n = 29) by positron emission tomography (PET), was used for measurement of BuChE, ApoE, A\u03b2, tau, phosphorylated tau (P-tau) and interleukin-1\u03b2 (IL-1\u03b2) levels. Levels of ApoE and BuChE strongly correlated with CMRglc (fluorodeoxyglucose [FDG]-PET, r = 0.54, p < 0.0001, n = 50), cerebral A\u03b2 load (PIB retention, r = 0.73, p < 0.0001, n = 29), and CSF P-tau (r = 0.73, p < 0.0001, n = 33). High ApoE protein was tied to low CMRglc and high PIB retention and P-tau. BuChE levels had opposite relationships. Other CSF covariates were levels of interleukin-1\u03b2 and A\u03b2(42) peptide. The pattern of the patients' cognitive Z-scores strongly supported these observations. High ApoE protein was also linked to changes in 3 of the biodynamic properties of BuChE. In vitro analysis indicated that high ApoE protein levels were related to an increased pool of dormant BuChE molecules with an abnormally high intrinsic catalytic rate in CSF, which was \"turned on\" by excess A\u03b2 peptides. The findings suggest that abnormally high levels of ApoE may play a causative role in the pathological events of AD, particularly those involving the early cholinergic deficit in the AD brain, through modulation of cholinesterases activities, hence disturbing the acetylcholine-dependent activity of neurons and nonexcitable cells such as glial cells."}
{"id": "20176414", "title": "Lack of association between 11C-PiB and longitudinal brain atrophy in non-demented older individuals.", "content": "Lack of association between 11C-PiB and longitudinal brain atrophy in non-demented older individuals. Amyloid-\u03b2 plaques (A\u03b2) are a hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD), begin deposition decades before the incipient disease, and are thought to be associated with neuronal loss, brain atrophy and cognitive impairment. We examine associations between (11)C-PiB-PET measurement of A\u03b2 burden and brain volume changes in the preceding years in 57 non-demented individuals (age 64-86; M=78.7). Participants were prospectively followed through the Baltimore Longitudinal Study of Aging, with up to 10 consecutive MRI scans (M=8.1) and an (11)C-PiB scan approximately 10 years after the initial MRI. Linear mixed effects models were used to determine whether mean cortical (11)C-PiB distribution volume ratios, estimated by fitting a reference tissue model to the measured time activity curves, were associated with longitudinal regional brain volume changes of the whole brain, ventricular CSF, frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital white and gray matter, the hippocampus, orbito-frontal cortex, and the precuneus. Despite significant longitudinal declines in the volumes of all investigated regions (p<0.05), no associations were detected between current A\u03b2 burden and regional brain volume decline trajectories in the preceding years, nor did the regional volume trajectories differ between those with highest and lowest A\u03b2 burden. Consistent with a threshold model of disease, our findings suggest that A\u03b2 load does not seem to affect brain volume changes in individuals without dementia."}
{"id": "20135628", "title": "Vesicular monoamine transporters: structure-function, pharmacology, and medicinal chemistry.", "content": "Vesicular monoamine transporters: structure-function, pharmacology, and medicinal chemistry. Vesicular monoamine transporters (VMAT) are responsible for the uptake of cytosolic monoamines into synaptic vesicles in monoaminergic neurons. Two closely related VMATs with distinct pharmacological properties and tissue distributions have been characterized. VMAT1 is preferentially expressed in neuroendocrine cells and VMAT2 is primarily expressed in the CNS. The neurotoxicity and addictive properties of various psychostimulants have been attributed, at least partly, to their interference with VMAT2 functions. The quantitative assessment of the VMAT2 density by PET scanning has been clinically useful for early diagnosis and monitoring of the progression of Parkinson's and Alzheimer's diseases and drug addiction. The classical VMAT2 inhibitor, tetrabenazine, has long been used for the treatment of chorea associated with Huntington's disease in the United Kingdom, Canada, and Australia, and recently approved in the United States. The VMAT2 imaging may also be useful for exploiting the onset of diabetes mellitus, as VMAT2 is also expressed in the \u03b2-cells of the pancreas. VMAT1 gene SLC18A1 is a locus with strong evidence of linkage with schizophrenia and, thus, the polymorphic forms of the VMAT1 gene may confer susceptibility to schizophrenia. This review summarizes the current understanding of the structure-function relationships of VMAT2, and the role of VMAT2 on addiction and psychostimulant-induced neurotoxicity, and the therapeutic and diagnostic applications of specific VMAT2 ligands. The evidence for the linkage of VMAT1 gene with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder I is also discussed."}
{"id": "20052508", "title": "Impact of bifunctional chelators on biological properties of 111In-labeled cyclic peptide RGD dimers.", "content": "Impact of bifunctional chelators on biological properties of 111In-labeled cyclic peptide RGD dimers. The present study describes the synthesis and biological evaluation of (111)In(DOTA-3P-RGD(2)) (DOTA = 1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclo-dodecane-1,4,7,10-tetraacetic acid; 3P-RGD(2) = PEG(4)-E[PEG(4)-c(RGDfK)](2); PEG(4) = 15-amino-4,7,10,13-tetraoxapentadecanoic acid), (111)In(DTPA-3P-RGD(2)) (DTPA = diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid) and (111)In(DTPA-Bn-3P-RGD(2)) (DTPA-Bn = 2-(p-thioureidobenzyl)-diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid) as potential radiotracers for imaging tumor integrin \u03b1(v)\u03b2(3) expression in athymic nude mice bearing U87MG glioma xenografts. The aim of the study is to assess the impact of the bifunctional chelator (BFC) (DOTA vs. DTPA or DTPA-Bn) on the biodistribution characteristics of the (111)In-labeled 3P-RGD(2). IC(50) values of DOTA-3P-RGD(2), DTPA-3P-RGD(2) and DTPA-Bn-3P-RGD(2) were determined to be 1.3 \u00b1 0.2, 1.4 \u00b1 0.3, 1.3 \u00b1 0.3 nM, respectively, against (125)I-c(RGDyK) bound to U87MG human glioma cells. Radiotracers were prepared by reacting (111)InCl(3) with the RGD peptide conjugates in NH(4)OAc buffer (100 mM, pH 5.5). For DOTA-3P-RGD(2), successful radiolabeling could be completed by heating the reaction mixture at 100\u00b0C for 15-20 min. For DTPA-3P-RGD(2) and DTPA-Bn-3P-RGD(2), the radiolabeling was almost instantaneous at room temperature. The specific activity was ~50 mCi/mg (or ~100 mCi/\u03bcmol) for (111)In(DOTA-3P-RGD(2)) and ~200 mCi/mg (or ~400 mCi/\u03bcmol) for (111)In(DTPA-3P-RGD(2)). The results from biodistribution studies showed that all the three radiotracers have high tumor uptake and excellent tumor-to-background (T/B) ratios up to 4-h postinjection. After that time point, both (111)In(DTPA-3P-RGD(2)) and (111)In(DTPA-Bn-3P-RGD(2)) showed a much faster tumor washout and poorer T/B ratios than (111)In(DOTA-3P-RGD(2)). The tumor uptake of (111)In(DOTA-3P-RGD(2)) is integrin \u03b1(v)\u03b2(3)- and RGD-specific. (111)In(DOTA-3P-RGD(2)) is metabolically stable while only ~25% of (111)In(DTPA-Bn-3P-RGD(2)) remains intact in the feces during 2-h period. On the basis of results from this study, it was concluded that (111)In(DTPA-3P-RGD(2)) can be an effective integrin \u03b1(v)\u03b2(3)-targeted radiotracer if the high-specific activity is required. However, DOTA remains to be the BFC of choice for the development of therapeutic lanthanide radiotracers."}
{"id": "19796846", "title": "Glucose metabolism and PIB binding in carriers of a His163Tyr presenilin 1 mutation.", "content": "Glucose metabolism and PIB binding in carriers of a His163Tyr presenilin 1 mutation. Six young related pre-symptomatic carriers of a His163Tyr mutation in the presenilin 1 gene who will develop early onset familial Alzheimer's disease (eoFAD), and a control group of 23 non-carriers underwent (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG PET). The mutation carriers were followed-up after 2 years. Multivariate analysis showed clear separation of carriers from non-carriers on both occasions, with the right thalamus being the region contributing most to group differentiation. Statistical parametric mapping (SPM) revealed in the carriers non-significantly lower thalamic cerebral glucose metabolism (CMRglc) at baseline and significantly decreased CMRglc in the right thalamus at follow-up. One mutation carrier was followed-up with FDG PET 10 years after baseline and showed reductions in cognition and CMRglc in the posterior cingulate and the frontal cortex. This subject was diagnosed with AD 1 year later and assessed with an additional FDG as well as an (11)C-PIB PET scan 12 years after baseline. Global cortical CMRglc and cognition were distinctly decreased. PIB binding was comparable with sporadic AD patterns but showing slightly higher striatal levels."}
{"id": "19660834", "title": "Associations between cognitive, functional, and FDG-PET measures of decline in AD and MCI.", "content": "Associations between cognitive, functional, and FDG-PET measures of decline in AD and MCI. The Functional Activities Questionnaire (FAQ) and Alzheimer's Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog) are frequently used indices of cognitive decline in Alzheimer's disease (AD). The goal of this study was to compare FDG-PET and clinical measurements in a large sample of elderly subjects with memory disturbance. We examined relationships between glucose metabolism in FDG-PET regions of interest (FDG-ROIs), and ADAS-cog and FAQ scores in AD and mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients enrolled in the Alzheimer's Disease Neuroimaging Initiative (ADNI). Low glucose metabolism at baseline predicted subsequent ADAS-cog and FAQ decline. In addition, longitudinal glucose metabolism decline was associated with concurrent ADAS-cog and FAQ decline. Finally, a power analysis revealed that FDG-ROI values have greater statistical power than ADAS-cog to detect attenuation of cognitive decline in AD and MCI patients. Glucose metabolism is a sensitive measure of change in cognition and functional ability in AD and MCI, and has value in predicting future cognitive decline."}
{"id": "21921517", "title": "[J-ADNI].", "content": "[J-ADNI]."}
{"id": "21921451", "title": "[Current amyloid imaging].", "content": "[Current amyloid imaging]."}
