{"id": "23446185", "title": "Logistics of transfusion support for patients with massive hemorrhage.", "content": "Logistics of transfusion support for patients with massive hemorrhage. Traditionally, trauma resuscitation protocols have advocated sequential administration of therapeutic components, beginning with crystalloid solutions infused to replace lost intravascular volume. However, rapid restoration of the components of blood is essential for ensuring adequate tissue perfusion and for preventing acidosis, coagulopathy, and hypothermia, referred to as the 'lethal triad' in trauma settings. The review summarizes practical approaches for transfusion support of patients with massive hemorrhage. Massive transfusion protocols for blood transfusion support are reviewed, including practical considerations from our own. We maintain an inventory of thawed, previously frozen plasma (four units each of blood group O and A), which can be issued immediately for patients in whom the blood type is known. As frozen plasma requires 45\u200amin to thaw, liquid AB plasma (26 day outdate) functions as an excellent alternative, particularly for patients with unknown or blood group B or AB types. Close monitoring of bleeding and coagulation in trauma patients allows goal-directed transfusions to optimize patients' coagulation, reduce exposure to blood products, and to improve patient outcomes. Future studies are needed to understand and demonstrate improved patient outcomes."}
{"id": "23425732", "title": "Platelets are dominant contributors to hypercoagulability after injury.", "content": "Platelets are dominant contributors to hypercoagulability after injury. Venous thromboembolic (VTE) disease has a high incidence following trauma, but debate remains regarding optimal prophylaxis. Thrombelastography (TEG) has been suggested to be optimal in guiding prophylaxis. Thus, we designed a phase II randomized controlled trial to test the hypothesis that TEG-guided prophylaxis with escalating low-molecular weight heparin (LMWH), followed by antiplatelet therapy would reduce VTE incidence. Surgical intensive care unit trauma patients (n = 50) were randomized to receive 5,000 IU of LMWH daily (control) or to TEG-guided prophylaxis, up to 5,000 IU twice daily with the addition of aspirin, and were followed up for 5 days. In vitro studies were also conducted in which apheresis platelets were added to blood from healthy volunteers (n = 10). Control (n = 25) and TEG-guided prophylaxis (n = 25) groups were similar in age, body mass index, Injury Severity Score, and male sex. Fibrinogen levels and platelet counts did not differ, and increased LMWH did not affect clot strength between the control and study groups. The correlation of clot strength (G value) with fibrinogen was stronger on Days 1 and 2 but was superseded by platelet count on Days 3, 4, and 5. There was also a trend in increased platelet contribution to clot strength in patients receiving increased LMWH. In vitro studies demonstrated apheresis platelets significantly increased clot strength (7.19 \u00b1 0.35 to 10.34 \u00b1 0.29), as well as thrombus generation (713.86 \u00b1 12.19 to 814.42 \u00b1 7.97) and fibrin production (274.03 \u00b1 15.82 to 427.95 \u00b1 16.58). Increased LMWH seemed to increase platelet contribution to clot strength early in the study but failed to affect the overall rise clot strength. Over time, platelet count had the strongest correlation with clot strength, and in vitro studies demonstrated that increased platelet counts increase fibrin production and thrombus generation. In sum, these data suggest an important role for antiplatelet therapy in VTE prophylaxis following trauma, particularly after 48 hours. Therapeutic study, level III."}
{"id": "23410777", "title": "Fibrinogen concentrate reduces intraoperative bleeding when used as first-line hemostatic therapy during major aortic replacement surgery: results from a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.", "content": "Fibrinogen concentrate reduces intraoperative bleeding when used as first-line hemostatic therapy during major aortic replacement surgery: results from a randomized, placebo-controlled trial. We assessed whether fibrinogen concentrate as targeted first-line hemostatic therapy was more effective than placebo or a standardized transfusion algorithm in controlling coagulopathic bleeding in patients undergoing major aortic surgery. In this single-center, prospective, double-blind study, adults undergoing elective thoracic or thoracoabdominal aortic replacement surgery involving cardiopulmonary bypass were randomized to intraoperative fibrinogen concentrate (n = 29) or placebo (n = 32). Study medication was given if patients had clinically relevant coagulopathic bleeding, measured by 5-minute bleeding mass, after cardiopulmonary bypass removal, protamine administration, and surgical hemostasis. Fibrinogen concentrate dosing was individualized using the thromboelastometric FIBTEM test. If bleeding continued, a standardized transfusion algorithm was followed. In the placebo group, all 32 patients received 1 transfusion cycle of fresh-frozen plasma/platelets, and 30 patients required a second transfusion cycle; none of these patients received any other procoagulant therapy. Change in bleeding rate after treatment was compared using t tests. Mean change in bleeding rate after fibrinogen concentrate was -48.3 g/5 min, compared with 0.4 g/5 min after placebo (P < .001), -16.1 g/5 min after 1 transfusion cycle (fresh-frozen plasma or platelets; P = .003), and -28.0 g/5 min after 2 transfusion cycles (fresh-frozen plasma and platelets; P = .11). Reductions in bleeding rate were greater for patients with higher bleeding rates before treatment, especially with fibrinogen concentrate. FIBTEM-guided intraoperative hemostatic therapy with fibrinogen concentrate is more effective than placebo in controlling coagulopathic bleeding during major aortic replacement surgery. Fibrinogen concentrate is also more effective than 1 cycle of fresh-frozen plasma/platelets and is more rapid than--and at least as effective as--2 cycles of fresh-frozen plasma/platelets."}
{"id": "23407150", "title": "Potential value of transfusion protocols in cardiac surgery.", "content": "Potential value of transfusion protocols in cardiac surgery. On the one hand, cardiac and aortic surgery is associated with a high rate of allogeneic blood transfusion. On the other hand, both bleeding and allogeneic blood transfusion is associated with increased morbidity, mortality, and hospital costs in cardiac and aortic surgery. This article reviews the current literature between 1995 and 2012 dealing with transfusion protocols in cardiovascular surgery. The 16 studies fitting these search criteria have evaluated the impact of the implementation of ROTEM/TEG based coagulation management algorithms on transfusion requirement and outcome in overall 8507 cardiovascular surgical patients. The use of point-of-care (POC) transfusion and coagulation management algorithms based on viscoelastic tests such as thromboelastometry (ROTEM) and thrombelastography (TEG) in combination with POC platelet function tests such as whole blood impedance aggregometry (Multiplate) have been shown to be associated with reduced allogeneic blood transfusion requirements, reduced incidence of thrombotic/thromboembolic and transfusion-related adverse events, and improved outcomes in cardiac surgery. Implementation of POC algorithms including a comprehensive bundle of POC diagnostics (thromboelastometry and whole blood impedance aggregometry) in combination with first-line therapy using immediately available specific coagulation factor concentrates (fibrinogen and prothrombin complex concentrate) and defining strict indications, calculated dosages, and clear sequences for each haemostatic intervention seems to be complex but most effective in reducing perioperative transfusion requirements and has been shown to be associated with a decreased incidence of thrombotic/thromboembolic events, transfusion-related adverse events, as well as with improved patients' outcomes including 6-month mortality."}
{"id": "23385320", "title": "Potential value of protocols in substantially bleeding trauma patients.", "content": "Potential value of protocols in substantially bleeding trauma patients. Early identification of shock and coagulopathy coupled with damage control resuscitation are central tenets of early trauma management. In traumatic injury, haemorrhage is responsible for almost 50% of deaths occurring within the first 24\u200ah of injury and up to 80% of intraoperative trauma mortalities. Immediate haemorrhagic mortality constitutes the largest group of potentially preventable deaths in the initial 24-h period. This review will discuss the recent changes and advancement of early traumatic coagulopathy and the important role of substantial bleeding protocols (SBPs). Ho et al. examined survivor bias and determined when accounting for survivor bias improved survival outcome with higher fresh frozen plasma: red blood cell ratios. The PROMMTT study, a 10-centre observation trial, highlighted the variable nature of infusion, the importance of time and improved outcomes with higher product ratios. An SBP addresses the organizational issues necessary to respond to massive blood loss in an immediate and sustained manner. It reduces provider variability, facilitates staff communication and compliance, and simplifies the administration of predefined ratios of blood components. A transfusion subcommittee should be formed to directly address the complex issues of implementing a SBP system."}
{"id": "23354242", "title": "Recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator-evoked hyperfibrinolysis is enhanced by acidosis and inhibited by hypothermia but still can be blocked by tranexamic acid.", "content": "Recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator-evoked hyperfibrinolysis is enhanced by acidosis and inhibited by hypothermia but still can be blocked by tranexamic acid. Hypothermia and acidosis have been suggested as key initiators of trauma-induced coagulopathy, and severe bleeding caused by hyperfibrinolysis (HF) predicts mortality. We tested in vitro (1) whether clinically relevant grades of hypothermia, acidosis, and their combination impact on recombinant tissue-type plasminogen activator (r-tPA)-evoked HF and assessed (2) the efficacy of tranexamic acid (TA) in inhibiting fibrinolysis under such conditions. To assess the effects of r-tPA-evoked HF, venous blood (3,000 \u03bcL) from healthy volunteers was incubated with r-tPA (final concentration, 100 ng/mL) or saline (control) for 30 minutes at the final measurement temperature. Before thromboelastometric measurements, samples were acidified (addition of 40 \u03bcL of 0.5 or 1N hydrochloric acid, respectively) to achieve a pH (alpha-stat) of approximately 7.1 or 6.9, respectively. To assess effects of hypothermia, tests were performed at blood/thromboelastometer temperatures of 33\u00b0C and 37\u00b0C, respectively. Coagulation was analyzed using rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM), particularly assessing the Clot Lysis Index (CLI) after 45 minutes (CLI45) in extrinsically activated assays (EXTEM). Addition of r-tPA evoked fibrinolysis (CLI45: median, 64; 25th/75th percentile, 48/80) compared with saline controls (CLI45: median, 93; 25th/75th percentile, 91/96). Moderate acidosis (pH [mean \u00b1 SD], 7.12 \u00b1 0.03) did not affect r-tPA-induced fibrinolysis. However, severe acidosis (pH, 6.91 \u00b1 0.02) significantly aggravated r-tPA-induced fibrinolysis (CLI45: median, 49; 25th/75th percentile, 26/71; p = 0.0039) compared with fibrinolysis with normal pH and normothermia (median, 77; 25th/75th percentile, 65.5/83). In contrast, hypothermia (33\u00b0C) at normal pH (median \u00b1 SD, 7.37 \u00b1 0.02) markedly mitigated fibrinolysis (CLI45: median, 94; 25th/75th percentile, 88/96; p = 0.0156) compared with normothermia (CLI45: median, 64; 25th/75th percentile, 48/80). TA (final concentration, 0.33 mg/mL) abolished r-tPA-evoked fibrinolysis even during severe acidosis (CLI45: median, 92; 25th/75th percentile, 86.5/94; p = 0.0039). Severe acidosis significantly increases r-tPA-evoked fibrinolysis, whereas hypothermia markedly mitigates HF. The latter finding may imply that rapid rewarming of trauma patients might aggravate fibrinolysis. TA reliably abolished fibrinolysis also under these conditions, supporting its role in trauma-induced coagulopathy."}
{"id": "23354228", "title": "TEG-guided resuscitation is superior to standardized MTP resuscitation in massively transfused penetrating trauma patients.", "content": "TEG-guided resuscitation is superior to standardized MTP resuscitation in massively transfused penetrating trauma patients. For nearly a decade, our center performed thromboelastograms (TEGs) to analyze coagulation profiles, allowing rapid data-driven blood component therapy. After consensus recommendations for massive transfusion protocols (MTPs), we implemented an MTP in October 2009 with 1:1:1 ratio of blood (red blood cells [RBC]), plasma (fresh-frozen plasma [FFP]), and platelets. We hypothesized that TEG-directed resuscitation is equivalent to MTP resuscitation. All patients receiving 6 units (U) or more of RBC in the first 24 hours for 21 months before and after MTP initiation in an urban Level I trauma center were examined. Demographics, mechanism of injury (MOI), Injury Severity Score (ISS), 24-hour volume of RBC, FFP, platelets, crystalloid, and 30-day mortality were compared, excluding patients with traumatic brain injuries. Variables were analyzed using Student's t-test and \u03c72 or Fisher's exact test. For the preMTP group, there were 165 patients. In the MTP group, there were 124 patients. There were no significant differences in ISS, age, or sex. PreMTP patients with 6U or more RBC had significantly more penetrating MOI (p = 0.017), whereas preMTP patients with 10U or more RBC had similar MOIs. All patients received less crystalloid after MTP adoption (p < 0.001). There was no difference in volume of blood products or mortality in patients receiving 6U or more RBC. Blunt trauma MTP patients who received 10U or more RBC received more FFP (p = 0.02), with no change in mortality. Penetrating trauma patients who received 10U or more RBC received a similar volume of FFP; however, mortality increased from 54.1% for MTP versus 33.3% preMTP (p = 0.04). TEG-directed resuscitation is equivalent to standardized MTP for patients receiving 6U or more RBC and for blunt MOI patients receiving 10U or more RBC. MTP therapy worsened mortality in penetrating MOI patients receiving 10U or more RBC, indicating a continued need for TEG-directed therapy. A 1:1:1 strategy may not be adequate in all patients. Therapeutic study, level IV."}
{"id": "23354227", "title": "Cryopreserved deglycerolized blood is safe and achieves superior tissue oxygenation compared with refrigerated red blood cells: a prospective randomized pilot study.", "content": "Cryopreserved deglycerolized blood is safe and achieves superior tissue oxygenation compared with refrigerated red blood cells: a prospective randomized pilot study. During preservation, donated liquid red blood cells (RBCs) experience multiple functional and structural changes known as the storage lesion. Increased RBC age is associated with increased infection rates, organ failure, and mortality. This prospective, randomized, double-blinded pilot study enrolled stable trauma patients who required RBC transfusion. Patients were randomly assigned to receive standard or cryopreserved RBCs. Continuous tissue oxygenation (StO2) monitoring was performed during the peritransfusion period. Hematocrit and thrombelastography before and after transfusion were evaluated. Patients were monitored for transfusion reactions and clinical outcomes. Fifty-seven patients were randomized, and groups were well matched for demographics and Injury Severity Score (ISS). No statistically significant differences were noted in hematocrit change, thrombelastography parameters, transfusion reactions, or clinical outcomes. StO2 was found to be higher in the cryopreserved group. Cryopreserved RBCs are equally safe and efficacious to refrigerated RBCs. This storage technique extends the life span of RBCs to 10 years, potentially preserving a precious resource and preventing the storage lesion. StO2 was superior in patients receiving cryopreserved RBCs. This finding has the potential to drive a paradigm shift in transfusion practices. Therapeutic study, level II."}
{"id": "23351534", "title": "Point of care devices for assessing bleeding and coagulation in the trauma patient.", "content": "Point of care devices for assessing bleeding and coagulation in the trauma patient. Severe trauma is associated with bleeding, coagulopathy, and transfusion of blood and blood products, all contributing to higher rates of morbidity and mortality. The aim of this review is to focus on point-of-care devices to monitor coagulation in trauma. Close monitoring of bleeding and coagulation as well as platelet function in trauma patients allows goal-directed transfusion and an optimization of the patient's coagulation, reduces the exposure to blood products, reduces costs, and probably improves clinical outcome. Noninvasive hemoglobin measurements are not to be used in trauma patients due to a lack in specificity and sensitivity."}
{"id": "23321555", "title": "Potential value of pharmacological protocols in trauma.", "content": "Potential value of pharmacological protocols in trauma. Diagnosis and treatment of trauma-induced coagulopathy (TIC) presents a challenge for trauma care providers. Viscoelastic tests (VETs) including thromboelastometry and thrombelastography are increasingly used to diagnose TIC and guide hemostatic therapy. We summarize the concept of individualized, goal-directed coagulation management using coagulation factor concentrates. Early and aggressive treatment is mandatory to improve the survival of severely bleeding trauma patients. High ratios of fresh frozen plasma to red blood cells are linked to improved outcome in coagulopathic patients; however, treatment is often delayed because most blood products must first be thawed. Lyophilized plasma potentially overcomes these problems. However, until now only limited data on the use of lyophilized plasma in major trauma are available. VETs provide a rapid and comprehensive overview of the coagulation process. Low maximum clot firmness is associated with increased transfusion requirements, and premature lysis of the clot is indicative of poor outcome. Improvement in clot firmness can be achieved by the administration of fibrinogen concentrate or platelet concentrate, depending on the cause of coagulopathy. Early administration of tranexamic acid improves clot stability and outcome in major trauma. Prothrombin complex concentrate increases thrombin generation, but is potentially associated with increased risk of thromboembolic complications. VETs are useful in the diagnosis of TIC, allowing precise deficits in the coagulation process to be identified and specifically targeted with coagulation factor concentrates."}
{"id": "23316863", "title": "Sulfated pentagalloylglucoside is a potent, allosteric, and selective inhibitor of factor XIa.", "content": "Sulfated pentagalloylglucoside is a potent, allosteric, and selective inhibitor of factor XIa. Inhibition of factor XIa (FXIa) is a novel paradigm for developing anticoagulants without major bleeding consequences. We present the discovery of sulfated pentagalloylglucoside (6) as a highly selective inhibitor of human FXIa. Biochemical screening of a focused library led to the identification of 6, a sulfated aromatic mimetic of heparin. Inhibitor 6 displayed a potency of 551 nM against FXIa, which was at least 200-fold more selective than other relevant enzymes. It also prevented activation of factor IX and prolonged human plasma and whole blood clotting. Inhibitor 6 reduced V(MAX) of FXIa hydrolysis of chromogenic substrate without affecting the K(M), suggesting an allosteric mechanism. Competitive studies showed that 6 bound in the heparin-binding site of FXIa. No allosteric small molecule has been discovered to date that exhibits equivalent potency against FXIa. Inhibitor 6 is expected to open up a major route to allosteric FXIa anticoagulants with clinical relevance."}
{"id": "23313481", "title": "Tissue factor triggers procoagulation in transplanted mesenchymal stem cells leading to thromboembolism.", "content": "Tissue factor triggers procoagulation in transplanted mesenchymal stem cells leading to thromboembolism. Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) have shown extreme clinical promise as a therapeutic regenerative system in the treatment of numerous types of diseases. A recent report, however, documented lethal pulmonary thromboembolism in a patient following the administration of adipose-derived MSCs (ADSCs). In our study, we designed experiments to examine the role of tissue factor (TF), which is highly expressed at the level of mRNA and localized to the cell surface of cultured MSCs, as a triggering factor in the procoagulative cascade activated by infused MSCs. A high mortality rate of ~85% in mice was documented following intravenous infusion of mouse ADSCs within 24 h due to the observation of pulmonary embolism. Rotation thromboelastometry and plasma clotting assay demonstrated significant procoagulation by the cultured mouse ADSCs, and preconditioning of ADSCs with an anti-TF antibody or usage of factor VII deficient plasma in the assay successfully suppressed the procoagulant properties. These properties were also observed in human ADSCs, and could be suppressed by recombinant human thrombomodulin. In uncultured mouse adipose-derived cells (ADCs), the TF-triggered procoagulant activity was not observed and all mice infused with these uncultured ADCs survived after 24 h. This clearly demonstrated that the process of culturing cells plays a critical role in sensitizing these cells as a procoagulator through the induction of TF expression. Our results would recommend that clinical applications of MSCs to inhibit TF activity using anti-coagulant agents or genetic approaches to maximize clinical benefit to the patients."}
{"id": "23302970", "title": "A comparison of VerifyNowR with PlateletMappingR--detected aspirin resistance and correlation with urinary thromboxane.", "content": "A comparison of VerifyNowR with PlateletMappingR--detected aspirin resistance and correlation with urinary thromboxane. Aspirin-resistant platelet activation in whole blood is attributable to a transcellular pathway not detected by isolated platelet aggregometry. Aspirin resistance as defined by urinary thromboxane levels is associated with increased risk for myocardial infarction or cardiac death. Whole blood point-of-care assays may also detect aspirin resistance. We compared PlateletMapping\u00ae with VerifyNow\u00ae for detecting aspirin resistance in 200 patients undergoing invasive cardiac procedures. This included 10 patients not receiving aspirin therapy for comparison. The assay results were correlated with urinary 11-dehydro-thromboxane B2 collected 2 to 8 hours after the procedure. PlateletMapping detected aspirin resistance in 32% of patients. VerifyNow detected aspirin resistance in 6% of patients. A patient's compliance with aspirin therapy was confirmed by a <20% aggregation response to arachidonic acid by light transmission aggregometry. Aspirin-resistant patients as determined by PlateletMapping had significantly (P<0.001) higher urinary 11-dehydro-thromboxane B2 levels than aspirin-sensitive patients but significantly (P=0.001) lower levels than patients not receiving aspirin therapy. There was no significant difference in urinary 11-dehydro-thromboxane B2 for aspirin-resistant compared with aspirin-sensitive patients as determined by VerifyNow, but the confidence intervals were wide. There was no significant correlation of resistance as defined by PlateletMapping with aspirin dose. However, there was significant increased aspirin sensitivity with clopidogrel (0.0006) or statin (0.004) cotherapies. There also was a significant correlation of smoking with aspirin resistance. These results indicate that PlateletMapping could be a useful point-of-care assay to identify aspirin-resistant patients for better perioperative risk stratification and management."}
{"id": "23302040", "title": "Earlier detection of coagulopathy with thromboelastometry during pediatric cardiac surgery: a prospective observational study.", "content": "Earlier detection of coagulopathy with thromboelastometry during pediatric cardiac surgery: a prospective observational study. Earlier detection of coagulopathy in pediatric cardiac surgery patients. To determine whether thromboelastometry (TEM) analysis before weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and hemoconcentration is predictive of post-CPB results and whether analysis of clot firmness already after 10 min yields reliable results. Cardiac surgery with CPB induces a coagulopathy that may contribute to postoperative complications. Earlier detection increases the possibility of initiating countermeasures. METHODS/MATERIAL: Fifty-six pediatric cardiac surgery patients were included in a prospective observational study. HEPTEM and FIBTEM clotting time (CT), clot formation time (CFT), and clot firmness after 10 min (A10) and at maximum (MCF) were analyzed during CPB and after CPB and ultrafiltration with modified rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM). The analyses were compared, and correlations and differences were calculated. Hemoconcentration with modified ultrafiltration increased hematocrit from 28 \u00b1 3 to 37 \u00b1 4% (P < 0.001). Correlation coefficients of the TEM variables during and after CPB ranged from 0.61 to 0.82 (all P < 0.001). HEPTEM-CT and HEPTEM-MCF differed significantly but the differences were marginal. Both HEPTEM and FIBTEM A10 measurements during CPB were significantly less than MCF (P < 0.001 for both), but the correlations were highly significant (HEPTEM: r = 0.95, P < 0.001; FIBTEM: r = 0.96, P < 0.001), and the differences were predictable, with narrow confidence intervals (HEPTEM: -8.2 mm (-8.9 to -7.5); FIBTEM: -0.5 mm (-0.7 to -0.3). The results suggest that intraoperative TEM analyses can be accelerated by analyzing HEPTEM/FIBTEM on CPB before hemoconcentration and by analyzing clot firmness already after 10 min."}
{"id": "23301972", "title": "Prehospital detection of traumatic coagulopathy.", "content": "Prehospital detection of traumatic coagulopathy. Increased focus on traumatic coagulopathy over the last decade has led to more aggressive use of hemostatic agents in resuscitation of the massively bleeding patient. Novel formulations of plasma factors and other therapeutics have opened for early intervention to prevent coagulopathy and may even be utilized in the prehospital setting. Careful selection of patients to receive hemostatic agents early during the resuscitation is of great importance due to the potential detrimental effects of this treatment. Several studies have identified coagulation parameters as reliable predictors of massive transfusion, even very early after trauma. Prothrombin time international normalized ratio (PT/INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), fibrinogen concentration, and viscoelastic tests such as thrombelastography (TEG) and rotational thrombelastometry (RoTEM) have proved to be of value in predicting massive transfusion when performed in-hospital. PT/INR appears to be slightly more accurate than the other parameters, with a reported sensitivity of 84.8% and an area under the receiver operating curve of 0.87. Comparison studies on PT/INR, aPTT, and viscoelastic assays do suggest that caution should be taken when point-of-care (POC) methods, as opposed to conventional laboratory analyses, are used. Novel techniques for POC measurement of fibrinogen levels are currently being developed, and preclinical data suggest acceptable agreement with conventional methods. A number of factors should be considered regarding the feasibility of POC tests in the prehospital environment. In addition to environmental factors such as temperature, altitude, and humidity, electromagnetic interference issues and operators' skills must be taken into account. Coagulation parameters appear to be a useful tool in identifying patients with increased risk of massive bleeding at an early stage. Further studies are needed to determine if prehospital intervention based on POC analyses improves outcome."}
{"id": "23301969", "title": "Pathogenesis of acute traumatic coagulopathy.", "content": "Pathogenesis of acute traumatic coagulopathy. Acute traumatic coagulopathy (ATC) is an early endogenous process, driven by the combination of tissue injury and shock that is associated with increased mortality and worse outcomes in the polytrauma patient. This review summarizes our current understanding of the pathophysiology of ATC and the role of rapid diagnostics in the management of severe trauma hemorrhage. In particular we consider diagnostic and therapeutic strategies for bleeding trauma patients with short versus long prehospital times and the concept of remote damage control resuscitation. Endothelial activation of Protein C is a central mechanism of ATC, which produces rapid anticoagulation and fibrinolysis following severe trauma. Continued blood loss, hypothermia, acidosis, and hemodilution potentiate ATC and lead to a global derangement in all components of hemostasis. The contribution and interplay between platelet activity, fibrinogen utilization, endothelial dysfunction, and neurohormonal pathways remain to be defined in ATC pathogenesis but may offer novel therapeutic targets. Conventional laboratory-based tests of coagulation have a limited role in the early management of major trauma hemorrhage. TEG and ROTEM provide a rapid evaluation of clot dynamics in whole blood and are of greater value than coagulation screens in diagnosing and managing trauma hemorrhage."}
{"id": "23301966", "title": "Primary hemostatic capacity of whole blood: a comprehensive analysis of pathogen reduction and refrigeration effects over time.", "content": "Primary hemostatic capacity of whole blood: a comprehensive analysis of pathogen reduction and refrigeration effects over time. Whole blood (WB) has been used in combat since World War I as it is readily available and replaces every element of shed blood. Component therapy has become standard; however, recent military successes with WB resuscitation have revived the debate regarding wider WB use. Characterization of optimal WB storage is needed. We hypothesized that refrigeration preserves WB function and that a pathogen reduction technology (PRT) based on riboflavin and ultraviolet light has no deleterious effect over 21 days of storage. WB units were stored for 21 days either at 4\u00b0C or 22\u00b0C. Half of each temperature group underwent PRT, yielding four final treatment groups (n = 8 each): CON 4 (WB at 4\u00b0C); CON 22 (WB at 22\u00b0C); PRT 4 (PRT WB at 4\u00b0C); and PRT 22 (PRT WB at 22\u00b0C). Testing was at baseline, Days 1-7, 10, 14, and 21. Assays included coagulation factors; platelet activation, aggregation, and adhesion; and thromboelastography (TEG). Prothrombin time (PT) and partial thromboplastin time increased over time; refrigeration attenuated the effects on PT (p\u2009\u2264\u20090.009). Aggregation decreased over time (p\u2009\u2264\u20090.001); losses were attenuated by refrigeration (p\u2009\u2264\u20090.001). Refrigeration preserved TEG parameters (p\u2009\u2264\u20090.001) and PRT 4 samples remained within normal limits throughout the study. Refrigeration in combination with PRT inhibited fibrinolysis (p\u2009\u2264\u20090.001) and microparticle formation (p\u2009\u2264\u20090.031). Cold storage increased shear-induced platelet aggregation and ristocetin-induced platelet agglutination (p\u2009\u2265\u20090.032), as well as GPIb-expressing platelets (p\u2009\u2264\u20090.009). The in vitro hemostatic function of WB is largely unaffected by PRT treatment and better preserved by cold storage over 21 days. Refrigerated PRT WB may be suitable for trauma resuscitation. Clinical studies are warranted."}
{"id": "23301961", "title": "Thrombosomes: a platelet-derived hemostatic agent for control of noncompressible hemorrhage.", "content": "Thrombosomes: a platelet-derived hemostatic agent for control of noncompressible hemorrhage. Uncontrolled hemorrhage is responsible for \u223c80% of the potentially survivable deaths in combat and over 40% of early mortality in the under 65 age group in the United States. Providing an easily used infusible hemostatic agent to first responders could significantly reduce these fatalities. We report on an infusible lyophilized platelet-derived hemostatic agent stabilized with trehalose and polysucrose prior to and during lyophilization. Characterization included determining the particle population size range, surface marker expression GPIb, GPIIbIIIa, and Annexin V binding. Function was assessed by aggregation, thromboelastography, and thrombin generation. Pharmacokinetics, biodistribution, and immunogenicity established using Indium(111) labeled Thrombosomes in healthy New Zealand white rabbits (NZWRs), efficacy in thrombocytopenic NZWR, and safety in NZWRs, canines, and nonhuman primates. Thrombosomes retained GPIIbIIIa expression (98.71% \u00b1 0.18 of the rehydrated particles), a reduced expression of GPIb (47.77% \u00b1 6.65), and Annexin V binding (86.05% \u00b1 2.65). Aggregation to all agonists except thrombin in buffer (78.15% \u00b1 2.5) was <50%. Thrombin generation and thromboelastography results demonstrated a concentration gradient that was consistent from lot to lot. There were no observed adverse events in any safety study and blood loss was reduced by >80% in the thrombocytopenic ear bleed model. Our in vitro characterization studies in conjunction with preclinical animal safety and efficacy studies demonstrated lot consistency in manufacturing, maintenance of hemostatic functions of Thrombosomes, safety at high dose concentrations, and the potential to provide an effective hemostatic agent at the site of injury."}
{"id": "23287906", "title": "Variability in anticoagulation management of patients on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation: an international survey.", "content": "Variability in anticoagulation management of patients on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation: an international survey. The objective of this study was to determine current practices of anticoagulation in patients on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Internet-based cross-sectional survey distributed between November 2010 and May 2011. Extracorporeal Life Support Organization-registered extracorporeal membrane oxygenation centers internationally. : Extracorporeal membrane oxy genation medical directors and coordinators. None. There were 121 responses from extracorporeal membrane oxy genation medical directors and coordinators at 187 Extracorporeal Life Support Organization centers with access to the survey. Eighty-four of 117 (72%) respondents reported having a written institutional extracorporeal membrane oxy genation protocol for both anticoagulation and blood product management at their institutions. Sixty-nine of 117 (59%) respondents reported use of tip-to-tip or partially heparin-bonded circuits. Unfractionated heparin was used at all centers; only 8% of respondents indicated use of alternative anticoagulation medications in the six months prior to the survey. The preferred method of anticoagulation monitoring was the serial measurement of activated clotting time, as reported by 97% of respondents. In this survey, 82% of respondents reported antithrombin III testing, 65% reported anti-factor Xa testing, and 43% reported use of thromboelastography during extracorporeal membrane oxy genation. Goal ranges for these three tests and interventions triggered by out-of-range values were found to be variable. Extracorporeal membrane oxy genation anticoagulation management policies vary widely by center. The majority of extracorporeal membrane oxy genation programs employ activated clotting time as the preferred anticoagulation monitoring tool. The coagulation system is also monitored using more specific markers such as antithrombin III, anti-factor Xa, and thromboelastography by a large number of centers. Future research is needed to elucidate optimal anticoagulation management and improve outcomes."}
{"id": "23287086", "title": "Management of patients with hematological malignancies undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting.", "content": "Management of patients with hematological malignancies undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. The number of patients with a previously diagnosed malignancy who need cardiac surgery is increasing. Patients with hematological malignancies represent only 0.38% of all patients undergoing cardiac surgery. The literature in this subset of patients is limited to only a few retrospective case series, with limited number of patients undergoing emergency cardiac surgery. We describe three cases with hematological malignancies namely chronic myelogenous leukemia, acute promyelocytic leukemia and chronic lymphocytic leukemia presenting for coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). Two patients were taken up for emergency CABG in view of ongoing ischemia, one of them was on preoperative intra-aortic balloon pump support. No mortality was observed. Two patients needed transfusion of blood products which was guided by thromboelastography. One patient developed superficial sternal wound infection requiring antibiotic therapy."}
{"id": "23279140", "title": "Impact of protamine dose on activated clotting time and thromboelastography in infants and small children undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Impact of protamine dose on activated clotting time and thromboelastography in infants and small children undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass. To study the effect of two protamine-dosing strategies on activated clotting time (ACT) and thromboelastography (TEG). Protamine dosage based on neutralizing heparin present in the combined estimated blood volumes (EBVs) of the patient and cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) pump may result in excess protamine and contributes toward a coagulopathy that can be detected by ACT and TEG in pediatric patients. A total of 100 pediatric patients 1 month to \u22645 years of age undergoing CPB were included in this retrospective before/after design study. Combined-EBV group consisted of 50 consecutive patients whose protamine dose was calculated to neutralize heparin in the combined EBVs of the patient and the pump. Pt-EBV group consisted of the next 50 consecutive patients whose protamine dose was calculated to neutralize heparin in the patient's EBV. Baseline and postprotamine ACTs were similar between groups. Postprotamine heparin assay (Hepcon) showed the absence of residual heparin in both groups. Postprotamine kaolin-heparinase TEG showed that R was prolonged by 7.5 min in the Combined-EBV group compared with the Pt-EBV group (mean R of 20.17 vs. 12.4 min, respectively, P < 0.001). Increasing doses of protamine were associated with a corresponding, but nonlinear increase in R. There was no significant difference in the changes for K, alpha, and MA between the groups. Automated protamine titration with a protamine dosage based on Pt-EBV can adequately neutralize heparin as assessed by ACT while minimizing prolonging clot initiation time as measured by TEG."}
{"id": "23278445", "title": "A prospective longitudinal study on rotation thromboelastometry in women with uncomplicated pregnancies and postpartum.", "content": "A prospective longitudinal study on rotation thromboelastometry in women with uncomplicated pregnancies and postpartum. Rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM) is an easy, fast and complete method of measuring coagulation. Our goal was to obtain longitudinal values on ROTEM in uncomplicated pregnancies and in the puerperium. Healthy women, who visited our outpatient clinic for antenatal checks and who accomplished an uncomplicated pregnancy were tested three times during pregnancy and one time postpartum. Intrinsic and extrinsic pathway tests were carried out. In total, 62 women were analysed, and 298 measurements were taken. With increasing gestational age, there are significant changes towards hypercoagulability. This study provides a better knowledge about physiological changes in ROTEM measurements during pregnancy. These normative data may serve as assistance for future studies and interventions."}
{"id": "23271081", "title": "Better hemostatic profiles of never-frozen liquid plasma compared with thawed fresh frozen plasma.", "content": "Better hemostatic profiles of never-frozen liquid plasma compared with thawed fresh frozen plasma. Immediate use of thawed fresh frozen plasma (FFP) when resuscitating hemorrhagic shock patients has become more common. According to the AABB (formerly known as American Association of Blood Banks), FFP is the preferred product that can be used up to 5 days after thawing. However, limited data exist on the clinical use and hemostatic profiles of Food and Drug Administration-approved liquid plasma (LQP), which can be stored at 1 \u00b0C to 6 \u00b0C for up to 26 days. We characterized changes in LQP hemostatic potential during 26 days of cold storage. Ten FFP and 10 LQP single-donor units, matched by sex and blood group, were analyzed. FFP was thawed and kept refrigerated for 5 days and LQP for 26 days. Plasma samples were evaluated at Days 0 and 5 for thawed plasma (TP) and 0, 5, 10, 20, and 26 for LQP, by thrombelastography, thrombogram, platelet counts, platelet microparticles, clotting factors, and natural coagulation inhibitors. LQP had a better capacity to form a clot and generate thrombin compared with TP. LQP's hemostatic potential, expressed as endogenous thrombin potential (total amount of thrombin [nM] formed over time [minute]), initially exceeded that of TP (1,425 vs. 1,184, p < 0.05) but decreased to levels similar to TP by Day 26 (1,201 vs. 1,103, p = 0.15). Significantly higher platelet microparticles were found in LQP on Day 26 compared with those in LQP on Day 0 (23.6 x 10(9)/L vs. 3 x 10(9)/L, p < 0.001) or those in TP on Day 5 (2.8 x 10(9)/L). By Day 26, the majority of clotting factors and inhibitors retained more than 88% of their initial activities in LQP, with the few exceptions of factors well known to be unstable. The hemostatic profiles of LQP were better and sustained five times longer than the more commonly used TP, indicating that never-frozen plasma can be considered for use in the United States in trauma patients requiring immediate plasma resuscitation."}
{"id": "23271077", "title": "Coagulation system changes associated with susceptibility to infection in trauma patients.", "content": "Coagulation system changes associated with susceptibility to infection in trauma patients. Infection following trauma is associated with increased morbidity and mortality and is common following severe hemorrhage. There is a strong interaction between the coagulation and immunity. The objective of this study was to establish if there was an association between changes in coagulation status after hemorrhage and the subsequent incidence of infection. Prospective cohort study of adult injured patients presenting to a major trauma center during a 2-year period. Blood was drawn at 24 hours following admission and analyzed using functional thromboelastography testing and laboratory defined tests of coagulation and blood count. Patients were followed up for infectious episodes while in the hospital using Center for Disease Control definitions. A total of 158 patients were recruited; 71 (45%) developed infection and were older (44 years vs. 32 years, p = 0.01) and more severely injured (Injury Severity Score [ISS], 25 vs.10; p < 0.01). White blood cell counts at 24 hours were normal, and there was no difference between groups (both 9.6 \u00d7 10/(9)L). Protein C was lower in those with infection (70.2 IU/dL vs. 83.3 IU/dL, p = 0.02), with a dose-dependent increase in infection as levels of protein C decreased. Plasmin activation at 24 hours was also strongly associated with infection plasmin-antiplasmin (infection vs. no infection, 6,156 \u03bcg/L vs. 3,324 \u03bcg/L, p = 0.03). The infection cohort had overall 12% lower procoagulant levels (varied between factor VIII 6.4% and factor II 16.2%). There is a strong association between the status of the coagulation system after 24 hours and the development of infection following trauma. Improved early coagulation management may decrease infection rates in this patient group. Prognostic prospective study, level III."}
{"id": "23263339", "title": "Detection of carboxyhemefibrinogen and methemefibrinogen in a patient with thrombosis of a HeartMate II ventricular assist device.", "content": "Detection of carboxyhemefibrinogen and methemefibrinogen in a patient with thrombosis of a HeartMate II ventricular assist device. Ventricular assist device (VAD) thrombosis is a devastating, potentially fatal complication suffered by patients requiring mechanical circulatory support. We present a patient with thrombosis of a HeartMate II VAD with concurrent hemolysis and increased carbon monoxide formation. Using a specialized thrombelastographic assay, we detected marked plasmatic hypercoagulability mediated in part by the formation of carboxyhemefibrinogen."}
{"id": "23258612", "title": "Thromboelastometry guided therapy of severe bleeding. Essener Runde algorithm.", "content": "Thromboelastometry guided therapy of severe bleeding. Essener Runde algorithm. Both, severe haemorrhage and blood transfusion are associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Therefore, it is of particular importance to stop perioperative bleeding as fast and as possible to avoid unnecessary transfusion. Viscoelastic test (ROTEM\u00ae or TEG\u00ae) allow for early prediction of massive transfusion and goal-directed therapy with specific haemostatic drugs, coagulation factor concentrates, and blood products. Growing consensus points out, that plasma-based coagulation screening tests like aPTT and PT are inappropriate for monitoring coagulopathy or guide transfusion therapy. Increasing evidence of more than 5000 surgical or trauma patients points towards the beneficial effects of a thrombelastography or -metry based approach in diagnosis and goal-directed therapy of perioperative massive haemorrhage. The Essener Runde task force is a group of clinicians of various specialties (anaesthesiology, intensive care, haemostaseology, haematology, internal medicine, transfusion medicine, surgery) interested in perioperative coagulation management. The ROTEM diagnostic algorithm of the Essener Runde task force was created to standardise and simplify the interpretation of ROTEM\u00ae results in perioperative settings and to present their possible implications for therapeutic interventions in severe bleeding. To exemplify, this text mainly focuses on coagulation management in trauma."}
{"id": "23256818", "title": "Effect of warfarin treatment on thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI) activation and TAFI-mediated inhibition of fibrinolysis.", "content": "Effect of warfarin treatment on thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI) activation and TAFI-mediated inhibition of fibrinolysis. Severe clotting deficiencies are associated with enhanced in vitro fibrinolysis due to insufficient thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI) activation. Because oral anticoagulant therapy (OAT) with warfarin causes a partial deficiency of vitamin K-dependent factors, its effect on clot lysability remains unclear. To evaluate plasma and blood fibrinolytic capacity in patients under stable OAT (n = 221) as compared with controls (n = 132). Fibrinolysis resistance of plasma (turbidimetry) and blood (thromboelastography) clots was calculated as the lysis time of tissue factor-induced clots exposed to 30 and 100 ng mL(-1) t-PA, respectively. Plasma PAI-1 was similar in the two groups, whereas TAFI was slightly lower in patients. OAT plasma clots lysed faster than controls (P = 0.001). The addition of the TAFIa inhibitor PTCI reduced lysis time by 14% in OAT and 34% in controls, and the difference between the groups disappeared. Similar data were obtained with blood clots. Thrombin and TAFIa generation in OAT plasma amounted to roughly 50% of controls, supporting a reduced thrombin-dependent TAFI activation. Clot resistance of OAT plasma was normalized by Ba-citrate plasma eluate or prothrombin but not by BaSO(4) serum eluate, rFVIIa or FX. Surprisingly, circulating levels of TAFIa and its inactive derivative TAFIai were higher in warfarin patients (P < 0.0001) and correlated with plasmin-antiplasmin (P = 0.0001) but not with prothrombin F(1) (+) (2) . OAT enhances both plasma and blood fibrinolysis by reducing thrombin-dependent TAFI activation, a phenomenon largely determined by low prothrombin levels. At variance with in vitro data, 'basal' in vivo TAFIa/ai levels seem related to plasmin rather than thrombin generation."}
{"id": "23249930", "title": "The NFKB1 promoter polymorphism (-94ins/delATTG) alters nuclear translocation of NF-\u03baB1 in monocytes after lipopolysaccharide stimulation and is associated with increased mortality in sepsis.", "content": "The NFKB1 promoter polymorphism (-94ins/delATTG) alters nuclear translocation of NF-\u03baB1 in monocytes after lipopolysaccharide stimulation and is associated with increased mortality in sepsis. Because the nuclear factor-\u03baB (NF-\u03baB) coupled pathway is believed to amplify inflammation prevailing in sepsis, the authors tested the hypotheses that the insertion-deletion polymorphism (-94ins/delATTG) (1) alters nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-\u03baB and activator protein-1 (NF-\u03baB1) in monocytes after lipopolysaccharide stimulation; (2) affects lipopolysaccharide-induced NF-\u03baB1 messenger RNA expression, tumor necrosis factor \u03b1 concentrations, and tissue factor activity; and (3) may be associated with increased 30-day mortality in patients with sepsis. Nuclear translocation of NF-\u03baB1 in monocytes after lipopolysaccharide stimulation from healthy blood donors was performed with immunofluorescence staining (n = 5 each). Lipopolysaccharide-induced NF-\u03baB1 messenger RNA expression was measured with real-time polymerase chain reaction (PCR; n = 60), tumor necrosis factor \u03b1 concentrations with a multiplexing system kit (n = 60), and tissue factor activity with thromboelastometry (n = 105). In a prospective study, multivariate proportional hazard analysis tested 30-day mortality in patients with sepsis (n = 143). The homozygous deletion genotype compared with the homozygous insertion genotype was associated with a nearly twofold increase in nuclear translocation of NF-\u03baB1 (P = 0.001), a threefold difference in NF-\u03baB1 messenger RNA expression (P = 0.001), and a twofold increase in tissue factor expression (P = 0.021). The deletion allele in adults with severe sepsis was tested as an independent prognostic factor for 30-day mortality (hazard ratio, 2.3; 95% CI, 1.13-4.8; P = 0.022). Mortality was 25% for homozygous insertion genotypes but 41% for combined heterozygous deletion/homozygous deletion genotypes (P = 0.034). The deletion allele of the NF\u03baB1 insertion-deletion (-94ins/delATTG) polymorphism is associated with increased 30-day mortality in patients with severe sepsis and increased reaction of the innate immune system."}
{"id": "23249928", "title": "Effects of fibrinogen concentrate as first-line therapy during major aortic replacement surgery: a randomized, placebo-controlled trial.", "content": "Effects of fibrinogen concentrate as first-line therapy during major aortic replacement surgery: a randomized, placebo-controlled trial. Fibrinogen is suggested to play an important role in managing major bleeding. However, clinical evidence regarding the effect of fibrinogen concentrate (derived from human plasma) on transfusion is limited. The authors assessed whether fibrinogen concentrate can reduce blood transfusion when given as intraoperative, targeted, first-line hemostatic therapy in bleeding patients undergoing aortic replacement surgery. In this single-center, prospective, placebo-controlled, double-blind study, patients aged 18 yr or older undergoing elective thoracic or thoracoabdominal aortic replacement surgery involving cardiopulmonary bypass were randomized to fibrinogen concentrate or placebo, administered intraoperatively. Study medication was given if patients had clinically relevant coagulopathic bleeding immediately after removal from cardiopulmonary bypass and completion of surgical hemostasis. Dosing was individualized using the fibrin-based thromboelastometry test. If bleeding continued, a standardized transfusion protocol was followed. Twenty-nine patients in the fibrinogen concentrate group and 32 patients in the placebo group were eligible for the efficacy analysis. During the first 24 h after the administration of study medication, patients in the fibrinogen concentrate group received fewer allogeneic blood components than did patients in the placebo group (median, 2 vs. 13 U; P < 0.001; primary endpoint). Total avoidance of transfusion was achieved in 13 (45%) of 29 patients in the fibrinogen concentrate group, whereas 32 (100%) of 32 patients in the placebo group received transfusion (P < 0.001). There was no observed safety concern with using fibrinogen concentrate during aortic surgery. Hemostatic therapy with fibrinogen concentrate in patients undergoing aortic surgery significantly reduced the transfusion of allogeneic blood products. Larger multicenter studies are necessary to confirm the role of fibrinogen concentrate in the management of perioperative bleeding in patients with life-threatening coagulopathy."}
{"id": "23249534", "title": "Temperature corrected thromboelastography in hypothermia: is it necessary?", "content": "Temperature corrected thromboelastography in hypothermia: is it necessary? Hypothermia is known to influence thromboelastography (TEG). TEG reproducibility is generally low. The aim of this study was to evaluate the rationale of TEG temperature adjustment in patients during hypothermia. We hypothesised that temperature adjustment would not be important because of low TEG reproducibility. Prospective observational study. Single-centre, secondary care study performed 01/2009 to 07/2010. Survivors of cardiopulmonary resuscitation in whom therapeutic hypothermia (32 to 34\u00b0C) was indicated for 24\u200ah were recruited to the study which lasted 36\u200ah. Four hundred samples from 30 patients (22 men and eight women) were obtained. No specific exclusion criteria were defined. Temperature adjusted and non-adjusted Kaolin-Heparinase and Rapid-TEG were done at 12-h intervals during the first 36\u200ah. Bland-Altman plots were used for analysis. During hypothermia, the bias of adjusted measurements was greater in clot formation variables for both Kaolin-Heparinase-TEG (from -15 to -19%) and Rapid-TEG (-9 to -25%) compared to normothermia (from -3 to 3% for Kaolin-Heparinase-TEG and -10 to 2% for Rapid-TEG). Bias of clot strength variables was not influenced by temperature adjustment (median -1%). The 95% limits of agreement were wide for clot formation variables and independent of temperature. In Kaolin-Heparinase-TEG (R -42 to 40% normothermia, -47 to 18% hypothermia) and in Rapid-TEG (R -117 to 97% normothermia, -114 to 95% hypothermia). Limits of agreement of clot strength variables were narrower and independent of temperature in Kaolin-Heparinase-TEG (MA -16 to 13% normothermia, -9 to 10% hypothermia) and also in Rapid-TEG (MA -27 to 24% normothermia, -18 to 20% hypothermia). Although TEG analysis with temperature adjusted to the in-vivo value during hypothermia yields results with small systematic bias, the importance of temperature adjustment in clinical routine is low because of the precision limits of TEG measurement itself. Therefore, we see no need to perform TEG analysis at the in-vivo temperature."}
{"id": "23247121", "title": "Functional fibrinogen assay indicates that fibrinogen is critical in correcting abnormal clot strength following trauma.", "content": "Functional fibrinogen assay indicates that fibrinogen is critical in correcting abnormal clot strength following trauma. Thromboelastography (TEG) is emerging as the standard in the management of acute coagulopathies in injured patients. Although TEG is sensitive in detecting abnormalities in clot strength, one shortcoming is differentiating between fibrinogen and platelet contributions to clot integrity. Current American algorithms suggest platelet transfusion, whereas European guidelines suggest fibrinogen concentrates for correcting low clot strength. Therefore, we hypothesized that a TEG-based functional fibrinogen (FF) assay would assess the contribution of fibrinogen and platelets to clot strength and provide insight to transfusion priorities. Blood samples were obtained from trauma patients on arrival to the emergency department or who were admitted to the surgical intensive care unit (n = 68). Citrated kaolin TEG, FF, and von Clauss fibrinogen levels (plasma-based clinical standard) were measured. Correlations were assessed using linear regression models. In vitro studies were also performed with adding fibrinogen concentrates to blood collected from healthy volunteers (n = 10). Functional fibrinogen and citrated kaolin TEG parameters were measured. Functional fibrinogen strongly correlated with von Clauss fibrinogen levels (R = 0.87) and clot strength (R = 0.80). The mean fibrinogen contribution to clot strength was 30%; however, there was a direct linear relationship with fibrinogen level and percent fibrinogen contribution to clot strength (R = 0.83). Traditional TEG parameters associated with fibrinogen activity (\u03b1 angle and kinetic time) had significantly lower correlations with FF (R = 0.70 and 0.35). Furthermore, platelet count had only a moderate correlation to clot strength (R = 0.51). The addition of fibrinogen concentrate in in vitro studies increased clot strength (MA) (60.44 \u00b1 1.48 to 68.12 \u00b1 1.39) and percent fibrinogen contribution to clot strength (23.8% \u00b1 1.8% to 37.7% \u00b1 2.5%). Functional fibrinogen can be performed rapidly with TEG and correlates well with the standard von Clauss fibrinogen assay. Both fibrinogen and platelet contribution of clot strength can be derived from FF. Moreover, FF had a stronger correlation to clot strength, and increased levels were directly associated with increased percent contribution to clot strength. In vitro studies also demonstrated an increase in FF, clot strength, and percent fibrinogen contribution to clot strength with the addition of fibrinogen concentrate. These data suggest that fibrinogen should be addressed early in trauma patients manifesting acute coagulopathy of trauma."}
{"id": "23236113", "title": "Reply from the authors.", "content": "Reply from the authors."}
{"id": "23236112", "title": "Effect of pneumatic tube transport on rotational thromboelastometry.", "content": "Effect of pneumatic tube transport on rotational thromboelastometry."}
{"id": "23232448", "title": "Reconstruction of an extensive peri-orbital defect secondary to mucormycosis in a patient with myelodysplasia.", "content": "Reconstruction of an extensive peri-orbital defect secondary to mucormycosis in a patient with myelodysplasia. We present the case of a 68-year old gentleman with previously diagnosed myelodysplastic syndrome with pancytopenia who presented with exophthalmia, rhinorrhea, and ophthalmoplegia. Nasal endoscopy revealed black necrotic lesions. He was diagnosed with rhino-orbital mucormycosis and commenced on intravenous antifungals. Despite this therapy he progressed to have total unilateral loss of visual acuity and cutaneous necrosis. He underwent emergency orbital exenteration and extensive cheek and sinus debridement. Necrotic lesions were found in the orbit, the maxillary and ethmoidal sinuses. He underwent reconstruction of this defect using a free myocutaneous ALT flap with a segment of vastus lateralis. Prior to surgery his anemia and thrombocytopenia were addressed with packed red cell and platelet transfusions as well as preoperative thromboelastography (TEG) to measure functional fibrinogen to platelet ratio. Intraoperative platelet administration was guided by repeated TEG analysis. There were no significant intraoperative or postoperative bleeding complications and both flap and donor site healed unremarkably. Few reports exist in the literature related to free tissue transfer in patients with hematological disorders but low platelet count has been implicated in an increased complication rate."}
{"id": "23231699", "title": "Global hemostasis tests in patients with cirrhosis before and after prophylactic platelet transfusion.", "content": "Global hemostasis tests in patients with cirrhosis before and after prophylactic platelet transfusion. Cirrhosis presents with variable degrees of thrombocytopenia that might cause bleeding during invasive procedures. Transfusion of one standard adult platelet dose is often employed to prevent bleeding in thrombocytopenia, but the threshold platelet count that is clinically effective is not well established because clinical studies and laboratory tools to judge on efficacy are insufficient. However, in vitro studies showed that patients with cirrhosis generate as much thrombin as healthy individuals provided that their platelet count is at least 100 \u00d7 10(9) /L. To assess the in vivo relevance of these in vitro studies, we investigated 26 thrombocytopenic patients with cirrhosis, undergoing 36 variceal ligations, to see whether transfusion of one standard adult platelet dose was able to attain the above platelet count. We also evaluated the effect of platelet transfusion on such global hemostasis tests as thrombin generation and thromboelastometry. Transfusion did slightly increase platelet count [pre- vs. post-infusion: 39 \u00d7 10(9) /L(16-64) vs. 52 \u00d7 10(9) /L(19-91), P < 0.001], without significant effect on thrombin generation, probably because post-transfusion platelet count was less than the target of 100 \u00d7 10(9) /L in all patients. In addition, the percentage of patients with abnormal thrombin generation (i.e. below the lower limit of normal range) was scarcely affected by transfusion (pre- vs. post-infusion: 36% vs. 42%). The small post-transfusion increase in platelet count was paralleled by some degree of improvement of thromboelastometry, but none of the patients reached normal values after transfusion. Infusing one standard adult platelet dose secures only a small increase in platelet count without normalizing thrombin generation and thromboelastometry tests. To obtain greater increases in platelet count and normalization of laboratory tests more intensive platelet transfusions or treatment with non-transfusional drugs are probably needed."}
{"id": "23205847", "title": "Biochemical and functional characterization of a recombinant monomeric factor\u00a0VIII-Fc fusion protein.", "content": "Biochemical and functional characterization of a recombinant monomeric factor\u00a0VIII-Fc fusion protein. Hemophilia A results from a deficiency in factor VIII activity. Current treatment regimens require frequent dosing, owing to the short half-life of FVIII. A recombinant FVIII-Fc fusion protein (rFVIIIFc) was molecularly engineered to increase the half-life of FVIII, by 1.5-2-fold, in several preclinical animal models and humans. To perform a biochemical and functional in vitro characterization of rFVIIIFc, with existing FVIII products as comparators. \u2002rFVIIIFc was examined by utilizing a series of structural and analytic assays, including mass spectrometry following lysyl endopeptidase or thrombin digestion. rFVIIIFc activity was determined in both one-stage clotting (activated partial thromboplastin time) and chromogenic activity assays, in the context of the FXase complex with purified components, and in both in vitro and ex vivo rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) assays performed in whole blood. \u2002rFVIIIFc contained the predicted primary structure and post-translational modifications, with an FVIII moiety that was similar to other recombinant FVIII products. The von Willebrand factor-binding and specific activity of rFVIIIFc were also found to be similar to those of other recombinant FVIII molecules. Both chromogenic and one-stage assays of rFVIIIFc gave similar results. Ex vivo ROTEM studies demonstrated that circulating rFVIIIFc activity was prolonged in mice with hemophilia A in comparison with B-domain-deleted or full-length FVIII. Clot parameters at early time points were similar to those for FVIII, whereas rFVIIIFc showed prolonged improvement of clot formation. \u2002rFVIIIFc maintains normal FVIII interactions with other proteins necessary for its activity, with prolonged in vivo activity, owing to fusion with the Fc region of IgG(1) ."}
{"id": "23184484", "title": "Effects of cangrelor in coronary artery disease patients with and without diabetes mellitus: an in vitro pharmacodynamic investigation.", "content": "Effects of cangrelor in coronary artery disease patients with and without diabetes mellitus: an in vitro pharmacodynamic investigation. Platelets from patients with diabetes mellitus (DM) are hyper-reactive and whether cangrelor, a potent intravenous P2Y(12) receptor blocker, has differential pharmacodynamic (PD) effects according DM status is unknown. The aim of this investigation was to evaluate the in vitro PD effects of cangrelor in coronary artery disease (CAD) patients with and without DM. This prospective study enrolled 120 clopidogrel-na\u00efve patients with CAD on aspirin therapy. PD assessments using cangrelor (500 nmol/l) in vitro included vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein assay to obtain the P2Y(12) reactivity index (PRI), and multiple electrode aggregometry (MEA). In a 20 patients subgroup, dose-dependent response was assessed following exposure to escalating concentrations (baseline, 5, 50, 500 and 5,000 nmol/l); thrombin generation processes were evaluated by thromboelastography (TEG). PD data were evaluable in 103 patients. No differences in baseline PD parameters were observed in DM (n = 48) and non-DM (n = 45) subjects. Cangrelor reduced PRI values irrespective of DM status (p < 0.0001), yielding no difference in patients with and without DM (16.1 \u00b1 12.3 vs. 16.8 \u00b1 11.3; p = 0.346). All MEA values were significantly reduced, although this was of greater magnitude with purinergic compared to non-purinergic agonists. A trend analysis showed a dose-dependent effect on platelet inhibition, with no interaction due to DM status, whereas no significant dose-dependent effect was observed for TEG-derived parameters. Therefore, in vitro cangrelor provides potent and dose-dependent blockade of the platelet P2Y(12) receptor, with no differential effect in DM and non-DM patients. In addition, in vitro cangrelor exerts moderate inhibitory effects on non-purinergic platelet signaling pathways, without modulating platelet-derived thrombin generation processes."}
{"id": "23182609", "title": "The impact of spinal anaesthesia for caesarean delivery on coagulation assessed by thromboelastography.", "content": "The impact of spinal anaesthesia for caesarean delivery on coagulation assessed by thromboelastography. Pregnancy and puerperium are associated with a hypercoagulable state. The aim of the study was to assess the impact of spinal anaesthesia on coagulation using thromboelastography in healthy term pregnant women undergoing elective caesarean delivery. Thromboelastography was performed on 60 women undergoing elective caesarean delivery under spinal anaesthesia. As spinal anaesthesia has different effects on upper and lower extremity vasculature, venous blood samples were collected from both hand and foot, before and one hour after spinal injection. In the hand samples, R and K values decreased significantly from before to one hour after spinal injection (5.7\u00b11.9 min versus 3.6\u00b11.3 min, P<0.001 and 2.1\u00b10.9 min versus 1.5\u00b10.4 min, P<0.001, respectively). At the same times, significant increases in the alpha angle (58.6\u00b19.1 degrees versus 65.6\u00b17.5 degrees, P<0.001), MA (85.1\u00b14.6 mm versus 87.0\u00b13.8 mm, P<0.001) and CI (2.6\u00b12.1 versus 4.9\u00b11.5, P<0.001) were seen. No significant changes were found in thromboelastography parameters in samples collected from foot veins before and one hour after spinal injection, with the exception of the alpha angle (62.1\u00b111.5 versus 66.5\u00b18.8 degrees, P<0.012). In women undergoing caesarean delivery under spinal anaesthesia, enhanced coagulation thromboelastography parameters were observed in blood collected from hand veins. No changes were detected in the majority of parameters collected from the foot. Spinal anaesthesia has different effects on coagulation parameters in the hand and foot in pregnant women undergoing caesarean delivery."}
{"id": "23178924", "title": "In vitro and in vivo evaluation of the effect of elevated factor VIII on the thrombogenic process.", "content": "In vitro and in vivo evaluation of the effect of elevated factor VIII on the thrombogenic process. Factor VIII (FVIII), a procoagulant cofactor, plays a crucial role in the intrinsic coagulation cascade. A causal association between elevated FVIII levels and venous thrombosis incidence has been established; no such association has been confirmed with arterial thrombosis. The independent role of elevated FVIII levels in arteriolar thrombosis was evaluated in a mouse model to determine the thrombogenic potential of elevated levels of FVIII. The in vitro thrombogenic effect of elevated FVIII levels was examined using thrombin-antithrombin (TAT) complex generation and thromboelastography (TEG) assays. The thrombogenic potential of acute and extended elevation of circulating FVIII levels was assessed using ferric chloride induced injury of the cremaster arterioles. The rate of TAT complex formation, and the final concentration of TAT complexes, significantly increased as FVIII levels were elevated from 100% to 400% FVIII activity. TEG analysis of fibrin and clot formation showed that as FVIII levels were elevated, the time to initial fibrin formation decreased and the rate of fibrin formation increased. The acute elevation of circulating FVIII to 400% FVIII activity resulted in significantly decreased times to vessel occlusion. Prolonged elevation of FVIII activity did not significantly affect time to vessel occlusion. In conclusion, acute elevations in FVIII levels result in a non-linear thrombogenic effect, with non-significant increases in thrombogenic risk within the physiological range (FVIII levels up to 200%). Prolonged elevation of plasma FVIII did not further increase the thrombogenic potential of elevated FVIII levels."}
{"id": "23176206", "title": "The incidence and magnitude of fibrinolytic activation in trauma patients.", "content": "The incidence and magnitude of fibrinolytic activation in trauma patients. Trauma is a global disease, with over 2.5 million deaths annually from hemorrhage and coagulopathy. Overt hyperfibrinolysis is rare in trauma, and is associated with massive fatal injuries. Paradoxically, clinical trials suggest a much broader indication for antifibrinolytics. To determine the incidence and magnitude of fibrinolytic activation in trauma patients and its relationship to clot lysis as measured by thromboelastometry. A prospective cohort study of 303 consecutive trauma patients admitted between January 2007 and June 2009 was performed. Blood was drawn on arrival for thromboelastometry (TEM) and coagulation assays. Follow-up was until hospital discharge or death. TEM hyperfibrinolysis was defined as maximum clot lysis of > 15%. Fibrinolytic activation (FA) was determined according to plasmin-antiplasmin (PAP) complex and D-dimer levels. Data were collected on demographics, mechanism, severity of injury, and baseline vital signs. The primary outcome measure was 28-day mortality. The secondary outcome measures were 28-day ventilator-free days and 24-h transfusion requirement. Only 5% of patients had severe fibrinolysis on TEM, but 57% of patients had evidence of 'moderate' fibrinolysis, with PAP complex levels elevated to over twice normal (> 1500 \u03bcg L(-1)) without lysis on TEM. TEM detected clot lysis only when PAP complex levels were increased to 30 times normal (P < 0.001) and antiplasmin levels were < 75% of normal. Patients with FA had increased 28-day mortality as compared with those with no FA (12% vs. 1%, P < 0.001), fewer ventilator-free days, and longer hospital stay. FA occurs in the majority of trauma patients, and the magnitude of FA correlates with poor clinical outcome. This was not detected by conventional TEM, which is an insensitive measure of endogenous fibrinolytic activity."}
{"id": "23159521", "title": "Hyperfibrinolysis diagnosed by rotational thromboelastometry in a case of suspected amniotic fluid embolism.", "content": "Hyperfibrinolysis diagnosed by rotational thromboelastometry in a case of suspected amniotic fluid embolism. Rotational thromboelastometry is a viscoelastomeric, point-of-care method for testing haemostasis in whole blood which can be visualised rapidly, in real time, in the operating theatre. Advantages over traditional coagulation tests relate to the rapid feedback of results and the ability to visualise hyperfibrinolysis. We present a case of suspected amniotic fluid embolism that presented with sudden respiratory arrest associated with haemodynamic compromise during a non-elective caesarean delivery. Soon after the collapse, coagulopathy developed. Rotational thromboelastometry showed hyperfibrinolysis and hypofibrinogenaemia, which allowed targeted coagulation factor replacement therapy and the use of tranexamic acid. Hyperfibrinolysis may be a contributor to the coagulopathy associated with amniotic fluid embolism but has been infrequently reported, perhaps due to limited diagnosis with traditional coagulation tests. Treatment of the coagulopathy associated with a suspected amniotic fluid embolism with antifibrinolytic agents may deserve greater consideration."}
{"id": "23151086", "title": "Combination of recombinant factor VIIa and fibrinogen corrects clot formation in primary immune thrombocytopenia at very low platelet counts.", "content": "Combination of recombinant factor VIIa and fibrinogen corrects clot formation in primary immune thrombocytopenia at very low platelet counts. Haemostatic treatment modalities alternative to platelet transfusion are desirable to control serious acute bleeds in primary immune thrombocytopenia (ITP). This study challenged the hypothesis that recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) combined with fibrinogen concentrate may correct whole blood (WB) clot formation in ITP. Blood from ITP patients (n = 12) was drawn into tubes containing 3\u00b72% citrate and corn trypsin inhibitor 18\u00b73 \u03bcg/ml. WB [mean platelet count 22 \u00d7 10(9) /l (range 0-42)] was spiked in vitro with buffer, donor platelets (+40 \u00d7 10(9) /l), rFVIIa (1 or 4 \u03bcg/ml), fibrinogen (1 or 3 mg/ml), or combinations of rFVIIa and fibrinogen. Coagulation profiles were recorded by tissue factor (0\u00b703 pmol/l) activated thromboelastometry. Coagulation in ITP was characterized by a prolonged clotting time (CT, 1490 s (mean)) and a low maximum velocity (MaxVel, 3\u00b74 mm \u00d7 100/s) and maximum clot firmness (MCF, 38\u00b72 mm). Fibrinogen showed no haemostatic effect, whereas rFVIIa reduced the CT and increased the MaxVel. The combination of fibrinogen and rFVIIa revealed a significant synergistic effect, improving all parameters (CT 794 s, MaxVel 7\u00b79 mm \u00d7 100/s, MCF 50\u00b77 mm) even at very low platelet counts. These data suggest that rFVIIa combined with fibrinogen corrects the coagulopathy of ITP even at very low platelet counts, and may represent an alternative to platelet transfusion."}
{"id": "23118068", "title": "Rotation thromboelastography for the detection and characterization of lipoteichoid acid-induced activation of haemostasis in an in vitro sepsis model.", "content": "Rotation thromboelastography for the detection and characterization of lipoteichoid acid-induced activation of haemostasis in an in vitro sepsis model. In gram-positive sepsis, lipoteichoic acid (LTA) can induce alterations of haemostasis, potentially leading to disseminated intravascular coagulation. Here, we demonstrate the effects of LTA on haemostasis in an in vitro model of gram-positive sepsis based on rotation thromboelastrography (ROTEM). In this model, LTA leads to time- and dose-dependent shortening of the clotting time (CT), whereas other ROTEM parameters are unaffected. Following heat shock simulation, the LTA effect was blunted with equal CTs in the presence and in the absence of LTA. In addition, the shortening of CT by LTA was inhibited by addition of the protein synthesis inhibitor. Our work demonstrates that the ROTEM system is capable of detecting the LTA effect on haemostasis and provides a sensitive in vitro tool for research into the links between gram-positive sepsis and coagulation."}
{"id": "23112213", "title": "Fast interpretation of thromboelastometry in non-cardiac surgery: reliability in patients with hypo-, normo-, and hypercoagulability.", "content": "Fast interpretation of thromboelastometry in non-cardiac surgery: reliability in patients with hypo-, normo-, and hypercoagulability. Conventional coagulation test are not useful to guide haemostatic therapy in severe bleeding due to their long turn-around time. In contrast, early variables assessed by point-of-care thromboelastometry (ROTEM(\u00ae)) are available within 10-20 min and increasingly used to guide haemostatic therapy in liver transplantation and severe trauma. However, the reliability of early ROTEM(\u00ae) variables to predict maximum clot firmness (MCF) in non-cardiac surgery patients with subnormal, normal, and supranormal MCF has not yet been evaluated. Retrospective data of 14,162 ROTEM(\u00ae) assays (3939 EXTEM(\u00ae), 3654 INTEM(\u00ae), 3287 FIBTEM(\u00ae), and 3282 APTEM(\u00ae) assays) of patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery were analysed. ROTEM(\u00ae) variables [clotting time (CT), clot formation time (CFT), \u03b1-angle, A5, A10, and A15] were related to MCF by linear or non-linear regression, as appropriate. The Bland-Altman analyses to assess the bias between early ROTEM(\u00ae) variables and MCF and receiver operating characteristics (ROC) were also performed. Taking the best and worst correlation coefficients for each assay type, CT (r=0.18-0.49) showed the worst correlation to MCF. In contrast, \u03b1-angle (r=0.85-0.88) and CFT (r=0.89-0.92) demonstrated good but non-linear correlation with MCF. The best and linear correlations were found for A5 (r=0.93-0.95), A10 (r=0.96), and A15 (r=0.97-0.98). ROC analyses provided excellent area under the curve (AUC) values for A5, A10, and A15 (AUC=0.962-0.985). Early values of clot firmness allow for fast and reliable prediction of ROTEM(\u00ae) MCF in non-cardiac patients with subnormal, normal, and supranormal MCF values and therefore can be used to guide haemostatic therapy in severe bleeding."}
{"id": "23061471", "title": "Thromboelastography to monitor the intra-operative effects of low-molecular weight heparin following bridging anticoagulation in a child with normal renal function*.", "content": "Thromboelastography to monitor the intra-operative effects of low-molecular weight heparin following bridging anticoagulation in a child with normal renal function*. Paediatric patients who require anticoagulation with therapeutic doses of low-molecular weight heparin are at risk of having a residual anticoagulant effect at the time of surgery, even if managed according to current peri-operative guidelines. Testing for residual effect is not currently recommended in such circumstances. A 15-year-old child with a mechanical aortic valve replacement requiring long-term warfarin treatment, as well as underlying coagulation defects, was administered low-molecular weight heparin for bridging anticoagulation before kyphoscoliosis surgery. Thromboelastography was used intra-operatively to diagnose residual heparinisation, which was demonstrated by a prolonged reaction (R) time of 16.0\u2003min in the plain cup, compared with 9.2\u2003min in the heparinase cup. Subsequently, thromboelastography was also used to monitor haemostatic therapy, which consisted of protamine 2\u2003mg.kg(-1) and 500\u2003IU cryoprecipitate. Thromboelastography was used intra-operatively to allow rapid testing of coagulation status and guide therapy, thereby minimising use of blood products and reducing complications."}
{"id": "22995455", "title": "Fibrinogen concentration significantly decreases after on-pump versus off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery: a systematic point-of-care ROTEM analysis.", "content": "Fibrinogen concentration significantly decreases after on-pump versus off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery: a systematic point-of-care ROTEM analysis. Studies have emphasized the importance of normal fibrinogen concentrations in surgical patients. The primary hypothesis of this study was that fibrinogen levels significantly decrease in on-pump coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery versus off-pump coronary artery bypass graft (OPCAB) surgery. The second objective was to show that ROTEM (TEM International, GmbH, Munich, Germany) rapidly detects these abnormalities compared with standard tests. A prospective, nonrandomized study. A university hospital. Forty-two and 62 patients in the CABG and OPCAB groups, respectively, undergoing first-time bypass surgery were included. CABG versus OPCAB surgery. Routine coagulation tests and ROTEM values were measured before anesthesia (T0), after the first dose of heparin (T1), after protamine (T2), upon intensive care unit arrival (T3), and 4 hours postoperatively (T4). The outcome measures were followed until 4 hours postoperatively. Fibrinogen concentrations were significantly lower in the CABG versus the OPCAB group at T2 (170 \u00b1 44 v 243 \u00b1 73 mg/dL, p < 0.001) and T3 (179 \u00b1 42 v 232 \u00b1 68 mg/dL, p < 0.001). This was confirmed by significantly lower FIBTEM maximal clot firmness values at T2 (9 \u00b1 4 v 14 \u00b1 5 mm, p < 0.001) and T3 (9 \u00b1 4 v 13 \u00b1 6 mm, p < 0.001). In the CABG group, patients received significantly more transfusions of all blood products except fresh frozen plasma. Fibrinogen concentration significantly decreases after cardiopulmonary bypass. ROTEM helps in its fast detection."}
{"id": "22968255", "title": "Platelet reactivity and thrombogenicity in postmenopausal women.", "content": "Platelet reactivity and thrombogenicity in postmenopausal women. Age-adjusted incidence of cardiovascular disease, including myocardial infarction, is significantly lower in premenopausal women than in men, which is thought to be caused by the cardioprotective effects of estrogen. However, there is a consistent increase in the incidence of coronary artery disease in postmenopausal women in comparison with premenopausal women. The protective benefit of hormone therapy has not been observed in postmenopausal women. It is unknown whether measures of platelet reactivity and clot strength contribute to the disproportionate incidence of cardiovascular disease between premenopausal and postmenopausal women. Fifty healthy volunteers, including 25 premenopausal women and 25 postmenopausal women, aged between 40 and 65 years were enrolled. Total estradiol and follicle-stimulating hormone levels were measured for confirmation of menopausal state and comparison testing. Platelet reactivity was assessed using light transmission aggregometry and P-selectin, and glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor expression was assessed using flow cytometry. Thrombelastography was used to measure clot strength, clotting time, and fibrinogen activity. Serum cholesterol, C-reactive protein, complete blood count, and comprehensive metabolic panel were also measured. Platelet reactivity did not differ among menopausal states or hormone levels. Clotting time was increased in postmenopausal women (6.6 \u00b1 2.0 vs. 7.8 \u00b1 1.2 min, P = 0.013) and significantly correlated with estradiol levels (r = 0.68, P < 0.001). A significantly higher low-density lipoprotein cholesterol level was observed in postmenopausal women (P = 0.05). Mean C-reactive protein levels were numerically higher in the postmenopausal group. The thrombotic risk profile between premenopausal and postmenopausal women is similar. However, improved management of cholesterol may be of clinical benefit. Large-scale studies are required to validate these findings."}
{"id": "22890586", "title": "Impaired bioavailability and antiplatelet effect of high-dose clopidogrel in patients after cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR).", "content": "Impaired bioavailability and antiplatelet effect of high-dose clopidogrel in patients after cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR). Bioavailability of clopidogrel in the form of crushed tablets administered via nasogastric tube (NGT) has not been established in patients after cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Therefore, we performed a study comparing pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic response to high loading dose of clopidogrel in critically ill patients after cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) with patients scheduled for elective coronary angiography with stent implantation. In the NGT group (nine patients, after cardiopulmonary resuscitation, mechanically ventilated, therapeutic hypothermia), clopidogrel was administered in the form of crushed tablets via NGT. Ten patients undergoing elective coronary artery stenting took clopidogrel per os (po) in the form of intact tablets. Pharmacokinetics of clopidogrel was measured with high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) before and at 0.5, 1, 6, 12, 24 h after administration of a loading dose of 600 mg. In five patients in each group, antiplatelet effect was measured with thrombelastography (TEG; Platelet Mapping) before and 24 h after administration. The carboxylic acid metabolite of clopidogrel was detected in all patients in the po group. In eight patients, the maximum concentration was measured in the range of 0.5-1 h after the initial dose. In four patients in the of NGT group, the carboxylic acid metabolite of clopidogrel was undetectable and in the remaining patients was significantly delayed (peak values at 12 h). All patients in the po group reached clinically relevant (>50 %) inhibition of thrombocyte adenosine diphosphate (ADP) receptor after 24 h compared with only two in the NGT group (p\u2009=\u20090.012). There was a close correlation between peak of inactive clopidogrel metabolite plasmatic concentration and inhibition of the ADP receptor (r\u2009=\u20090.79; p\u2009<\u20090.001). The bioavailability of clopidogrel in critically ill patients after cardiopulmonary resuscitation is significantly impaired compared with stable patients. Therefore, other drugs, preferentially administered intravenously, should be considered."}
{"id": "22851059", "title": "Perioperative assessment of platelet function by Thromboelastograph Platelet Mapping in cardiovascular patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery.", "content": "Perioperative assessment of platelet function by Thromboelastograph Platelet Mapping in cardiovascular patients undergoing non-cardiac surgery. Five percent of patients on dual antiplatelet therapy after coronary artery stent implantation will need non-cardiac surgery within the first year of therapy, and many more will need surgery later on. A function assay that evaluates platelet reactivity and inhibition by drug therapy is beneficial for such patients. Platelet Mapping assay (PM) using the TEG analyzer was tested in surgical patients. After IRB approval, 60 patients on combined aspirin and clopidogrel therapy were consented and enrolled. The TEG maximal amplitude (MA) and the percentage (%) platelet inhibition were recorded and analyzed. Fifty-seven patients (mean age 65.7 \u00b1 10.9 years) had preoperative data only. Distribution of preoperative ADP (43.6 \u00b1 24.4%) and AA inhibition (52.8 \u00b1 30.2%) was determined, as well as for the preoperative MA ADP (43.1 \u00b1 15.9 mm) and MA AA (37.2 \u00b1 19.6 mm), showing an offset of the effect of both medications starting from day 3. Patients with complete pre- and postoperative data were stratified depending on duration off antiplatelet therapy (\u22643 days, 3-7 days and >7 days): n = 27, ADP % preop inhibition (43.2 \u00b1 21.6%), ADP % postop inhibition (32.3 \u00b1 18.3%), p = 0.048. Distribution of immediate pre- and post- ADP and AA % inhibitions, showing a possible reduction in \u0394 of inhibition for clopidogrel at 3 days, were also assessed. According to the findings, the TEG PM assay might be a feasible approach to objectively evaluate the effects of aspirin and clopidogrel during the perioperative period and potentially guide drug management."}
{"id": "22843202", "title": "Thromboembolic complications in Fontan patients: population-based prevalence and exploration of the etiology.", "content": "Thromboembolic complications in Fontan patients: population-based prevalence and exploration of the etiology. After the Fontan procedure, patients face an increased risk for thromboembolic events (TE). The etiology for this increased thrombogenecity is incompletely understood. This study aimed to determine the prevalence of TE in Danish Fontan patients and to bring new insights into the etiology of TE. Using a population-based design, we retrospectively identified all TEs in 210 Fontan patients. Whole blood assays (thromboelastography, thromboelastography functional fibrinogen and Multiplate) reflecting global hemostasis, clot strength and platelet aggregation were analyzed prospectively in 112 patients and plasma was analyzed in 76 patients for biomarkers reflecting endothelial-, glycocalyx-, platelet-, and fibrinolysis function (histone-complexed DNA fragments, Protein C, soluble CD40 ligand, soluble thrombomodulin, syndecan-1, tissue-type plasminogen activator). The results were compared in groups stratified according to age, antithrombotic therapy, TE, and glycocalyx degradation (syndecan-1 < or \u2265 median). Correlation between biomarkers and demographic-, anatomical-, clinical- and biochemical parameters was investigated. The prevalence of TE was 8.1 % after a mean follow-up of 8.4 years. None of the stratified groups demonstrated evidence of hypercoagulability in the whole blood assays and no unexpected significant differences were found between the groups. All biomarkers, except protein C, correlated with one another and after stratification of glycocalyx degradation only syndecan-1 levels \u2265 median correlated with other biomarkers. The prevalence of TEs was 8.1 % after mean follow-up of 8.4 years. Overall, the hemostatic profile appeared normal, however, in a subset of patients, evidence of some endothelial activation/damage including glycocalyx degradation and fibrinolysis was found, identifying a potentially more thrombogenic group."}
{"id": "22646305", "title": "Usefulness of thrombelastography platelet mapping assay to measure the antiplatelet effect of P2Y(12) receptor inhibitors and high on-treatment platelet reactivity.", "content": "Usefulness of thrombelastography platelet mapping assay to measure the antiplatelet effect of P2Y(12) receptor inhibitors and high on-treatment platelet reactivity."}
{"id": "22475689", "title": "Change of the initiation time of blood coagulation in pregnancy from 10-months to postpartum.", "content": "Change of the initiation time of blood coagulation in pregnancy from 10-months to postpartum. We measured the time of initiation of blood coagulation (Ti) from pregnancy 10-months (36~40 weeks) till 1-month after delivery, paying particular attention to the very early postpartum period, using a damped oscillation rheometer that is approximately 160 times more sensitive than the Thromboelastogram\u00ae to evaluate the risk of thrombus formation. Blood samples were obtained from healthy volunteers at pregnancy 10-month, 1-hour, 3-hours, 4-days, 7-days, 3-weeks and 1-month after delivery. Ti values at pregnancy 10-month, 1-hour, 3-hours, 4-days, 7-days, 3-weeks, 1-month after delivery and in non-pregnant females were 20.4 \u00b1 2.2, 11.7 \u00b1 1.6, 13.2 \u00b1 3.1, 17.2 \u00b1 2.0, 20.2 \u00b1 1.6, 21.4 \u00b1 4.0, 24.6 \u00b1 3.6, and (25.0 \u00b1 3.4) minutes, respectively. Ti was significantly shorter at pregnancy 10-month, 1-hour, 3-ours, 4-days, 7-days and 3-weeks after delivery than in non-pregnant females. These data show that the blood of pregnant females is more hypercoagulable than non-pregnant females from pregnancy 10-month until 3-weeks post delivery, suggesting that they are at high risk of VTE after discharge from hospital."}
{"id": "22328635", "title": "Critical care in emergency department: massive haemorrhage in trauma.", "content": "Critical care in emergency department: massive haemorrhage in trauma. Inadequate resuscitation of major haemorrhage is an important cause of avoidable death in severely injured patients. Early recognition of blood loss, control of bleeding and restoration of circulating volume are critical to the management of trauma shock, and transfusion of blood components is a key intervention. Vital signs may be inadequate to determine the need for transfusion, and resuscitation regimens targeting vital signs may be harmful in the context of uncontrolled bleeding. This article addresses current concepts in haemostatic resuscitation. Recent guidelines on the diagnosis and treatment of coagulopathy in major trauma, and the role of component and adjuvant therapies, are considered. Finally, the potential role of thromboelastography and rotational thromboelastometry are discussed."}
{"id": "22204772", "title": "Temporal changes in ROTEM\u00ae-measured coagulability of citrated blood samples from coagulopathic trauma patients.", "content": "Temporal changes in ROTEM\u00ae-measured coagulability of citrated blood samples from coagulopathic trauma patients. Rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM(\u00ae)) relies on citrated blood samples, which are regarded as biologically stable for up to 4 h after venepuncture. However, this recommendation is based on data from normal volunteers. The aim of this study was to evaluate possible temporal changes in the coagulability of blood samples from coagulopathic trauma patients. This is a prospective series of 10 coagulopathic (maximum clot firmness, MCF<40 mm) trauma patients. ROTEM(\u00ae) EXTEM (tissue factor activated) and FIBTEM (tissue factor activated, cytochalasin D inhibited) analyses were performed on samples obtained on admission, and after approximately 60 min of storage in an incubator, at 37\u00b0C. There were statistically significant differences between the median EXTEM MCF (22 mm vs 54 mm, p<0.001) and \u03b1 angle (30.5 vs 59.5\u00b0, p=0.004) of the analyses performed immediately after sampling, and 51 min (median) subsequently, but not coagulation time (CT, p=0.133), clot formation time (p=0.0625) or maximum lysis (ML, p=0.154). There were also no differences in median FIBTEM MCF (p=1.00) or CT (p=0.877) between the immediate and delayed analyses. Repeated ROTEM(\u00ae) EXTEM analysis of citrated samples from coagulopathic trauma patients shows a spontaneous improvement in coagulability with time. The absence of parallel changes on FIBTEM analysis suggests that this effect may be due to a change in platelet function."}
{"id": "18523449", "title": "Phenotypic correction of hemophilia A by ectopic expression of activated factor VII in platelets.", "content": "Phenotypic correction of hemophilia A by ectopic expression of activated factor VII in platelets. Platelets are receiving much attention as novel target cells to secrete a coagulation factor for hemophilia gene therapy. In order to extend the application of platelet-directed gene therapy, we examined whether ectopic expression of activated factor VII (FVIIa) in platelets would result in an efficient bypass therapy to induce sufficient thrombin generation on platelet surfaces in mice with hemophilia A. Transduction of bone marrow cells with a simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-based lentiviral vector harboring the platelet-specific GPIb alpha promoter resulted in efficient transgene expression in platelets. FVIIa antigen was expressed in platelets by this SIV system; FVII transgene products were found to localize in the cytoplasm and translocate toward the sub-membrane zone and cell surface after activation. Although FVII antigen levels in platelets did not reach the therapeutic levels seen with FVIIa infusion therapy, whole-blood coagulation, as assessed by thromboelastography, was significantly improved in mice with hemophilia A. Further, we observed correction of the bleeding phenotype in mice with hemophilia A after transplantation, even in the presence of FVIII-neutralizing antibodies. Our results demonstrate that FVIIa-expressing platelets can strengthen hemostatic function and may be useful in treating hemophilia and other inherited bleeding disorders. These findings are comparable to the proven therapeutic effects of FVIIa infusion."}
{"id": "22867727", "title": "Postpartum hemorrhage management in 2012: predicting the future.", "content": "Postpartum hemorrhage management in 2012: predicting the future. Transfusion therapy in postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) traditionally has been modeled after precedents set in the Vietnam and Korean wars. However, data from recent military combat casualties suggest a different transfusion strategy. Transfusion of packed red blood cells, fresh frozen plasma, and platelets in a ratio of 1:1:1 improves dilutional coagulopathy and survival. Women who present with low fibrinogen at the time of diagnosis of PPH have poorer outcomes and might benefit from early fibrinogen replacement. The antifibrinolytic agent, tranexamic acid, decreases bleeding and progression to severe PPH, but its role in PPH management is evolving. Observational data suggest that the use of recombinant factor VIIa should be limited to bleeding that has not responded to an optimal transfusion strategy. Point-of-care testing using thromboelastography is helpful in guiding the selection of blood products to be transfused. Additionally, massive transfusion protocols can decrease the overall number of products transfused and improve outcomes."}
{"id": "22805300", "title": "The FIB-PPH trial: fibrinogen concentrate as initial treatment for postpartum haemorrhage: study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.", "content": "The FIB-PPH trial: fibrinogen concentrate as initial treatment for postpartum haemorrhage: study protocol for a randomised controlled trial. Postpartum haemorrhage (PPH) remains a leading cause of maternal mortality worldwide. In Denmark 2% of parturients receive blood transfusion. During the course of bleeding fibrinogen (coagulation factor I) may be depleted and fall to critically low levels, impairing haemostasis and thus worsening the ongoing bleeding. A plasma level of fibrinogen below 2 g/L in the early phase of postpartum haemorrhage is associated with subsequent development of severe haemorrhage. Use of fibrinogen concentrate allows high-dose substitution without the need for blood type crossmatch. So far no publications of randomised controlled trials involving acutely bleeding patients in the obstetrical setting have been published. This trial aims to investigate if early treatment with fibrinogen concentrate reduces the need for blood transfusion in women suffering severe PPH. In this randomised placebo-controlled double-blind multicentre trial, parturients with primary PPH are eligible following vaginal delivery in case of: manual removal of placenta (blood loss \u2265 500 ml) or manual exploration of the uterus after the birth of placenta (blood loss \u2265 1000 ml). Caesarean sections are also eligible in case of perioperative blood loss \u2265 1000 ml. The exclusion criteria are known inherited haemostatic deficiencies, prepartum treatment with antithrombotics, pre-pregnancy weight <45 kg or refusal to receive blood transfusion. Following informed consent, patients are randomly allocated to either early treatment with 2 g fibrinogen concentrate or 100 ml isotonic saline (placebo). Haemostatic monitoring with standard laboratory coagulation tests and thromboelastography (TEG, functional fibrinogen and Rapid TEG) is performed during the initial 24 hours.Primary outcome is the need for blood transfusion. To investigate a 33% reduction in the need for blood transfusion, a total of 245 patients will be included. Four university-affiliated public tertiary care hospitals will include patients during a two-year period. Adverse events including thrombosis are assessed in accordance with International Conference on Harmonisation (ICH) good clinical practice (GCP). A widespread belief in the benefits of early fibrinogen substitution in cases of PPH has led to increased off-label use. The FIB-PPH trial is investigator-initiated and aims to provide an evidence-based platform for the recommendations of the early use of fibrinogen concentrate in PPH. ClincialTrials.gov NCT01359878."}
{"id": "22540524", "title": "Thrombelastographic haemostatic status and antiplatelet therapy after coronary artery bypass surgery (TEG-CABG trial): assessing and monitoring the antithrombotic effect of clopidogrel and aspirin versus aspirin alone in hypercoagulable patients: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial.", "content": "Thrombelastographic haemostatic status and antiplatelet therapy after coronary artery bypass surgery (TEG-CABG trial): assessing and monitoring the antithrombotic effect of clopidogrel and aspirin versus aspirin alone in hypercoagulable patients: study protocol for a randomized controlled trial. Hypercoagulability, assessed by the thrombelastography (TEG) assay, has in several observational studies been associated with an increased risk of post-procedural thromboembolic complications. We hypothesize that intensified antiplatelet therapy with clopidogrel and aspirin, as compared to aspirin alone, will improve saphenous vein graft patency in preoperatively TEG-Hypercoagulable coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG) patients and reduce their risk for thromboembolic complications and death postoperatively. This is a prospective randomized clinical trial, with an open-label design with blinded evaluation of graft patency. TEG-Hypercoagulability is defined as a TEG maximum amplitude above 69 mm. Two hundred and fifty TEG-Hypercoagulable patients will be randomized to either an interventional group receiving clopidogrel 75 mg daily for three months (after initial oral bolus of 300 mg) together with aspirin 75 mg or a control group receiving aspirin 75 mg daily alone. Monitoring of antiplatelet efficacy and on-treatment platelet reactivity to clopidogrel and aspirin will be conducted with Multiplate aggregometry. Graft patency will be assessed with Multislice computed tomography (MSCT) at three months after surgery. The present trial is the first randomized clinical trial to evaluate whether TEG-Hypercoagulable CABG patients will benefit from intensified antiplatelet therapy after surgery. Monitoring of platelet inhibition from instituted antithrombotic therapy will elucidate platelet resistance patterns after CABG surgery. The results could be helpful in redefining how clinicians can evaluate patients preoperatively for their postoperative thromboembolic risk and tailor individualized postoperative antiplatelet therapy. Clinicaltrials.gov Identifier NCT01046942."}
{"id": "22776724", "title": "Current management of massive hemorrhage in trauma.", "content": "Current management of massive hemorrhage in trauma. Hemorrhage remains a major cause of potentially preventable deaths. Trauma and massive transfusion are associated with coagulopathy secondary to tissue injury, hypoperfusion, dilution, and consumption of clotting factors and platelets. Concepts of damage control surgery have evolved prioritizing early control of the cause of bleeding by non-definitive means, while hemostatic control resuscitation seeks early control of coagulopathy.Hemostatic resuscitation provides transfusions with plasma and platelets in addition to red blood cells in an immediate and sustained manner as part of the transfusion protocol for massively bleeding patients. Although early and effective reversal of coagulopathy is documented, the most effective means of preventing coagulopathy of massive transfusion remains debated and randomized controlled studies are lacking. Viscoelastical whole blood assays, like TEG and ROTEM however appear advantageous for identifying coagulopathy in patients with severe hemorrhage as opposed the conventional coagulation assays.In our view, patients with uncontrolled bleeding, regardless of it's cause, should be treated with hemostatic control resuscitation involving early administration of plasma and platelets and earliest possible goal-directed, based on the results of TEG/ROTEM analysis. The aim of the goal-directed therapy should be to maintain a normal hemostatic competence until surgical hemostasis is achieved, as this appears to be associated with reduced mortality."}
{"id": "18286925", "title": "Incorporating the use of thromboelastographic studies when assessing bleeding patients.", "content": "Incorporating the use of thromboelastographic studies when assessing bleeding patients. This column discusses the use of thromboelastographic studies when assessing patients with bleeding disorders."}
{"id": "20348140", "title": "Recovery of fibrinogen after administration of fibrinogen concentrate to patients with severe bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass surgery.", "content": "Recovery of fibrinogen after administration of fibrinogen concentrate to patients with severe bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. Normalization of plasma fibrinogen levels may be associated with satisfactory haemostasis and reduced bleeding. The aim of this retrospective study was to assess fibrinogen recovery parameters after administration of fibrinogen concentrate (Haemocomplettan P) to patients with diffuse bleeding in cardiovascular surgery. Data on transfusion and patient outcomes were also collected. Patient characteristic and clinical data were obtained from patient records. of the thromboelastometry (FIBTEM)and of the standard coagulation tests, including plasma fibrinogen level, measured before surgery, before and after haemostatic therapy, and on the following day, were retrieved from laboratory records. Results Thirty-nine patients receiving fibrinogen concentrate for diffuse bleeding requiring haemostatic therapy after cardiopulmonary bypass were identified. The mean fibrinogen concentrate dose administered was 6.5 g. The mean fibrinogen level increased from 1.9 to 3.6 g litre(-1) (mean increment of 0.28 g litre(-1) per gram of concentrate administered); maximum clot firmness increased from 10 to 21 mm. The mean fibrinogen increase was 2.29 (sd 0.7) mg dl(-1) per mg kg(-1) bodyweight of concentrate administered. Thirty-five patients received no transfusion of fresh-frozen plasma (FFP) or platelet concentrate after receiving fibrinogen concentrate; the remaining four patients received platelet concentrate intraoperatively. Eleven patients received platelets, FFP, or both during the first postoperative day. No venous thromboses, arterial ischaemic events, or deaths were registered during hospitalization. In this retrospective study, fibrinogen concentrate was effective in increasing plasma fibrinogen level, and contributed to the correction of bleeding after cardiovascular surgery."}
{"id": "23362779", "title": "[Anesthetic management of a parturient with congenital afibrinogenemia undergoing cesarean section].", "content": "[Anesthetic management of a parturient with congenital afibrinogenemia undergoing cesarean section]. A 29-year-old parturient with congenital afibrinogenemia was scheduled to receive cesarean section 38 weeks 2 days of gestation. Due to the bleeding ter dency by her abnormality of fibrinogen and afibrinogenemia, general anesthesia was chosen. In addition to routine administration of fibrinogen, perioperative supplementation of fibrinogen with the meticulous evaluation of the coagulation and fibrinolysis status using rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM) enabled the patient to deliver a healthy baby without any hematological complications. The ROTEM was a useful device to check coagulopathy and fibrinolysis in this patient."}
{"id": "23300803", "title": "Abnormal whole blood thrombi in humans with inherited platelet receptor defects.", "content": "Abnormal whole blood thrombi in humans with inherited platelet receptor defects. To delineate the critical features of platelets required for formation and stability of thrombi, thromboelastography and platelet aggregation measurements were employed on whole blood of normal patients and of those with Bernard-Soulier Syndrome (BSS) and Glanzmann's Thrombasthenia (GT). We found that separation of platelet activation, as assessed by platelet aggregation, from that needed to form viscoelastic stable whole blood thrombi, occurred. In normal human blood, ristocetin and collagen aggregated platelets, but did not induce strong viscoelastic thrombi. However, ADP, arachidonic acid, thrombin, and protease-activated-receptor-1 and -4 agonists, stimulated both processes. During this study, we identified the genetic basis of a very rare double heterozygous GP1b deficiency in a BSS patient, along with a new homozygous GP1b inactivating mutation in another BSS patient. In BSS whole blood, ADP responsiveness, as measured by thrombus strength, was diminished, while ADP-induced platelet aggregation was normal. Further, the platelets of 3 additional GT patients showed very weak whole blood platelet aggregation toward the above agonists and provided whole blood thrombi of very low viscoelastic strength. These results indicate that measurements of platelet counts and platelet aggregability do not necessarily correlate with generation of stable thrombi, a potentially significant feature in patient clinical outcomes."}
{"id": "23290978", "title": "[The phenotypic and genotypic diagnosis of three Chinese patients with von Willebrand disease].", "content": "[The phenotypic and genotypic diagnosis of three Chinese patients with von Willebrand disease]. To analyze the phenotype and genotype of three patients with von Willebrand disease (vWD), and to explore its molecular pathogenesis. Bleeding time (BT), APTT, ristocetin induced platelet aggregation (RIPA), von Willebrand factor (vWF):ristocetin cofactor (Rco) (vWF:Rco), vWF antigen (vWF:Ag), vWF activity (vWF:A) test, vWF collagen binding assay (vWF:CB) and multimer analysis were detected for phenotype diagnosis. The dynamic process of blood coagulation was evaluated by using the thrombelastography. Genomic DNA was extracted from the peripheral blood. The vWF gene mutation was detected by sequencing. APTT, BT were prolonged in the three probands. Plasma vWF:Rco, vWF:Ag, vWF:A and vWF:CB were decreased in different degrees. RIPA was reduced in probands B and C. vWF multimer analysis found the lost of the large molecular weight multimers in proband B, while basically normal in probands A and C. The dynamic process of blood coagulation of proband C presented obvious hypocoagulability by using the thrombelastography. Heterozygous missense mutation g.106782G > T resulting in Cys1130Phe in exon 26, g.110988G > A resulting in Gly1579Arg in exon 28 and g.110373C > T resulting in Arg1374Cys in exon 28 were found in the probands A, B and C, respectively. Three probands were diagnosed as type 1, type 2A or type 2M vWD by phenotype detection. Heterozygous missense mutation Cys1130Phe, Gly1579Arg and Arg1374Cys induced vWD of three probands, respectively."}
{"id": "23233628", "title": "Pharmacologic tools to reduce bleeding in surgery.", "content": "Pharmacologic tools to reduce bleeding in surgery. Strategies to reduce blood loss and the need for transfusions in surgery include enhancement of coagulation, inhibition of fibrinolysis, and an improved decision algorithm for transfusion based on bedside monitoring of global hemostasis. The synthetic antifibrinolytic drug tranexamic acid has emerged as an effective alternative in this respect for orthopedic and cardiac surgery. Although it seems less effective than aprotinin, it has not been associated with the increased risk of mortality of the latter. Thromboelastography to monitor the global hemostatic capacity and to guide the appropriate use of blood components in cardiac surgery is also effective in reducing the need for transfusion. Patients on antithrombotic drug therapy may need reversal before surgery to avoid excessive blood loss, or intraoperatively in cases of unexpected bleeding. Available options are protamine for unfractionated or low-molecular-weight heparin, recombinant activated factor VII for fondaparinux, prothrombin complex concentrate for vitamin K antagonists and possibly for oral factor Xa inhibitors, dialysis and possibly activated prothrombin complex concentrate for oral thrombin inhibitors, desmopressin for aspirin and possibly for thienopyridines, and platelet transfusions for the latter."}
{"id": "23232787", "title": "A randomized crossover study comparing the antiplatelet effect of plavix versus generic clopidogrel.", "content": "A randomized crossover study comparing the antiplatelet effect of plavix versus generic clopidogrel. Clopidogrel exists in different salt formulations. All published data that have demonstrated its beneficial effect are based entirely on the hydrogen sulphate salt contained in the branded product Plavix, which had US sales of $6.1 billion in 2010 alone. A number of cheaper generic versions of clopidogrel are increasingly being used in Europe as an alternative to Plavix, mainly for cost reasons. However, there is insufficient evidence to show that their pharmacodynamic effect is equivalent to Plavix. This prospective study investigated whether there is any significant difference in the antiplatelet effect of Plavix versus generic clopidogrel hydrochloride in healthy male volunteers. All participants received loading and maintenance doses of both drugs, in a crossover manner, separated by a 2-week washout period. Adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet reactivity was measured using short thrombelastography at multiple timepoints. The results showed interindividual heterogeneity in responses to clopidogrel but no significant difference in ADP-induced platelet reactivity between Plavix versus generic clopidogrel hydrochloride. Our findings suggest comparable inhibition of ADP-induced platelet reactivity with Plavix and generic clopidogrel hydrochloride. This observation is particularly pertinent at a time when the patent for Plavix is expected to expire in the near future leading to the large-scale switch to cheaper generic preparations."}
{"id": "23227505", "title": "[Clinical and immunological aspects of extracorporeal photochemotherapy for psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis].", "content": "[Clinical and immunological aspects of extracorporeal photochemotherapy for psoriasis and psoriatic arthritis]. To evaluate the clinical efficiency of extracorporeal photochemotherapy (EPCI) in the treatment of psoriasis (Ps) and Ps associated with psoriatic arthritis (PsA). Ninety-three patients with different forms of psoriasis were examined. A study group (SG) comprised 52 patients who were treated with EPCT; a control group (CG) included 41 patients. All the patients received pharmacotherapy generally accepted for these diseases. The SG patients were given additionally EPCT (the patient took 8-methoxypsoralen in a dose of 0.6 mg/kg 1.5-2 hours before the procedure). Mononuclear cells were isolated from the patients' blood in the intermittent-line mode on a Haemonetics MCS+ cell separator. The cell suspension was irradiated with ultraviolet light A (lambda = 320-400 nm) on a JULIA irradiator at 10-15 mI/mm for 30 mm and reinfused in the patient. The course of therapy consisted of 4 sessions performed on alternate days. A varying positive effect was obtained in 49 (94%) SG patients; the mean PASI scores fell from 19.7 +/- 3.4 to 6.7 +/- 2.1 (p < 0.05). The DAS reflecting the activity of PsA reduced on average from 3.35 +/- 0.7 to 2.16 +/- 0.5 (p < 0.05), which corresponded to the change of PsA activity from moderate to weak. In CG, the positive effect was less pronounced in 27 (66%) patients, the PASI scores dropped on average from 19.2 +/- 3.7 to 12.2 +/- 3.1 (p < 0.05), DAS in patients with PsA decreased from 3.24 +/- 0.8 to 2.95 +/- 0.7 (p < 0.05). EPCT showed a high efficiency in patients with psoriasis and Ps associated with PsA; the immunological studies demonstrated the pathogenetic direction of the technique."}
{"id": "23222929", "title": "Thromboelastographic evaluation of blood coagulation in the presence of branded and generic enoxaparins.", "content": "Thromboelastographic evaluation of blood coagulation in the presence of branded and generic enoxaparins. Enoxaparin is the most widely used low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) in the USA and has been approved for clinical use in multiple indications. Enoxaparin is a complex biological product with multiple known activities relevant to its antithrombotic effects, and variations in different forms of enoxaparin may have important clinical implications. This study aimed to compare the physiological anticoagulant activity of branded and a generic enoxaparin, using thromboelastography (TEG) to evaluate their effect on the dynamic formation of the blood clot as quantitated by interactions between coagulation factors and inhibitors, fibrinogen, platelets and the fibrinolytic system. Whole native (no preservative) blood was obtained from 7 healthy volunteers. Samples were immediately mixed with various concentrations of branded or generic enoxaparin and TEG was performed to assess anticoagulant activity. Five different batches of each enoxaparin (branded and generic) were tested. Generic enoxaparin showed more variation in anticoagulation response with a less predictable concentration-dependent and linear response compared with branded enoxaparin. There was also an apparent batch-to-batch variation for generic enoxaparin. The results demonstrated a lower overall anticoagulant effect (P=0.05; no overlap of 95% confidence intervals) with a wider inter-individual variation for generic enoxaparin in comparison with branded enoxaparin. Some individuals responded with a higher than expected anticoagulant response to the given concentration of the generic enoxaparin. The findings of this study suggest that other pre-clinical and clinical studies should be done to validate the clinical interchangeability between branded and generic enoxaparin."}
{"id": "23194210", "title": "Point-of-care testing of coagulation and fibrinolytic status during postpartum haemorrhage: developing a thrombelastography\u00ae-guided transfusion algorithm.", "content": "Point-of-care testing of coagulation and fibrinolytic status during postpartum haemorrhage: developing a thrombelastography\u00ae-guided transfusion algorithm. Thrombelastography\u00ae is a monitor of coagulation and fibrinolytic status, with point-of-care applications in managing haemorrhaging patients. Advocates have suggested a possible role in managing obstetric haemorrhage. This study aims to develop a pregnancy-specific thrombelastography-guided transfusion algorithm, which could be integrated into the management of postpartum haemorrhage. In this prospective observational study, 57 healthy, term-parturients provided pre-caesarean whole blood specimens for thrombelastography analyses. Specimens were processed according to a standardised protocol involving simultaneous analyses using three assays: native (non-activated); kaolin-activated; and kaolin and tissue factor-activated (RapidTEG\u00ae). For each assay, the following thrombelastography parameters were measured: reaction time (minutes); clot formation kinetics time (minutes); maximum amplitude (mm); and a angle (degree). Subsequent reference values were used to establish assay-specific reference intervals. For all thrombelastography parameters studied, reference values obtained using a non-activated assay differed from the corresponding values obtained using activated assays, and also demonstrated greater inter-sample variability. From the assay-specific reference intervals obtained, it was possible to establish a pregnancy-specific thrombelastography-guided transfusion algorithm. Specific features of this transfusion algorithm included the preferential use of activated assays, the need for duplicates and a recommendation that an initial baseline thrombelastography measurement is established for subsequent serial comparisons. This transfusion algorithm has been developed to assist with assessment of coagulation and fibrinolytic status during postpartum haemorrhage."}
{"id": "23192064", "title": "Evolution of coagulopathy monitoring in military damage-control resuscitation.", "content": "Evolution of coagulopathy monitoring in military damage-control resuscitation."}
{"id": "23184724", "title": "Carbohydrate structure dependent hemocompatibility of biomimetic functional polymer brushes on surfaces.", "content": "Carbohydrate structure dependent hemocompatibility of biomimetic functional polymer brushes on surfaces. Glycocalyx mimicking glycopolymer brushes presenting mannose, galactose and glucose residues in the pyranose form, similar to those present on cell surfaces, were synthesized on planar substrates (Si wafer, gold chip) and monodispersed polystyrene (PS) particles, and the interaction of blood to these surfaces were studied using various methods with the goal of producing a hemocompatible surface. Surface plasmon resonance (SPR) spectroscopy and gel analyses showed that the total protein adsorption from plasma was greatly reduced, as low as 24.3 ng/cm(2) from undiluted plasma on the glucose carrying brush. The protein adsorption decreased with increasing grafting density of the brushes. It was also found that the protein adsorption varied with the anticoagulant used for blood collection; much higher amount of protein was adsorbed from heparinzied plasma than citrated plasma. Proteomics protein identification analysis revealed that protein adsorption from plasma depended on the type of sugar residue present on the surface as well as the type of anticoagulant. All the three types of glycopolymer brushes showed similar level of platelet activation as that of buffer control irrespective of the nature of carbohydrate residue. However, the number of adhered platelet and their morphology depended on the type of carbohydrate residue present on the brush. On glucose brush, the extent of platelet adhesion and spreading was significantly lowered compared to other brushes. All the glycopolymer brushes were neutral to blood coagulation as indicated by thromboelastography analysis. The glucose brush gave a slightly longer initial coagulation time suggesting that this surface may be more biocompatible. Our data demonstrate that the structure of carbohydrate residue is an important factor in the design of synthetic blood contacting surface based on glycopolymer."}
{"id": "23153876", "title": "Hypovolemic shock resuscitation.", "content": "Hypovolemic shock resuscitation. Several changes in the way patients with hemorrhagic shock are resuscitated have occurred over the past decades, including permissive hypotension, minimal crystalloid resuscitation, earlier blood transfusion, and higher plasma and platelet-to-red cell ratios. Hemostatic adjuncts, such as tranexamic acid and prothrombin complex, and the use of new methods of assessing coagulopathy are also being incorporated into resuscitation of the bleeding patient. These ideas have been incorporated by many trauma centers into institutional massive transfusion protocols, and adoption of these protocols has resulted in improvements in mortality and morbidity. This article discusses each of these new resuscitation strategies and the evidence supporting their use."}
{"id": "23140969", "title": "Hemostatic management in complex aortic surgery: a role for multiple electrode aggregometry and modified rotational thromboelastometry.", "content": "Hemostatic management in complex aortic surgery: a role for multiple electrode aggregometry and modified rotational thromboelastometry."}
{"id": "23138460", "title": "Circulating and platelet-derived microparticles in human blood enhance thrombosis on atherosclerotic plaques.", "content": "Circulating and platelet-derived microparticles in human blood enhance thrombosis on atherosclerotic plaques. Plaque rupture followed by thrombosis is the underlying cause of the majority of acute coronary syndromes. Circulating microparticles (cMPs), membrane blebs released into blood by activated cells, have been associated to vascular diseases. Specifically, high levels of platelet-derived microparticles (pMPs) have been found in patients with coronary disease. However, it is unknown whether microparticles have a contributing role to the development of damaged vessel wall-induced arterial thrombi. The aim of this proof of concept study was to investigate whether an increased number of cMPs and pMPs could functionally contribute to blood thrombogenicity on areas of arterial damage. Microparticles were isolated from blood of healthy volunteers and were characterised by flow cytometry. Effects of microparticles on platelet deposition were assessed under controlled flow conditions exposing damaged arterial wall in the Badimon perfusion chamber and collagen type-I in the flat perfusion chamber to human blood. Platelet deposition on damaged arteries was significantly increased in cMP- and pMP-enriched bloods (p<0.05). pMPs also induced increase in platelet (p<0.05) and fibrin (p<0.05) deposition on human atherosclerotic arteries and in platelet adhesion to purified collagen surfaces. pMP-enriched blood induced a dose-dependent shortening of epinephrine/collagen closure time evaluated by PFA-100 (p<0.001), increased low-dose ADP-induced platelet aggregation by LTA (p<0.05), and decreased clotting time by thromboelastography (p<0.01). In conclusion, an increased content of cMPs and pMPs, even in normal blood conditions, enhance platelet deposition and thrombus formation. This study shows for the first time that, beyond biomarkers of cell activation, blood microparticles have functional effects on cardiovascular atherothrombotic disease."}
{"id": "23130550", "title": "Enhanced performance of dispenser printed MA n-type Bi\u2082Te\u2083 composite thermoelectric generators.", "content": "Enhanced performance of dispenser printed MA n-type Bi\u2082Te\u2083 composite thermoelectric generators. This work presents performance advancements of dispenser printed composite thermoelectric materials and devices. Dispenser printed thick films allow for low-cost and scalable manufacturing of microscale energy harvesting devices. A maximum ZT value of 0.31 has been achieved for mechanically alloyed (MA) n-type Bi\u2082Te\u2083-epoxy composite films with 1 wt % Se cured at 350 \u00b0C. The enhancement of ZT is a result of increase in the electrical conductivity through the addition of Se, which ultimately lowers the sintering temperature (350 \u00b0C). A 62 single-leg thermoelectric generator (TEG) prototype with 5 mm \u00d7700 \u03bcm \u00d7 120 \u03bcm printed element dimensions was fabricated on a custom designed polyimide substrate with thick metal contacts. The prototype device produced a power output of 25 \u03bcW at 0.23 mA current and 109 mV voltage for a temperature difference of 20 \u00b0C, which is sufficient for low power generation for autonomous microsystem applications."}
{"id": "23128358", "title": "In-vitro comparison of free oscillation rheometry (ReoRox) and rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) in trauma patients upon hospital admission.", "content": "In-vitro comparison of free oscillation rheometry (ReoRox) and rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) in trauma patients upon hospital admission. Plasma-based assays do not provide accurate information on haemostatic resuscitation hence viscoelastic point-of-care haemostatic assays such as rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM Delta, Pentapharm) are used to monitor coagulopathy in trauma patients. Free oscillation rheometry (FOR) is a new whole blood haemostatic assay that measures not only the clot-forming process but also the initial viscous phase; this could potentially be of value when assessing traumatic coagulopathy. A comparative analysis between FOR and ROTEM was therefore performed. This is a prospective observational study of 40 adult trauma patients admitted to a level 1 trauma centre. Citrated whole blood was analysed with ROTEM EXTEM and FIBTEM assays and FOR Fibscreen1 and Fibscreen2 assays. Predefined variables of ROTEM and FOR were compared using Spearman's \u03c1. ROTEM maximum clot function (MCF) in both EXTEM and FIBTEM correlated (P < 0.0001 for both) with FOR maximum elasticity Fibscreen1 and Fibscreen2, respectively. Interestingly, ROTEM EXTEM clotting time did not correlate with any of the FOR clot initiation parameters COT1, COT2 or COT2-1 of Fibscreen1. A correlation between ROTEM EXTEM and FIBTEM and FOR Fibscreen1 and Fibscreen2 clot formation and clot strength was found as was a significant correlation between lysis index after 60 min and ClotSR30. ROTEM EXTEM did not correlate with COT1, COT2 or COT2-1 of Fibscreen1 and this warrants further investigation."}
{"id": "23123135", "title": "Platelet-associated tissue factor enhances platelet reactivity and thrombin generation in experimental studies in vitro.", "content": "Platelet-associated tissue factor enhances platelet reactivity and thrombin generation in experimental studies in vitro. The thrombogenic potential of tissue factor (TF) associated to platelets is controversial. We have investigated the in vitro contribution of platelet-associated TF to thrombus formation. Platelets suspensions were exposed to human TF-rich microvesicles (TF-MV) from placental or recombinant origin. Platelet-associated TF was quantified through coagulometric assays. Adhesive and cohesive properties of platelets containing TF were assessed in perfusion models using two thrombogenic surfaces: 1) type-I collagen, or 2) damaged vascular segments. Perfusion studies were performed with heparinized blood enriched with a 30% of washed platelets exposed to TF-MV vs. washed control platelets. Thrombin generation and thromboelastometric properties of clots were also assessed using a fluorometric assay and ROTEM analysis, respectively. Inhibitory strategies with an antibody to TF were performed in some cases. The addition of 30% of platelets containing TF to blood perfusates resulted in a statistically significant increase in the platelet coverage (%CS) vs. non-exposed platelets on collagen surfaces (%CS: 19.7 \u00b1 0.6 and 23.9 \u00b1 0.7 respectively, vs.14.5 \u00b1 1.4; p<0.01) and on the vascular subendothelium (%CS: 54.0 \u00b1 1.5 and 47.2 \u00b1 6.8 respectively vs. 38.0 \u00b1 3.5, p<0.05), with a statistically significant increase in the size of large platelet aggregates (p<0.05) vs. control platelets. These effects on collagen surfaces were almost totally prevented by an antibody to TF. Platelet-associated TF significantly accelerated thrombin generation and clot formation (p<0.05), effects that were partially prevented by a neutralizing anti-TF. Platelet-associated TF potentiated adhesive and aggregating properties in in vitro studies with flowing blood and accelerated thrombin generation and clot formation time under steady conditions."}
{"id": "23104836", "title": "Mobile Laboratory Unit: a disruptor solution for hemostasis management during major surgery. Usage in the context of face transplantation.", "content": "Mobile Laboratory Unit: a disruptor solution for hemostasis management during major surgery. Usage in the context of face transplantation. The management of surgical bleeding during a face transplant in a patient diagnosed with bilateral neurofibromatosis is quite complex. With the actual methods and technology for hemostasis management, it may not always be possible to give the clinician the support needed to manage operative associated bleeding. Bedside hemostasis monitors are needed urgently to assist clinicians in making the correct diagnosis in a timely manner. Our Mobile Laboratory Unit is a disruptive solution for hemostasis management during major surgery as it allows real-time monitoring, the predominant mechanism of bleeding and goal-direct coagulation therapy. The unit is an autonomous mobile platform that can be moved immediately to anywhere its service is needed and offers a complete flexible laboratory test which includes biochemistry, hematology and coagulation studies as standard equipment. In our case the test performed by the unit allowed us to identify the reason for our patient's bleeding at the bedside. Severely decreased clot firmness of the fibrin-based clot and a less impaired firmness of the whole blood clot, suggested an acceptable contribution of platelets to the clot quality, but decreased polymerization of fibrinogen into fibrin. In our opinion new insights into the pathophysiology of coagulopathy, the availability of technology such as our Mobile Laboratory Unit, and awareness of side effects of intravenous fluids should encourage the idea that perhaps it is time to change hemostasis management in operation-related bleeding."}
{"id": "23090161", "title": "Acute cardiovascular effects of firefighting and active cooling during rehabilitation.", "content": "Acute cardiovascular effects of firefighting and active cooling during rehabilitation. To determine the cardiovascular and hemostatic effects of fire suppression and postexposure active cooling. Forty-four firefighters were evaluated before and after a 12-minute live-fire drill. Next, 50 firefighters performing the same drill were randomized to undergo postfire forearm immersion in 10 \u00b0C water or standard rehabilitation. In the first study, heart rate and core body temperature increased and serum C-reactive protein decreased but there were no significant changes in fibrinogen, sE-selectin, or sL-selectin. The second study demonstrated an increase in blood coagulability, leukocyte count, factors VIII and X, cortisol, and glucose, and a decrease in plasminogen and sP-selectin. Active cooling reduced mean core temperature, heart rate, and leukocyte count. Live-fire exposure increased core temperature, heart rate, coagulability, and leukocyte count; all except coagulability were reduced by active cooling."}
{"id": "23076727", "title": "Massive transfusion in the trauma patient: Continuing Professional Development.", "content": "Massive transfusion in the trauma patient: Continuing Professional Development. Massive transfusion has recently been given a dynamic definition, namely, the replacement of more than four red cell concentrates within an hour. The purpose of this continuing professional development module is to review the pathophysiology of hemorrhagic shock in the trauma patient and the current management strategies of the massively bleeding trauma patient. The massively bleeding trauma patient requires concurrent hemorrhage control and blood replacement therapy. Although there are many complications of massive transfusions, such as acid-base disturbances, electrolyte abnormalities, and hypothermia, perhaps the most difficult aspect to manage is acute trauma coagulopathy. Historically, coagulopathy was attributed to dilution of coagulation factors; however, recent accumulated evidence indicates that it is a multifactorial process associated with hypoperfusion, factor consumption, and hyperfibrinolysis. In an attempt to minimize acute trauma coagulopathy, massive transfusion protocols with equal ratios of red cell concentrates, frozen plasma, and platelets have been proposed. This type of hemostatic resuscitation, with near equal ratios of blood and blood products, has improved survival, but it is not without risk. In addition to the rapid and effective restoration of blood volume, the specific goal of transfusion management should be to maintain the patient's oxygen carrying capacity, hemostasis, and biochemistry. The current literature does not permit firm conclusions to be drawn regarding optimal transfusion ratios. It remains appropriate, however, to devise a massive transfusion protocol at the institutional level that provides treating physicians with rapid delivery of a reasonable initial ratio of products. This would permit patient-centred management with an emphasis on surgical control of bleeding, maintenance of normothermia, avoidance of electrolyte abnormalities, acid-base balance, and the timely delivery of blood products. After reading this module, the reader should be able to: 1. Enumerate the complications associated with massive transfusion in the trauma context; 2. Understand how the coagulopathy present in the trauma patient differs from that seen in the elective setting; 3. Identify the modifications suggested by the recent literature for the management of massive transfusion in the trauma setting; 4. Appreciate the evidence for the institution of massive transfusion protocols."}
{"id": "23075633", "title": "Haemostatic monitoring during postpartum haemorrhage and implications for management.", "content": "Haemostatic monitoring during postpartum haemorrhage and implications for management. Postpartum haemorrhage (PPH) is a major risk factor for maternal morbidity and mortality. PPH has numerous causative factors, which makes its occurrence and severity difficult to predict. Underlying haemostatic imbalances such as consumptive and dilutional coagulopathies may develop during PPH, and can exacerbate bleeding and lead to progression to severe PPH. Monitoring coagulation status in patients with PPH may be crucial for effective haemostatic management, goal-directed therapy, and improved outcomes. However, current PPH management guidelines do not account for the altered baseline coagulation status observed in pregnant patients, and the appropriate transfusion triggers to use in PPH are unknown, due to a lack of high-quality studies specific to this area. In this review, we consider the evidence for the use of standard laboratory-based coagulation tests and point-of-care viscoelastic coagulation monitoring in PPH. Many laboratory-based tests are unsuitable for emergency use due to their long turnaround times, so have limited value for the management of PPH. Emerging evidence suggests that viscoelastic monitoring, using thrombelastography- or thromboelastometry-based tests, may be useful for rapid assessment and for guiding haemostatic therapy during PPH. However, further studies are needed to define the ranges of reference values that should be considered 'normal' in this setting. Improving awareness of the correct application and interpretation of viscoelastic coagulation monitoring techniques may be critical in realizing their emergency diagnostic potential."}
{"id": "23053307", "title": "Effect of rivaroxaban on blood coagulation using the viscoelastic coagulation test ROTEM\u2122.", "content": "Effect of rivaroxaban on blood coagulation using the viscoelastic coagulation test ROTEM\u2122. This study investigated the influence of the oral direct inhibitor of factor Xa rivaroxaban on blood coagulation measured by rotation thrombelastometry ROTEM\u2122. Blood was obtained from 11 healthy male volunteers before and 2.5\u00a0h after oral administration of 10\u00a0mg rivaroxaban. In addition to standard coagulation tests clot formation was measured by ROTEM\u2122 analyzing extrinsic (Extem) and intrinsic thrombelastometry (Intem). Significant differences to the baseline values were found in the Extem clotting time (Extem-CT, 58\u2009\u00b1\u20099\u00a0s and 87\u2009\u00b1\u200917\u00a0s, p\u2009<\u20090.01), Intem-CT (194\u2009\u00b1\u200926\u00a0s and 239\u2009\u00b1\u200943\u00a0s; p\u2009=\u20090.02), prothrombin time (PT, 86\u2009\u00b1\u20099% and 67\u2009\u00b1\u20097%; p\u2009<\u20090.01) and activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT, 28\u2009\u00b1\u20091\u00a0s and 35\u2009\u00b1\u20092\u00a0s; p\u2009<\u20090.01). There was a low correlation between Extem-CT and PT as well as between Intem-CT and aPTT before and after rivaroxaban intake. The receiver operating characteristic curve (ROC) analysis determined aPTT to be the most appropriate parameter for the prediction of rivaroxaban-induced anticoagulation, Intem-CT and Extem-CT proved to be moderate tests and PT had no significance in the prediction of rivaroxaban-induced anticoagulation. Of utmost clinical importance was the fact that rivaroxaban treated patients could still show normal ROTEM\u2122 values. Thus, ROTEM\u2122 cannot be a suitable test method to exclude inhibition of blood coagulation by rivaroxaban."}
{"id": "23052380", "title": "Increased intraoperative bleeding in patients undergoing abdominoplasty after gastroplasty is not due to coagulopathy.", "content": "Increased intraoperative bleeding in patients undergoing abdominoplasty after gastroplasty is not due to coagulopathy. Abdominoplasties carried out in patients previously underwent gastroplasty present high rates of complications, including increased bleeding in the intra- and postoperative periods. This study evaluated bleeding, coagulation parameters (coagulogram, dosage of fibrinogen, FII, FV, FVII, FVIII, FIX, FX, and FXII), and thromboelastography in two groups of women who underwent abdominoplasties: a group with a history of gastroplasty by the Fobi-Capella technique (group I) and the other group without a history of obesity (group II). Analyses were performed before, during, and after each surgical procedure. Vitamins K and C were also dosed. Bleeding was measured by counting and weighing compresses at the end of each surgery, and the withdrawn surgical specimens were weighed. Statistically, group I patients had more bleeding than group II in all evaluated operative periods (p\u00a0=\u00a00.007). There was no significant change in the coagulogram or decrease in coagulation factors that could be associated with increased bleeding in any of the analyzed groups. Thromboelastography, which provides a comprehensive analysis of thrombin generation and of hemostasis in real time, did not differ between groups. Vitamin K was significantly increased in group I patients (p\u00a0=\u00a00.019). The weight of the surgical specimens removed was significantly higher in group I (p\u00a0=\u00a00.007) and there was correlation of the weight with the degree of bleeding. The results of this study demonstrate an increase of bleeding during the intraoperative period of abdominoplasty in patients with a history of gastroplasty that it is not due to changes in hemostasis. This journal requires that authors assign a level of evidence to each article. For a full description of these Evidence-Based Medicine ratings, please refer to the Table of Contents or the online Instructions to Authors www.springer.com/00266 ."}
{"id": "23044742", "title": "A new application for thrombelastography in pregnant women at term.", "content": "A new application for thrombelastography in pregnant women at term."}
{"id": "23041738", "title": "The impact of 30 ml/kg hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 vs hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.42 on coagulation in patients undergoing abdominal surgery.", "content": "The impact of 30 ml/kg hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 vs hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.42 on coagulation in patients undergoing abdominal surgery. Hydroxyethyl starches (HES) 130/0.4 (Voluven\u037e) and 130/0.42 (Venofundin\u037e) impair coagulation less than older HES solutions with higher molecular weight and molar substitution. Thus, these may be used in high doses up to 50 ml/kg/day. The aim of this study was to investigate and compare the effects of HES 130/0.4 versus HES 130/0.42 on coagulation after the intraoperative infusion of 30 ml/kg in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery. Fifty two patients scheduled for elective major abdominal surgery were randomized to receive 30 ml/kg of HES 130/0.4 or HES 130/0.42 intraoperatively. Coagulation variables were assessed before and after infusion of the colloid solution using thrombelastography. Data from 49 patients, 25 patients in the HES 130/0.4 and 24 in the HES 130/0.42 group, were analyzed. Measurements of reaction time, kinetic time, \u03b1-angle, maximum amplitude and coagulation index before and after colloid infusion did not differ between the groups. Within each group, after colloid infusion, reaction time did not change significantly, while \u03b1-angle, maximum amplitude and coagulation index values were significantly decreased (P <0.01, P<0.001 and P<0.001, respectively in HES 130/0.4 group and P<0.01, P<0.001 and P<0.01, respectively in HES 130/0.42 group). Kinetic time was significantly increased (P<0.001) in both the groups. In both groups, all thrombelastographic measurements after colloid infusion were found within normal limits. HES 130/0.4 and HES 130/0.42 showed similar, not clinically significant effects on coagulation, as assessed by thrombelastography, when a dose of 30 ml/kg was administered in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery."}
{"id": "23041210", "title": "Monitoring of unfractionated heparin with rotational thrombelastometry using the prothrombinase-induced clotting time reagent (PiCT\u00ae).", "content": "Monitoring of unfractionated heparin with rotational thrombelastometry using the prothrombinase-induced clotting time reagent (PiCT\u00ae). To achieve sufficient and safe anticoagulation with unfractionated heparin (UFH) a close and reliable drug monitoring is necessary. In general, the activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) is used for this purpose. In acute phase response, however, the APTT test procedure might be unreliable e.g. with false low results in the presence of elevated factor VIII. In this so called heparin resistance, measurement of anti-Xa activity is recommended over APTT to avoid potentially harmful dose escalation. A combination of anti-Xa measurement and global hemostatic testing with ROTEM\u00ae employing the anti-Xa sensitive PiCT\u00ae reagent showed high correlation with enoxaparin levels. This test modification could also be suitable for monitoring UFH. Aim of the study was to evaluate the correlation between PiCT\u00ae-ROTEM\u00ae and levels of UFH. In this in-vitro study blood samples from healthy volunteers were spiked with UFH and subjected to different ROTEM\u00ae tests. There was a linear correlation between UFH level and clotting time (CT) in the PiCT\u00ae-ROTEM\u00ae test with an excellent correlation coefficient of 0.92. Additional endpoints showed similar results (PiCT\u00ae-ROTEM\u00ae MaxVel r = -0.85 and PiCT\u00ae-ROTEM\u00ae t_MaxVel r = 0.88). As a point-of-care applicable tool ROTEM\u00ae is immediately at hand. If further clinical studies confirm sensitivity in heparin resistance, PiCT\u00ae-ROTEM\u00ae could permit rapid UFH dose adjustments especially required in critical illness with acute phase response."}
{"id": "23039961", "title": "[Diagnosis and treatment of trauma-induced coagulopathy].", "content": "[Diagnosis and treatment of trauma-induced coagulopathy]. Trauma-induced coagulopathy is frequent and complex, and is responsible for an impairment of trauma outcome. Diagnosis of trauma coagulopathy is usually done with standard biology but recently new technics arose and gave us the opportunity to have faster information on coagulopathy with quick INR measure or clot formation study with thrombelastometry. Treatment of the coagulopathy should be done earlier in the course of trauma. Two strategies are possible that include either the association of RBC, platelet and FFP in a predefined ratio, or the use of factor concentrates guided with thrombelastometry. Treatment of favouring factors such as hypothermia, acidosis and hypocalcemia is also mandatory."}
{"id": "23032067", "title": "Comparing peripheral blood stem cell collection using the COBE Spectra, Haemonetics MCS+, and Baxter Amicus.", "content": "Comparing peripheral blood stem cell collection using the COBE Spectra, Haemonetics MCS+, and Baxter Amicus. Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) have become the most common source of hematopoietic cells for allogeneic or autologous blood and marrow transplantation (BMT). We performed an evaluation of PBSC collections using three different apheresis systems in two major transplantation centers in Singapore. Patients undergoing autologous BMT and donors collecting for allogeneic BMT were harvested using the COBE Spectra, Haemonetics MCS+, or Baxter Amicus. There were 99 Spectra collections (61 were autologous), 81 MCS+ collections (35 were autologous) and 38 Amicus collections (33 were autologous). Our data shows that the Amicus not only processed larger peripheral blood volumes but also yielded larger PBSC volume (P-value<0.05). In terms of PBSC products, the Spectra produced more WBC, WBC/liter blood processed, and WBC/kg (P-value<0.05). The Spectra and MCS+ produced comparable amount of CD34+ cells. Amicus collected 50% less platelets compared to Spectra and MCS+. The total CD34+ cells in the PBSC products was linearly correlated to the circulating CD34+ cells using Spectra, MCS+, and Amicus. Our results suggest that, compared to MCS+ and Amicus, collecting PBSC using the COBE Spectra can produce more WBC with a similar number of CD34+ cells. With a linear correlation of circulating CD34+ cells to the total CD34+ cells in the products, the availability of an automated procedure, no rotating seal, and a small extracorporeal volume, the Spectra appears to be the preferred machine for PBSC collection."}
{"id": "22993925", "title": "[Endogenous heparin-like syndrome: analysis of clinical observations].", "content": "[Endogenous heparin-like syndrome: analysis of clinical observations]. One of the reasons for non-surgical bleeding is heparin-like syndrome (HLS), under which is understanded presence of heparin effect in the absence of it's exogenous application. The role of endogenous heparins perform glycosaminoglycans -- biologically active substances. HLS is accompanied by endothelium damage and discussed in the network of the systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS). HLS is described in liver future, sepsis, pregnancy and a number of hemoblastosis. Hypocoagulation effect of endogenous heparin localizates in X coagulation factor. The main method of diagnosis - thromboelastography. The use of a specific heparin antidote - Protamine sulfate has not confirmed clinical efficacy. Priority direction in the therapy of - methods of \"shunt hemostasis\". In this paper, we present the analysis of observations of 4 patients with developed endogenous HLS. In 2 cases (combination of sepsis with hepatic failure in one patient and initial thrombophilia in other) HLS has been accompanied by massive bleeding (massive hemothoraxc with haemorrhagic shock, a massive intraoperative blood loss). For HLS relief in these cases was used prothrombine complex concentrate (PCC) (in the 1st case), recombinant VIIa factor (in the 2nd case). In other cases, HLS (in a patient with multiple myeloma and childbirth in the postpartum period), haemorrhagic syndrome was not so expressed, the treatment was carried out with FFP transfusion."}
{"id": "22990100", "title": "Intraoperative blood loss during orthognathic surgery is predicted by thromboelastography.", "content": "Intraoperative blood loss during orthognathic surgery is predicted by thromboelastography. The aim of this prospective study was to evaluate the predictive value of the viscoelastic properties of whole blood samples collected preoperatively in relation to intraoperative blood loss in patients subjected to orthognathic surgery. Forty-one consecutive patients underwent simultaneous mandibular and maxillary osteotomy. Whole blood samples were collected preoperatively. The intraoperative blood loss volume was precisely estimated. The viscoelastic properties of whole blood samples were evaluated by thromboelastography (TEG), a global method that addresses the complex interplay among coagulation factors, blood platelets, and components of the fibrinolytic system. Blood platelet count, activated partial thromboplastin time, prothrombin time, plasma fibrinogen concentration, and D-dimer concentration were determined by routine methods. Patients were separated into 2 groups according to their intraoperative bleeding volume (\u2264 400 mL and >400 mL). No significant associations were observed between routine coagulation tests and intraoperative bleeding volume. The TEG results for the groups were compared. Significant associations were observed between intraoperative blood loss and the clot formation time, maximum clot firmness, and \u03b1 angle, whereas bleeding volume was not related to the fibrinolytic resistance of the blood clot. An \u03b1 angle exceeding 67\u00b0 predicted with 95% certainty a blood loss of 400 mL or less. We conclude that intraoperative bleeding volume in patients subjected to orthognathic surgery can be predicted by means of preoperative TEG analysis. TEG results provide optimization of patient safety and can be used for the evaluation of bleeding risk."}
{"id": "22983449", "title": "[Traumatic abruption of the placenta with disseminated intravascular coagulation].", "content": "[Traumatic abruption of the placenta with disseminated intravascular coagulation]. Trauma in pregnancy is infrequent and a systematic primary strategy constitutes a real challenge for the interdisciplinary team. With a high fetal mortality rate and a substantial maternal mortality rate traumatic placental abruption is a severe emergency which every anesthetist should be aware of. After hemodynamic stabilization of the mother and control of the viability of the fetus the therapy of traumatic placental abruption consists mostly of an immediate caesarean section. Coagulopathy by depletion of coagulation factors as well as disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) have to be expected and consequently a massive blood loss must be anticipated. Thrombelastography provides assistance for fast differential diagnosis and goal-directed treatment of the disturbed sections of the coagulation cascade."}
{"id": "22971905", "title": "Association of CYP2C19 genotype with periprocedural myocardial infarction after uneventful stent implantation in Chinese patients receiving clopidogrel pretreatment.", "content": "Association of CYP2C19 genotype with periprocedural myocardial infarction after uneventful stent implantation in Chinese patients receiving clopidogrel pretreatment. High platelet reactivity (HPR) after clopidogrel treatment is linked to an increased risk of periprocedural myocardial infarction (PMI). The occurrence of PMI that could be associated with CYP2C19 genotype status was our hypothesis. A total of 233 patients with non-ST elevation acute coronary syndromes (NSTACS) undergoing uneventful elective percutaneous coronary intervention were included. Platelet reactivity was assessed by thrombelastograph at 24 h after 300 mg clopidogrel loading. HPR was defined as \u226570% adenosine diphosphate-induced platelet aggregation. The CYP2C19*2 and *3 loss-of-function (LOF) alleles were determined using DNA microarray method. Patients with PMI had significantly higher on-clopidogrel platelet reactivity compared to those without PMI (60.0\u00b124.4% vs. 43.0\u00b124.0%, P<0.001). HPR was more frequently observed in patients with PMI and was the strongest risk factor of PMI in multivariate analysis (OR(adj)=4.348, 95% CI: 1.846-10.241, P=0.001). Furthermore, the incidence of HPR was significantly associated with the carriage of 2 CYP2C19 LOF alleles. Compared with non-carriers, patients carrying 2 CYP2C19 LOF alleles had a 3.000-fold increased risk (95% CI: 1.071-8.400, P=0.037) for PMI in multivariate analysis. However, inclusion of HPR as a covariate in the regression model changed the significant relationship between the carriage of 2 CYP2C19 LOF alleles and PMI. Among Chinese patients with NSTACS, carriers with 2 CYP2C19 LOF alleles are more prone to HPR, which is associated with an increased risk for PMI."}
{"id": "22964769", "title": "Freezing does not decrease carbon monoxide-mediated hypercoagulation and hypofibrinolysis in human plasma.", "content": "Freezing does not decrease carbon monoxide-mediated hypercoagulation and hypofibrinolysis in human plasma. Carbon monoxide (CO) has been demonstrated to enhance coagulation and attenuate fibrinolysis in vitro and in vivo. Hemostasis is affected by CO interactions with key heme-modulated molecules. We wished to determine whether freezing would affect CO-mediated changes in coagulation/fibrinolysis in plasma in anticipation of collecting samples both within our institution and from collaborating centers. Plasma was exposed to CO by addition of 0-100 \u03bcmol/l tricarbonyldichlororuthenium (II) dimer, with a portion of plasma immediately frozen at -80 \u00b0C. Unfrozen plasma was subjected to thrombelastographic analysis following tissue factor activation, with some samples exposed to tissue type plasminogen activator. Frozen plasma was subsequently thawed and similarly analyzed. Freezing did not significantly change CO-mediated enhancement of coagulation or attenuation of fibrinolysis. Hemostatic changes in plasma exposed to CO are not affected by a freeze-thaw cycle, which will permit local batch processing of samples and transport of samples on dry ice from collaborating centers."}
{"id": "22958005", "title": "Thromboelastography: might work in neonatology too?", "content": "Thromboelastography: might work in neonatology too? To review the working principles of thromboelastography and evaluate the current knowledge about the possibility of its implementation in the neonatal intensive care unit setting. Thorough search of the literature in the PubMed database (until May 31, 2012) concerning Thromboelastography (TEG) and/or Thromboelastometry (ROTEM) use in the newborn infant. Neonatal data are limited to a small number of healthy subjects and virtually absent in the extreme premature infant. Healthy newborns exhibit age dependent accelerated initiation and propagation of coagulation despite prolonged standard plasma coagulation test results, whereas clot firmness and fibrinolysis are similar to adult values. Several neonatal pathological conditions (e.g. sepsis; hypothermia) are linked with substantial changes in the thromboelastographic parameters. The current knowledge is too limited to express a definitive indication on the reliability of the use of viscoelastic point of care analyzer in the neonatal intensive care unit setting. However, their potential use not only as a diagnostic tool, but also to guide the transfusion therapy requires careful consideration."}
{"id": "22951415", "title": "Effect of BAX499 aptamer on tissue factor pathway inhibitor function and thrombin generation in models of hemophilia.", "content": "Effect of BAX499 aptamer on tissue factor pathway inhibitor function and thrombin generation in models of hemophilia. In hemophilia, thrombin generation is significantly suppressed due to decreased factor (F)X activation. Clinical studies and experiments with transgenic mice have suggested that the severity of hemophilia is substantially reduced by tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI) deficiency. We evaluated the effect of TFPI antagonist aptamer BAX499 (formerly ARC19499) on TFPI function in purified systems and on thrombin generation and clot formation in plasma and blood. BAX499 effectively neutralized TFPI inhibition of FXa and FXa dependent inhibition of TF/FVIIa by TFPI. BAX499 did not inhibit FXa or TF/FVIIa when used up to 500 nM. In the synthetic coagulation proteome with TFPI at its mean physiologic concentration, BAX499 at 1 - 10nM increased thrombin generation triggered with 5 pM relipidated TF in a concentration-dependent manner. In severe hemophilia A or B models using the synthetic coagulation proteome, the addition of BAX499 at 5 nM increased thrombin generation to the levels observed in normal control. Thrombin generation measured in induced hemophilia B plasma required ~100nM BAX499 to restore thrombin levels to those seen in untreated plasma. In induced hemophilia B whole blood, BAX499 repaired the clotting time but failed to appreciably impact the propagation phase of thrombin generation. These data suggest that inhibition of TFPI by BAX499 may have potential for hemophilia treatment but requires further study in blood-based hemophilia systems."}
{"id": "22950390", "title": "A comparison of intra-operative blood loss and acid-base balance between vasopressor and inotrope strategy during living donor liver transplantation: a randomised, controlled study.", "content": "A comparison of intra-operative blood loss and acid-base balance between vasopressor and inotrope strategy during living donor liver transplantation: a randomised, controlled study. Administration of vasopressors or inotropes during liver transplant surgery is almost universal, as this procedure is often accompanied by massive haemorrhage, acid-base imbalance, and cardiovascular instability. However, the actual agents that should be used and the choice between a vasopressor and an inotrope strategy are not clear from existing published evidence. In this prospective, randomised, controlled and single-blinded study, we compared the effects of a vasopressor strategy on intra-operative blood loss and acid-base status with those of an inotrope strategy during living donor liver transplantation. Seventy-six adult liver recipients with decompensated cirrhosis were randomly assigned to receive a continuous infusion of either phenylephrine at a dose of 0.3-0.4 \u03bcg.kg(-1).min(-1) or dopamine and/or dobutamine at 2-8 \u03bcg.kg(-1).min(-1) during surgery. Vascular resistance was higher over time in the phenylephrine group than in the dopamine/dobutamine group. Estimated blood loss was significantly lower in the phenylephrine group than in the dopamine/dobutamine group (mean (SD) 4.5 (1.8) l vs 6.1 (3.4) l, respectively, p=0.011). Patients in the phenylephrine group had lower lactate levels in the late pre-anhepatic and the early anhepatic phase and needed less bicarbonate administration than those in the dopamine/dobutamine group (median (IQR [range]) 40 (0-100 [0-160]) mEq vs 70 (40-163 [0-260]) mEq, respectively, p=0.018). Postoperative clinical outcomes and laboratory-measured hepatic and renal function did not differ between the groups. Increased vascular resistance and reduction of portal blood flow by intra-operative phenylephrine infusion is assumed to decrease the amount of intra-operative bleeding and thereby ameliorate the progression of lactic acidosis during liver transplant surgery."}
{"id": "22926249", "title": "Obstetric hemorrhage and coagulation: an update. Thromboelastography, thromboelastometry, and conventional coagulation tests in the diagnosis and prediction of postpartum hemorrhage.", "content": "Obstetric hemorrhage and coagulation: an update. Thromboelastography, thromboelastometry, and conventional coagulation tests in the diagnosis and prediction of postpartum hemorrhage. Globally, postpartum hemorrhage (PPH) is the leading cause of maternal morbidity and mortality. In the current treatment of severe PPH, first-line therapy includes transfusion of packed cells and fresh-frozen plasma in addition to uterotonic medical management and surgical interventions. In persistent PPH, tranexamic acid, fibrinogen, and coagulation factors are often administered. Secondary coagulopathy due to PPH or its treatment is often underestimated and therefore remains untreated, potentially causing progression to even more severe PPH. In most cases, medical and transfusion therapy is not based on the actual coagulation state because conventional laboratory test results are usually not available for 45 to 60 minutes. Thromboelastography and rotational thromboelastometry are point-of-care coagulation tests. A good correlation has been shown between thromboelastometric and conventional coagulation tests, and the use of these in massive bleeding in nonobstetric patients is widely practiced and it has been proven to be cost-effective. As with conventional laboratory tests, there is an influence of fluid dilution on coagulation test results, which is more pronounced with colloid fluids. Fibrinogen seems to play a major role in the course of PPH and can be an early predictor of the severity of PPH. The FIBTEM values (in thromboelastometry, reagent specific for the fibrin polymerization process) decline even more rapidly than fibrinogen levels and can be useful for early guidance of interventions. Data on thromboelastography and thromboelastometry in pregnant women are limited, particularly during the peripartum period and in women with PPH, so more research in this field is needed."}
{"id": "22925531", "title": "Improved point-of-care identification of hyperfibrinolysis is needed.", "content": "Improved point-of-care identification of hyperfibrinolysis is needed."}
{"id": "22918041", "title": "Plasma tissue-type plasminogen activator increases fibrinolytic activity of exogenous urokinase-type plasminogen activator.", "content": "Plasma tissue-type plasminogen activator increases fibrinolytic activity of exogenous urokinase-type plasminogen activator. The relationship between tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) and urokinase-type plasminogen activator (uPA) function is not fully understood. The aim of this study was to compare in vitro the fibrinolytic activity of tPA and uPA and evaluate their possible interaction. Blood coagulation and fibrinolysis were conducted by rotation thromboelastometry, whereas blood clotting was induced by CaCl2 and tissue factor and fibrinolysis additively by tPA and uPA. Effective concentration 50% of tPA and uPA fibrinolytic activity in blood was found to be 90 and 33 IU/ml relating to the units of activity established by manufacturers in the absence of blood. uPA-induced fibrinolysis in blood was faster compared with tPA used at the same units of activity. In contrast, in a blood-free system containing fibrinogen, plasminogen, and thrombin, fibrinolysis induced by uPA was weaker than by tPA. Treating of blood with tranexamic acid (60 mmol/l) was followed by decreased fibrinolytic potential of both exogenous tPA and uPA, despite uPA by itself is known to be not sensitive to aminocaproic acids. Thus, uPA exerted stronger activity in blood but weaker activity in blood-free system, compared with tPA. Taking into account the intermolecular binding of uPA to tPA, it could be suggested that interaction of exogenous uPA with plasma-containing tPA provided amplification of fibrinolysis due to formation of uPA/tPA complex possessing high affinity to fibrin."}
{"id": "22914710", "title": "Point-of-care testing: a prospective, randomized clinical trial of efficacy in coagulopathic cardiac surgery patients.", "content": "Point-of-care testing: a prospective, randomized clinical trial of efficacy in coagulopathic cardiac surgery patients. The current investigation aimed to study the efficacy of hemostatic therapy guided either by conventional coagulation analyses or point-of-care (POC) testing in coagulopathic cardiac surgery patients. Patients undergoing complex cardiac surgery were assessed for eligibility. Those patients in whom diffuse bleeding was diagnosed after heparin reversal or increased blood loss during the first 24 postoperative hours were enrolled and randomized to the conventional or POC group. Thromboelastometry and whole blood impedance aggregometry have been performed in the POC group. The primary outcome variable was the number of transfused units of packed erythrocytes during the first 24 h after inclusion. Secondary outcome variables included postoperative blood loss, use and costs of hemostatic therapy, and clinical outcome parameters. Sample size analysis revealed a sample size of at least 100 patients per group. There were 152 patients who were screened for eligibility and 100 patients were enrolled in the study. After randomization of 50 patients to each group, a planned interim analysis revealed a significant difference in erythrocyte transfusion rate in the conventional compared with the POC group [5 (4;9) versus 3 (2;6) units [median (25 and 75 percentile)], P<0.001]. The study was terminated early. The secondary outcome parameters of fresh frozen plasma and platelet transfusion rates, postoperative mechanical ventilation time, length of intensive care unit stay, composite adverse events rate, costs of hemostatic therapy, and 6-month mortality were lower in the POC group. Hemostatic therapy based on POC testing reduced patient exposure to allogenic blood products and provided significant benefits with respect to clinical outcomes."}
{"id": "22910635", "title": "Coagulation crystal ball: why can't we predict bleeding after cardiac surgery?", "content": "Coagulation crystal ball: why can't we predict bleeding after cardiac surgery?"}
{"id": "22910089", "title": "Coagulation management in patients undergoing mechanical circulatory support.", "content": "Coagulation management in patients undergoing mechanical circulatory support. The incidence of bleeding and thrombo-embolic complications in patients undergoing mechanical circulatory support therapy remains high and is associated with bad outcomes and increased costs. The need for anticoagulation and anti-platelet therapy varies widely between different pulsatile and non-pulsatile ventricular-assist devices (VADs) and extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) systems. Therefore, a unique anticoagulation protocol cannot be recommended. Notably, most thrombo-embolic complications occur despite values of conventional coagulation tests being within the targeted range. This is due to the fact that conventional coagulation tests such as international normalised ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and platelet count cannot detect hyper- or hypofibrinolysis, hypercoagulability due to tissue factor expression on circulating cells or increased clot firmness, and platelet aggregation as well as response to anti-platelet drugs. By contrast, point-of-care (POC) whole blood viscoelastic tests (thromboelastometry/-graphy) and platelet function tests (impedance or turbidimetric aggregometry) reflect in detail the haemostatic status of patients undergoing mechanical circulatory support therapy and the efficacy of their anticoagulation and antiaggregation therapy. Therefore, monitoring of haemostasis using POC thromboelastometry/-graphy and platelet function analysis is recommended during mechanical circulatory support therapy to reduce the risk of bleeding and thrombo-embolic complications. Notably, these haemostatic tests should be performed repeatedly during mechanical circulatory support therapy since thrombin generation, clot firmness and platelet response may change significantly over time with a high inter- and intra-individual variability. Furthermore, coagulation management can be hampered in non-pulsatile VADs by acquired von Willebrand syndrome, and in general by acquired factor XIII deficiency as well as by heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. In addition, POC testing can be used in bleeding patients to guide calculated goal-directed therapy with allogeneic blood products, haemostatic drugs and coagulation factor concentrates to optimise the haemostasis and to minimise transfusion requirements, transfusion-associated adverse events and to avoid thrombo-embolic complications, as well. However, coagulation management in patients undergoing mechanical circulatory support therapy is somehow like navigating between Scylla and Charybdis, and development of protocols based on POC testing seems to be beneficial."}
{"id": "22901719", "title": "Thrombelastography change after bridging to left ventricular assist device from extracorporeal membrane oxygenation patients.", "content": "Thrombelastography change after bridging to left ventricular assist device from extracorporeal membrane oxygenation patients. Circulatory assist devices are applied to support patients with end-stage heart failure or circulatory collapse. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) and ventricular assist device (VAD) are the two devices that are commonly used in these situations. However, in patients undergoing ECMO, complications occur more frequently and are more severe than in those with VAD, especially in patients with coagulopathy. The cause of coagulopathy is seldom reported; therefore, the current prospective study was designed to compare the coagulation status between patients who received ECMO and bridged VAD thereafter. The cases for our study were collected between December 2005 and January 2010. A total of 21 patients with VAD were enrolled. Seven patients received initial ECMO support and were subsequently shifted to VAD. Use of blood transfusion products by patients was recorded during application of ECMO and VAD. Thrombelastography (TEG) was performed pre-ECMO and pre-VAD, and thereafter to 1 week post-VAD implantation. The relevant parameters that were examined included coagulation time (R: resting, K: kinetics, seconds), angle (\u03b1, degrees), maximal amplitude (MA, mm), clot strength (G, dynes/cm(2)), and estimated percent lysis in 30 minutes (LY30, %). Coagulation status and average unit per day of blood transfusion at pre-VAD and post-VAD status were recorded. TEGs of pre-VAD and post-VAD implantation were compared in order to determine the frequency of bleeding. Average results from seven cases were incorporated into the current analysis. The patient transfusion requirement was reduced after implantation of the VAD. The TEG of post-VAD implantation was improved from the earlier pre-VAD results (ECMO status). Ultimately, TEG resulted in significant differences in R, K, angle, MA, and G, postoperatively. Coagulopathy of patients with VAD improved after bridging from ECMO, which can be attributed to improved coagulation factor and platelet function. Thus, bleeding complications are reduced."}
{"id": "22900053", "title": "Bivalirudin in combination with heparin to control mesenchymal cell procoagulant activity.", "content": "Bivalirudin in combination with heparin to control mesenchymal cell procoagulant activity. Islet and hepatocyte transplantation are associated with tissue factor-dependent activation of coagulation which elicits instant blood mediated inflammatory reaction, thereby contributing to a low rate of engraftment. The aim of this study was i) to evaluate the procoagulant activity of human adult liver-derived mesenchymal progenitor cells (hALPCs), ii) to compare it to other mesenchymal cells of extra-hepatic (bone marrow mesenchymal stem cells and skin fibroblasts) or liver origin (liver myofibroblasts), and iii) to determine the ways this activity could be modulated. Using a whole blood coagulation test (thromboelastometry), we demonstrated that all analyzed cell types exhibit procoagulant activity. The hALPCs pronounced procoagulant activity was associated with an increased tissue factor and a decreased tissue factor pathway inhibitor expression as compared with hepatocytes. At therapeutic doses, the procoagulant effect of hALPCs was inhibited by neither antithrombin activators nor direct factor Xa inhibitor or direct thrombin inhibitors individually. However, concomitant administration of an antithrombin activator or direct factor Xa inhibitor and direct thrombin inhibitor proved to be a particularly effective combination for controlling the procoagulant effects of hALPCs both in vitro and in vivo. The results suggest that this dual antithrombotic therapy should also improve the efficacy of cell transplantation in humans."}
{"id": "22897591", "title": "Viscoelastic and aggregometric point-of-care testing in patients with septic shock - cross-links between inflammation and haemostasis.", "content": "Viscoelastic and aggregometric point-of-care testing in patients with septic shock - cross-links between inflammation and haemostasis. In the pathogenesis of sepsis, inflammation-induced changes in coagulation play a pivotal role. In total, 90 patients (30 patients with septic shock, 30 surgical patients following major abdominal surgery and 30 healthy volunteers) were enrolled. Blood samples from patients with septic shock were collected at the time of sepsis diagnosis as well as 24 h, 4 days, 7 days, 14 days and 28 days later. Samples from surgical patients with a post-surgical inflammatory response were collected three times (before surgery, immediately after surgery and 24 h after surgery) and once from healthy volunteers. Thromboelastometry (ROTEM (\u00ae) ), as well as whole blood impedance aggregometry (Multiplate(\u00ae) ) were performed. Additionally, plasma concentrations of interleukin-6 and tumour necrosis factor-alpha were measured using enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay kits. Thromboelastometry lysis index was shown to be a reliable biomarker for septic shock. Furthermore, in septic patients with overt disseminated intravascular coagulation, thromboelastometry revealed signs indicating a hypocoagulable status, whereas patients without overt disseminated intravascular coagulation were found to be hypercoagulable. Platelet aggregation capability, as assessed by whole blood impedance aggregometry, was significantly reduced in septic patients with overt disseminated intravascular coagulation, whereas it was comparable with healthy volunteers and in septic patients without overt disseminated intravascular coagulation. Viscoelastic and aggregometric point-of-care testing was shown to be potentially useful for bedside diagnosis of sepsis. Moreover, viscoelastic and aggregometric point-of-care testing was able to determine the phase of septic coagulopathy (hypercoagulability vs. hypocoagulability) and therefore identified patients at high risk for overt disseminated intravascular coagulation."}
{"id": "22876309", "title": "Coagulation changes during presyncope and recovery.", "content": "Coagulation changes during presyncope and recovery. Orthostatic stress activates the coagulation system. The extent of coagulation activation with full orthostatic load leading to presyncope is unknown. We examined in 7 healthy males whether presyncope, using a combination of head up tilt (HUT) and lower body negative pressure (LBNP), leads to coagulation changes as well as in the return to baseline during recovery. Coagulation responses (whole blood thrombelastometry, whole blood platelet aggregation, endogenous thrombin potential, markers of endothelial activation and thrombin generation), blood cell counts and plasma mass density (for volume changes) were measured before, during, and 20 min after the orthostatic stress. Maximum orthostatic load led to a 25% plasma volume loss. Blood cell counts, prothrombin levels, thrombin peak, endogenous thrombin potential, and tissue factor pathway inhibitor levels increased during the protocol, commensurable with hemoconcentration. The markers of endothelial activation (tissue factor, tissue plasminogen activator), and thrombin generation (F1+2, prothrombin fragments 1 and 2, and TAT, thrombin-antithrombin complex) increased to an extent far beyond the hemoconcentration effect. During recovery, the markers of endothelial activation returned to initial supine values, but F1+2 and TAT remained elevated, suggestive of increased coagulability. Our findings of increased coagulability at 20 min of recovery from presyncope may have greater clinical significance than short-term procoagulant changes observed during standing. While our experiments were conducted in healthy subjects, the observed hypercoagulability during graded orthostatic challenge, at presyncope and in recovery may be an important risk factor particularly for patients already at high risk for thromboembolic events (e.g. those with coronary heart disease, atherosclerosis or hypertensives)."}
{"id": "22874740", "title": "Rotational thromboelastometry analysis and management of life-threatening haemorrhage in isolated craniofacial injury.", "content": "Rotational thromboelastometry analysis and management of life-threatening haemorrhage in isolated craniofacial injury. Massive haemorrhage from facial fractures is rare but the associated mortality rate is high. Here, we describe a case in which thromboelastometry [rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM)]-guided administration of prothrombin complex concentrate and fibrinogen concentrate was effective in correcting coagulopathy in a 68-year-old man with serious craniofacial trauma and massive haemorrhage. The patient, a cyclist who collided with a car, was transferred to the emergency department of our hospital with signs of shock and significant bleeding from multiple fractures and soft tissue injuries to the face. Blood gas analysis and standard laboratory tests revealed the presence of anaemia and acidosis, and our massive haemorrhage protocol was initiated. E-FAST and total-body computed tomography scans excluded the possibility of bleeding from other sites. All efforts were directed towards stopping bleeding from craniofacial lesions, but the surgeon experienced difficulty in maintaining haemostasis. ROTEM analysis revealed severe coagulopathy and was indispensable in guiding transfusion: 2 g tranexamic acid, followed by 1000 IU prothrombin complex concentrate, 5 g fibrinogen and 2 U platelet concentrate. Two hours later, ROTEM analysis showed that coagulopathy had been corrected, and haemostasis was confirmed by cessation of bleeding. This report highlights the potential for using ROTEM to guide treatment with fibrinogen and prothrombin complex concentrates in the presence of profuse multifocal bleeding and severe coagulopathy."}
{"id": "22868797", "title": "Effect of acceleration forces during transport through a pneumatic tube system on ROTEM\u00ae analysis.", "content": "Effect of acceleration forces during transport through a pneumatic tube system on ROTEM\u00ae analysis. ROTEM\u00ae is considered a helpful point-of-care device to monitor blood coagulation in emergency situations. Centrally performed analysis is desirable but rapid transport of blood samples is an important prerequisite. The effect of acceleration forces on sample transport through a pneumatic tube system on ROTEM\u00ae should be tested at each institution to exclude a pre-analytical influence. The aims of the present work were: (i) to investigate the effect of pneumatic tube transport on ROTEM\u00ae parameters; (ii) to compare blood sample transport via pneumatic tube vs. manual transportation; and (iii) to determine the effect of acceleration forces on ROTEM\u00ae parameters. This is a single centre study with 20 healthy volunteers. Five whole blood samples were transferred to the central haematology laboratory by either normal transport or pneumatic delivery with different speed and acceleration forces. EXTEM, INTEM, FIBTEM and APTEM were analysed in parallel with two ROTEM\u00ae devices and compared. Acceleration forces were measured during transport with two different instruments. Increment of transport time, speed and distance resulted in an augmentation of acceleration forces and peaks. All results of the ROTEM\u00ae analysis after manual transport or pneumatic delivery were within normal range. However, increase in acceleration forces resulted in minimally but statistically significant changes in multiple ROTEM\u00ae parameters. The higher the acceleration forces, the more ROTEM\u00ae parameters are influenced. Acceleration forces during transport through a pneumatic tube system have an influence on ROTEM\u00ae parameters. Prior to transfer blood samples via pneumatic tube system these influences should be tested to exclude clinically relevant blood coagulation activation in vitro."}
{"id": "22868371", "title": "Admission rapid thrombelastography can replace conventional coagulation tests in the emergency department: experience with 1974 consecutive trauma patients.", "content": "Admission rapid thrombelastography can replace conventional coagulation tests in the emergency department: experience with 1974 consecutive trauma patients. Injury and shock lead to alterations in conventional coagulation tests (CCTs). Recently, rapid thrombelastography (r-TEG) has become recognized as a comprehensive assessment of coagulation abnormalities. We have previously shown that admission r-TEG results are available faster than CCTs and predict pulmonary embolism. We hypothesized that r-TEGs more reliably predict blood component transfusion than CCTs. Consecutive patients admitted between September 2009 and February 2011 who met the highest-level trauma activations were included. All had admission r-TEG and CCTs. We correlated r-TEG values [activated clotting time (ACT), r, k, \u03b1, maximal amplitude (MA), LY30] with their corresponding CCTs [prothrombin time (PT)/activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), international normalized ratio (INR), platelet count and fibrinogen] for transfusion requirements. Charges were calculated for each test. Demographics, vital signs, and injury severity were recorded. We studied 1974 major trauma activations. The median injury severity score was 17 [interquartile range 9-26]; 25% were in shock; 28% were transfused; and 6% died within 24 hours. Overall, r-TEG correlated with CCTs. When controlling for age, injury mechanism, weighted-Revised Trauma Score, base excess and hemoglobin, ACT-predicted red blood cell (RBC) transfusion, and the \u03b1-angle predicted massive RBC transfusion better than PT/aPTT or INR (P < 0.001). The \u03b1-angle was superior to fibrinogen for predicting plasma transfusion (P < 0.001); MA was superior to platelet count for predicting platelet transfusion (P < 0.001); and LY-30 (rate of amplitude reduction 30 minutes after the MA is reached) documented fibrinolysis. These correlations improved for transfused, shocked or head injured patients. The charge for r-TEG ($317) was similar to the 5 CCTs ($286). The r-TEG data was clinically superior to results from 5 CCTs. In addition, r-TEG identified patients with an increased risk of early RBC, plasma and platelet transfusions, and fibrinolysis. Admission CCTs can be replaced with r-TEG."}
{"id": "22863406", "title": "Rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM)-based coagulation management in cardiac surgery and major trauma.", "content": "Rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM)-based coagulation management in cardiac surgery and major trauma."}
{"id": "22858878", "title": "Coagulation assessment in normal pregnancy: thrombelastography with citrated non activated samples.", "content": "Coagulation assessment in normal pregnancy: thrombelastography with citrated non activated samples. Thrombelastography (TEG) provides an effective and convenient means of whole blood coagulation monitoring. TEG evaluates the elastic properties of whole blood and provides a global assessment of hemostatic function. Previous studies performed TEG on native blood sample, but no data are available with citrated samples in healthy pregnant women at term. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of pregnancy on coagulation assessed by TEG and establish normal ranges of TEG values in pregnant women at term comparing them with healthy non pregnant young women. We enrolled pregnant women at term undergoing elective cesarean section or labour induction (PREG group) and healthy non-pregnant women (CTRL group). Women with fever or inflammatory syndrome, defined as C-reactive protein (CRP) >5 mg/L and with a platelet count <150.000/mm(3) have been excluded. For each women hemochrome and standard coagulation test were assessed. At the same time we performed a thrombelastographic test with Hemoscope TEG(\u00ae) after sample recalcification without using any activator. One hundred thirty patients were studied, 65 for each group. There were no differences between groups regarding demographic data. Hemoglobin, platelet count, International Normalized Ratio and Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time Ratio were lower and fibrinogen was higher in PREG group. All TEG parameters resulted as being significantly different between the groups with a hypercoagulable pattern in PREG group compared to CTRL group. The main findings of this study confirm the hypercoagulability status of pregnant women at term. This coagulation pattern is well represented by thrombelastographic trace obtained by recalcified citrate blood sample."}
{"id": "22846944", "title": "Insertion of central venous catheters induces a hypercoagulable state.", "content": "Insertion of central venous catheters induces a hypercoagulable state. Central venous catheters (CVCs) increase the risk of venous thromboembolism. We have previously demonstrated that pulmonary artery catheters are associated with a hypercoagulable state in an animal model and in patients. The purpose of this study is to determine whether the insertion of a CVC is associated with a similar response. 7F femoral artery catheters were placed in healthy anesthetized swine (N = 16). Serial arterial blood samples were drawn immediately before and after an 8.5F jugular vein CVC and then for 3 hours after CVC removal. Samples were analyzed using kaolin-activated thromboelastography (TEG) at precisely 2 minutes. Human: An institutional review board-approved prospective observational trial was conducted, with informed consent, in patients with critical illness (N = 8) at a Level I trauma center. Blood was drawn from indwelling arterial catheters immediately before and 60 minutes after CVC insertion. Samples were stored in sodium citrate for 15 minutes before TEG. Routine and special coagulation tests were performed on stored samples in the hospital pathology laboratory. Insertion of a CVC decreased TEG clotting time (R) by 55% in swine and by 29% in humans (p < 0.001 and 0.019, respectively). Initial clot formation time (K) was reduced by 41% in swine and by 36% in humans (p = 0.003 and 0.019). Fibrin cross-linking (\u03b1) was accelerated by 28% in swine and by 17% in humans (p = 0.007 and 0.896), but overall clot strength (maximum amplitude) was not affected. There was no change in routine or special coagulation factors, including von Willebrand factor, antithrombin III, prothrombin time, international normalized ratio, or activated partial thromboplastin time. In animals, the hypercoagulable TEG response was persistent for 3 hours after CVC removal and was prevented by pretreatment with enoxaparin (n = 4) but not heparin (n = 2). In healthy swine and patients with critical illness, a systemic hypercoagulable state occurred after CVC insertion, and this may partially account for an increased risk of venous thromboembolism. However, because the sample size was small and not powered to detect changes in coagulation proteins, no inferences can be made about the mechanism for the hypercoagulable response."}
{"id": "22846941", "title": "Hyperfibrinolysis at admission is an uncommon but highly lethal event associated with shock and prehospital fluid administration.", "content": "Hyperfibrinolysis at admission is an uncommon but highly lethal event associated with shock and prehospital fluid administration. Hyperfibrinolysis (HF) has been reported to occur in a range of 2% to 34% of trauma patients. Using rapid thromboelastography (r-TEG), we hypothesized that HF is (1) rarely present at admission on patients with severe injury and (2) associated with crystalloid hemodilution. To further strengthen this hypothesis, we created an in vitro hemodilution model to improve our mechanistic understanding of the early HF. The trauma registry was queried for patients who were our highest-level trauma activations and admitted directly from the scene (October 2009-October 2010). HF was defined as more than 7.5% amplitude reduction 30 minutes after maximal amplitude (LY30). Using r-TEG, we then created an in vitro hemodilution model (0.9% NS) with and without tissue injury (addition of tissue factor and tissue plasminogen activator) to identify crystalloid volumes and injury needed to achieve specific LY30 values. Admission r-TEG values were captured on 1996 consecutive admissions. Only 41 patients (2%) had HF at admission r-TEG. The groups were similar in demographics. Compared with patients without HF, the HF group had more prehospital crystalloid (1.5 vs. 0.5 L), higher median Injury Severity Score (25 vs. 16), greater admission base deficit (20 vs. 2), and higher mortality (76% vs. 10%); all p < 0.001. Controlling for Injury Severity Score and base deficit on arrival, prehospital fluid was associated with a significant increase in likelihood of HF. In fact, each additional liter of crystalloid was associated with a 15% increased odds of HF. The in vitro model found that hemodilution to 15% of baseline and tissue factor + tissue plasminogen activator was required to achieve an LY30 of 50%. Although uncommon immediately after injury, HF is associated with prehospital crystalloid administration and shock at admission and is highly lethal. Our in vitro model confirms that tissue injury and significant crystalloid hemodilution result in severe and immediate HF."}
{"id": "22840932", "title": "Platelet function disorders and menorrhagia in adolescents: a review of laboratory diagnosis.", "content": "Platelet function disorders and menorrhagia in adolescents: a review of laboratory diagnosis. This article provides an overview of the prevalence and pathophysiology of platelet function disorders (PFDs) in adolescents with menorrhagia. In addition, this article reviews the various testing modalities employed for diagnosing PFDs including platelet aggregometry, platelet function analyzer (PFA-100), platelet electron microscopy (EM), flow cytometry, and thromboelastography (TEG), discuss their utility and drawbacks, and allude to the recent recommendations and consensus statements about some of these modalities. Finally, the authors have sketched out a diagnostic algorithm for platelet function testing, which will guide treating physicians to a step-wise approach while evaluating adolescents with menorrhagia for PFDs."}
{"id": "22835059", "title": "Comparison of the effects of three cell saver devices on erythrocyte function during cardiopulmonary bypass procedure--a pilot study.", "content": "Comparison of the effects of three cell saver devices on erythrocyte function during cardiopulmonary bypass procedure--a pilot study. Cell salvage devices are routinely used to process red blood cells (RBCs) shed during cardiac surgery. The purpose of this study was to evaluate three commercially available cell saver (CS) devices in terms of erythrocyte function and the quality of washed RBCs during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). Thirty patients undergoing CPB were randomly allocated to three CS devices: Group C (Cell Saver 5+; Haemonetics, n = 10), Group M (autolog; Medtronic, n = 10), and Group F (CATS; Fresenius HemoCare, n = 10). Blood samples were collected from reservoirs and transfusion bags. Reservoirs and washed RBCs were analyzed for erythrocyte aggregation index, deformation index (DI) and hematocrit viscosity, 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (2,3-DPG), hematocrit (Hct), hemoglobin (Hb), free Hb removal (\u0394fHb), glucose (Glu), lactate (Lac), and blood urea nitrogen. After processing, Groups C (P = 0.026) and M (P = 0.032) had relatively higher erythrocyte DI compared with Group F. Group C had lower \u03942,3-DPG compared with Groups M (P = 0.001) and F (P = 0.001). Group F provided the maximum concentration of Hct (P = 0.021; 0.046) and Hb (P = 0.008; 0.013). In addition, Groups C (P = 0.035) and M (P = 0.038) had a higher removal of fHb (\u0394fHb), differing significantly with Group F. In conclusion, CS devices use the same theory of centrifugation; however, based on different designs, the function of the washed erythrocyte and undesirable content removal efficiency differs widely from one device to another."}
{"id": "22834286", "title": "[The thromboelastometric criteria of hemostasis disorders correction during liver transplantation].", "content": "[The thromboelastometric criteria of hemostasis disorders correction during liver transplantation]. The purpose of the study. Optimum correction of hemostasis remains one of the unsolved problems in anesthesia maintenance during liver transplantation. Modern methods of coagulation monitoring (thromboelastography, thromboelastometry) allows to differ the increased bleeding reason. The clear criteria for the appointment of the blood components according to these methods have not developed so far. The aim of this study was to determine the criteria of hemostasis disorders correction during liver transplantation. The study included all patients undergoing a liver transplantation in our clinic from January 2009 to December 2010. In certain intervals of time an intake of blood samples for the hemostasis study including koagulogramm, determination of the clotting factors and natural anticoagulants activity was performed. There is no significant correlation between the results of the standard coagulation tests and thromboelastometry Based on the international hemostasis correction recommendations, with the help of ROC-analysis the search for thromboelastometry data, which would have pointed to the need for this therapy was made. Concerning coagulation factors deficiency (INR>2, APTT> 1.5) CT-EXTEM>80 has a sensitivity of 17% and a specificity of 97%, and CT-INTEM>240 has sensitivity of 51% and specificity of 96%. Use of A10-FIBTEM for fibrinogen deficiency diagnosis, A10-FIBTEM <9 has sensitivity of 95% and specificity of 63%. A simultaneous increase of CT-EXTEM >80 and CT-INTEM more than 300 has a sensitivity of 96% and a specificity 81% in relation to diagnose thrombocytopenia (platelet count less than 50,000 per mcl). Correction of coagulation factors deficiency indicated when CT-EXTEM>80 and CT-INTEM> 240, hypofibrinogenemia when A10-FIBTEM <9, thrombocytopenia when of CT-EXTEM >80 and CT-INTEM increase simultaneously more than 300."}
{"id": "22822194", "title": "Prospective longitudinal study of thromboelastography and standard hemostatic laboratory tests in healthy women during normal pregnancy.", "content": "Prospective longitudinal study of thromboelastography and standard hemostatic laboratory tests in healthy women during normal pregnancy. Hemostatic disorders are common in obstetric complications. Thromboelastography (TEG\u00ae) simultaneously measures coagulation and fibrinolysis within 10 to 20 minutes. Our primary aim in this prospective longitudinal study was to obtain knowledge about physiological changes in TEG\u00ae variables during normal pregnancy and 8 weeks postpartum. The secondary aims were to compare TEG\u00ae variables during pregnancy with TEG\u00ae variables 8 weeks postpartum and gestational weeks 10 to 15 and to correlate TEG\u00ae variables to standard laboratory analyses. Blood samples were collected from 45 healthy pregnant women at gestational weeks 10 to 15, 20 to 22, 28 to 30, and 38 to 40, and at 8 weeks postpartum. The following TEG\u00ae analyses were performed: time until start of clotting (TEG\u00ae-R), time until 20-mm clot firmness (TEG\u00ae-K), angle of clotting (TEG\u00ae-Angle), maximum amplitude (TEG\u00ae-MA), and lysis after 30 minutes (TEG\u00ae-LY30). Activated partial thromboplastin time, prothrombin time, soluble fibrin, antithrombin, D-dimer, and platelet count were analyzed. Compared to 8 weeks postpartum TEG\u00ae-R was at least 0.9 minutes shorter (upper limit 99% confidence intervals) until gestational weeks 28 to 30 and the mean reduction varied between 23%-26%. TEG\u00ae-K was at least 0.1 minutes shorter throughout pregnancy and the mean reduction varied between 18%-35%. TEG\u00ae-Angle was at least 2.5 degrees greater during pregnancy and the mean increase varied between 12%-20%. TEG\u00ae-MA was also at least 0.4 mm greater during pregnancy and the mean increase varied between 6%-8%. TEG\u00ae-LY30 was at least 0.03% lower during gestational weeks 28 to 30 and 38 to 40 and the mean reduction varied between 67%-73%. The routine coagulation laboratory values were within normal pregnant limits. There were no or weak correlations between TEG\u00ae and the laboratory variables. TEG\u00ae demonstrates increased coagulability and decreased fibrinolysis during pregnancy. There was a faster initiation of hemostasis, with a minor increase in clot strength. Fibrinolysis decreased during late pregnancy. Alternative cutoff limits for TEG\u00ae variables may be required during pregnancy. Standard hemostatic laboratory tests were as expected during pregnancy. Future studies are needed to ascertain whether viscoelastic methods are preferable to standard hemostatic tests for the diagnosis of coagulopathy during obstetric hemorrhage."}
{"id": "22816291", "title": "Unusual reactions of a 7,17-seco-type C19-diterpenoid alkaloid derived from deltaline.", "content": "Unusual reactions of a 7,17-seco-type C19-diterpenoid alkaloid derived from deltaline. Treatment of a 7,17-seco-type C19-diterpenoid alkaloid (3), prepared from deltaline (8), with triethylamine in either DMF or TEG (triethylene glycol) at 120 degrees C provided two interesting compounds 6 and 7. The structures of compounds 3, 6, and 7 were established based on extensive interpretations of their 1D and 2D NMR data. Compound 6, a lycoctonine-type C19-diterpenoid alkaloid, can be transformed from alkaloid 3 via Grob fragmentation, Prins reaction, and intramolecular disproportionation. The mechanism of the formation of compound 6 was confirmed by deuteration experiments. Product 7 was formed through a pinacol-like rearrangement of alkaloid 3."}
{"id": "22809250", "title": "Platelet mapping as part of modified thromboelastography (TEG\u00ae) in patients undergoing cardiac surgery and cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Platelet mapping as part of modified thromboelastography (TEG\u00ae) in patients undergoing cardiac surgery and cardiopulmonary bypass. The platelet-mapping assay of the thromboelastograph was used to measure platelet aggregation and to examine the effect of cardiopulmonary bypass on multiple platelet receptors and the role of altered receptor activity in postoperative bleeding. The percentage platelet aggregation for collagen, adenosine diphosphate and arachidonic acid was measured in 40 patients divided post-hoc into high- or low-bleeding groups depending on postoperative 24-h chest tube output. Platelet aggregation was lower after cardiopulmonary bypass compared to before it using collagen (mean (SD) 45 (25) vs 19 (12)%, p<0.001), adenosine diphosphate (76 (23) vs 35 (24)%, p<0.001), and arachidonic acid (61 (33) vs 31 (35)%, p<0.001). Only platelet aggregation as measured using collagen pre- and post-cardiopulmonary bypass was significantly less in the high- compared to the low-bleeding group. This finding was significantly correlated with the 24-h chest tube drainage, and it predicted postoperative bleeding with a sensitivity of 83% and a specificity of 68%. Therefore, platelet aggregation is reduced following cardiopulmonary bypass, and this may play a role in predicting postoperative blood loss."}
{"id": "22805201", "title": "A modified EPA Method 1623 that uses tangential flow hollow-fiber ultrafiltration and heat dissociation steps to detect waterborne Cryptosporidium and Giardia spp.", "content": "A modified EPA Method 1623 that uses tangential flow hollow-fiber ultrafiltration and heat dissociation steps to detect waterborne Cryptosporidium and Giardia spp. Cryptosporidium and Giardia species are two of the most prevalent protozoa that cause waterborne diarrheal disease outbreaks worldwide. To better characterize the prevalence of these pathogens, EPA Method 1623 was developed and used to monitor levels of these organisms in US drinking water supplies (12). The method has three main parts; the first is the sample concentration in which at least 10 L of raw surface water is filtered. The organisms and trapped debris are then eluted from the filter and centrifuged to further concentrate the sample. The second part of the method uses an immunomagnetic separation procedure where the concentrated water sample is applied to immunomagnetic beads that specifically bind to the Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts allowing for specific removal of the parasites from the concentrated debris. These (oo)cysts are then detached from the magnetic beads by an acid dissociation procedure. The final part of the method is the immunofluorescence staining and enumeration where (oo)cysts are applied to a slide, stained, and enumerated by microscopy. Method 1623 has four listed sample concentration systems to capture Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts in water: Envirochek filters (Pall Corporation, Ann Arbor, MI), Envirochek HV filters (Pall Corporation), Filta-Max filters (IDEXX, Westbrook, MA), or Continuous Flow Centrifugation (Haemonetics, Braintree, MA). However, Cryptosporidium and Giardia (oo)cyst recoveries have varied greatly depending on the source water matrix and filters used(1,14). A new tangential flow hollow-fiber ultrafiltration (HFUF) system has recently been shown to be more efficient and more robust at recovering Cryptosporidium oocysts and Giardia cysts from various water matrices; moreover, it is less expensive than other capsule filter options and can concentrate multiple pathogens simultaneously(1-3,5-8,10,11). In addition, previous studies by Hill and colleagues demonstrated that the HFUF significantly improved Cryptosporidium oocysts recoveries when directly compared with the Envirochek HV filters(4). Additional modifications to the current methods have also been reported to improve method performance. Replacing the acid dissociation procedure with heat dissociation was shown to be more effective at separating Cryptosporidium from the magnetic beads in some matrices(9,13) . This protocol describes a modified Method 1623 that uses the new HFUF filtration system with the heat dissociation step. The use of HFUF with this modified Method is a less expensive alternative to current EPA Method 1623 filtration options and provides more flexibility by allowing the concentration of multiple organisms."}
{"id": "22791802", "title": "Effect of the carrier solution for hydroxyethyl starch on platelet aggregation and clot formation.", "content": "Effect of the carrier solution for hydroxyethyl starch on platelet aggregation and clot formation. Hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solutions alter blood coagulation, mainly platelet function and fibrinogen polymerization. Haemostasis can also be impaired by dilutional-hyperchloraemic acidosis induced by the HES carrier solution. We hypothesized that a saline-based tetrastarch carrier solution impairs parameters of blood coagulation more than a balanced carrier solution. The study was designed as a prospective, double-blinded, randomized, cross-over trial in healthy male volunteers. At intervals of at least 10 days, 13 subjects received 20 ml kg(-1) of balanced or saline-based tetrastarch over 2 h. Blood was subjected to blood gas analysis, assessment of platelet function [with multiple electrode aggregometry (MEA)], and clot formation (with rotational thrombelastometry). Maximum aggregation in response to adenosine diphosphate (ADP) decreased after saline-based HES infusion, but not after balanced solution-based HES infusion. ADP-induced platelet aggregation was significantly lower after saline-based HES compared with baseline (21%; P<0.025) and compared with balanced solution-based HES (17%; P<0.025). There were no significant changes in platelet aggregation induced by thrombin receptor-activating peptide and in any parameter of rotational thrombelastometry. Chloride concentrations were significantly higher after saline-based HES compared with balanced solution-based HES. The carrier solution for HES up to 20 ml kg(-1) had little impact on platelet aggregation or clot formation as assessed by MEA and rotational thrombelastometry, respectively. Further clinical studies are required to verify this finding in patients and to correlate results of whole blood aggregometry and rotational thrombelastometry with perioperative bleeding and transfusion requirements."}
{"id": "22788854", "title": "Quantification of circulating D-dimer by peptide immunoaffinity enrichment and tandem mass spectrometry.", "content": "Quantification of circulating D-dimer by peptide immunoaffinity enrichment and tandem mass spectrometry. D-dimer is a product of the coagulation cascade and is associated with venous thromboembolism, disseminated intravascular coagulation, and additional clinical conditions. Despite its importance, D-dimer measurement has limited clinical utility due in part to the lack of reliable assays. The difficulty in developing an immunoassay that is specific for D-dimer arises from the inherent heterogeneity in its structure. In this report, we describe a highly specific method for the quantification of D-dimer level in human plasma. In our method, the reciprocally cross-linked peptide resulting from factor XIIIa-catalyzed dimerization of fibrin \u03b3 chains was selected to represent the D-dimer antigen. Using an antipeptide antibody, we enriched the cross-linked peptide from trypsin-digested plasma prior to quantitative analysis with liquid chromatography-tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS). The assay has a quantitative range of 500 pmol/L to 100 nmol/L in human plasma. In further characterization of the assay, we found that it exhibited good correlation with fibrinolytic activity in human donors and with thrombin generation and clot strength in an in vitro thromboelastography assay. These observations thus establish the biological relevance of the assay and suggest it may be a valuable biomarker in characterization and treatment of blood coagulation disorders."}
{"id": "22782135", "title": "The ex vivo reversibility of dabigatran-induced whole-blood coagulopathy as monitored by thromboelastography: mechanistic implications for clinical medicine.", "content": "The ex vivo reversibility of dabigatran-induced whole-blood coagulopathy as monitored by thromboelastography: mechanistic implications for clinical medicine."}
{"id": "22771782", "title": "CPAP reduces hypercoagulability, as assessed by thromboelastography, in severe obstructive sleep apnoea.", "content": "CPAP reduces hypercoagulability, as assessed by thromboelastography, in severe obstructive sleep apnoea. Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is associated with increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality and hypercoagulability may be an underlying factor. We tested the hypotheses that patients with severe OSA are hypercoagulable and that two weeks of continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) treatment reduces this hypercoagulability. In a prospective crossover study, twelve patients were randomized to either CPAP or no-CPAP for two weeks, a one week washout period, and then the other testing period for two weeks. Thromboelastography was used to assess coagulability at the start and end of each period and the apnoea-hypopnea indices (AHI) were measured at the end of each period. At baseline, ten patients had, compared to reference values, shorter clotting times, six increased rate of clot formation, twelve increased clot strength, and ten increased clotting indices. CPAP significantly reduced AHI (p=0.0003), clot strength (p=0.019) and clotting index (p=0.014). Hypercoagulability in patients with OSA can be detected by thromboelastography, and is reduced by CPAP."}
{"id": "22767647", "title": "Alterations in rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae) parameters: point-of-care testing vs analysis after pneumatic tube system transport.", "content": "Alterations in rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae) parameters: point-of-care testing vs analysis after pneumatic tube system transport. Thromboelastometry as point-of-care (POC) testing enables the analysis of the clotting process at the bedside, providing rapid results to guide haemostatic therapy. However, POC testing utilizes medical staff who are managing critically ill patients, as non-laboratory personnel may not be sufficiently trained to run the devices. To resolve these problems, thromboelastometry can be performed in the central laboratory and rapid transport of samples can be accomplished via a pneumatic tube system (PTS). This study compares thromboelastometry parameters of blood samples analysed immediately with those analysed after PTS transport. In patients with normal haemostasis, two arterial blood samples were collected from each patient (n=92) in citrated plastic tubes to investigate the assays INTEM (n=35), EXTEM (n=27), and FIBTEM (n=30). One blood sample was analysed immediately, the other sample after PTS transport. Thromboelastometry was performed using a single ROTEM(\u00ae) device. The mean clot firmness values were significantly lower for PTS samples in both the INTEM (-0.7 mm cf. -1.1 mm) and EXTEM (-1.4 cf. -1.7 mm) assays. INTEM coagulation time (CT) was significantly lower in PTS samples with a mean difference of -13 s. EXTEM CT was significantly higher in PTS samples with a mean difference of +3.9 s. Thromboelastometry parameters of blood samples analysed after PTS transport are significantly altered compared with those analysed immediately. However, in patients with normal haemostasis, the alterations were small and without clinical consequence, implying that analysis after PTS transport is an acceptable alternative to prompt analysis at the bedside. Further studies should focus on patients with impaired haemostasis."}
{"id": "22767493", "title": "Intracellular signaling controls endothelial cell prostacyclin secretion and regulation of blood clotting time.", "content": "Intracellular signaling controls endothelial cell prostacyclin secretion and regulation of blood clotting time. Blood is constantly in contact with a biological material, the blood vessel wall, without the need for anticoagulants to prevent clot formation on the vessel wall; however, man-made biomaterials require anticoagulants to prevent clot formation on the biomaterial. This study seeks to understand how some biomaterials elicit anticoagulant responses from endothelial cells (ECs), whereas others do not. Partial least squares regression analysis was used to correlate the activity of four relevant signaling molecules [extracellular signal-related kinase (ERK), c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), Akt, and I\u03baB kinase (IKK)] with human umbilical vein EC secretion of prostacyclin and clotting time of whole blood in contact with these cells. Prostacyclin secretion was increased when JNK activity (mean of all time-points) was elevated and IKK activity at 30 min was reduced. In addition, the clotting time, R-time measured by thromboelastography, was increased (reduced coagulability) when activity of both ERK and JNK (mean of all time-points) were increased and when Akt activity was increased at longer contact times (24-72 h after cell contact with material). Inhibition of each signaling molecule with subsequent testing for prostacyclin secretion and R-time confirmed the interrelationship between EC intracellular signaling and prostacyclin secretion. Generally, JNK inhibition decreased and IKK inhibition increased prostacyclin secretion. Inhibition of ERK or JNK generally increased coagulability, and Akt inhibition decreased the R-time of samples normally eliciting reduced coagulability. These findings increase our understanding of the signaling pathways involved in endothelial prostacyclin release and suggest targets for developing EC-seeded biomaterial surfaces that can minimize coagulation."}
{"id": "22766227", "title": "Hyperfibrinolysis elicited via thromboelastography predicts mortality in trauma.", "content": "Hyperfibrinolysis elicited via thromboelastography predicts mortality in trauma. The acute coagulopathy of trauma has been identified as a critical determinant of outcomes. Antifibrinolytic agents have recently been demonstrated to improve outcomes. This prospective study was designed to assess coagulopathy in trauma patients using thromboelastography. Trauma patients meeting our institution's highest tier of trauma team activation criteria were prospectively enrolled during a 5-month period ending April 1, 2011. Thromboelastography was performed at admission, +1 hour, +2 hours, and +6 hours using citrated blood. Hyperfibrinolysis was defined as estimated percent lysis \u226515%. Patients were followed throughout their hospital course to collect clinical data and outcomes. One hundred and eighteen patients were enrolled (77.1% were male, 51.7% had penetrating trauma, 7.6% had systolic blood pressure <90 mmHg, 47.5% had Injury Severity Score >16, and 23.7% had Glasgow Coma Scale score \u22648). Hyperfibrinolysis was present in 13 patients (11.0%), with a mean time to detection of 13 minutes (range 2 to 60 minutes). By the 6-hour sampling, 8 (61.5%) of the hyperfibrinolytic patients had expired from hemorrhage. Survivors at this point demonstrated correction of coagulopathy, however, 12 patients (92.3%) ultimately expired (75% hemorrhage, 25% head injury). On stepwise logistic regression, hyperfibrinolysis was a strong predictor of early (24 hours) mortality (odds ratio = 25.0; 95% CI, 2.8-221.4; p = 0.004), predicting 53% of early deaths. Compared with patients without hyperfibrinolysis, patients with hyperfibrinolysis had a greater need for massive transfusion (76.9% vs 8.7%; adjusted odds ratio = 19.1; 95% CI, 3.6-101.3; p < 0.001) and had a greater early mortality (69.2% vs 1.9%; adjusted odds ratio = 55.8; 95% CI, 7.2-432.3; p < 0.001) and in-hospital mortality (92.3% vs 9.5%; adjusted odds ratio = 55.5; 95% CI, 4.8-649.7; p = 0.001). In this prospective analysis, hyperfibrinolysis on thromboelastography developed in approximately 10% of patients and was considerably more likely to require massive transfusion. Hyperfibrinolysis was a strong independent predictor of mortality. Additional evaluation of the role of thromboelastography-directed antifibrinolytic therapies is warranted."}
{"id": "22763273", "title": "Is it necessary to maintain fibrinogen during hypothermia and major bleeding in vascular surgery?", "content": "Is it necessary to maintain fibrinogen during hypothermia and major bleeding in vascular surgery?"}
{"id": "22743377", "title": "Criteria for empiric treatment of hyperfibrinolysis after trauma.", "content": "Criteria for empiric treatment of hyperfibrinolysis after trauma. Recent studies identify a survival benefit from the administration of antifibrinolytic agents in patients with severe injury and trauma. However, identification of hyperfibrinolysis requires thromboelastography, which is not widely available. We hypothesized that analysis of patients with thromboelastography-diagnosed hyperfibrinolysis would identify clinical criteria for empiric antifibrinolytic treatment in the absence of thromboelastography. From November 2010 to March 2012, serial blood samples were collected from 115 patients with critical injury on arrival to the emergency department of an urban Level I trauma center. Rotational thromboelastography was performed to assess viscoelastic properties of clot formation in the presence and absence of aprotinin to identify treatable hyperfibrinolysis. For 20 patients identified with treatable hyperfibrinolysis, clinical predictors were investigated using receiver operating characteristic analysis. Of the 115 patients evaluated, 20% had hyperfibrinolysis, defined as an admission maximal clot lysis of 10% or higher, reversible by aprotinin treatment. Patients with hyperfibrinolysis had significantly lower temperature, pH, and platelet counts and higher international normalized ratio, activated partial thromboplastin time, and D-dimer. Hyperfibrinolysis was associated with multiorgan failure (63.2% vs. 24.6%, p = 0.004) and mortality (52.2% vs. 12.9%, p < 0.001). We then evaluated all non-rotational thromboelastography clinical and laboratory parameters predictive of hyperfibrinolysis using receiver operating characteristic analysis to evaluate potential empiric treatment guidelines. The presence of hypothermia (temperature \u226436.0\u00b0C), acidosis (pH \u22647.2), relative coagulopathy (international normalized ratio \u22651.3 or activated partial thromboplastin time \u226530), or relative thrombocytopenia (platelet count \u2264200) identified hyperfibrinolysis with 100% sensitivity and 55.4% specificity (area under the curve, 0.777). Consideration of empiric antifibrinolytic therapy is warranted for patients with critical injury and trauma who present with acidosis, hypothermia, coagulopathy, or relative thrombocytopenia. These clinical predictors identified hyperfibrinolysis with 100% sensitivity while simultaneously eliminating 46.6% of inappropriate therapy compared with the empiric treatment of all injured patients. These criteria will facilitate empiric treatment of hyperfibrinolysis for clinicians without access to thromboelastography. Prognostic study, level III."}
{"id": "22743373", "title": "Endothelial glycocalyx degradation induces endogenous heparinization in patients with severe injury and early traumatic coagulopathy.", "content": "Endothelial glycocalyx degradation induces endogenous heparinization in patients with severe injury and early traumatic coagulopathy. There is emerging evidence that early trauma-induced coagulopathy (TIC) is mechanistically linked to disruption of the vascular endothelium and its glycocalyx, assessed by thrombomodulin and syndecan 1, respectively. This study evaluated if degradation of the endothelial glycocalyx and ensuing release of its heparin-like substances induce autoheparinization and thereby contributes to TIC. Prospective observational study of 77 trauma patients admitted to a Level I trauma center having blood sampled at admission. Data on demography, hematology, Injury Severity Score, transfusion requirements, 30-day mortality, and thrombelastography (TEG, concurrent kaolin-activated/kaolin-heparinase-activated) were recorded. Retrospective analysis of plasma/serum for biomarkers reflecting endothelial glycocalyx and cell damage (syndecan 1, thrombomodulin), tissue injury (histone-complexed DNA fragments), sympathoadrenal activation (adrenaline, noradrenaline), coagulation activation/anticoagulation (prothrombin fragment 1+2, fibrinogen, von Willebrand factor, factor XIII, antithrombin, protein C, activated protein C, tissue factor pathway inhibitor), fibrinolysis (tissue-type plasminogen activator, plasminogen activator inhibitor 1) and inflammation (interleukin 6, terminal complement complex). Stratification of patients was according to the degree of TEG-measured heparinization. Four patients (5.2%) displayed evidence of high-degree autoheparinization, and these patients had higher Injury Severity Score (median [interquartile range], 31 [26-37] vs. 17 [10-26]), increased glucose (median, 13.6 vs. 8.0 mmol/L), and lower hemoglobin level (median, 5.8 vs. 8.4 mmol/L) and received more transfusions during the first 1 hour (median, 5 vs. 0) and 24 hours (median, 10 vs. 0) (all p < 0.05). Importantly, patients with autoheparinization had fourfold higher syndecan 1 levels (median [interquartile range], 116 ng/mL [78-140 ng/mL] vs. 31 ng/mL [18-49 ng/mL]), and they had higher international normalized ratio (median, 1.4 vs. 1.1), thrombomodulin (median, 4.1 vs. 1.7 ng/mL) and interleukin 6 (median, 129 vs. 71 pg/mL) but lower protein C (85% vs. 109%) (all p < 0.05), indicating profound endothelial damage, coagulopathy and inflammation. Five percent of the patients with trauma in the present study had evidence of acute endogenous coagulopathy with autoheparinization by TEG, which appeared mechanistically linked to endothelial glycocalyx degradation. Acute endogenous autoheparinization may contribute to TIC. Prognostic study, level III."}
{"id": "22739764", "title": "In vitro hemostatic properties of French lyophilized plasma.", "content": "In vitro hemostatic properties of French lyophilized plasma. French lyophilized plasma (FLyP) is used routinely by the French Armed Forces in war settings. The authors compared concentrations of coagulation proteins and global in vitro hemostatic properties in FLyP and in the same plasma before lyophilization to assess the impact of lyophilization on coagulation properties. Twenty-four batches of plasma before and after lyophilization were tested for coagulation proteins. Thrombin generation time, thrombin antithrombin concentration, prothrombin fragment 1 + 2, and thromboelastography were assessed. Finally, the efficiencies of FLyP and plasma before lyophilization were compared on a hemorrhagic shock hemodilution model and tested on TEG(Haemoscope Corporation, Glenview, IL). Prothrombin time ratio (1.1 \u00b1 0.1 vs. 1.2 \u00b1 0.1) and activated partial thromboplastin time (35 \u00b1 1.3 vs. 39 \u00b1 2.4 s) were significantly increased in FLyP (8 \u00b1 3%, P < 0.05 and 11 \u00b1 5%, P < 0.001, respectively). Activity of factors V (85 \u00b1 18 vs. 51 \u00b1 16 UI/ml) and VIII (0.77 \u00b1 0.11 vs. 0.62 \u00b1 0.10 UI/ml) was also diminished (25 \u00b1 12% and 20 \u00b1 7%, respectively); however, activity of other factors was preserved. The authors observed no alteration in the thromboelastographic parameters. Thrombin generation was preserved when induced with 5 pM tissue factor in vitro but significantly reduced when using 1 pM tissue factor. The thrombin-antithrombin complex and prothrombin fragment 1 + 2 attested for the absence of coagulation activation. This hemodilution model showed no significant difference before and after lyophilization. The study results account for a significant decrease of factors V and VIII in FLyP. However, the global capacity to induce clot formation in vitro seems to be preserved. The clinical relevance of these decreased factors is not known."}
{"id": "22735856", "title": "Persistent hypocoagulability in patients with septic shock predicts greater hospital mortality: impact of impaired thrombin generation.", "content": "Persistent hypocoagulability in patients with septic shock predicts greater hospital mortality: impact of impaired thrombin generation. Sepsis induces hypercoagulability, hypofibrinolysis, microthrombosis, and endothelial dysfunction leading to multiple organ failure. However, not all studies reported benefit from anticoagulation for patients with severe sepsis, and time courses of coagulation abnormalities in septic shock are poorly documented. Therefore, the aim of this prospective observational cohort study was to describe the coagulation profile of patients with septic shock and to determine whether alterations of the profile are associated with hospital mortality. Thirty-nine patients with septic shock on ICU admission were prospectively included in the study. From admission to day 7, analytical coagulation tests, thrombin generation (TG) assays, and thromboelastometric analyses were performed and tested for association with survival. Patients with septic shock presented on admission prolongation of prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), increased consumption of most procoagulant factors as well as both delay and deficit in TG, all compatible with a hypocoagulable state compared with reference values (P < 0.001). Time courses revealed a persistent hypocoagulability profile in non-survivors as compared with survivors. From multiple logistic regression, prolonged aPTT (P = 0.007) and persistence of TG deficit (P = 0.024) on day 3 were strong predictors of mortality, independently from disease severity scores, disseminated intravascular coagulation score, and standard coagulation tests on admission. Patients with septic shock present with hypocoagulability at the time of ICU admission. Persistence of hypocoagulability assessed by prolonged aPTT and unresolving deficit in TG on day 3 after onset of septic shock is associated with greater hospital mortality."}
{"id": "22735303", "title": "Evaluation of coagulation abnormalities in acute liver failure.", "content": "Evaluation of coagulation abnormalities in acute liver failure. In acute liver failure (ALF), prothrombin time (PT) and its derivative prothrombin time ratio (PTR) are elevated, and are considered predictors of increased bleeding risk. We aimed at determining whether increased PT/PTR reflects the haemostatic potential and bleeding risk in ALF patients. Twenty consecutive ALF patients were recruited. Samples were analysed on admission for standard laboratory clotting tests (e.g. PT), thromboelastography (TEG), individual pro and anticoagulant factors and thrombin generation (TG) kinetics with and without Protac, a snake venom protein C activator, and microparticle assay. TG was also measured in 20 age and sex matched healthy volunteers. PT was significantly raised (50.7s \u00b1 7.2, p=0.0001) but did not correlate with TEG parameters. TEG tracings were consistent with a hypocoagulable state in 20%, normal in 45%, and hypercoagulable in 35% of the patients. There was a concomitant and proportional reduction in plasma levels of both procoagulants and natural anticoagulant proteins, in conjunction with a significant elevation in plasma levels of factors-VIII (FVIII) and Von Willebrand factor, and microparticles, culminating in an overall efficient, albeit reduced, thrombin generation capacity in comparison with healthy individuals. A heparin-like effect (HLE) was also noted in most patients. No significant clinical bleeding complications occurred and no blood transfusions were required. In ALF, despite grossly deranged PT in all patients, estimation of bleeding risk suggests that the coagulation disturbance in ALF patients is complex and heterogeneous for which an individualised approach is required."}
{"id": "22733150", "title": "Prevention of orthopedic device-associated osteomyelitis using oxacillin-containing biomineral-binding liposomes.", "content": "Prevention of orthopedic device-associated osteomyelitis using oxacillin-containing biomineral-binding liposomes. To develop novel biomineral-binding liposomes (BBL) for the prevention of orthopedic implant associated osteomyelitis. A biomineral-binding lipid, alendronate-tri(ethyleneglycol)-cholesterol conjugate (ALN-TEG-Chol), was synthesized through Cu(I)-catalyzed Huisgen 1,3-dipolar cycloaddition (a versatile click reaction). Mixing with other excipients, the new lipid was used to develop BBL. Thermodynamic behavior was studied by differential scanning calorimetry (DSC). In vitro biomineral-binding potential and kinetics were evaluated on hydroxyapatite (HA, a widely used material for orthopedic implant devices) particles. Oxacillin was encapsulated into BBL and used for in vitro evaluation in preventing Staphylococcus aureus biofilm formation. DSC analysis showed that ALN-TEG-Chol could inhibit the phase transition of liposomes by reducing its cooperativity, yielding liposomes with thermodynamic stability similar to liposomes containing regular cholesterol. BBL showed fast and strong binding ability to HA. Oxacillin-loading BBL demonstrated significantly better preventive efficacy against bacteria colonization when challenged with S. aureus isolate, implying its potential in preventing orthopedic implant associated osteomyelitis. In this proof of concept study, novel BBL has been successfully developed and validated for reducing the frequency of implantable device-related infections."}
{"id": "22730210", "title": "Use of higher thromboelastogram transfusion values is not associated with greater blood loss in liver transplant surgery.", "content": "Use of higher thromboelastogram transfusion values is not associated with greater blood loss in liver transplant surgery. Plasma-containing products are given during the pre-anhepatic stage of liver transplant surgery to correct abnormal thromboelastogram (TEG) values and prevent blood loss due to coagulation defects. However, evidence suggests that abnormal TEG results do not always predict bleeding. We questioned what effect using higher TEG values to initiate treatment would have on blood loss. A single transfusion protocol was used for all patients who underwent liver transplantation between 2007 and 2010. Thirty-eight patients received coagulation products when standard TEG cutoff values were exceeded, whereas another 39 patients received coagulation products when the TEG values were 35% greater than normal. The results of postoperative coagulation tests for total blood loss and the use of blood products were compared for the 2 groups. When the critical TEG values for transfusion were higher, significantly fewer units of fresh frozen plasma (5.58 \u00b1 6.49 versus 11.53 \u00b1 6.66 U) and pheresis platelets (1.84 \u00b1 1.33 versus 3.55 \u00b1 1.43 U) were used. There were no differences in blood loss or postoperative blood product use. In conclusion, the use of higher critical TEG values to initiate the transfusion of plasma-containing products is not associated with increased blood loss. Further testing is necessary to identify what TEG value predicts bleeding due to a deficit in coagulation factors."}
{"id": "22726088", "title": "Global haemostasis and point of care testing.", "content": "Global haemostasis and point of care testing. The evaluation of the coagulation profile has used so far either clotting-based or chromogenic assays with different endpoints. Clotting-based techniques are the most used worldwide, and they certainly are useful for diagnosis of clotting factor deficiencies. However, the information provided is relatively limited, and therefore the individual profile of coagulation is poorly assessed. This is reflected by the weak correlation between the results of these assays and the clinical phenotype. Among the assays that benefited from technological advances, thrombin generation and thromboelastography are probably the most actively investigated, but they require specific instruments and are not fully automated. Their standardisation level is rapidly progressing, and they are progressively entering the clinical scene, with the attempt to provide additional information on the coagulation process and a meaningful clinical correlation. These inherited bleeding disorders frequently require replacement therapy using clotting factor concentrates that increase the plasma level of the missing clotting factor. The classical adjustment of the therapy is mainly based on the measurement of the plasma clotting activity of the protein administered. If one considers that a certain level of thrombin generated would predict clinical efficacy, monitoring of thrombin formation might offer new possibilities to individually predict the bleeding phenotype, select the most adapted therapeutic product and tailor the dose. The same holds true for thromboelastography/thromboelastometry which evaluate fibrin formation as well as clot resistance to fibrinolytic challenge, one step further down in the coagulation process. In this regard, these 2 assays could be seen as complementary in terms of information provided on the coagulation profile at the individual level."}
{"id": "22724625", "title": "Reproducibility of thrombelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae): point-of-care versus hospital laboratory performance.", "content": "Reproducibility of thrombelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae): point-of-care versus hospital laboratory performance. Thrombelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae) has gained wide acceptance in detecting and tailoring acquired hemostatic changes in adults and children. We investigated in this observational trial whether the reproducibility of this point-of-care testing was influenced by performance at the bedside or in the hospital laboratory. In addition, difference in time of performance between both measurements was compared. Perioperative blood samples obtained during major pediatric surgery were run in duplicate on two different ROTEM\u00ae devices located in the OR and in the hospital laboratory. The Bland-Altman test was used to compare differences of both measurements. ROTEM\u00ae measurements of 90 blood samples obtained from 24 children showed no overall clinically meaningful differences, whether they were performed bedside or in the hospital laboratory. Minor differences were found for the InTEM clot formation time (CFT) showing a mean bias of 10.79 seconds. Time saving was 11 minutes (8-16 minutes) if ROTEM\u00ae measurements were performed bedside (p < 0.001). In conclusion, there were minimal effects on ROTEM\u00ae measurements irrespective of whether they were performed in the hospital laboratory or at the bedside by a single trained staff member, while the latter saved valuable time."}
{"id": "22719014", "title": "Perioperative treatment algorithm for bleeding burn patients reduces allogeneic blood product requirements.", "content": "Perioperative treatment algorithm for bleeding burn patients reduces allogeneic blood product requirements. Surgical excision of burn wounds is often associated with severe bleeding. Timely and targeted correction of coagulopathy reduces transfusion requirements and improves survival in trauma victims. We hypothesized that rapid correction of coagulopathy after a treatment algorithm based on point-of-care viscoelastic coagulation testing would decrease allogeneic blood product transfusions during surgical excision of burn wounds. Thirty consecutive patients undergoing surgical excision of burn wounds were enrolled into this prospective, randomized, controlled, single-centre study. In the control group, coagulation management was performed according to the clinicians' discretion. For the algorithm group, we standardized treatment based on the Austrian recommendation for the management of trauma-induced coagulopathy using point-of-care rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM(\u00ae)). The main outcome parameter was the cumulative number of allogeneic blood units transfused on the day of surgery. The difference between the groups regarding the cumulative use of allogeneic blood products was highly significant with 3.0 (1.3-5.5) blood products in the algorithm group compared with 9.0 (6.0-12.3) in the control group [median (inter-quartile range); P=0.002]. No plasma was administered in the algorithm group compared with 5.0 (1.5-7.5) units overall in the control group (P<0.001). Fibrinogen concentrate administration was not significantly different between the groups (P=0.89). Tranexamic acid was not administered. The significant reduction in allogeneic blood product requirements during surgical burn wound excision is a prospective proof of concept that a bleeding management algorithm based on thromboelastometry is efficacious. Hypofibrinogenaemia and hyperfibrinolysis are not significant pathomechanisms of bleeding in this setting and ROTEM(\u00ae) helps to avoid unnecessary interventions."}
{"id": "22715457", "title": "Letter by Petricevic and Biocina regarding article, \"Platelet function measurement-based strategy to reduce bleeding and waiting time in clopidogrel-treated patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery: the Timing Based on Platelet Function Strategy to Reduce Clopidogrel-Associated Bleeding Related to CABG (TARGET-CABG) Study\".", "content": "Letter by Petricevic and Biocina regarding article, \"Platelet function measurement-based strategy to reduce bleeding and waiting time in clopidogrel-treated patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery: the Timing Based on Platelet Function Strategy to Reduce Clopidogrel-Associated Bleeding Related to CABG (TARGET-CABG) Study\"."}
{"id": "22713683", "title": "Does rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) improve prediction of bleeding after cardiac surgery?", "content": "Does rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) improve prediction of bleeding after cardiac surgery? Coagulopathy and massive bleeding are severe complications of cardiac surgery, particularly in procedures requiring prolonged cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). There is huge variability in transfusion practices across hospitals and providers in cross-sectional studies. This variability may indicate unguided decision-making, perhaps attributable to lack of reliable, predictive laboratory testing of coagulopathy to guide transfusion practice. Rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) measures multiple coagulation parameters and may provide value from its ease of use, rapid results, and measurement of several steps in the coagulation pathway. Yet, the predictive value and utility of ROTEM remains unclear. In this study, we investigated ROTEM's predictive value for chest tube drainage after cardiac surgery. Three hundred twenty-one patients undergoing cardiac surgery involving CPB were enrolled. Patient data were obtained from medical records, including chest tube output (CTO) from post-CPB through the first 8 postoperative hours. Perioperative and postoperative blood samples were collected for ROTEM analysis. Three measures of CTO were used as the primary end points for assessing coagulopathy: (i) continuous CTO; (ii) CTO dichotomized at 600 mL (75th percentile); and (iii) CTO dichotomized at 910 mL (90th percentile). Clinical and hematological variables, excluding ROTEM data, that were significantly correlated (P < 0.05) with continuous CTO were included in a stepwise regression model (model 1). An additional model that contained ROTEM variables in addition to the variables from model 1 was created (model 2). Significance in subsequent analyses was declared at P < 0.0167 to account for the 3 CTO end points. Net reclassification index was used to assess overall value of ROTEM data. For continuous CTO, ROTEM variables improved the model's predictive ability (P < 0.0001). For CTO dichotomized at 600 mL (75th percentile), ROTEM did not improve the area under the receiver operating characteristic curve (AUC) (P = 0.03). Similarly, for CTO dichotomized at 910 mL (90th percentile), ROTEM did not improve the AUC (P = 0.23). Net reclassification index similarly indicated that ROTEM results did not improve overall classification of patients (P = 0.12 for CTO \u2265600 mL; P = 0.08 for CTO \u2265910 mL). These results suggest that ROTEM data do not substantially improve a model's ability to predict chest tube drainage, beyond frequently used clinical and laboratory parameters. Although several ROTEM parameters were individually associated with CTO, they did not significantly improve goodness of fit when added to statistical models comprising only clinical and routine laboratory parameters. ROTEM does not seem to improve prediction of chest tube drainage after cardiac surgery involving CPB, although its use in guiding transfusion during cardiac surgery remains to be determined."}
{"id": "22696065", "title": "Evaluating coagulation disorders in the use of bevacizumab for metastatic colorectal cancer by thrombelastography.", "content": "Evaluating coagulation disorders in the use of bevacizumab for metastatic colorectal cancer by thrombelastography. The aim of this study was to evaluate coagulation disorders in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer treated with bevacizumab by using rotation thrombelastogram (ROTEM(\u00ae)) and correlate ROTEM(\u00ae) parameters with routine coagulation tests. A total of 18 colorectal cancer patients who received bevacizumab combined with chemotherapy were included. There was no statistically significant difference between results of platelet count, prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), fibrinogen, and D-Dimer obtained at baseline and on day 1 of chemotherapy cycles 4, 8, and 12. CFT value was significantly increased on day 1 of cycle 12 compared with baseline value by both INTEM and EXTEM assays while CT and MCF showed no significant difference. Correlation analysis revealed significant correlation between laboratory parameters and ROTEM(\u00ae) parameters. Platelet count showed a positive correlation with MCF in INTEM (r = 0.627) and EXTEM (r = 0.699) assays while showed a negative correlation with CFT in EXTEM (r = -603). There was a significant negative correlation between fibrinogen levels and CFT in INTEM (r = -0.617) and EXTEM (r = -0.512). Our data demonstrated the value of TEG over conventional coagulation tests in evaluating antiangiogenesis agents-induced coagulation disorders."}
{"id": "22695409", "title": "Admission rapid thrombelastography predicts development of pulmonary embolism in trauma patients.", "content": "Admission rapid thrombelastography predicts development of pulmonary embolism in trauma patients. Injury leads to dramatic disturbances in coagulation with increased risk of bleeding followed by a hypercoagulable state. A comprehensive assessment of these coagulation abnormalities can be measured and described by thrombelastography. The purpose of this study was to identify whether admission rapid-thrombelastography (r-TEG) could identify patients at risk of developing pulmonary embolism (PE) during their hospital stay. Patients admitted between September 2009 to February 2011 who met criteria for our highest-level trauma activation and were transported directly from the scene were included in the study. PE defined as clinically suspected and computed tomography angiography confirmed PE. We evaluated r-TEG values with particular attention to the maximal amplitude (mA) parameter that is indicative of overall clot strength. Demographics, vital signs, injury severity, and r-TEG values were then evaluated. In addition to r-TEG values, gender and injury severity score (ISS) were chosen a priori for developing a multiple logistic regression model predicting development of PE. r-TEG was obtained on 2,070 consecutive trauma activations. Of these, 2.5% (53) developed PE, 97.5% (2,017) did not develop PE. Patients in the PE group were older (median age, 41 vs. 33 years, p = 0.012) and more likely to be white (69% vs. 54%, p = 0.036). None of the patients in the PE group sustained penetrating injury (0% vs. 25% in the no-PE group, p < 0.001). The PE group also had admission higher mA values (66 vs. 63, p = 0.050) and higher ISS (median, 31 vs. 19, p = 0.002). When controlling for gender, race, age, and ISS, elevated mA at admission was an independent predictor of PE with an odds ratio of 3.5 for mA > 65 and 5.8 for mA > 72. Admission r-TEG mA values can identify patients with an increased risk of in-hospital PE. Further studies are needed to determine whether alternative anticoagulation strategies should be used for these high-risk patients. Prognostic study, level III."}
{"id": "22688554", "title": "Predicting prothrombotic tendencies in sepsis using spatial clot growth dynamics.", "content": "Predicting prothrombotic tendencies in sepsis using spatial clot growth dynamics. Inflammation in sepsis is associated with hypercoagulation that may lead to thrombosis and disseminated intravascular coagulation. Conventional diagnostic assays are poorly sensitive to procoagulant changes in sepsis. Objectives of the article is to study changes in hemostatic state of septic patients using spatial clot growth assay (currently being developed under the trademark of thrombodynamics) and to compare the sensitivity of this method with the sensitivity of conventional methods. Sixteen patients with hematological malignancies and sepsis were enrolled in the study. All patients had been surveyed for a month following the infection onset. Spatial clot growth assay monitors fibrin clot development in a nonstirred thin layer of platelet-free plasma activated by immobilized tissue factor. Clotting time tests, thromboelastography, D-dimer assays were also performed. Spatial clot growth revealed hypercoagulation in six patients. D-dimer levels increase (with vein thrombosis in one case) was subsequently observed in five of them. D-dimer levels did not increase when spatial clot growth was normal. At the next time point, after spatial clot growth assay showed hypercoagulation, the mean D-dimer concentration was significantly higher than after a normal analysis (457 versus 234\u200a\u03bcg/l; P\u200a<\u200a0.05); there was no such correlation for other assays. The remaining 10 patients had elevated D-dimer levels on the first day; this either decreased gradually or remained elevated. Spatial clot growth showed normalization in survivors and growing hypocoagulation in nonsurvivors. Measuring spatial clot growth dynamics has potential diagnostic utility for the evaluation of thrombotic risk."}
{"id": "22677700", "title": "Trauma and thrombelastography: how changes in the understanding of coagulopathy, testing, and hospital systems have changed one group's practice.", "content": "Trauma and thrombelastography: how changes in the understanding of coagulopathy, testing, and hospital systems have changed one group's practice. Bleeding disorders associated with trauma are of paramount importance when dealing with the acutely injured individual. Statistically, up to 40% of trauma related deaths are assumed to be related to hemorrhage. Historically, there have been many varying positions on the way to handle this entity. Ironically, it is not always the injury but the physiologic sequelae of that injury that lead to trauma associated deaths. Over time, newer theories have been developed to help the clinician begin to understand the etiology and treatment of this process. The purpose of this paper is to review current literature and explain how these new concepts helped change practice in an urban, academic, Level One Trauma Center."}
{"id": "22666779", "title": "Evaluation of hemostatic changes using n thromboelastography after crystalloid or colloid fluid administration during major orthopedic surgery.", "content": "Evaluation of hemostatic changes using n thromboelastography after crystalloid or colloid fluid administration during major orthopedic surgery. The effects of Ringer lactate, 6% hydroxyethyl starch (HES) (130/0.4) or 4% succinylated gelatin solutions on perioperative coagulability were measured by thromboelastography (TEG). Seventy-five patients (ASA I-III) who were to undergo major orthopedic procedures performed under epidural anesthesia were included in the study. Patients were randomly divided into three groups of 25 each for the administration of maintenance fluids: group RL (Ringer lactate), group HES (6% HES 130/0.4), and group JEL (4% gelofusine solution). Blood samples were obtained during the perioperative period before epidural anesthesia (t1, baseline), at the end of the surgery (t2), and 24 h after the operation (t3). TEG data, reaction time (R), coagulation time (K), angle value (\u03b1), and maximum amplitude (MA) were recorded. TEG parameters changed from normal values in all patients. In group RL, R and K times decreased compared to perioperative values while the \u03b1 angle and MA increased (P < 0.05). In group HES, R and K times increased, however, the \u03b1 angle and MA decreased (P < 0.05). In group JEL, R time increased (P < 0.05), but K time, \u03b1 angle and MA did not change significantly. In the present study, RL, 6% HES (130/0.4) and 4% JEL solutions caused changes in the coagulation system of all patients as measured by TEG, but these changes remained within normal limits."}
{"id": "22660203", "title": "Comparison of functional fibrinogen assessment using thromboelastography with the standard von Clauss method.", "content": "Comparison of functional fibrinogen assessment using thromboelastography with the standard von Clauss method. To compare assessment of fibrinogen by thromboelastography with the standard von Clauss method. Observational prospective study. Thromboelastography provides direct and complex evaluation of the entire coagulation cascade based upon changes in blood viscosity. It affects both platelets and plasma components. New application of this method measures fibrinogen contribution to coagulation as opposed to fibrinogen antigen levels measured by immunoassay. Paired samples from 117 patients before cardiopulmonary bypass were compared. A moderate correlation was found between fibrinogen and functional fibrinogen with a Spearman correlation coefficient of 0.476. The functional fibrinogen test is a valid point-of-care method for fibrinogen assay with a moderate correlation to the standard method."}
{"id": "22654514", "title": "Liposomes bearing fibrinogen could potentially interfere with platelet interaction and procoagulant activity.", "content": "Liposomes bearing fibrinogen could potentially interfere with platelet interaction and procoagulant activity. The contribution of fibrinogen (FBN) to hemostasis acting on platelet aggregation and clot formation is well established. It has been suggested that FBN-coated liposomes could be useful in restoring hemostasis. In the present study, we evaluated the modifications induced by multilamellar raw liposomes (MLV) or fibrinogen-coated liposomes (MLV-FBN) on hemostatic parameters. Different experimental settings using whole blood or thrombocytopenic blood were used. Thromboelastometry, aggregation studies, platelet function analyzer (PFA-100(\u00ae)) tests and studies under flow conditions were applied to detect the effect of MLV-FBN on hemostatic parameters. The presence of MLV-FBN in whole blood modified its viscoelastic properties, prolonging clot formation time (CFT) (226.5 \u00b1 26.1 mm versus 124.1 \u00b1 9.4 mm; P < 0.01) but reducing clot firmness (45.4 \u00b1 1.8 mm versus 35.5 \u00b1 2.3 mm; P < 0.05). Under thrombocytopenic conditions, FIBTEM analysis revealed that MLV-FBN shortened clotting time (CT) compared to MLV (153.3 \u00b1 2.8 s versus 128.0 \u00b1 4.6 s; P < 0.05). Addition of either liposome decreased fibrin formation on the subendothelium (MLV 8.1% \u00b1 4.7% and MLV-FBN 0.8% \u00b1 0.5% versus control 36.4% \u00b1 6.7%; P < 0.01), whereas only MLV-FBN significantly reduced fibrin deposition in thrombocytopenic blood (14.4% \u00b1 6.3% versus control 34.5% \u00b1 5.2%; P < 0.05). MLV-FBN inhibited aggregation induced by arachidonic acid (52.1% \u00b1 8.1% versus 88.0% \u00b1 2.1% in control; P < 0.01) and ristocetin (40.3% \u00b1 8.8% versus 94.3% \u00b1 1.1%; P < 0.005), but it did not modify closure times in PFA-100(\u00ae) studies. In perfusion experiments using whole blood, MLV and MLV-FBN decreased the covered surface (13.25% \u00b1 2.4% and 9.85% \u00b1 2.41%, respectively, versus control 22.0% \u00b1 2.0%; P < 0.01) and the percentage of large aggregates (8.4% \u00b1 2.3% and 3.3% \u00b1 1.01%, respectively, versus control 14.6% \u00b1 1.8%; P < 0.01). Our results reveal that, in addition to the main contribution of fibrinogen to hemostasis, MLV-FBN inhibits platelet-mediated hemostasis and coagulation mechanisms."}
{"id": "22644881", "title": "Posterior spinal fusion in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis with or without intraoperative cell salvage system: a retrospective comparison.", "content": "Posterior spinal fusion in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis with or without intraoperative cell salvage system: a retrospective comparison. This study investigates efficacy and safety of routine cell salvage system use in adolescent idiopathic scoliosis patients undergoing primary posterior spinal fusion surgery with segmental spinal instrumentation. Forty-five consecutive adolescent idiopathic scoliosis patients undergoing posterior spinal fusion by two surgeons at a single hospital were studied. Intraoperative cell salvage system was used in 23 patients, and the control group was 22 patients who underwent surgery without cell salvage system. The cell salvage system was the Haemonetics Cell Saver 5. The primary outcome measures were intraoperative and perioperative allogeneic transfusion rate, difference between preoperative and discharge Hg and Hct levels. Average patient age was 14.65 \u00b1 1.49 in cell saver group and 13.86 \u00b1 2.0 in control group. In cell saver group, average intraoperative autotransfusion was 382.1 \u00b1 175 ml. Average perioperative allogeneic blood transfusion need was 1.04 \u00b1 0.7 unit in cell saver group and 2.5 \u00b1 1.14 unit in control group. No transfusion reactions occurred in either group. Average hemoglobin level in cell saver group was 10.7 \u00b1 0.86 and average hemoglobin level in control group was 10.7 \u00b1 0.82 on discharge. Cell saver reduces perioperative transfusion rate in patients undergoing posterior spinal fusion for adolescent idiopathic scoliosis."}
{"id": "22641771", "title": "The C-terminal fragment of axon guidance molecule Slit3 binds heparin and neutralizes heparin's anticoagulant activity.", "content": "The C-terminal fragment of axon guidance molecule Slit3 binds heparin and neutralizes heparin's anticoagulant activity. Slit3 is a large molecule with multiple domains and belongs to axon guidance families. To date, the biological functions of Slit3 are still largely unknown. Our recent study demonstrated that the N-terminal fragment of Slit3 is a novel angiogenic factor. In this study, we examined the biological function of the C-terminal fragment of human Slit3 (HSCF). The HSCF showed a high-affinity binding to heparin. The binding appeared to be heparin/heparan sulfate-specific and depends on the size, the degree of sulfation, the presence of N- and 6-O-sulfates and carboxyl moiety of the polysaccharide. Functional studies observed that HSCF inhibited antithrombin binding to heparin and neutralized the antifactor IIa and Xa activities of heparin and the antifactor IIa activity of low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH). Thromboelastography analysis observed that HSCF reversed heparin's anticoagulation in global plasma coagulation. Taken together, these observations demonstrate that HSCF is a novel heparin-binding protein that potently neutralizes heparin's anticoagulation activity. This study reveals a potential for HSCF to be developed as a new antidote to treat overdosing of both heparin and LMWH in clinical applications."}
{"id": "22639879", "title": "Feasibility of using thrombin generation assay (TGA) for monitoring of haemostasis during supplementation therapy in haemophilic patients without inhibitors.", "content": "Feasibility of using thrombin generation assay (TGA) for monitoring of haemostasis during supplementation therapy in haemophilic patients without inhibitors. Monitoring factor replacement treatment and observing concordance with clinical haemostasis is crucial in vital haemorrhages and major surgeries in haemophilic patients. We aimed to investigate the value of the thrombin generation assay (TGA) and thromboelastography (TEG) for monitoring haemostasis in haemophilic patients during factor replacement treatment. The study group consisted of 29 patients (21 haemophilia A, 8 haemophilia B). All the patients FVIII-inhibitor were negative. A total of 35 bleeding episodes and/or surgical interventions were evaluated. aPTT, FVIII/FIX activity, TEG and TGA tests were conducted before and after factor therapy during the bleeding episode or surgical prophylaxis of haemophilic patients. Correlations among these tests were evaluated and compared with clinical responses. No correlation was found among aPTT, factor activities and clinical outcome. There were also no correlation found between TEG parameters and clinical outcome. The only significant correlation found between TGA parameters and clinical outcome was the correlation between peak thrombin. In conclusion, we found superiority of TGA-peak thrombin over other traditional tests for monitoring haemostasis in haemophilic patients in this study."}
{"id": "22634432", "title": "Hyperfibrinolysis in out of hospital cardiac arrest is associated with markers of hypoperfusion.", "content": "Hyperfibrinolysis in out of hospital cardiac arrest is associated with markers of hypoperfusion. This study investigated the incidence of hyperfibrinolysis upon emergency department (ED) admission in patients with out of hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA), and the association of the degree of hyperfibrinolysis with markers of hypoperfusion. From 30 OHCA patients, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) time, pH, base excess (BE), and serum lactate were measured upon ED admission. A 20% decrease of rotational thromboelastometry maximum clot firmness (MCF) was defined as hyperfibrinolysis. Lysis parameters included maximum lysis (ML), lysis onset time (LOT) and lysis index at 30 and 45 min (LI30/LI45). The study was approved by the Human Subjects Committee. Hyperfibrinolysis was present in 53% of patients. Patients with hyperfibrinolysis had longer median CPR times (36 (15-55) vs. 10 (7-18)min; P=0.001), a prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time (54 \u00b1 16 vs. 38 \u00b1 10s; P=0.006) and elevated D-dimers (6.1 \u00b1 2.1 vs. 2.3 \u00b1 2.0 \u03bcg/ml; P=0.02) when compared to patients without hyperfibrinolysis. Hypoperfusion markers, including pH (6.96 \u00b1 0.11 vs. 7.17 \u00b1 0.15; P<0.001), base excess (-20.01 \u00b1 3.53 vs. -11.91 \u00b1 6.44; P<0.001) and lactate (13.1 \u00b1 3.7 vs. 8.0 \u00b1 3.7 mmol/l) were more disturbed in patients with hyperfibrinolysis than in non-hyperfibrinolytic subjects, respectively. The LOT showed a good association with CPR time (r=-0.76; P=0.003) and lactate (r=-0.68; P=0.01), and was longer in survivors (3222 \u00b1 34s) than in non-survivors (1,356 \u00b1 833; P=0.044). A substantial part of OHCA patients develop hyperfibrinolysis in association with markers for hypoperfusion. Our data further suggest that the time to the onset of clot lysis may be an important marker for the severity of hyperfibrinolysis and patient outcome."}
{"id": "22633532", "title": "The effects of pneumatic tube system transport on ROTEM analysis and contact activation assessed by thrombin generation test.", "content": "The effects of pneumatic tube system transport on ROTEM analysis and contact activation assessed by thrombin generation test. Thromboelastometry (ROTEM) is a popular point-of-care test. It generates results quickly and may benefit individualised guided haemostatic therapy. However, processing of specimens by non-technicians might decrease the quality and reproducibility of results. Centralised laboratory equipment receiving specimens through a pneumatic tube system (PTS) could avoid this. This study aimed to evaluate the influence of PTS transport on ROTEM results and its contribution to contact activation assessed by thrombin generation (TG). Specimens from 44 patients were drawn immediately after arterial puncture. Two were anticoagulated by citrate and two by citrate/corn trypsin inhibitor, a Factor XIIa pathway inhibitor. Both types of samples were transported by walking and PTS. Subsequently, analysis was performed: ROTEM on citrated blood, and TG on citrated and corn trypsin inhibitor (CTI) blood using either 0 or 1 pM tissue factor (TF). In ROTEM analysis the NATEM assay showed significant differences. The EXTEM assay revealed small significant differences for clot formation time: 65 seconds (SD \u00b1 20) versus 67 seconds (SD \u00b1 17), and alpha angle 79\u00b0 (SD \u00b1 3) versus 77\u00b0 (SD \u00b1 3). The results remained within reference range. TG was not significantly affected by the type of tube transport, independent of the amount of TF. PTS for ROTEM analysis is feasible except for NATEM assays. The amount of contact activation via Factor XIIa in terms of TG is independent of transport type. However, due to the different characteristics of pneumatic systems, hospitals should check its impact on the results before introducing this route of transport."}
{"id": "22632032", "title": "Inhibition of tissue factor pathway inhibitor by the aptamer BAX499 improves clotting of hemophilic blood and plasma.", "content": "Inhibition of tissue factor pathway inhibitor by the aptamer BAX499 improves clotting of hemophilic blood and plasma. Tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI) is the major inhibitor of tissue factor-initiated coagulation, making it an interesting and novel therapeutic target in hemophilia treatment. The aptamer BAX499 (formerly ARC19499) is designed to improve hemostasis by specifically inhibiting TFPI. The aim of the study was to examine the concentration-dependent augmentation of clotting by BAX499. Whole blood clot formation was quantified by rotational thromboelastometry and thromboelastography, and thrombin generation in platelet-poor plasma was assessed with the calibrated automated thrombogram, in samples from patients with congenital hemophilia A (N=55) and B (N=11), patients with acquired hemophilia A (N=1), and healthy controls (N=37). BAX499 significantly improved clotting of samples from hemophilic patients in a concentration-dependent manner, resulting in clotting profiles in samples from patients with severe hemophilia that were similar to those of healthy controls. BAX499 improved ex vivo clotting parameters in blood and plasma from patients with hemophilia A and B with different severity of disease, and also in a patient with acquired hemophilia. These results further support the contention that anti TFPI strategies may be an effective treatment for hemophilic patients."}
{"id": "22626992", "title": "Perioperative management of a parturient with antithrombin deficiency and the role of thromboelastography.", "content": "Perioperative management of a parturient with antithrombin deficiency and the role of thromboelastography."}
{"id": "22584549", "title": "Peripartum management of dual antiplatelet therapy and neuraxial labor analgesia after bare metal stent insertion for acute myocardial infarction.", "content": "Peripartum management of dual antiplatelet therapy and neuraxial labor analgesia after bare metal stent insertion for acute myocardial infarction. A 31-year-old woman at 32 weeks' gestation presented with an ST segment elevation myocardial infarction with subsequent bare metal stent placement. A multidisciplinary team coordinated the delivery plan, including anticoagulation and delivery mode. Because the patient was at high risk for stent thrombosis, clopidogrel was discontinued after 4 weeks and bridged with eptifibatide for 7 days. Eptifibatide was stopped for induction of labor. Twelve hours after eptifibatide was discontinued, hemostatic function was assessed with thromboelastography before initiating neuraxial analgesia. A successful operative vaginal delivery was performed, followed by an uncomplicated recovery. Clopidogrel was resumed 24 hours postpartum."}
{"id": "22578369", "title": "Plasma transfusion for patients with severe hemorrhage: what is the evidence?", "content": "Plasma transfusion for patients with severe hemorrhage: what is the evidence? The following review will detail the current knowledge in massive hemorrhage with regard to the pathophysiology of the coagulation disturbance, the role of plasma, the role of alternatives to plasma, and the clinical value of having a massive transfusion protocol. The coagulation disturbance in trauma patients is more than just the result of consumption of clotting factors at sites of injury and dilution from the infusion of intravenous fluids and red blood cells (RBCs). Even before substantial amounts of fluid resuscitation and RBC transfusion, one-quarter of trauma patients already have abnormal coagulation variables. There is an apparent role for the activation of protein C, hypofibrinogenemia, and fibrin(gen)olysis in the coagulation disturbance after trauma and massive hemorrhage. None of these three disturbances would be completely mitigated by the use of plasma alone, suggesting that there may be an opportunity to improve care of these patients with alternative strategies, such as fibrinogen concentrates and antifibrinolytics. Despite numerous retrospective cohort studies evaluating 1:1 plasma to RBC formula-driven resuscitation, the overall clinical value of this approach is unclear. Studies have even raised concerns regarding a potential increase in morbidity associated with this approach, particularly for patients overtriaged to 1:1 where a massive transfusion is unlikely. We also do not have sufficient evidence to recommend either goal-directed therapy with thromboelastography or early use of fibrinogen replacement, with either cryoprecipitate or fibrinogen concentrates. We have high-quality data that argue against the role for recombinant Factor VIIa that should prompt removal of this strategy from existing protocols. In contrast, we have high-level evidence that all bleeding trauma patients should receive tranexamic acid as soon as possible after injury. This therapy must be included in hemorrhage protocols. If we are to improve the care of massively bleeding patients on a firm scientific ground, we will need large-scale randomized trials to delineate the role of coagulation replacement and the utility of laboratory monitoring. But even until these trials are completed, it is clear that a massive transfusion protocol is needed in all hospitals that manage bleeding patients, to ensure a prompt and coordinated response to hemorrhage."}
{"id": "22577913", "title": "In vitro thrombotic tendency of reactive thrombocytosis in critically ill patients: a prospective case-control study.", "content": "In vitro thrombotic tendency of reactive thrombocytosis in critically ill patients: a prospective case-control study. It is uncertain whether reactive thrombocytosis is associated with an increased risk of thrombosis. This prospective case-control study assessed the in vitro thrombotic tendency of patients with reactive thrombocytosis. Forty-eight patients with reactive thrombocytosis, defined by platelet count >500x10(9)/l and 55 similar, randomly selected critically ill patients who did not have reactive thrombocytosis were considered. In vitro thrombotic tendency in both groups of patients was assessed using maximal amplitude (normal range 54 to 72 mm) and alpha angle (normal range 47 to 74\u00b0) on the thromboelastograph. The associations between reactive thrombocytosis and C-reactive protein, the coagulation profile and Sequential Organ Failure Assessment score were also evaluated. Patients with reactive thrombocytosis had an associated increased in vitro thrombotic tendency (maximal amplitude 77 vs 69 mm, mean difference 8 mm, 95% confidence interval 4.9 to 10.9, P=0.001), a higher fibrinogen concentration (7.2 vs 5.8 g/l, P=0.003), and a higher incidence of infection requiring antibiotics (50 vs 27%, P=0.025) compared to patients without thrombocytosis. Platelet count had a relatively linear relationship with the maximal amplitude and the alpha angle of the thromboelastograph tracing (Pearson correlation coefficient: 0.53, P=0.001). In the multivariate analysis, only reactive thrombocytosis (odds ratio 5.9, 95% confidence interval 1.3-27.8, P=0.025) and activated partial thromboplastin time (odds ratio 0.93 per second increment, 95% confidence interval 0.87 to 0.99, P=0.016) were significantly associated with a strong in vitro thrombotic tendency. In summary, reactive thrombocytosis was associated with infection requiring antibiotics and evidence of increased in vitro thrombotic tendency in critically ill patients."}
{"id": "22576961", "title": "Heparin-induced effects of prothrombin complex concentrates in thromboelastometry.", "content": "Heparin-induced effects of prothrombin complex concentrates in thromboelastometry. Prothrombin complex concentrates (PCC) are currently used to treat congenital or acquired coagulation factor deficiency. In case of serious bleeding caused by new oral anticoagulant agents, reversing treatment with PCC is under debate. PCC preparations mostly contain heparin to prevent thromboembolic events. In factor VIII and IX deficient plasma, Takeyama et al. observed in vitro a heparin effect at appropriate concentrations of PCCs. The aim of the present experiment was to investigate the heparin effect of four factor-PCC at clinically relevant concentrations in whole blood. In an in vitro experiment, we compared the PCC preparation used in the experiments of Takeyama with a high heparin content to a new heparin-free PCC preparation. After ethics committee approval and written informed consent, the citrated whole blood was obtained from ten healthy volunteers. We tested heparin-containing Prothromplex(\u00ae) and heparin-free Cofact(\u00ae) at concentrations of 0.31, 0.63, and 1.25\u00a0IU/ml. Protamine was added to another set of samples (1:1 heparin:protamine). We used the NATEM test in the rotational thromboelastometer ROTEM(\u00ae). In the heparin PCC preparation, we observed a significant (p\u2009<\u20090.001) concentration-dependent prolongation in CT and CFT, even at the lowest concentration. MCF was also significantly reduced. The heparin effect was reversible by protamine. The heparin-free PCC did not affect the onset of coagulation. The interpretation of the alpha-angle showed no increased thrombus formation in heparin-free PCC preparation. Our results extend the report of Takeyama et al. At clinically relevant PCC concentrations, the heparin effect was significant in thromboelastometry. The heparin content of PCCs should be considered in clinical routine."}
{"id": "22566265", "title": "Optimization of thromboelastography-guided platelet transfusion in cardiovascular surgery.", "content": "Optimization of thromboelastography-guided platelet transfusion in cardiovascular surgery. Platelet dysfunction is a major cause of bleeding complications in patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery under cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). Thromboelastography (TEG) can be used to assess post-CPB coagulopathy, but its utility in guiding platelet transfusion (PT) after CPB is unclear. This study assessed the utility of a TEG-guided PT protocol in patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery under CPB. The platelet count and TEG maximum amplitude (MA) was measured in 100 patients undergoing valvular or thoracic aortic surgery under CPB. PTs were guided by an empiric protocol in 50 patients (group C) and by a TEG-guided protocol (MA <35 mm, platelet count <7 \u00d7 10(4)/mm(3)) in the other 50 patients (group T). PT was utilized significantly less in group T (11 patients; 22%) than in group C (24 patients; 48%) (P < 0.01). The difference in PT utilization was particularly marked in patients undergoing aortic arch aneurysm repair (20% in group T vs. 100% in group C; P < 0.01), yet there was no difference in bleeding complications between these two groups. Use of a TEG-guided transfusion protocol dramatically reduced PT after CPB, particularly in patients undergoing aortic arch aneurysm repair."}
{"id": "22562643", "title": "Thromboelastometry during intraoperative transfusion of fresh frozen plasma in pediatric neurosurgery.", "content": "Thromboelastometry during intraoperative transfusion of fresh frozen plasma in pediatric neurosurgery. Normal blood coagulation is essential in pediatric neurosurgery because of the risk of abundant bleeding, and therefore it is important to avoid transfusion of fluids that might interfere negatively with the coagulation process. There is a lack of transfusion guidelines in massive bleeding with pediatric neurosurgical patients, and early use of blood compounds is partly controversial. We describe two pediatric patients for whom fresh frozen plasma (FFP) infusion was started at the early phase of brain tumor surgery to prevent intraoperative coagulopathy and hypovolemia. In addition to the traditional laboratory testing, modified thromboelastometry analyses were used to detect possible disturbances in coagulation. Early transfusion of FFP and red blood cells preserved the whole blood coagulation capacity. Even with continuous FFP infusion, fibrin clot firmness was near to critical value at the end of surgery despite increased preoperative values. By using FFP instead of large amounts of crystalloids and colloids when major blood loss is expected, blood coagulation is probably less likely to be impaired. Our results indicate, however, that the capacity of FFP to correct fibrinogen deficit is limited."}
{"id": "22561563", "title": "[Prevalence of laboratory aspirin resistance in 431 old patients].", "content": "[Prevalence of laboratory aspirin resistance in 431 old patients]. To evaluate correlation between and agreement in light transmittance aggregation (LTA) and thromboelastography (TEG) in laboratory diagnosing aspirin resistance (AR), and to determine the prevalence of AR in old patients. Patients in the Wanshoulu District of Beijing with ischemic atherothrombotic diseases were recruited. Inclusion criteria were age \u2265 65 years, and having received regular aspirin therapy (75-100 mg daily) for at least 4 weeks. On the basis of LTA assay, the definition of AR was taken as aggregation of \u2265 20% with AA (arachidonic acid), and of \u2265 70% with ADP (adenosine diphosphate). Aspirin-sensitivity was indicated by the absence of either of these criteria; aspirinsensitivity was indicated as both criteria being met. The definition of AR by TEG is \u2265 50% via AA-induced whole blood aggregation. There were 13.69% prevalence of aspirin resistance for LTA using AA as the agonist, 30.16% prevalence of aspirin resistance for LTA using ADP as the agonist, and 23.67% prevalence of aspirin resistance for TEG using AA as the agonist. Results from these tests showed poor agreement (Kappa<0.4). However, by the method of LTA using AA and ADP as the agonists, prevalence of AR was 8.35%. By methods of AA-induced LTA and AA-induced TEG, prevalence of AR was 8.82%. Results from these two latter methods showed good agreement (Kappa = 0.793). Combined methods, as described here, have good correlation and agreement in the assays of AR, and the results with them represent a realistic measure of the prevalence of AR. Prevalence of AR of elderly patients from Wanshoulu district of Beijing is about 9%."}
{"id": "22552295", "title": "Streptococcus gordonii FSS2 Challisin affects fibrin clot formation by digestion of the \u03b1C region and cleavage of the N -terminal region of the B\u03b2 chains of fibrinogen.", "content": "Streptococcus gordonii FSS2 Challisin affects fibrin clot formation by digestion of the \u03b1C region and cleavage of the N -terminal region of the B\u03b2 chains of fibrinogen. Bacteria within endocarditis vegetations are encased in fibrin matrix that is resistant to resolution. We have previously shown that FSS2 Challisin, a serine protease from Streptococcus gordonii, is able to hydrolyse the A\u03b1 and B\u03b2 chains of fibrinogen and has potent angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) activity. The alteration in the structure of fibrin formed from FSS2 Challisin-degraded fibrinogen may therefore contribute to the resistant fibrin matrix. To this end, we have investigated the specific interactions of FSS2 Challisin with fibrinogen. FSS2 Challisin extensively degrades the \u03b1C region of fibrinogen A\u03b1 chains, hydrolysing both the \u03b1C-domain and \u03b1C-connnector. Additionally, the N-terminal region of the B\u03b2 chains is cleaved twice, at Leu19 and Ser28, removing the B fibrinopeptides and 'B' knobs. Substrate analysis indicates FSS2 Challisin has specific requirement for proline two residues before the cleavage point and a neutral or basic un-branched amino acid preceding the cleavage point. Fibrin formation by thrombin was modified and the initiation of fibrinolysis extended, in FSS2 Challisin-treated plasma clots. Digestion of fibrinogen by FSS2 Challisin prior to thrombin action increased fiber density and fiber branch point density. The velocity of fibrinolysis was significantly slower for fibrin formed from FSS2 Challisin-treated fibrinogen but was faster when data was normalised for the increased fibrin density. Thromboelastography of whole blood treated with FSS2 Challisin indicated reduced clot coagulation time and increased shear resistance. Combined ACE and fibrinogenase activities of FSS2 Challisin suggest a pro-coagulant effect of this virulence factor which is conserved in the viridans streptococci."}
{"id": "22547997", "title": "The Rapid TEG \u03b1-Angle may be a sensitive predictor of transfusion in moderately injured blunt trauma patients.", "content": "The Rapid TEG \u03b1-Angle may be a sensitive predictor of transfusion in moderately injured blunt trauma patients. To guide the administration of blood products, coagulation screening of trauma patients should be fast and accurate. The purpose of this study was to identify the correlation between CCT and TEG in trauma, to determine which CCT or TEG parameter is most sensitive in predicting transfusion in trauma, and to define TEG cut-off points for trauma care. A six-month, prospective observational study of 76 adult patients with suspected multiple injuries was conducted at a Level 1 trauma centre of a university hospital. Physicians blinded to TEG results made the decision to transfuse based on clinical evaluation. The study results showed that conventional coagulation tests correlate moderately with Rapid TEG parameters (R: 0.44-0.61). Kaolin and Rapid TEG were more sensitive than CCTs, and the Rapid TEG \u03b1-Angle was identified as the single parameter with the greatest sensitivity (84%) and validity (77%) at a cut-off of 74.7 degrees. When the Rapid TEG \u03b1-Angle was combined with heart rate >75 bpm, or haematocrit < 41%, sensitivity (84%, 88%) and specificity (75%, 73%) were improved. Cutoff points for transfusion can be determined with the Rapid TEG \u03b1-Angle and can provide better sensitivity than CCTs, but a larger study population is needed to reproduce this finding."}
{"id": "22547643", "title": "The clinically relevant topic of a combined crystalloid and colloid fluid concept is investigated.", "content": "The clinically relevant topic of a combined crystalloid and colloid fluid concept is investigated."}
{"id": "22546684", "title": "Stent implantation in the superficial femoral artery: short thrombelastometry-derived coagulation times identify patients with late in-stent restenosis.", "content": "Stent implantation in the superficial femoral artery: short thrombelastometry-derived coagulation times identify patients with late in-stent restenosis. The mechanisms of restenosis, the recurrence of luminal narrowing, are complex and incompletely understood to date. Thrombin, the pivotal enzyme in haemostasis, presumably contributes to the formation of in-stent restenosis (ISR). It was therefore the aim of our study to investigate whether blood coagulation/thrombin generation plays a critical role in the formation of ISR in peripheral artery disease patients with stent angioplasty in the superficial femoral artery. We aimed to examine in this retrospective study whether patients with high-degree restenosis (50-75% lumen diameter reduction, n=20) are in a hypercoaguable state implying enhanced readiness to generate thrombin compared to patients with low-degree restenosis (<50% lumen diameter reduction, n=14). The coagulation tests calibrated automated thrombography, activated partial thromboplastin time, platelet aggregation, platelet adhesion, fibrinogen, and microparticles' procoagulant activity did not indicate a different coagulation status in the two patient groups. However, the thrombelastometry-derived value Coagulation Time (CT) was significantly shorter in the high-degree restenosis group (p=0.012), indicating a hypercoagulable state of patients with high-degree restenosis. Under our experimental conditions, CTs shorter than 444.5s identify patients at high risk (sensitivity=95%) for luminal narrowing. Our study supports the assumption that blood coagulation/thrombin generation plays a critical role in the development of ISR in peripheral arteries after stent insertion and that the thrombelastometry-derived CT might be a suitable value to identify peripheral artery disease patients at risk for development of high-degree in-stent restenosis in the superficial femoral artery."}
{"id": "22528182", "title": "A silver nanocomposite biomaterial for blood-contacting implants.", "content": "A silver nanocomposite biomaterial for blood-contacting implants. Cardiovascular implants must resist infection and thrombosis. A nanocomposite polymeric material [polyhedral-oligomeric-silsesquioxane-poly(carbonate-urea)urethane; POSS-PCU] demonstrates ideal properties for cardiovascular applications. Silver nanoparticles or nanosilver (NS) are recognized for efficient antibacterial properties. This study aims to determine the influence of NS integrated POSS-PCU on thrombogenicity. Silver nitrate was reduced with dimethylformamide and stabilized by the inclusion of fumed silica nanoparticles to prevent aggregation of NS and were incorporated into POSS-PCU to form a range of POSS-PCU-NS concentrations (by weight); 0.20% (NS16), 0.40% (NS32), 0.75% (NS64), and 1.50% (NS128). Surface wettability was determined with sessile-drop water contact angles. Platelets were introduced onto test samples and Alamar Blue (AB), mitochondrial-activity assay, quantified the degree of platelet adhesion whilst platelet-factor-4 (PF4) ELISA quantified the degree of platelet activation. Thromboelastography (TEG) determined the profiles of whole blood kinetics while hemolysis assay demonstrated the degree of blood compatibility. Increasing levels of NS induced greater hydrophilicity. A concentration dependant decrease in platelet adhesion and activation was observed with AB and PF4 readings, respectively. TEG demonstrated that the antithrombogenic properties of POSS-PCU were retained with POSS-PCU-NS16, and enhanced with POSS-PCU-NS32, but was reduced with POSS-PCU-NS64 and POSS-PCU-NS128. POSS-PCU-NS64 and POSS-PCU-NS128 demonstrated a hemolytic tendency, but no hemolysis was observed with POSS-PCU-NS16 and POSS-PCU-NS32. Overall, POSS-PCU-NS32 rendered potent antithrombogenic properties."}
{"id": "22527290", "title": "Recombinant factor VIIa treatment for asymptomatic factor VII deficient patients going through major surgery.", "content": "Recombinant factor VIIa treatment for asymptomatic factor VII deficient patients going through major surgery. Factor VII deficiency is the most common among the rare autosomal recessive coagulation disorders worldwide. In factor VII deficient patients, the severity and clinical manifestations cannot be reliably determined by factor VII levels. Severe bleeding tends to occur in individuals with factor VII activity levels of 2% or less of normal. Patients with 2-10% factor VII vary between asymptomatic to severe life threatening haemorrhages behaviour. Recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) is the most common replacement therapy for congenital factor VII deficiency. However, unlike haemophilia patients for whom treatment protocols are straight forward, in asymptomatic factor VII deficiency patients it is still debatable. In this study, we demonstrate that a single and very low dose of recombinant factor VIIa enabled asymptomatic patients with factor VII deficiency to go through major surgery safely. This suggestion was also supported by thrombin generation, as well as by thromboelastometry."}
{"id": "22524128", "title": "Clinical and epidemiological profiles of severe malaria in children from Delhi, India.", "content": "Clinical and epidemiological profiles of severe malaria in children from Delhi, India. Plasmodium vivax is traditionally known to cause benign tertian malaria, although recent reports suggest that P. vivax can also cause severe life-threatening disease analogous to severe infection due to P. falciparum. There are limited published data on the clinical and epidemiological profiles of children suffering from 'severe malaria' in an urban setting of India. To assess the clinical and epidemiological profiles of children with severe malaria, a prospective study was carried out during June 2008-December 2008 in the Department of Pediatrics, Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, a tertiary hospital located in East Delhi, India. Data on children aged < or = 12 years, diagnosed with severe malaria, were analyzed for their demographic, clinical and laboratory parameters. All patients were categorized and treated as per the guidelines of the World Health Organization. In total, 1,680 children were screened for malaria at the paediatric outpatient and casualty facilities of the hospital. Thirty-eight children tested positive for malaria on peripheral smear examination (2.26% slide positivity rate). Of these, 27 (71%) were admitted and categorized as severe malaria as per the definition of the WHO while another 11 (29%) received treatment on outpatient basis. Most (24/27; 88.8%) cases of severe malaria (n=27) were infected with P. vivax. Among the cases of severe malaria caused by Plasmodium vivax (n=24), 12 (50%) presented with altered sensorium (cerebral malaria), seven (29.1%) had severe anaemia (haemoglobin <5 g/dL), and 17 (70.8%) had thrombocytopaenia, of which two had spontaneous bleeding (epistaxis). Cases of severe vivax malaria are clinically indistinguishable from severe falciparum malaria. Our study demonstrated that majority (88.8%) of severe malaria cases in children from Delhi and adjoining districts of Uttar Pradesh were due to P. vivax-associated infection. P. vivax should, thus, be regarded as an important causative agent for severe malaria in children."}
{"id": "22523283", "title": "Mechanisms of attenuation of abdominal sepsis induced acute lung injury by ascorbic acid.", "content": "Mechanisms of attenuation of abdominal sepsis induced acute lung injury by ascorbic acid. Bacterial infections of the lungs and abdomen are among the most common causes of sepsis. Abdominal peritonitis often results in acute lung injury (ALI). Recent reports demonstrate a potential benefit of parenteral vitamin C [ascorbic acid (AscA)] in the pathogenesis of sepsis. Therefore we examined the mechanisms of vitamin C supplementation in the setting of abdominal peritonitis-mediated ALI. We hypothesized that vitamin C supplementation would protect lungs by restoring alveolar epithelial barrier integrity and preventing sepsis-associated coagulopathy. Male C57BL/6 mice were intraperitoneally injected with a fecal stem solution to induce abdominal peritonitis (FIP) 30 min prior to receiving either AscA (200 mg/kg) or dehydroascorbic acid (200 mg/kg). Variables examined included survival, extent of ALI, pulmonary inflammatory markers (myeloperoxidase, chemokines), bronchoalveolar epithelial permeability, alveolar fluid clearance, epithelial ion channel, and pump expression (aquaporin 5, cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator, epithelial sodium channel, and Na(+)-K(+)-ATPase), tight junction protein expression (claudins, occludins, zona occludens), cytoskeletal rearrangements (F-actin polymerization), and coagulation parameters (thromboelastography, pro- and anticoagulants, fibrinolysis mediators) of septic blood. FIP-mediated ALI was characterized by compromised lung epithelial permeability, reduced alveolar fluid clearance, pulmonary inflammation and neutrophil sequestration, coagulation abnormalities, and increased mortality. Parenteral vitamin C infusion protected mice from the deleterious consequences of sepsis by multiple mechanisms, including attenuation of the proinflammatory response, enhancement of epithelial barrier function, increasing alveolar fluid clearance, and prevention of sepsis-associated coagulation abnormalities. Parenteral vitamin C may potentially have a role in the management of sepsis and ALI associated with sepsis."}
{"id": "22523055", "title": "Personalised antiplatelet therapy in stent thrombosis: observations from the Clopidogrel Resistance in Stent Thrombosis (CREST) registry.", "content": "Personalised antiplatelet therapy in stent thrombosis: observations from the Clopidogrel Resistance in Stent Thrombosis (CREST) registry. Previous studies have demonstrated significant heterogeneity in responses to antiplatelet therapy (APT), and high residual platelet reactivity is associated with the risk of ischaemic events, including stent thrombosis (ST). The prevalence of APT hyporesponsiveness in a 'real world' registry of ST patients and the feasibility of personalising APT are reported. 39 consecutive patients admitted to a single regional cardiothoracic centre with definite ST were prospectively evaluated. Response to aspirin and clopidogrel was measured following discharge using short thrombelastography (TEG), a rapid, well validated near patient platelet function test. Treatment modification in hyporesponders comprised an increase in aspirin dose and/or changing clopidogrel to prasugrel or ticagrelor. Short TEG was repeated following treatment modification to ensure an adequate response had been achieved. 12 (31%) patients had an adequate response to both aspirin and clopidogrel, 16 (41%) were hyporesponsive to clopidogrel alone, one (3%) was hyporesponsive to aspirin alone and 10 (26%) were hyporesponsive to both aspirin and clopidogrel. Following treatment modification, an adequate response to aspirin and P2Y12 agent was achieved in 10 (91%) and 22 (85%) patients, respectively. None has presented with a further ST episode. There is a high prevalence of hyporesponsiveness to APT in patients with ST. Improved APT efficacy can be achieved by tailored therapy. Short TEG is a plausible platelet function test that can be used to deliver point of care personalised APT."}
{"id": "22523052", "title": "Short thromboelastography and the identification of high platelet reactivity while on and off therapy.", "content": "Short thromboelastography and the identification of high platelet reactivity while on and off therapy."}
{"id": "22520693", "title": "Early platelet dysfunction: an unrecognized role in the acute coagulopathy of trauma.", "content": "Early platelet dysfunction: an unrecognized role in the acute coagulopathy of trauma. Our aim was to determine the prevalence of platelet dysfunction using an end point of assembly into a stable thrombus after severe injury. Although the current debate on acute traumatic coagulopathy has focused on the consumption or inhibition of coagulation factors, the question of early platelet dysfunction in this setting remains unclear. Prospective platelet function in assembly and stability of the thrombus was determined within 30 minutes of injury using whole blood samples from trauma patients at the point of care using thrombelastography-based platelet functional analysis. There were 51 patients in the study. There were significant differences in the platelet response between trauma patients and healthy volunteers, such that there was impaired aggregation to these agonists. In trauma patients, the median ADP inhibition of platelet function was 86.1% (interquartile range [IQR] 38.6% to 97.7%) compared with 4.2 % (IQR 0 to 18.2%) in healthy volunteers. After trauma, the impairment of platelet function in response to arachidonic acid was 44.9% (IQR 26.6% to 59.3%) compared with 0.5% (IQR 0 to 3.02%) in volunteers (Wilcoxon nonparametric test, p < 0.0001 for both tests). In this study, we show that platelet dysfunction is manifest after major trauma and before substantial fluid or blood administration. These data suggest a potential role for early platelet transfusion in severely injured patients at risk for postinjury coagulopathy."}
{"id": "22519961", "title": "Fibrinogen levels during trauma hemorrhage, response to replacement therapy, and association with patient outcomes.", "content": "Fibrinogen levels during trauma hemorrhage, response to replacement therapy, and association with patient outcomes. Low fibrinogen levels are known to occur in trauma. However, the extent of fibrinogen depletion during trauma hemorrhage, the response to replacement therapy and association with patient outcomes remain unclear. The study aims were to: characterize admission fibrinogen level and correlate it with factors associated with injury; describe the time course of fibrinogen depletion and response to replacement therapy; determine the correlation of fibrinogen level with rotational thromboelastography (ROTEM) parameters; evaluate the effect of fibrinogen supplementation ex vivo; and establish the association between fibrinogen level and clinical outcomes. This was a prospective cohort study of 517 patients. Blood samples were drawn on admission and after admistration of every 4 units of packed red blood cells. Fibrinogen levels were determined with the Clauss method, and global hemostatic competence was assessed with thromboelastometry. The effect of fibrinogen supplementation was assessed in a subgroup of coagulopathic patients. Low admission fibrinogen level was independently associated with injury severity score (P < 0.01), shock (P < 0.001), and prehospital fluid volume (P < 0.001). Fibrinogen supplementation during transfusion maintained but did not augment fibrinogen levels. Administration of cryoprecipitate was associated with improved survival. ROTEM parameters correlated with fibrinogen level, and ex vivo fibrinogen administration reversed coagulopathic ROTEM parameters. Fibrinogen level was an independent predictor of mortality at 24 h and 28 days (P < 0.001). Fibrinogen level is decreased in injured patients on admission and is associated with poor outcomes. ROTEM is a rapid means of assessing hypofibrinogenemia. Earlier administration of specific fibrinogen replacement may improve outcomes, and prospective controlled trials are urgently needed."}
{"id": "22519866", "title": "Effects of magnesium sulphate on postoperative coagulation, measured by rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM(\u00ae)).", "content": "Effects of magnesium sulphate on postoperative coagulation, measured by rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM(\u00ae)). We investigated the effects of magnesium sulphate on blood coagulation profiles using rotational thromboelastometry in gynaecological patients undergoing pelviscopic surgery. Patients were randomly allocated to the magnesium group (n = 20) or control group (n = 20). The magnesium group received magnesium sulphate (50 mg.kg(-1) followed by continuous infusion of 15 mg.kg(-1).h(-1)), whereas the control group received the same volume of isotonic saline according to the same methods. Mean (SD) postoperative serum magnesium levels were 1.58 (0.17) mmol.l(-1) in the magnesium group compared with 0.98 (0.06) mmol.l(-1) in the control group (p < 0.001). Postoperative clotting time, clot formation time, \u03b1-angle and maximum clot firmness of INTEM, and clot formation time, \u03b1-angle, and maximum clot firmness of EXTEM were significantly different between the two groups (p < 0.05). Intra-operative infusion of magnesium sulphate seems to attenuate postoperative hypercoagulability by maintaining magnesium levels at the upper limit of the normal range."}
{"id": "22510861", "title": "Monitoring prohemostatic treatment in bleeding patients.", "content": "Monitoring prohemostatic treatment in bleeding patients. Acutely bleeding patients are commonly found in the trauma and major surgery scenarios. They require prompt and effective treatment to restore an adequate hemostatic pattern, to avoid serious and sometimes life-threatening complications.Different prohemostatic treatments are available, including allogeneic blood derivatives (fresh frozen plasma, platelet concentrates, and cryoprecipitates), prothrombin complex concentrates, specific coagulation factors (fibrinogen, recombinant factor XIII, recombinant activated factor VII), and drugs (protamine for patients under heparin treatment, desmopressin, antifibrinolytics).For decades, prohemostatic treatment of the acutely bleeding patient was based on empirical strategies and clinical judgment, both in terms of a correct diagnosis of the mechanism(s) leading to bleeding, and of an assessment of the effects of the treatment. This empirical strategy may lead to excessive or unnecessary use of allogeneic blood products, as well as to an incorrect, inefficacious, or even dangerous treatment. Different monitoring devices are nowadays available for guiding the diagnostic and therapeutic decision-making process in an acutely bleeding patient. This review addresses the available tools for monitoring prohemostatic treatment of the bleeding patient, with a specific respect for point-of-care tests (thromboelastography, thromboelastometry, platelet function tests, and heparin monitoring systems) at the light of the existing evidence."}
{"id": "22508200", "title": "A randomized prospective analysis of alteration of hemostatic function in patients receiving tranexamic acid and hydroxyethyl starch (130/0.4) undergoing off pump coronary artery bypass surgery.", "content": "A randomized prospective analysis of alteration of hemostatic function in patients receiving tranexamic acid and hydroxyethyl starch (130/0.4) undergoing off pump coronary artery bypass surgery. Postoperative hemorrhagic complications is still one of the major problems in cardiac surgeries. It may be caused by surgical issues, coagulopathy caused by the side effects of the intravenous fluids administered to produce plasma volume expansion such as hydroxyl ethyl starch (HES). In order to thwart this hemorrhagic issue, few agents are available. Fibrinolytic inhibitors like tranexamic acid (TA) may be effective modes to promote blood conservation; but the possible complications of thrombosis of coronary artery graft, precludes their generous use in coronary artery bypass graft surgery. The issue is a balance between agents that promote coagulation and those which oppose it. Therefore, in this study we have assessed the effects of concomitant use of HES and TA. Thromboelastogram (TEG) was used to assess the effect of the combination of HES and TA. With ethical committee approval and patient's consent, 100 consecutive patients were recruited for the study. Surgical and anesthetic techniques were standardized. Patients fulfilling our inclusion criteria were randomly allocated into 4 groups of 25 each. The patients in group A received 20 ml/kg of HES (130/0.4), 10 mg/kg of T.A over 30 minutes followed by infusion of 1 mg/kg/hr over the next 12 hrs. The patients in group B received Ringer's lactate + TA at same dose. The patients in the Group C received 20 ml/kg of HES. Group D patients received RL. Fluid therapy was goal directed. Total blood loss was assessed. Reaction time (r), \u03b1 angle, maximum amplitude (MA) values of TEG were assessed at baseline, 12, 36 hrs. The possible perioperative myocardial infraction (MI) was assessed by electrocardiogram (ECG) and troponin T values at the baseline, postoperative day 1. Duration on ventilator, length of stay (LOS) in the intensive care unit (ICU) were also assessed. The demographical profile was similar among the groups. Use of HES increased blood loss significantly (P < 0.05). Concomitant use of TA reduced blood loss when used along with HES. r value was prolonged at 12 hours in all the groups and \u03b1 angle was reduced at 12 hours in all the groups, where as MA value was reduced at 12 th hour in the HES group compared to the baseline and increased in TA + HES group. These findings were statistically significant. No significant change in Troponin T values/ECG, duration of ventilation and LOS ICU was observed. No adverse events was noticed in any of the four groups. HES (130/0.4) used at a dose of 20 ml/kg seems to produce coagulopathy causing increased blood loss perioperatively. Hemodilution produced by fluid therapy seems to produce Coagulopathy as observed by TEG parameters. Concomitant use of TA with HES appears to reverse these changes without causing any adverse effects in patients undergoing OPCAB surgery."}
{"id": "22498982", "title": "The in-vitro effect of fibrinogen, factor XIII and thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor on clot formation and susceptibility to tissue plasminogen activator-induced fibrinolysis in hemodilution model.", "content": "The in-vitro effect of fibrinogen, factor XIII and thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor on clot formation and susceptibility to tissue plasminogen activator-induced fibrinolysis in hemodilution model. Patients suffering major traumatic or surgical bleeding are often exposed to hemodilution resulting in dilutional coagulopathy. The aim of this study was to evaluate in vitro the effects of fibrinogen, factor XIII and thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI) on clot formation and resistance to fibrinolysis in hemodilution conditions. Citrated whole blood from 36 healthy volunteers was diluted to 30 and 60% with lactated Ringer's solution. Blood samples were subsequently supplemented with fibrinogen, FXIII, TAFI or their combinations. Rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM) in whole blood and thrombin generation in plasma were performed in the presence of CaCl\u2082 and tissue factor/EXTEM reagent, and fibrinolysis was induced by tissue plasminogen activator (tPA). Hemodilution was expressed by decrease of peak height in thrombin generation and \u03b1-angle and maximum clot firmness (MCF) in ROTEM. Fibrinogen, FXIII or TAFI did not correct the decrease in thrombin generation peak height. In ROTEM, spiking of diluted blood with fibrinogen stimulated clot propagation. In tPA-treated blood fibrinogen, FXIII and TAFI increased clot firmness and inhibited fibrinolysis. Stronger protection against fibrinolysis was achieved combining FXIII with TAFI. Hemodilution was associated with inhibition of thrombin generation; however, this effect was not sensitive to blood spiking with fibrinogen, FXIII and TAFI. In ROTEM, these hemostasis agents improved clot strength and decreased clot susceptibility to tPA in nondiluted and to more extent in diluted blood. The maximal protection against fibrinolysis was caused by TAFI. Combining FXIII with TAFI exerted synergistic inhibitory effect on fibrinolysis."}
{"id": "22491940", "title": "Less blood loss with tetrastarch.", "content": "Less blood loss with tetrastarch."}
{"id": "22490713", "title": "[Effect of early high-loading-dose tirofiban on platelet activity in patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention].", "content": "[Effect of early high-loading-dose tirofiban on platelet activity in patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention]. To investigate the effect of early high-loading-dose tirofiban on platelet activity for patients with acute ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention. A total of 120 acute STEMI patients were treated with 300 mg aspirin and 600 mg loading dose clopidogrel and randomized to high-dose tirofiban (25 \u00b5g/kg bolus followed by 0.15 \u00b5g\u00d7kg(-1)\u00d7min(-1) infusion for 36 hours, n = 40), standard-dose tirofiban (10 \u00b5g/kg bolus followed by 0.15 \u00b5g\u00d7kg(-1)\u00d7min(-1) infusion for 36 hours, n = 40) or control (no tirofiban, n = 40) before angiography. Inhibition of platelet aggregation (IPA) was assessed before angiography, at 10 min and 24 hours after tirofiban infusion, and at 12 and 24 hours after stopping tirofiban infusion by the thrombelastography assay. There was no significant difference in baseline of IPA between the 3 groups (P > 0.05). IPA was significantly higher in high-dose tirofiban group compared with standard-dose tirofiban and no tirofiban group at 10 minutes after tirofiban infusion [(84.2 \u00b1 12.0)% vs. (67.8 \u00b1 26.8)% and (31.5 \u00b1 21.9)%, all P < 0.01]. At 24 hours after tirofiban infusion, the IPA of high-dose and standard-dose tirofiban was similar [(93.0 \u00b1 9.8)% vs. (88.5 \u00b1 18.1)%, P > 0.05] and was significantly higher than no tirofiban group [(40.4 \u00b1 22.8)%, all P < 0.01]. IPA was similar at 12 and 24 hours after stopping tirofiban use among the 3 groups (all P > 0.05). The maximum amplitude of high-dose tirofiban and standard-dose tirofiban groups at different time points was similar (all P > 0.05), and maximum amplitude in both tirofiban groups was significantly lower than in no tirofiban group at 10 min [(47.2 \u00b1 7.6) mm and (50.0 \u00b1 9.8) mm vs. (57.7 \u00b1 6.5) mm, all P < 0.01] and at 24 hours after stopping tirofiban infusion [(54.6 \u00b1 5.6) mm and (54.3 \u00b1 9.0) mm vs. (59.6 \u00b1 4.0) mm, all P < 0.01]. Early use of high-loading-dose of tirofiban on top of 600 mg loading dose clopidogrel is more efficient on inhibiting platelet activity than standard dose of tirofiban in patients with acute STEMI undergoing primary primary percutaneous coronary intervention."}
{"id": "22490487", "title": "Earlier application of loading doses of aspirin and clopidogrel decreases rate of recurrent cardiovascular ischemic events for patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention.", "content": "Earlier application of loading doses of aspirin and clopidogrel decreases rate of recurrent cardiovascular ischemic events for patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. Aspirin and clopidogrel resistance plays a significant role in the development of cardiovascular ischemic events for ninety patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. Recent studies have indicated that increasing the dose of antiplatelet drugs maybe a potent method to improve the inhibition of platelet aggregation. Thrombelastograph (TEG) determinations were used to evaluate the effect of antiplatelet therapy. According to the results, 90 patients were divided into three groups and given different doses of aspirin and clopidogrel. Thirty patients with both an inhibition rate of aspirin > 50% and an inhibition rate of clopidogrel > 50% were defined as the control group. Sixty patients with an inhibition rate for aspirin < 50% and an inhibition rate for clopidogrel < 50% were defined as the resistance group. Patients in resistance group were randomly assigned to be given a routine dose (100 mg aspirin plus 75 mg clopidogrel per day, which we called a resistance plus routine dose group, R + R) and a loading dose (200 mg aspirin and 150 mg clopidogrel per day, which we called resistance plus loading dose group, R + L) of antiplatelet therapy. A 12-month follow-up was observed to examine the change of inhibition rate of antiplatelet therapy and to estimate the relationship between inhibition rate and the occurrence of cardiovascular ischemic events. After 6 months of antiplatelet therapy, the inhibition rate of aspirin in the R + L group increased from (31.4 \u00b1 3.7)% to (68.6 \u00b1 7.1)%, which was significantly higher than that in R + R group, (51.9 \u00b1 8.2)% (P < 0.01). The inhibition rate of clopidogrel in the R + L group increased from (22.1 \u00b1 3.8)% to (60.2 \u00b1 7.4)%, which was significantly higher than in the R + R group, (45.9 \u00b1 4.3)% (P < 0.01). The occurrence rates of cardiovascular ischemic events, stent thrombosis, recurrent unstable angina and myocardial infarction in the R + R group were 20%, 36% and 17%, respectively. Occurrence was significantly increased compared with that in the control group, 3%, 10% and 1%, respectively (P < 0.01). In contrast, the occurrence rates in the R + L group (10%, 23% and 6%, respectively) were attenuated compared with those in the R + R group (P < 0.01), although still higher than in the control group (P < 0.01). Almost all of the cardiovascular ischemic events occurred in the first six months after percutaneous coronary intervention. According to the result of TEG determinations, earlier application of a loading dose of aspirin and clopidogrel can decrease the rate of recurrent cardiovascular ischemic events."}
{"id": "22486761", "title": "Reference ranges for thromboelastography (TEG(\u00ae) ) and traditional coagulation tests in term parturients undergoing caesarean section under spinal anaesthesia*.", "content": "Reference ranges for thromboelastography (TEG(\u00ae) ) and traditional coagulation tests in term parturients undergoing caesarean section under spinal anaesthesia*. There has been little published work defining 'normal' thromboelastography (TEG(\u00ae) ) values in healthy parturients, and few large studies defining reference ranges for traditional coagulation tests in this patient group. Our aim was to establish peri-operative reference ranges for TEG and for standard laboratory coagulation tests in our pregnant population. Fifty healthy term parturients presenting for elective caesarean section under spinal anaesthesia had blood samples taken pre-operatively, on arrival in the recovery room and, in a subset of 33 women, 4 h after routine thromboprophylaxis with enoxaparin 40 mg. All three samples had TEG analysis, the first and second having standard laboratory coagulation tests in addition. Reference ranges for our pregnant population were established, demonstrating a hypercoagulable state in term parturients and a significant effect of enoxaparin. The standard coagulation reference ranges were within 98% of the local non-pregnant ranges. These reference ranges provide a useful comparator for peri-operative TEG and routine coagulation analysis in term parturients."}
{"id": "22483776", "title": "Challenges in the laboratory analyses of bleeding disorders.", "content": "Challenges in the laboratory analyses of bleeding disorders. Standard coagulation assays such as the activated partial thromboplastin time and prothrombin time are sufficient to detect deficiencies in coagulation factors contributing to the intrinsic and extrinsic pathways, respectively. Deficiencies in factors VIII and IX can also be detected by one-stage and two-stage clotting assays. While these assays are instrumental in assessing the initiation of clot formation, sufficient formation of a clot is a continuous process that may be better studied by the use of a global hemostasis assay. Several global assays are currently being studied, including the thrombin generation assay, thromboelastography, clot waveform analysis, clot formation and lysis (CloFAL) assay, euglobulin clot lysis assay, thromboplastin generation assays and simultaneous thrombin and plasmin generation assays. This review will concentrate on the thrombin generation test, thromboelastography, the activated partial thromboplastin time waveform analysis and the CloFAL which measure the production of thrombin, as well as the kinetics of clot formation. As such, these global assays can provide greater insight into deficiencies in the mechanisms mediating hemostasis and fibrinolysis in patients with hemophilia, other bleeding disorders or even thrombophilia. These assays have been shown to be clinically relevant for assessing the response to treatment with bypassing agents (recombinant activated FVII and plasma-derived prothrombin complex concentrate) used for the hemostatic control of acute bleeding in patients with congenital hemophilia A/B. The limitations of standard coagulation assays and the use of global hemostasis assays to assess bleeding disorders and the clinical efficacy of bypassing agents will be discussed in detail."}
{"id": "22482831", "title": "Similarities in thromboelastometric (ROTEM\u00ae) findings between humans and baboons.", "content": "Similarities in thromboelastometric (ROTEM\u00ae) findings between humans and baboons. Interest in visco-elastic testing in different clinical scenarios has increased but few data are available on thromboelastometric findings in primates. Blood cell count (hemoglobin, hematocrit, platelet count), coagulation parameters (prothrombin time, International Normalized Ratio, fibrinogen), and ROTEM\u00ae (Tem International GmbH, Munich, Germany) variables were analyzed using blood from 25 anesthetized male baboons and 21 non-anesthetized healthy volunteers. The platelet component of the clot was calculated as the difference in maximum clot elasticity (MCE) between the whole blood clot (EXTEM test) and the fibrin-based clot (FIBTEM test). In subgroups of each species, 10 \u03bcg abciximab was added to the regular FIBTEM reagent (cytochalasin D) for additional platelet inhibition. Blood cell count was comparable between humans and primates. Both fibrinogen concentration (p<0.0001) and maximum clot firmness (MCF) in FIBTEM assays were significantly lower in baboons (p>0.0001, and p=0.006, respectively). PT, INR, and clotting time in NATEM assays were significantly prolonged in humans compared with baboons. MCF in NATEM, EXTEM and INTEM assays was not different between baboons and humans. Clot lysis in NATEM, EXTEM and INTEM assays was significantly higher in humans (p<0.0001). In contrast FIBTEM clot lysis was significantly higher in baboons (p=0.01). Addition of abciximab into the FIBTEM assay resulted in a significant reduction in MCF and MCE (p<0.001) and, consequently, the platelet component increased similar in both humans and baboons (p<0.001). Activated ROTEM\u00ae tests revealed broad similarities between humans and baboons. ROTEM\u00ae assays developed for use in humans can also be used in baboons."}
{"id": "22473821", "title": "Functional fibrinogen to platelet ratio using thromboelastography as a predictive parameter for thrombotic complications following free tissue transfer surgery: a preliminary study.", "content": "Functional fibrinogen to platelet ratio using thromboelastography as a predictive parameter for thrombotic complications following free tissue transfer surgery: a preliminary study. Microvascular free tissue transfer in head and neck surgery has become an indispensable tool. Anastomotic thrombosis is one of the leading causes of flap failure; however, there are no validated methods to accurately identify and quantify those patients most at risk of thrombotic complications. The aim of this study was to determine if functional fibrinogen to platelet ratio using thrombelastography could preoperatively identify patients at risk of thrombotic complications. Twenty nine patients undergoing free tissue transfer surgery for head and neck pathology underwent routine TEG\u00ae analysis, with calculation of functional fibrinogen to platelet ratio at induction of anesthesia. All perioperative thrombotic complications were recorded and crossreferenced with preoperative ratios. Data was further compared to results obtained from 42 healthy volunteers. The mean functional fibrinogen to platelet ratio was significantly higher in the surgery group compared to healthy volunteers. Of the 29 patients studied, 31% (n = 9) had some form of thrombotic event, with all but one patient having a ratio \u226542% (mean 47% \u00b1 7%). For those patients without thrombotic events, the mean ratio was 37% \u00b1 5%. A functional fibrinogen to platelet ratio above 42% as measured by TEG\u00ae may be useful in identifying those patients likely to develop thrombotic complication."}
{"id": "22473047", "title": "The utility of thromboelastography in monitoring low molecular weight heparin therapy in the coronary care unit.", "content": "The utility of thromboelastography in monitoring low molecular weight heparin therapy in the coronary care unit. Low molecular weight heparins (LMWHs) are used for prevention and management of vascular thrombosis. In general, monitoring of anticoagulant activity is not required, however, certain populations may be susceptible to overdosing or underdosing. As anti-activated factor X(anti-Xa) activity testing is not readily available, it was our aim to investigate the usefulness of thromboelastography (TEG; Haemoscope Corporation, Skokie, Illinois, USA) for the assessment of coagulation in patients on LMWH. All patients admitted to the coronary care unit on therapeutic dose of enoxaparin were included (1 mg/kg twice daily). Blood samples were collected 4 h after the morning dose of enoxaparin once the participant had received at least three doses. When anti-Xa activity was classified as low (0-0.5), correct (0.5-1.0) or high (>1.0), the distribution of reaction time (R) and dose per kg showed little association with anti-Xa activity. The difference between mean R for the high anti-Xa group and the correct anti-Xa group was statistically nonsignificant using two-sample t-test (P = 0.26). A linear regression model showed no evidence of association between dose per kg and anti-Xa (P = 0.95). However, there was evidence of positive association between dose per kg and R (P = 0.011) wherein a 10% increase in dose per kg was associated with an increase in R of 2.7 (95% confidence interval 0.6-4.7). There was no evidence of association between R and anti-Xa (P = 0.38). TEG was unable to be used to predict anti-Xa activity. However, TEG R was prolonged in more than 90% patients and correlated with dose of enoxaparin. As enoxaparin dose correlated poorly with anti-Xa activity, a more global test might be necessary to adjust dosing of LMWH in sick, hospitalized patients."}
{"id": "22471611", "title": "Influence of multicomponent apheresis on donors' haematological and coagulation parameters, iron storage and platelet function.", "content": "Influence of multicomponent apheresis on donors' haematological and coagulation parameters, iron storage and platelet function. Multicomponent collection (MCC) enables production and processing of various blood components during one apheresis session. In this prospective crossover study, the effects of donating platelets (PLTs) and packed red blood cells (PRBCs) on donor's blood cell count, coagulation, PLT function and iron state were analysed. Forty-eight MCCs were performed using two different cell separators (Fenwal Amicus(\u00ae), CaridianBCT Trima Accel(\u00ae)). Two units of platelet concentrates and one unit of PRBCs were collected during each session. Full blood cell count and iron status were obtained on day 0 before and after apheresis, day 2, day 14 and day 42. PLT function was analysed by aggregometry and rotation thromboelastometry in parallel with coagulation tests before and after MCC and at day 2. Multicomponent collection was well tolerated without adverse side effects. Blood cell count and iron parameters declined and most of them (haemoglobin, haematocrit, transferrin, transferrin saturation and ferritin) were significantly below baseline values until at least day 42 after donation. Absent iron stores were seen in 31\u00b73% of the donors. In contrast, PLTs significantly exceeded pre-donation values after 14 days and remained significantly increased for 42 days. After 2 days, coagulation parameters were only slightly (P > 0\u00b705) altered, whereas PLT function was significantly reduced. Multicomponent collection is an obviously safe procedure; however, the significant long-term impact on the donor's blood count and iron store, as well as impaired PLT function, has to be considered in regard to donor safety."}
{"id": "22467887", "title": "The impact of hematocrit on fibrin clot formation assessed by rotational thromboelastometry.", "content": "The impact of hematocrit on fibrin clot formation assessed by rotational thromboelastometry. Rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae)-based FIBTEM is used perioperatively to assess the extent of fibrin polymerization in whole blood. In FIBTEM, cytochalasin D eliminates the contribution of platelets to whole blood clotting, but changing levels in fibrin(ogen) and erythrocytes may differently affect clot formation. Because dynamic changes of hematocrit are not reflected in plasma fibrinogen measurements, we hypothesized that the lack of erythrocytes in isolated plasma measurements would affect the relationship between the Clauss method and whole blood-based FIBTEM during cardiac surgery. Therefore, in the current study we investigated the influence of perioperative hematocrit changes on FIBTEM and fibrinogen measurements. Blood samples were collected from 6 consenting healthy volunteers. FIBTEM tests were run before and after serial in vitro dilutions of whole blood with saline or autologous plasma (5:1, 2:1, and 1:1 v/v). We then evaluated the relationship between FIBTEM-maximal clot firmness (MCF) and the Clauss fibrinogen method in relation to hematocrit values before and after cardiac surgery. Pearson correlation coefficients were determined between laboratory test results and ROTEM variables. Upon in vitro hematocrit reduction, FIBTEM-MCF was progressively decreased depending on the extent of saline dilution, but it was increased by 31% after 1:1 volume replacement with autologous plasma (P < 0.05). In samples from cardiac patients (150 measurements in 50 patients), the overall correlation coefficient between FIBTEM-MCF and plasma fibrinogen was 0.80 (P < 0.001). In hemodiluted blood samples (during surgery or at intensive care unit), FIBTEM-MCF 10 mm corresponded to plasma fibrinogen levels of 200 mg/dL. In the subgroup analysis (n = 50 each), according to hematocrit levels (<25%, \u226525% to 30%, \u226530%), plasma fibrinogen levels of 200 mg/dL corresponded to 11 mm, 10 mm, and 8 mm of FIBTEM-MCF, respectively. The correlation between FIBTEM-MCF and plasma fibrinogen was higher at lower hematocrit (<25%) than at higher hematocrit (>30%) (r = 0.88 and 0.67, respectively). Perioperative changes in hematocrit affect the correlation between plasma fibrinogen levels and FIBTEM-MCF values. The higher correlation between FIBTEM-MCF and plasma fibrinogen with lower hematocrit (<25%) indicates that FIBTEM is a practical method to determine the need for fibrinogen replacement in bleeding patients who typically develop perioperative anemia."}
{"id": "22463102", "title": "Diannexin, an annexin A5 homodimer, binds phosphatidylserine with high affinity and is a potent inhibitor of platelet-mediated events during thrombus formation.", "content": "Diannexin, an annexin A5 homodimer, binds phosphatidylserine with high affinity and is a potent inhibitor of platelet-mediated events during thrombus formation. Shielding of procoagulant phosphatidylserine (PS) with annexin A5 attenuates thrombosis, but annexin A5 (35.7 kDa) is rapidly cleared from the circulation. In contrast, Diannexin, a 73.1 kDa homodimer of annexin A5, has an extended half-life. To quantify the affinity of Diannexin for PS, examine its interaction with activated platelets and determine its effects on platelet-mediated events during thrombus formation. The affinities of Diannexin and annexin A5 for PS-containing lipid bilayers were compared using surface plasmon resonance, and binding to activated platelets was assessed by flow cytometry. Calibrated automated thrombography and thromboelastography were employed to study the effects of Diannexin on thrombin generation and platelet-fibrin clot formation, respectively, whereas intravital videomicroscopy was used to examine its effect on platelet accumulation and activation after laser-induced injury to murine cremaster arterioles, and a tail tip bleeding model was used to explore its effects on hemostasis. Diannexin and annexin A5 bind PS with K(D) values of 0.6 and 5 nm, respectively, and both bind to the same subpopulation of PS-exposing platelets. Diannexin inhibited thrombin generation and platelet-fibrin clot formation in vitro at 10 nm (P<0.05-0.001 compared with control), and reduced platelet accumulation at 1 \u03bcg g(-1) (P<0.05) and activation at 0.25 \u03bcg g(-1) (P<0.001) in experimentally induced arterial thrombi in mice while increasing blood loss at 1 \u03bcg g(-1) (P<0.01). Diannexin binds to PS with high affinity and is a potent inhibitor of platelet-mediated events during thrombus formation."}
{"id": "22452804", "title": "The prevalence, risk factors and prognosis of aspirin resistance in elderly male patients with cardiovascular disease.", "content": "The prevalence, risk factors and prognosis of aspirin resistance in elderly male patients with cardiovascular disease. Aspirin resistance is recognized in different population. However, the prevalence and clinical events of aspirin resistance in elderly male patients with cardiovascular disease (CVD) have not been reported. We enrolled 304 elderly male patients with CVD receiving daily aspirin therapy (\u2265 75 mg) more than 1 month. Platelet aggregation was measured by light transmission aggregometry (LTA) and thrombelastography platelet mapping assay (TEG). The median follow-up time was 1.8 years. The primary outcome was the composite of death, myocardial infarction, unstable angina, stroke and transient ischemic attack. By LTA, 25 (8.2%) of elderly patients were aspirin resistant and 106 (34.9%) patients were semiresponders. According to TEG, 62 patients (20.4%) were found to be resistant to aspirin therapy. Of the 62 patients with aspirin resistance by TEG, 21 patients were aspirin resistant by LTA. Twenty-two of the 106 semiresponders by LTA were aspirin resistant by TEG. Patients with aspirin resistance or aspirin semiresponders were at increased risk of the composite outcome compared with aspirin-sensitive patients by LTA (18.3% vs 9.8%, Hazard ratio (HR) = 1.864, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.046-3.324 p = 0.039). However, aspirin resistance was not associated with an increased risk of clinical vascular events compared to aspirin-sensitive patients by TEG (17.7% vs 10.9%, p = 0.452). In addition, Cox proportional hazard regression modeling demonstrated that aspirin resistance or semiresponders (HR = 3.050, 95% CI: 1.464-6.354, p = 0.003) and diabetes (HR = 2.055, 95% CI: 1.060-3.981, p = 0.033) were associated with major adverse long-term outcomes. Aspirin resistance or semiresponders, defined by LTA, are associated with an increased risk of adverse clinical events in elderly male patients with CVD."}
{"id": "22448846", "title": "Equally increased hypercoagulability irrespective of using minimized or conventional ECC systems.", "content": "Equally increased hypercoagulability irrespective of using minimized or conventional ECC systems. Minimized extracorporeal circulation systems in coronary artery bypass may have less impairing effect on hematological parameters and bleeding compared to conventional systems. The aim of this study was to investigate whether the use of mini systems does result in an increased postoperative hypercoagulative status. Patients with increased risk of postoperative blood transfusion were randomly allocated to coronary bypass surgery using conventional or minimized extracorporeal circulation. Serial thrombelastographic analysis was performed preoperatively, at day 1 and 5. Forty-six patients were included. In 56% of the patients in the experimental and in 62% in the control group an activated coagulation system, measured as maximal amplitude above normal reference was found preoperatively. This was normalized the day after operation. At day 5 a significant number of patients in the experimental group (p = 0.03) overshooted the preoperative maximal clot strength compared to the control group (p = 0.15); however, a direct intergroup analysis showed no difference. In both groups, hemoglobin levels and platelet counts decreased at day one after surgery. At day 5, hemoglobin was partly and platelets completely normalized. No differences were found with respect to transfusion needs. Mini systems seem to induce at least an equal increased state of hypercoagulability after coronary surgery. No clinical relevant differences could be demonstrated. This could indicate that patients after using mini systems are not protected against a postoperative state of increased hypercoagulability."}
{"id": "22437051", "title": "Reduced coagulation at high altitude identified by thromboelastography.", "content": "Reduced coagulation at high altitude identified by thromboelastography. The impact of hypoxaemia on blood coagulation remains unclear despite use of a variety of measures to address the issue. We report the first use of thromboelastography (TEG) at high altitude to describe the dynamics of clot formation in whole blood samples. Seventeen healthy volunteers ascended to 5,300 m following an identical ascent profile; TEG measurements at 4,250 m and 5,300 m were compared with those from sea level. Peripheral oxygen saturation (SpO2) and haematocrit were also measured. Ascent resulted in a decline in SpO2 from 97.8 (\u00b1 1.2) % at sea level to 86.9 (\u00b1 3.3) % at 4,250 m and 79.5 (\u00b1 5.8) % at 5,300 m (p<0.001); haematocrit rose from 43.7 (\u00b1 2.8) % at sea level, to 46.7 (\u00b1 3.9) % and 52.6 (\u00b1 3.2) % at 4,250 m and 5,300 m, respectively (p<0.01). TEG reaction (R)-time and kinetic (K)-time were both increased at 5,300 m compared to sea level, 8.95 (\u00b1 1.37) minutes (min) to 11.69 (\u00b1 2.91) min (p=0.016) and 2.40 (\u00b1 0.66) min to 4.99 (\u00b1 1.67) min (p<0.001), respectively. Additionally the alpha (\u03b1)-angle was decreased from 57.7 (\u00b1 8.2) to 51.6 (\u00b1 6.4) (p<0.001). There was no change in maximum amplitude (MA) on ascent to altitude. These changes are consistent with an overall pattern of slowed coagulation at high altitude."}
{"id": "22433215", "title": "Thromboelastography versus thromboelastometry: time for a fair appraisal.", "content": "Thromboelastography versus thromboelastometry: time for a fair appraisal."}
{"id": "22431377", "title": "Color-tunable photoluminescent fullerene nanoparticles.", "content": "Color-tunable photoluminescent fullerene nanoparticles. Highly water-soluble and color-tunable photoluminescent fullerene nanoparticles are synthesized by using tetraethylene glycol (TEG) and lithium hydroxide as a catalyst. The maximum PL emission changes depend on the contents of the remaining \u03c0-conjugation in oxidized C(60), which is partially covalently conjugated with TEG. The PL behavior is attributed to an electronic transition change due to the distortion of symmetrical C(60)."}
{"id": "22429367", "title": "Aspirin resistance: clinical significance and genetic polymorphism.", "content": "Aspirin resistance: clinical significance and genetic polymorphism. To determine the prevalence, clinical implications and underlying mechanism of aspirin resistance in Chinese patients. Platelet aggregation was determined by light transmission aggregometry (LTA) using four different inducers. Patients were divided into aspirin-resistant (AR), aspirin semi responder (ASR) and aspirin-sensitive (AS) groups, according to their LTA results. Aspirin resistance was assessed by thrombo elastography (TEG, with arachidonic acid [AA] or adenosine diphosphate as inducers), serum/urinary 11-dehydrothromboxane B2 (11-DH-TXB2) assay, platelet function analyser-100 assay and P-selectin assay. Polymorphisms in the prostaglandin endoperoxide synthase 1 (PTGS1) gene (A842G, C50T, C22T, G128A, C644A and C714A), the PTGS2 gene (G765C) and the integrin \u03b23 (ITGB3) gene (C196T) were examined. The study included 360 aspirin-treated patients and 314 healthy controls. AS patients had significantly lower levels of 11-DH-TXB2 than AR and ASR patients, and significantly lower levels of P-selectin than AR patients. TEG-AA was more sensitive, specific and consistent than P-selectin in detecting aspirin resistance. The frequency of the PTGS2 G765C mutation was significantly higher in the AR/ASR groups versus the AS group. TEG-AA was more sensitive, specific and consistent than the P-selectin assay for detecting aspirin resistance, and the PTGS2 G765C mutation may be related to aspirin resistance."}
{"id": "22425448", "title": "Thrombelastography-identified coagulopathy is associated with increased morbidity and mortality after traumatic brain injury.", "content": "Thrombelastography-identified coagulopathy is associated with increased morbidity and mortality after traumatic brain injury. The purpose of this study was to determine the relationship between coagulopathy and outcome after traumatic brain injury. Patients admitted with a traumatic brain injury were enrolled prospectively and admission blood samples were obtained for kaolin-activated thrombelastogram and standard coagulation assays. Demographic and clinical data were obtained for analysis. Sixty-nine patients were included in the analysis. A total of 8.7% of subjects showed hypocoagulability based on a prolonged time to clot formation (R time, > 9 min). The mortality rate was significantly higher in subjects with a prolonged R time at admission (50.0% vs 11.7%). Patients with a prolonged R time also had significantly fewer intensive care unit-free days (8 vs 27 d), hospital-free days (5 vs 24 d), and increased incidence of neurosurgical intervention (83.3% vs 34.9%). Hypocoagulability as shown by thrombelastography after traumatic brain injury is associated with worse outcomes and an increased incidence of neurosurgical intervention."}
{"id": "22396581", "title": "Platelet function measurement-based strategy to reduce bleeding and waiting time in clopidogrel-treated patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery: the timing based on platelet function strategy to reduce clopidogrel-associated bleeding related to CABG (TARGET-CABG) study.", "content": "Platelet function measurement-based strategy to reduce bleeding and waiting time in clopidogrel-treated patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery: the timing based on platelet function strategy to reduce clopidogrel-associated bleeding related to CABG (TARGET-CABG) study. Aspirin and clopidogrel therapy is associated with a variable bleeding risk in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery (CABG). We evaluated the role of platelet function testing in clopidogrel-treated patients undergoing CABG. One hundred eighty patients on background aspirin with/without clopidogrel therapy undergoing elective first time isolated on-pump CABG were enrolled in a prospective single-center, nonrandomized, unblinded investigation (Timing Based on Platelet Function Strategy to Reduce Clopidogrel-Associated Bleeding Related to CABG [TARGET-CABG] study) between September 2008 and January 2011. Clopidogrel responsiveness (ADP-induced platelet-fibrin clot strength [MA(ADP)]) was determined by thrombelastography; CABG was done within 1 day, 3-5 days, and >5 days in patients with an MA(ADP) >50 mm, 35-50 mm, and <35 mm, respectively. The primary end point was 24-hour chest tube drainage and key secondary end point was total number of transfused red blood cells. Equivalence was defined as \u226425% difference between groups. ANCOVA was used to adjust for confounders. Mean 24-hour chest tube drainage in clopidogrel-treated patients was 93% (95% confidence interval, 81-107%) of the amount observed in clopidogrel-naive patients, and the total amount of red blood cells transfused did not differ between groups (1.80 U versus 2.08 U, respectively, P=0.540). The total waiting period in clopidogrel-treated patients was 233 days (mean, 2.7 days per patient). A strategy based on preoperative platelet function testing to determine the timing of CABG in clopidogrel-treated patients was associated with the same amount of bleeding observed in clopidogrel-naive patients and \u224850% shorter waiting time than recommended in the current guidelines. URL: http://www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: NCT00857155."}
{"id": "22395372", "title": "[The frequency of aspirin resistance by a modified thrombelastography method and its relationship with clinical and laboratory parameters in patients with stable coronary artery disease].", "content": "[The frequency of aspirin resistance by a modified thrombelastography method and its relationship with clinical and laboratory parameters in patients with stable coronary artery disease]. Aspirin is the cornerstone of antiplatelet therapy in cardiovascular medicine. However, aspirin resistance has been demonstrated in 0.4% to 83.3% of aspirin-receiving patients. The aim of this study was to investigate the frequency of aspirin resistance using a modified thrombelastography (mTEG) method and related clinical and biochemical parameters in patients with stable coronary artery disease (CAD), who received 100 mg/day aspirin. The study included 168 patients (115 males, 53 females; mean age 60\u00b18 years) with stable CAD, receiving aspirin at a dose of 100 mg/day. Aspirin responsiveness was determined using mTEG, where aspirin resistance was defined as arachidonic acid-induced whole blood platelet aggregation inhibition (PAI) of less than 50%. Aspirin resistance was detected in 27 patients (16.1%). Platelet aggregation inhibition showed negative correlations with hyperlipidemia, smoking, spironolactone use, systolic blood pressure, pulse pressure, and total cholesterol and fibrinogen levels. In multivariate regression analysis, only fibrinogen level (OR=1.063, p=0.010) and pulse pressure (OR=1.197, p=0.023) were found to be independent indicators of aspirin resistance and PAI. In ROC analysis, cut-off values of 50 mmHg for pulse pressure and 400 mg/dl for fibrinogen level predicted aspirin resistance with 88.9% and 74% sensitivity and 64.4% and 68% specificity, respectively. Our findings suggest that measurements of fibrinogen level and pulse pressure may be used as easy and reliable methods in predicting aspirin resistance."}
{"id": "22395185", "title": "Biochemical, mechanical, and morphological properties of a completely autologous platelet-rich wound sealant.", "content": "Biochemical, mechanical, and morphological properties of a completely autologous platelet-rich wound sealant. The optimal composition of fibrin sealant preparations is not known. We, therefore, sought to construct a series of sealants from autologous components and compare their functioning to Bioseal a commonly used sealant. Characteristics of the platelet-rich plasma, cryoprecipitate, and thrombin were determined and compared to commercial glue from composition, function, and microscopy aspects. The concentrations of platelets as well as fibronectin in autologous fibrin glues were significantly higher than those in commercial ones (P < 0.001). Mechanical values (maximum amplitude and clot strength) obtained from thrombelastograph assays in two groups were not significantly different (P > 0.05). A dense platelet surface and fibrin net structures could be observed in the autologous samples, whereas there were only sparse fibrin nets without cellular components in Bioseal. Characterization of autologous and Bioseal fibrin sealants and their performance do not have significant difference in biochemical and mechanical properties. The entirely autologous platelet-rich gel in the present study may get wide application in future practice after confirmation of its safety, efficiency, and economic benefits."}
{"id": "22386721", "title": "Hemostatically distinct FFPs equally improve abnormal TEG variables in an in vitro dilutional coagulopathy model.", "content": "Hemostatically distinct FFPs equally improve abnormal TEG variables in an in vitro dilutional coagulopathy model. To improve fresh frozen plasma (FFP) availability, thawed plasma is stored at 4\u00b0C for up to 5 days and considered equivalent to freshly thawed FFP. However, we have shown that hemostatic potential of thawed plasma is highly variable between donors and significantly diminished during storage. We hypothesized that smaller volumes of plasma with higher hemostatic potential (FFP-H) would be needed to restore normal thrombelastogram (TEG) values compared to plasma with lower hemostatic potential (FFP-L). A dilutional coagulopathy model was established from whole blood by diluting plasma with saline to 23%, while cellular components were kept unchanged. Saline was gradually replaced with equal volumes of FFPs with distinctive hemostatic potentials, which was evaluated by the calibrated automated thrombogram. Clot formation in the presence of tissue factor was evaluated by TEG at baseline and after addition of increasing concentrations of FFP-H and FFP-L. Blood dilution with saline in the presence of tissue factor resulted in abnormal TEGs that resemble a pattern observed in severely bleeding trauma patients. All FFPs produced similar improvements in TEG variables despite different hemostatic potentials. TEG changes were solely dependent on FFP volume and reached the normal reference range when plasma concentration increased to 40%. Plasma dilution and tissue factor in whole blood results in an abnormal TEG with a hyperfibrinolytic pattern. A plasma concentration of at least 40% was necessary for TEG normalization after dilution with saline. An effect of FFPs' hemostatic potential on clot formation could not be detected by TEG in this in vitro model."}
{"id": "22375889", "title": "Coagulopathy and hemostatic monitoring in cardiac surgery: an update.", "content": "Coagulopathy and hemostatic monitoring in cardiac surgery: an update. Cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) causes severe derangements in the hemostatic system, which in turn puts the patient at risks of microvascular bleeding. Excessive transfusion and surgical re-exploration after cardiac surgery are potentially associated with a number of adverse outcomes including increased mortality. This review describes coagulopathies occurring in cardiac surgery and the monitoring of these. Viscoelastic hemostatic assays (VHA) have routinely been used in cardiac surgery for more than 25 years and at least 16 studies (involving more than 3250 patients, including three randomized controlled trials) have compared VHA to routine coagulation tests (RCoT) with regards to their ability to predict bleeding and re-do surgery and also with regards to transfusion requirements secondary to hemostatic therapy based on VHA vs. RCoT. All 16 studies demonstrated superiority with VHA as compared to RCoT both in predicting bleeding and need for re-do surgery and in reducing the total amount of blood transfusions by employing goal-directed administration of blood products based on VHA as compared RCoT based therapy or at the clinicians discretion. The different types of coagulopathies observed in patients undergoing cardiac surgery requires adequate and timely hemostatic therapy and real-time monitoring with WHA such as TEG/ROTEM and whole blood platelet aggregometry."}
{"id": "22364525", "title": "Early and individualized goal-directed therapy for trauma-induced coagulopathy.", "content": "Early and individualized goal-directed therapy for trauma-induced coagulopathy. Severe trauma-related bleeding is associated with high mortality. Standard coagulation tests provide limited information on the underlying coagulation disorder. Whole-blood viscoelastic tests such as rotational thromboelastometry or thrombelastography offer a more comprehensive insight into the coagulation process in trauma. The results are available within minutes and they provide information about the initiation of coagulation, the speed of clot formation, and the quality and stability of the clot. Viscoelastic tests have the potential to guide coagulation therapy according to the actual needs of each patient, reducing the risks of over- or under-transfusion. The concept of early, individualized and goal-directed therapy is explored in this review and the AUVA Trauma Hospital algorithm for managing trauma-induced coagulopathy is presented."}
{"id": "22356838", "title": "Hypothermic anticoagulation: testing individual responses to graded severe hypothermia with thromboelastography.", "content": "Hypothermic anticoagulation: testing individual responses to graded severe hypothermia with thromboelastography. Selective incircuit blood cooling could be an effective anticoagulation strategy during hemodialysis. However, it is currently unknown what blood temperature would ensure sufficient anticoagulation. Similarly, no information exists about potential interindividual variability in response to graded hypothermia. Therefore, the aim of this study was to analyze effects of profound hypothermia on human coagulation. Furthermore, a mathematical relationship between blood temperatures and coagulation was sought to predict individual responses to blood cooling. It was designed as a laboratory study. Thromboelastography (TEG) measurements were taken at a temperature range of 38-12\u00b0C. To enable measurements below 20\u00b0C, the TEG device was placed into an air conditioned chamber allowing for setting of the temperatures over a wide range. The data were analyzed by regression analysis for pooled and individual measurements. Decreasing temperatures always led to a progressive reduction in blood coagulation by delaying the initiation of thrombus formation, as well as by decreasing the speed of its creation and growth. However, the response to cooling was not uniform and the interindividual variability exists. The relationship between blood temperature and coagulation is not linear but exponential (parameters R and K) and sigmoid (parameter \u03b1-angle). The lower the blood temperature, the more significant effect on blood coagulation decline. To predict an individual response of the coagulation system over a wide range of temperatures, a mathematical modeling can be used."}
{"id": "22348384", "title": "Combined treatment with APCC (FEIBA\u00ae) and tranexamic acid in patients with haemophilia A with inhibitors and in patients with acquired haemophilia A--a two-centre experience.", "content": "Combined treatment with APCC (FEIBA\u00ae) and tranexamic acid in patients with haemophilia A with inhibitors and in patients with acquired haemophilia A--a two-centre experience. The management of bleeding in haemophilia patients with inhibitors can be challenging when using monotherapy with either activated prothrombin complex concentrate (APCC) or recombinant activated FVII (rFVIIa) fail. The antifibrinolytic agent tranexamic acid (TXA) increases clot stability and is used concomitantly with coagulation factor replacement to improve haemostasis in haemophilia patients without inhibitors in many countries in Europe. Combined treatment with TXA and rFVIIa is not contraindicated in haemophilia patients with inhibitors. However, the combined approach of TXA and APCC has not been investigated due to safety concerns of increased risk of thrombosis or disseminated intravasal coagulation (DIC). The aim of this study is to report our experience of concomitant use of APCC and TXA in haemophilia A patients with inhibitor and in patients with acquired haemophilia A with respect to safety and efficacy. Seven (n = 6) haemophilia A patients with inhibitors and one (n = 1) with acquired haemophilia A from Oslo (Norway) and Stockholm (Sweden) were included in the study. The APCC was given at doses consistent to the manufacturers' recommendation. TXA was administered concomitantly either 10 mg kg(-1) every 6-8 h intravenously or 20 mg kg(-1) every 6-8 h orally. Haemostatic response was assessed by thromboelastography (TEG) and thrombin generation assay (TGA) in three of the patients. A total number of three bleeding episodes and two minor and six major surgical procedures were performed under the coverage with APCC and TXA. Haemostatic outcome was rated excellent or good in 10 of 11 (91%) treatment episodes. One episode was rated with poor effect. No episodes of arterial, venous thrombosis or DIC occurred during or after the treatment. Data from TEG and TGA analysis showed no signs of hypercoagulability following the combined treatment. This report demonstrates that, in a limited number of patients, combined treatment with APCC and TXA seemed to be safe, tolerated and relatively effective in management of bleeding episodes and in preventing haemorrhage during surgery in haemophilia patients with inhibitors and in a patient with acquired haemophilia A. Further studies should be performed to confirm these data."}
{"id": "22342507", "title": "Thrombelastography for perioperative monitoring in patients with von Willebrand disease.", "content": "Thrombelastography for perioperative monitoring in patients with von Willebrand disease."}
{"id": "22339139", "title": "A cost study of postoperative cell salvage in the setting of elective primary hip and knee arthroplasty.", "content": "A cost study of postoperative cell salvage in the setting of elective primary hip and knee arthroplasty. The increasing costs, limited supply, and clinical risks associated with allogeneic blood transfusion have prompted investigation into autologous blood management strategies, such as postoperative red blood cell (RBC) salvage. This study provides a cost comparison of transfusing washed postoperatively salvaged RBCs using an orthopedic perioperative autotransfusion device (OrthoPat, Haemonetics Corporation) versus unwashed shed blood and banked allogeneic blood. Cell salvage data were retrospectively reviewed for a sample of 392 patients who underwent primary hip or knee arthroplasty. Mean unit costs were calculated for washed salvaged RBCs, equivalent units of unwashed shed blood, and therapeutically equivalent volumes of allogeneic RBCs. No initial capital investment was required for the establishment of the postoperative cell salvage program. For patients undergoing total knee arthroplasty (TKA), the mean unit costs for washed postoperatively salvaged cells, unwashed shed blood, and allogeneic banked blood were $758.80, $474.95, and $765.49, respectively. In patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty (THA), the mean unit costs for washed postoperatively salvaged cells, unwashed shed blood, and allogeneic banked blood were $1827.41, $1167.41, and $2609.44, respectively. This analysis suggests that transfusing washed postoperatively salvaged cells using the OrthoPat device is more costly than using unwashed shed blood in both THA and TKA. When compared to allogeneic transfusion, washed postoperatively salvaged cells carry a comparable cost in TKA, but potentially represent a significant savings in patients undergoing THA. Sensitivity analysis suggests that in the case of TKA, however, cost comparability exists within a narrow range of units collected and infused."}
{"id": "22338860", "title": "[Monitoring of blood coagulation in perioperative care].", "content": "[Monitoring of blood coagulation in perioperative care]. Coagulation disorders often occur perioperatively and monitoring of blood coagulation should be fast and adequate to treat these disorders to protect patients from massive bleeding. Control of hemostasis is one of the main issues in major surgeries. Coagulation test results from a central laboratory may delay making such a perioperative decision. Recently, point-of-care monitoring (POCM), which is able to examine coagulation disorder in an operation theater with short waiting time, has become important. Both prothrombin time (PT) and activated clotting time (ACT) are very useful and popular, but also criticized because they can be monitored only until fibrin formation. On the other hand, viscoelastic monitorings of whole blood, are able to estimate fibrin formation, clot fixation, platelet function and fibrinolysis. In this review article, among variable perioperative POCMs of blood coagulation, three thromboelastographic monitorings, such as TEG ROTEM, and Sonoclot as well as PT and ACT, are described along with their utilities and limits to examine perioperative coagulation."}
{"id": "22327040", "title": "Perioperative management in orthotopic liver transplantation: results of an Italian national survey.", "content": "Perioperative management in orthotopic liver transplantation: results of an Italian national survey. No data are available on the perioperative approach during orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) in Italy, apart from sporadically single center studies. The Department of Anesthesia cooperating with each Italian licensed OLT center received a questionnaire regarding preoperative evaluation, intraoperative anesthesia management, anesthetic drugs, blood components therapy, perioperative monitoring, supportive therapies, postoperative care, staff and organization. Twenty-two centers were surveyed and 17 returned the questionnaire. Center specific protocols for OLT anesthesia exist in 12 centers. Balanced anesthesia (volatile anesthetic agents and continuous infusion of opioids) is the standard anesthetic method. In 14 cases a thromboelastogram is available; one center reported not to have a rapid infusion device available. Pulmonary artery catheterization with a continuous cardiac output device is the most used hemodynamic monitoring system; in case of hemodynamic instability, the combination of dopamine/noradrenaline resulted the first choice before vascular clamping whereas noradrenaline alone after graft's reperfusion. No difference about which intraoperative phase is mostly characterized by the use of blood components was reported. Postoperative care is provided on anesthesiological-guided Intensive Care Units (ICU) in all the surveyed centers and in three centers the ICU is dedicated only to transplant patients. The results of this survey show that in Italy the perioperative management of patients undergoing OLT is not homogeneous. This database allows to debate on the best practices and pathways for perioperative management of these patients, and to stimulate future clinical trials aimed to assess the different component and steps forwards of the whole process."}
{"id": "22321860", "title": "[Treatment alternatives in massive hemorrhage].", "content": "[Treatment alternatives in massive hemorrhage]. Massive hemorrhage is the main cause of mortality and morbidity in trauma patients, and is one of the most important causes in any patient following major surgery. Conventional treatment consists of volume replacement, including the transfusion of blood products, so that tissue perfusion and oxygenation may be maintained. Associated hypothermia, acidosis and coagulopathy is a lethal triad. This review focuses on the latest therapeutic management of massive hemorrhage. The authors advocate the use of crystalloids as per protocol (controlled volumes) in order to achieve a systolic blood pressure of 85mmHg. The administration of the three blood products (red cells, plasma, and platelets) should be on a 1:1:1 basis. Where possible, this in turn should be guided by thromboelastography performed at point of care near the patient. Coagulopathy can occur early and late. With the exception of tranexamic acid, the cost-benefit relationships of the hemostatic agents, such as fibrinogen, prothrombin complex, and recombinant F VII, are subject to discussion."}
{"id": "22314689", "title": "Comparison of whole blood fibrin-based clot tests in thrombelastography and thromboelastometry.", "content": "Comparison of whole blood fibrin-based clot tests in thrombelastography and thromboelastometry. Fibrin-based clot firmness is measured as maximum amplitude (MA) in the functional fibrinogen (FF) thrombelastographic assay and maximum clot firmness (MCF) in the FIBTEM thromboelastometric assay. Differences between the assays/devices may be clinically significant. Our objective was to compare clot firmness parameters through standard (FF on a thrombelastography device [TEG\u00ae]; FIBTEM on a thromboelastometry device [ROTEM\u00ae]) and crossover (FF on ROTEM\u00ae; FIBTEM on TEG\u00ae) analyses. Whole-blood samples from healthy volunteers were subjected to thrombelastography and thromboelastometry analyses. Samples were investigated native and following stepwise dilution with sodium chloride solution (20%, 40%, and 60% dilution). Samples were also assessed after in vitro addition of medications (heparin, protamine, tranexamic acid) and 50% dilution with hydroxyethyl starch, gelatin, sodium chloride, and albumin. FF produced higher values than FIBTEM, regardless of the device, and TEG\u00ae produced higher values than ROTEM\u00ae, regardless of the assay. With all added medications except heparin 400 U/kg bodyweight, FF MA remained significantly higher (P < 0.05) than FIBTEM MCF, which was largely unchanged. FF MA was significantly reduced (P = 0.04) by high-dose heparin and partially restored with protamine. Fifty percent dilution with hydroxyethyl starch, albumin, and gelatin decreased FIBTEM MCF and FF MA by >50%. These results demonstrate differences when measuring fibrin-based clotting via the FF and FIBTEM assays on the TEG\u00ae and ROTEM\u00ae devices. Point-of-care targeted correction of fibrin-based clotting may be influenced by the assay and device used. For the FF assay, data are lacking."}
{"id": "22310191", "title": "Standard vs. point-of-care measurement of fibrinogen: potential impact on clinical decisions.", "content": "Standard vs. point-of-care measurement of fibrinogen: potential impact on clinical decisions. Intraoperative major bleeding is a common complication during surgery and can lead to the transfusion of blood products and/or procoagulant drugs. This is a therapeutic challenge, and adherence to guidelines is desirable to preserve blood product resources. The intraoperative administration of fibrinogen concentrate, a pro-coagulant drug, in bleeding patients might reduce the use and therefore the risks associated with blood products. In this observational pilot study we determined whether fibrinogen measured by point-of-care thromboelastometry (Rotem\u00ae, fibtem-test) would lead to a similar therapeutical decision concerning the administration of fibrinogen concentrate when compared to the standard method (Clauss). Blood samples of 36 patients undergoing major surgery were simultaneously analyzed using both methods. According to the cutoff values of current guidelines based on the standard method, no patient would receive fibrinogen concentrate. In comparison, if point-of-care thromboelastometry were used and its cutoff for fibrinogen applied, 16 patients (44%, P<0.001) would receive fibrinogen concentrate. The method used for intraoperative coagulation monitoring has a major impact on therapeutic decisions concerning the use of blood products and/or pro-coagulant drugs. If fibrinogen was measured by point-of-care thromboelastometry instead of the standard method according to Clauss, the use of fibrinogen concentrate would increase significantly and less fresh frozen plasma would be administered."}
{"id": "22309145", "title": "Early platelet activation, inflammation and acute brain injury after a subarachnoid hemorrhage: a pilot study.", "content": "Early platelet activation, inflammation and acute brain injury after a subarachnoid hemorrhage: a pilot study."}
{"id": "22304718", "title": "Hyperbranched polyglycerols as trimodal imaging agents: design, biocompatibility, and tumor uptake.", "content": "Hyperbranched polyglycerols as trimodal imaging agents: design, biocompatibility, and tumor uptake. Combining various imaging modalities often leads to complementary information and synergistic advantages. A trimodal long-circulating imaging agent tagged with radioactive, magnetic resonance, and fluorescence markers is able to combine the high sensitivity of SPECT with the high resolution of MRI over hours and days. The fluorescence marker helps to confirm the in vivo imaging information at the microscopic level, in the context of the tumor microenvironment. To make a trimodal long-circulating probe, high-molecular-weight hyperbranched polyglycerols (HPG) were modified with a suitable ligand for (111)In radiolabeling and Gd coordination, and additionally tagged with a fluorescent dye. The resulting radiopharmaceutical and contrast agent was nontoxic and hemocompatible. Measured radioactively, its total tumor uptake increased from 2.6% at 24 h to 7.3% at 72 h, which is twice the increase expected due to tumor growth in this time period. Both in vivo MRI and subsequent histological analyses of the same tumors confirmed maximum HPG accumulation at 3 days post injection. Furthermore, Gd-derivatized HPG has an excellent contrast enhancement on T1-weighted MRI at 10\u00d7 lower molar concentrations than commercially available Galbumin. HPG derivatized with gadolinium, radioactivity, and fluorescence are thus long-circulating macromolecules with great potential for imaging of healthy and leaky blood vessels using overlapping multimodal approaches and for the passive targeting of tumors."}
{"id": "22304465", "title": "An assessment of thromboelastometry to monitor blood coagulation and guide transfusion support in liver transplantation.", "content": "An assessment of thromboelastometry to monitor blood coagulation and guide transfusion support in liver transplantation. Rotation thromboelastometry (TEM) has been proposed as a convenient alternative to standard coagulation tests in guiding the treatment of coagulopathy during orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). This study was aimed at assessing the value of TEM in monitoring blood coagulation and guide transfusion support in OLT. Standard coagulation and TEM (EXTEM and FIBTEM) tests were performed at four preestablished intraoperative time points in 236 OLTs and prospectively recorded in a dedicated database together with the main operative and transfusion data. Transfusion thresholds were based on standard coagulation tests. Spearman's rank correlation (\u03c1), linear regression, and receiver operating characteristic curves were used when appropriate. EXTEM maximum clot firmness (MCF(EXTEM)) was the TEM variable that best correlated with the platelet (PLT) and fibrinogen levels (\u03c1 = 0.62 and \u03c1 = 0.69, respectively). MCF(FIBTEM) correlated with fibrinogen level (\u03c1 = 0.70). EXTEM clot amplitude at 10 minutes (A10(EXTEM)) was a good linear predictor of MCF(EXTEM) (R(2) =0.93). The cutoff values that best predicted the transfusion threshold for PLTs and fibrinogen were A10(EXTEM) = 35 mm and A10(FIBTEM) = 8 mm. At these values, the negative and positive predictive accuracies of TEM to predict the transfusion thresholds were 95 and 27%, respectively. A10(EXTEM) is an adequate TEM variable to guide therapeutic decisions during OLT. Patients with A10(EXTEM) of greater than\u200335 mm are unlikely to bleed because of coagulation deficiencies, but using A10(EXTEM) of not more than 35 mm as the sole transfusion criterion can lead to unnecessary utilization of PLTs and fibrinogen-rich products."}
{"id": "22297558", "title": "Detection of tPA-induced hyperfibrinolysis in whole blood by RapidTEG, KaolinTEG, and functional fibrinogenTEG in healthy individuals.", "content": "Detection of tPA-induced hyperfibrinolysis in whole blood by RapidTEG, KaolinTEG, and functional fibrinogenTEG in healthy individuals. Rapid identification of clinically relevant coagulopathies in, acute coagulopathy of trauma shock (ACOTS) has led to the development of faster point-of-care viscoelastic whole-blood-based tests like rapid thrombelastography (RapidTEG). The sensitivity of RapidTEG to detect hyperfibrinolysis, as compared to standard KaolinTEG, is unknown. To investigate this, the ability of RapidTEG, KaolinTEG, and functional fibrinogenTEG (FFTEG) to detect tPA-induced (tissue plasminogen activator) lysis in whole blood from healthy individuals was investigated. Our hypothesis was that the initial powerful clot formation in the RapidTEG assay would reduce the sensitivity as compared to the normally used KaolinTEG assay. We also evaluated the FFTEG assay. In vitro comparison of the sensitivity of RapidTEG, KaolinTEG, and FFTEG to 1.8 nmol/L tPA in citrated whole blood (299 \u00b1 23 ng/mL plasma) induced hyperfibrinolysis in 10 healthy individuals and duplicate titration of the tPA whole blood (WB) concentration from 0.09 to 7.2 nmol/L (14-1144 ng/mL plasma) in 1 healthy donor. At 1.8 nmol/L tPA, KaolinTEG, RapidTEG, and FFTEG all detected fibrinolysis but with different sensitivities. In the titration study, KaolinTEG and FFTEG displayed a continuous dose-response association and RapidTEG also displayed a dose-dependent response but only for higher levels of tPA, thus yielding a smaller \"dose-sensitive range\" compared to KaolinTEG and FFTEG. This pilot study demonstrated that KaolinTEG, RapidTEG, and FFTEG all were able to detect lysis at 1.8 nmol/L tPA but with a difference in sensitivity. Furthermore, KaolinTEG and FFTEG showed a continuous dose dependence related to the tPA concentration, whereas RapidTEG only detected lysis at higher tPA concentrations."}
{"id": "22293628", "title": "Levels of fibrinogen and thromboelastometry fibrin polymerisation following treatment with desmopressin (DDAVP).", "content": "Levels of fibrinogen and thromboelastometry fibrin polymerisation following treatment with desmopressin (DDAVP)."}
{"id": "22275078", "title": "TEG-1 CD2BP2 regulates stem cell proliferation and sex determination in the C. elegans germ line and physically interacts with the UAF-1 U2AF65 splicing factor.", "content": "TEG-1 CD2BP2 regulates stem cell proliferation and sex determination in the C. elegans germ line and physically interacts with the UAF-1 U2AF65 splicing factor. For a stem cell population to exist over an extended period, a balance must be maintained between self-renewing (proliferating) and differentiating daughter cells. Within the Caenorhabditis elegans germ line, this balance is controlled by a genetic regulatory pathway, which includes the canonical Notch signaling pathway. Genetic screens identified the gene teg-1 as being involved in regulating the proliferation versus differentiation decision in the C. elegans germ line. Cloning of TEG-1 revealed that it is a homolog of mammalian CD2BP2, which has been implicated in a number of cellular processes, including in U4/U6.U5 tri-snRNP formation in the pre-mRNA splicing reaction. The position of teg-1 in the genetic pathway regulating the proliferation versus differentiation decision, its single mutant phenotype, and its enrichment in nuclei, all suggest TEG-1 also functions as a splicing factor. TEG-1, as well as its human homolog, CD2BP2, directly bind to UAF-1 U2AF65, a component of the U2 auxiliary factor. TEG-1 functions as a splicing factor and acts to regulate the proliferation versus meiosis decision. The interaction of TEG-1 CD2BP2 with UAF-1 U2AF65, combined with its previously described function in U4/U6.U5 tri-snRNP, suggests that TEG-1 CD2BP2 functions in two distinct locations in the splicing cascade."}
{"id": "22273511", "title": "The effects of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors on platelet function in whole blood and platelet concentrates.", "content": "The effects of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors on platelet function in whole blood and platelet concentrates. Several studies report that patients who are treated with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) for depression may have increased risk of bleeding, particularly from the gastrointestinal tract. This may be related to low intraplatelet serotonin concentrations. Several blood banks do not store platelets from donors using SSRIs for transfusion, although the possible effects of SSRIs on platelet storage are not documented. We conducted a case-control pilot study of apheresis platelet concentrates prepared from donors using SSRIs (n=8) and from donors without medication (n=10). The platelet concentrates were stored for 5 days. Light transmission aggregometry (LTA), thrombelastography (TEG), and flow cytometric analyses were preformed for in vitro measurements of platelet function. Platelet function and platelet serotonin content were investigated in whole blood and in platelet concentrates stored for up to 5 days. LTA, TEG, and flow cytometric analysis of glycoprotein expression did not reveal any significant differences between the two groups. All 18 platelet concentrates performed well according to the standards set for platelet quality in relation to transfusion. Blood donors using SSRIs had significantly lower platelet serotonin compared to blood donors without medication. The results from our pilot study indicate that platelets from donors using SSRIs may be suitable for transfusion after storage for 5 days, but further laboratory and clinical studies are necessary to confirm this."}
{"id": "22273510", "title": "The in\u00a0vivo effect of fibrinogen and factor XIII on clot formation and fibrinolysis in Glanzmann's thrombasthenia.", "content": "The in\u00a0vivo effect of fibrinogen and factor XIII on clot formation and fibrinolysis in Glanzmann's thrombasthenia. Glanzmann's thrombasthenia (GT) is characterized by increased bleeding risk. The treatment options in GT are limited. The aim of this study was to test the effect of GT blood supplementation with fibrinogen and factor XIII on thrombin generation, blood clotting, and fibrinolysis. Whole blood samples of GT patients and normal donors treated with eptifibatide (GT model) were subjected to clotting by CaCl(2) and tissue factor. Thrombin generation was measured in platelet-rich plasma. Clot formation and tPA-induced fibrinolysis were evaluated in whole blood by rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM). Blood was supplemented with fibrinogen (3\u2009g/L) and/or FXIII (2\u2009IU/mL). Thrombin generation analysis of blood derived from GT model and GT patients revealed decreased endogenous thrombin potential and peak height and extended lag time compared to control. However, this method was not sensitive to blood spiking with fibrinogen and FXIII. ROTEM revealed lower maximum clot firmness (MCF) and area under curve (AUC) in the blood of GT model and GT patients. In the absence of exogenous tPA, blood spiking with fibrinogen markedly enhanced clot quality while FXIII had no effect. Combination of fibrinogen and FXIII did not add to the effect of fibrinogen. In contrast, by the addition of tPA, both fibrinogen and FXIII separately and, to more extent, in combination enhanced clot quality as well as resistance against tPA-induced fibrinolysis (increasing MCF, AUC, and lysis onset time). In conclusion, fibrinogen and FXIII exerted stimulation of blood clotting and inhibition of fibrinolysis. Treating normal blood with eptifibatide mimics the changes of coagulopathy in GT blood."}
{"id": "22270921", "title": "Acute traumatic coagulopathy.", "content": "Acute traumatic coagulopathy. Recent therapeutic and observational studies have demonstrated improved survival with better management of haemostasis early after injury. This review delineates our current understanding of the clinical importance, aetiology and pathophysiology of acute traumatic coagulopathy (ATC). Trauma causes an acute disruption of the equilibrium between all components of haemostasis (coagulation, anticoagulation, fibrinolysis, platelets and endothelium). In patients with a combination of severe tissue damage and systemic hypoperfusion, this will progress rapidly to an endogenous coagulopathy that is independently associated with worse outcomes. New discoveries of the interactions between neurohormonal, vascular, and coagulation systems are beginning to explain how this haemostatic impairment develops and offer novel targets for therapeutic manipulation. Routine coagulation screening tests are ineffective for diagnosing ATC and guiding resuscitation in real-time. Viscoelastic coagulation tests (such as ROTEM or TEG) have emerged as practical, rapid and sensitive diagnostic modalities. Their role in therapeutic targeting requires further validation. Conventional concepts of traumatic coagulopathy as a late occurring condition in response to iatrogenic haemodilution are redundant. ATC is an endogenous impairment of haemostasis that begins at the moment of injury. Further outcome improvements are possible with better understanding of the process by which this coagulopathy develops and how it may be inhibited."}
{"id": "22266209", "title": "Measuring the mechanical properties of blood clots formed via the tissue factor pathway of coagulation.", "content": "Measuring the mechanical properties of blood clots formed via the tissue factor pathway of coagulation. Thrombelastography (TEG) is a method that is used to conduct global assays that monitor fibrin formation and fibrinolysis and platelet aggregation in whole blood. The purpose of this study was to use a well-characterized tissue factor (Tf) reagent and contact pathway inhibitor (corn trypsin inhibitor, CTI) to develop a reproducible thrombelastography assay. In this study, blood was collected from 5 male subjects (three times). Clot formation was initiated in whole blood with 5 pM Tf in the presence of CTI, and fibrinolysis was induced by adding tissue plasminogen activator (tPA). Changes in viscoelasticity were then monitored by TEG. In quality control assays, our Tf reagent, when used at 5 pM, induced coagulation in whole blood in 3.93 \u00b1 0.23 min and in plasma in 5.12 \u00b1 0.23 min (n=3). In TEG assays, tPA significantly decreased clot strength (maximum amplitude, MA) in all individuals but had no effect on clot time (R time). The intraassay variability (CVa<10%) for R time, angle, and MA suggests that these parameters reliably describe the dynamics of fibrin formation and degradation in whole blood. Our Tf reagent reproducibly induces coagulation, making it an ideal tool to quantify the processes that contribute to mechanical clot strength in whole blood."}
{"id": "22257224", "title": "In vitro platelet quality in storage containers used for pediatric transfusions.", "content": "In vitro platelet quality in storage containers used for pediatric transfusions. The in vitro quality of small-volume platelet (PLT) aliquots for pediatric transfusions was assessed to determine the best practice approach. Small volumes (50 mL) of single apheresis PLT components (APCs), collected on either CaridianBCT Trima or Haemonetics MCS+ instruments, were aliquoted on Days 2, 3, 4, and 5 postcollection into Fenwal PL1240 or 4R2014 bags or 60-mL polypropylene syringes. Samples were tested for in vitro quality at their recommended expiry times (4 hr for 4R2014 bags and syringes or Day 5 for PL1240 bags). Assays included pH, CD62P expression, and metabolic measures. CD62P expression increased throughout storage in all containers. Among the small-volume containers, pH, pCO(2) , lactate, and bicarbonate varied considerably. Regardless of the day of aliquoting, pCO(2) was significantly higher and pO(2) was significantly lower in gas-impermeable syringes than other containers. No bacterial growth was detected in any sample. The quality of APCs aliquoted into small-volume containers meets regulatory requirements and is generally equivalent to that of full-volume APCs at expiry."}
{"id": "22234684", "title": "Solulin increases clot stability in whole blood from humans and dogs with hemophilia.", "content": "Solulin increases clot stability in whole blood from humans and dogs with hemophilia. Solulin is a soluble form of thrombomodulin that is resistant to proteolysis and oxidation. It has been shown to increase the clot lysis time in factor VIII (fVIII)-deficient plasma by an activated thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFIa)-dependent mechanism. In the present study, blood was drawn from humans and dogs with hemophilia, and thromboelastography was used to measure tissue factor-initiated fibrin formation and tissue-plasminogen activator-induced fibrinolysis. The kinetics of TAFI and protein C activation by the thrombin-Solulin complex were determined to describe the relative extent of anticoagulation and antifibrinolysis. In severe hemophilia A, clot stability increased by > 4-fold in the presence of Solulin while minimally affecting clot lysis time. Patients receiving fVIII/fIX prophylaxis showed a similar trend of increased clot stability in the presence of Solulin. The catalytic efficiencies of TAFI and protein C activation by the thrombin-Solulin complex were determined to be 1.53 and 0.02/\u03bcM/s, respectively, explaining its preference for antifibrinolysis over anticoagulation at low concentrations. Finally, hemophilic dogs given Solulin had improved clot strength in thromboelastography assays. In conclusion, the antifibrinolytic properties of Solulin are exhibited in hemophilic human (in vitro) and dog (in vivo/ex vivo) blood at low concentrations. Our findings suggest the therapeutic utility of Solulin at a range of very low doses."}
{"id": "22234563", "title": "Abnormal inflammation leads to maternal coagulopathies associated with placental haemostatic alterations in a rat model of foetal loss.", "content": "Abnormal inflammation leads to maternal coagulopathies associated with placental haemostatic alterations in a rat model of foetal loss. Spontaneous pregnancy loss is often associated with aberrant maternal inflammation and systemic coagulopathies. However, the role of inflammation in the development of obstetric coagulopathies is poorly understood. Further, questions remain as to whether systemic coagulopathies are linked to placental haemostatic alterations, and whether these local alterations contribute to a negative foetal outcome. Using a model of spontaneous foetal loss in which pregnant rats are given a single injection of bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS), we characterised the systemic maternal coagulation status following LPS administration using thromboelastography (TEG), a global haemostatic assay that measures the kinetics of clot formation. Systemic maternal coagulopathy was evident in 82% of LPS-treated rats. Specifically, we observed stage-I, -II, and -III disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) and hypercoagulability. Modulation of inflammation through inhibition of tumour necrosis factor \u03b1 with etanercept resulted in a 62% reduction in the proportion of rats exhibiting coagulopathy. Moreover, inflammation-induced systemic coagulopathies were associated with placental haemostatic alterations, which included increased intravascular, decidual, and labyrinth fibrin deposition in cases of DIC-I and hypercoagulability, and an almost complete absence of fibrin deposition in cases of DIC-III. Furthermore, systemic and placental haemostatic alterations were associated with impaired utero-placental haemodynamics, and inhibition of these haemostatic alterations by etanercept was associated with maintenance of utero-placental haemodynamics. These findings indicate that modulation of maternal inflammation may be useful in the prevention of coagulopathies associated with complications of pregnancy."}
{"id": "22233480", "title": "Haemostatic therapy in coronary artery bypass graft patients with decreased platelet function: comparison of fibrinogen concentrate with allogeneic blood products.", "content": "Haemostatic therapy in coronary artery bypass graft patients with decreased platelet function: comparison of fibrinogen concentrate with allogeneic blood products. Patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) are at risk of postoperative bleeding because of decreased platelet function and cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB)-induced haemostatic impairment. Fibrinogen concentration decreases by 34-42% of the preoperative level by the end of CPB. An inverse relationship between perioperative plasma fibrinogen levels and postoperative bleeding has been reported in CABG patients. Administration of fibrinogen concentrate after weaning from CPB in patients with diffuse microvascular bleeding may help promote haemostasis. We compared patient outcomes following fibrinogen concentrate administration or transfusion of allogeneics in CABG patients with decreased platelet function. Thirty-eight patients with decreased preoperative platelet function in Multiplate aggregometry were included. Patients with bleeding after CPB received either fibrinogen concentrate (guided by the measurement of fibrin clot quality using the FIBTEM thromboelastometric test) or allogeneics. Twenty-nine of 38 patients received haemostatic therapy (bleeding + fibrinogen group, n = 10; bleeding + allogeneics group, n = 19). Total transfusion (median (interquartile range)) was significantly lower in the bleeding + fibrinogen group (0 (0, 3.8) units), compared with the bleeding + allogeneics group (6 (5, 8) units, p = 0.0073). Bolus administration of fibrinogen concentrate increased FIBTEM maximum clot firmness from 10.5 (9.3, 11) mm after CPB to 20.5 (20, 21.8) mm at the end of surgery. Postoperative outcomes were similar in both groups. No treatment-related complications were observed after fibrinogen concentrate. In CABG patients with bleeding after CPB, FIBTEM-guided administration of fibrinogen concentrate resulted in overall decreased transfusion, compared with haemostatic therapy with allogeneics. Fibrinogen concentrate administration increased the fibrin clot quality and helped achieve haemostasis."}
{"id": "22225856", "title": "Critical role of factors II and X during coumarin anticoagulation and their combined measurement with a new Fiix-prothrombin time.", "content": "Critical role of factors II and X during coumarin anticoagulation and their combined measurement with a new Fiix-prothrombin time. Vitamin K antagonists (VKA) are monitored with prothrombin time (PT) based assays that are equally sensitive to reductions in factors II, VII or X. We compared the effect of vitamin K dependent (VKD) coagulation factors on PT and also on rotational thromboelastometric (ROTEM) parameters. The PT was equally sensitive to reductions in factors II, VII or X but ROTEM parameters correlated poorly with the PT in anticoagulated patients\u00b4 plasmas. ROTEM parameters were more affected by mild and moderate reductions in FII or FX than by FVII or FIX which had little influence except at very low coagulant activity. We developed a modified PT that was sensitive only to reductions in factors II and X. The Fiix-PT (Fiix-INR) correlated well with PT (INR) but the Fiix-INR fluctuated less than the INR in an anticoagulated patient reflecting its insensitivity to FVII. The ROTEM results suggest that mild to moderate reductions in factors II or X are more important during clot formation than factors VII or IX. Reductions in FII and X may better reflect anticoagulation with VKA than FVII or IX. The new Fiix-PT may more accurately reflect the degree of therapeutic anticoagulation in patients treated with VKA than the current PT which is subject to a confounding variation caused by FVII."}
{"id": "22221936", "title": "Global haemostasis assays, from bench to bedside.", "content": "Global haemostasis assays, from bench to bedside. Bleeding and thrombosis are the ultimate clinical outcomes of aberrations in the haemostatic process. Haemostasis prevents excessive blood loss due to the effort of various compartments like the vasculature, blood cells, coagulation and fibrinolysis. The complexity of all processes involved makes the diagnosis of aberrations difficult, cumbersome and expensive. A single assay to detect any factor disturbing this haemostatic balance with high sensitivity and specificity would be of great value, especially if the outcome of this assay correlates well with clinical outcome. Despite years of research, such an assay is not yet available; however, some interesting candidates are under development and combine the effects of various compartments. This review describes the development of global haemostasis assays and summarizes the current state of the art of these haemostasis assays covering thrombin and plasmin generation, turbidity and thromboelastography/thromboelastometry. Finally, we discuss the applicability of global assays in clinical practice and we provide a future perspective on the ongoing development of automation and miniaturisation as it is our belief that these developments will benefit the standardization of global haemostasis assays."}
{"id": "22221222", "title": "Decision to transfuse comfort zones: move out or get pushed out.", "content": "Decision to transfuse comfort zones: move out or get pushed out."}
{"id": "22211833", "title": "Perioperative dilutional coagulopathy treated with fresh frozen plasma and fibrinogen concentrate: a prospective randomized intervention trial.", "content": "Perioperative dilutional coagulopathy treated with fresh frozen plasma and fibrinogen concentrate: a prospective randomized intervention trial. \u2002 Treatment of dilutional coagulopathy by transfusing fresh frozen plasma (FFP) remains sub-optimal. We hypothesized that partial replacement of transfused FFP by fibrinogen concentrate results in improved coagulant activity and haemostasis. This was tested in a controlled clinical intervention trial with patients experiencing massive bleeding during major surgery. \u2002 Patients undergoing major elective surgery were treated according to current protocols. When transfusion with FFP was required, patients were randomized as follows: group A received 4\u2003units FFP and group B received 2\u2003units FFP plus 2\u2003g fibrinogen concentrate. Blood samples were taken before and after the intervention. Analysts were blinded to the treatment type. \u2002 Group A (B) consisted of 21 (22) patients, in 16 (17) of whom bleeding stopped after intervention. Plasma fibrinogen increased significantly more in group B (0\u00b757\u2003g/l) than in group A (0\u00b705\u2003g/l). However, levels of prothrombin and factors VIII, IX and X increased more in group A than in group B. Rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) of whole blood and plasma revealed improved fibrin clot formation in group B but not in group A. Thrombin generation [calibrated automated thrombogram (CAT)] in plasma increased more in group A. Principal parameters determining whole-blood thromboelastometry were the fibrinogen level and platelet count. In vitro addition of fibrinogen and prothrombin complex concentrate to pre-intervention samples restored both ROTEM and CAT parameters. \u2002 Partial replacement of transfused FFP by fibrinogen increases fibrin clot formation at the expense of less improved thrombin generation. Coagulation factors other than fibrinogen alone are required for full restoration of haemostasis."}
{"id": "22193152", "title": "Coagulation monitoring of the bleeding traumatized patient.", "content": "Coagulation monitoring of the bleeding traumatized patient. Death due to trauma is the leading cause of lost life years worldwide, with haemorrhage being responsible for 30-40% of trauma mortality and accounting for almost 50% of the deaths in the initial 24\u200ah. On admission, 25-35% of trauma patients present with coagulopathy, which is associated with a several-fold increase in morbidity and mortality. Plasma-based routine coagulation tests, like prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time, are inappropriate for monitoring coagulopathy and guide therapy in trauma patients. Instead viscoelastic haemostatic assays (VHAs) such as thrombelastography and rotation thromboelastometry should be used. Clinical studies including about 1500 trauma patients have reported on the benefit of using the VHAs to identify coagulopathy, predict need for massive transfusion and enable goal-directed therapy. This article reviews the basic principles of VHA, the correlation between the VHA whole blood clot formation in accordance with the cell-based model of haemostasis, the current use of VHA-guided therapy in trauma and limitations of VHA."}
{"id": "22185951", "title": "Impact of cell salvage during cardiac surgery on the thrombelastomeric coagulation profile: a pilot study.", "content": "Impact of cell salvage during cardiac surgery on the thrombelastomeric coagulation profile: a pilot study. Intraoperative cell salvage of the cardiopulmonary bypass residual volume can dilute platelets and coagulation factors. This is a report of a randomised control trial of 20 patients undergoing coronary bypass surgery. Residual cardiopulmonary bypass volume was processed and transfused after surgery in the cell salvage group and the residual volume was transfused unprocessed in the control group. The coagulation profile was measured using the Rotem(\u00ae) thrombelastometry system. Mean (SD) maximum clot firmness after surgery was 52.8 (5.4) mm in the cell salvage group compared to 57.2 (5.0) mm in the control group (p=0.04). Clot formation time was prolonged after surgery by 39 (27) s in the cell saver group compared to 19 (17) s in the control group (p=0.045). Platelet count was reduced after surgery by 96 (32) x 10(9).L(-1) in the cell saver group and 70 (19) x 10(9).L(-1) in the control group (p=0.03). Blood volume in the chest drains 4 hours after surgery was similar in both groups. There was a strong association between clot formation time after surgery and blood loss (R = 0.68, p=0.001). The increase in blood loss was 4.1 ml for every one-second increase in clot formation time (95% CI 1.9 - 6.4, p=0.001). Cell salvage of the residual cardiopulmonary bypass volume reduced platelet numbers and prolonged clot formation time and maximum clot firmness was less in this group."}
{"id": "22176523", "title": "Whole blood rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM(\u00ae)) in nine severe factor V deficient patients and evaluation of the role of intraplatelets factor V.", "content": "Whole blood rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM(\u00ae)) in nine severe factor V deficient patients and evaluation of the role of intraplatelets factor V. Severe factor V (FV) deficiency (parahaemophilia) is a rare congenital hemorrhagic disorder characterized by very low or undetectable plasma FV levels and bleeding phenotype ranging from mild to severe. We evaluated whole blood (WB) rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM) in parahaemophilia patients and the contribution of intraplatelets FV, if any, to clot formation. Standard ROTEM(\u00ae) assays were performed in WB from nine parahaemophilia patients and 50 healthy controls. In addition, platelets poor plasma from one parahaemophilia patient (PPP-Pt) or normal subjects (PPP-N) was reconstituted with washed platelets obtained either from one patient with parahaemophilia (Plts-Pt) or normal subjects (Plts-N) and ROTEM assays were performed in platelets rich plasma (PRP) samples. There was a prolongation of the WB clotting time (CT) in all assays in patients as compared with controls. However, maximum clot firmness (MCF) was similar in patients and controls. ROTEM in PPP-Pt showed both a prolongation of CT and a reduction of MCF as compared with PPP-N. The addition of either Plts-Pt or Plts-N to PPP-Pt resulted in similar increase in MCF and a decrease of CT which was more evident for PPP-Pt + Plts-N than PPP-Pt + Plts-Pt. In contrast, the addition of Plts-Pt or Plts-N to PPP-N had superimposable effects on both CT and MCF. In parahaemophilia patients, WB ROTEM(\u00ae) presents mainly with prolongation of CT and no relevant effect on MCF. Residual intraplatelets FV in parahaemophilia contributes significantly to thrombin generation as shown in artificially reconstituted PRP models."}
{"id": "22174347", "title": "Pulmonary thromboembolism during adult liver transplantation: incidence, clinical presentation, outcome, risk factors, and diagnostic predictors.", "content": "Pulmonary thromboembolism during adult liver transplantation: incidence, clinical presentation, outcome, risk factors, and diagnostic predictors. Intraoperative pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE) is an often overlooked cause of mortality during adult liver transplantation (LT) with diagnostic challenge. The goals of this study were to investigate the incidence, clinical presentation, and outcome of PTE and to identify risk factors or diagnostic predictors for PTE. Four hundred and ninety-five consecutive, isolated, deceased donor LTs performed in an institution for a 3 yr period (2004-6) were analysed. The standard technique was a piggyback method with veno-venous bypass without prophylactic anti-fibrinolytics. The clinical diagnosis of PTE was made with (i) acute cor pulmonale, and (ii) identification of blood clots in the pulmonary artery or observation of acute right heart pressure overload with or without intracardiac clots with transoesophageal echocardiography. The incidence of PTE was 4.0% (20 cases); cardiac arrest preceded the diagnosis of PTE [75% (15)] and PTE occurred during the neo-hepatic phase [85% (17)], especially within 30 min after graft reperfusion [70% (14)]. Operative and 60 day mortalities of patients with PTE were higher (P<0.001) than those without PTE (30% vs 0.8% and 45% vs 6.5%). Comparison of perioperative data between the PTE group (n=20) and the non-PTE group (n=475) revealed cardiac arrest and flat-line thromboelastography in three channels (natural, amicar, and protamine) at 5 min after graft reperfusion as the most significant risk factors or diagnostic predictors for PTE with an odds ratio of 154.32 [95% confidence interval (CI): 44.82-531.4] and 49.44 (CI: 15.6-156.57), respectively. These findings confirmed clinical significance of PTE during adult LT and suggested the possibility of predicting this devastating complication."}
{"id": "22153690", "title": "Evaluation of haemoglobin, haematocrit, haemolysis, residual protein content and leucocytes in 345 red blood cell concentrates used for the treatment of patients with \u03b2-thalassaemia.", "content": "Evaluation of haemoglobin, haematocrit, haemolysis, residual protein content and leucocytes in 345 red blood cell concentrates used for the treatment of patients with \u03b2-thalassaemia. The aim of this study was to evaluate the quality of red blood cell concentrates obtained from donated whole blood, selected for transfusion therapy of thalassaemic patients, by measuring the following parameters: haemoglobin, haematocrit, percentage haemolysis, residual leucocyte count and residual protein content. Overall 345 red cell concentrates were evaluated, of which 205 had been filtered in-line pre-storage and washed and 140 were buffy coat-depleted and used within 2 days of collection. Of the buffy coat-depleted concentrates, 62 were leucodepleted and 78 washed and leucodepleted post-storage all within 2 days of collection. The off-line filters used for the leucodepletion were gamma-irradiated polyester with a pore size of 200 \u03bcm. The washing procedure was automated (Haemonetics ACP 215, Braintree, MA, USA). The haematological parameters were evaluated by a blood cell counter (Coulter, Ramsey, IL, USA) and the white blood cell count by cytofluorimetry (FACScan). Ninety-five percent (194/205) of the red cell concentrates that had been filtered pre-storage and washed, 92% (57/62) of the red cell concentrates that had been leucodepleted post-storage and 94% (73/78) of the those subjected to both treatments had normal values of haemoglobin (>40 g/unit), haematocrit (between 50-70%), percentage haemolysis (<0.8/unit), white cell count (<1\u00d710(6)) and residual protein content (<0.5 g/L). Five percent (11/205) of the red cell concentrates that had been filtered pre-storage and washed, 8% (5/62) of those leucodepleted post-storage after 2 days and 6% (5/78) of those that underwent both procedures had a haemoglobin content <40 g/unit and a haematocrit <50%. The preparation procedures had been carried out satisfactorily; nevertheless, transfusion therapy with some \"low dose\" normal units could be less effective and might, therefore, result in greater transfusion requirements in patients receiving such units."}
{"id": "22113102", "title": "Fibrinogen function after severe burn injury.", "content": "Fibrinogen function after severe burn injury. Evidence regarding hypercoagulability in the first week after burn trauma is growing. This hypercoagulable state may partly be caused by increased fibrinogen levels. Rotational thrombelastometry offers a test which measures functional fibrinogen (FIBTEM(\u00ae)). To test the hypothesis that in patients with severe burn injury fibrinogen function changes over time, we simultaneously measured FIBTEM(\u00ae) and fibrinogen concentration early after burn trauma. After Ethics Committee approval consecutive patients with severe burn trauma admitted to the burn intensive care unit of the General Hospital of Vienna were included in the study. Blood examinations were done immediately and 12, 24 and 48 h after admission. At each time point fibrinogen level (Clauss) and 4 commercially available ROTEM(\u00ae) tests were performed. 20 consecutive patients were included in the study. Fibrinogen level and FIBTEM(\u00ae) MCF were within the reference range until 24 h after burn trauma but increased significantly 48 h after trauma. There was a significant correlation between FIBTEM(\u00ae) MCF and fibrinogen level (R=0.714, p<0.001). The results of this prospective observational clinical study show that fibrinogen function changes early after burn trauma and can be visualized by ROTEM(\u00ae) with the fibrinogen-sensitive FIBTEM(\u00ae) test."}
{"id": "22104068", "title": "Factor XIII and tranexamic acid but not recombinant factor VIIa attenuate tissue plasminogen activator-induced hyperfibrinolysis in human whole blood.", "content": "Factor XIII and tranexamic acid but not recombinant factor VIIa attenuate tissue plasminogen activator-induced hyperfibrinolysis in human whole blood. Hyperfibrinolysis is a pathological state that often results in depletion of coagulation factors and platelets and can contribute to bleeding. Factor XIII (FXIII) and thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor have key roles in protecting clots against fibrinolysis. We tested the hypotheses that FXIII concentrate, prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC), recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa), and tranexamic acid (TA) inhibit fibrinolysis to different degrees, and that platelets contribute to antifibrinolysis. Hyperfibrinolysis was induced by addition of recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (r-tPA) (final concentration: 100 ng \u00b7 mL(-1)) to citrated whole blood obtained from 13 healthy volunteers. To assess inhibition of fibrinolysis, we added to the assays FXIII-A(2)B(2) (0.42 U \u00b7 mL(-1)), PCC (0.42 U \u00b7 mL(-1)), rFVIIa (final concentration: 1.6 \u03bcg \u00b7 mL(-1)), TA (final concentration: 0.33 mg \u00b7 mL(-1)), or saline. Coagulation was analyzed by rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae) using the clot lysis index (CLI) after 45 and 60 minutes in extrinsically activated assays, with (FIBTEM\u00ae) and without (EXTEM\u00ae) inhibition of platelet function by cytochalasin D. After r-tPA-evoked fibrinolysis (CLI45: median 78%; 72/85.5, 25th/75th percentile), FXIII (90%; 82.5/96, P = 0.025), PCC (89%; 74/91, P = 0.0465), and TA (94%; 92/96, P = 0.001) but not rFVIIa (79%; 72/86.5, P = 1.0) significantly attenuated the decrease in CLI. Similarly, CLI60 increased only with FXIII (66%; 33/90.5, P = 0.017) and TA (90%; 89/92, P = 0.001) compared with r-tPA alone (21%; 7/59). After abolition of platelet function by cytochalasin D, only TA (95%; 89/97.5, P = 0.0025) and PCC (84%; 70.5/90, P = 0.0305) but not FXIII or rFVIIa significantly increased CLI45 and CLI60 (TA: 89%; 84.5/96, P = 0.01 and PCC: 55%; 29.5/60, P = 0.0405) compared with r-tPA alone (CLI45: 59%; 40.5/72.5 and CLI60: 10%; 0/30). In thromboelastometric assays using whole blood, only TA, FXIII, and PCC significantly inhibited r-tPA-evoked hyperfibrinolysis whereas rFVIIa had no effect. We also found that the effects of exogenous FXIII were dependent on the presence of functional platelets."}
{"id": "22102528", "title": "Standardized methods to quantify thrombogenicity of blood-contacting materials via thromboelastography.", "content": "Standardized methods to quantify thrombogenicity of blood-contacting materials via thromboelastography. Blood coagulation is the most significant complication of vascular biomaterials. A straightforward, sensitive, and standard measure of the compatibility of these materials with whole blood (hemocompatibility) is necessary to avoid coagulation. Current techniques used quantify only individual clotting components and are poor predictors of coagulation. The thromboelastograph (TEG) provides a measure of overall clot formation from whole blood. Although TEG is very common in clinical settings, its application to biomaterials is limited partly due to difficulty in sample preparation. In this protocol, whole blood samples are incubated with (1) biomaterials (tube with clamped ends) and (2) endothelial cells cultured on biomaterial surfaces (12-well plate) under controlled shearing conditions (10 rpm on rocker, at 37\u00b0C), and then the blood is transferred to the TEG to measure clot formation. TEG clearly discriminates among the R-times (time until initial clot formation) of expanded poly(tetrafluoroethylene), poly(urethane), and Tygon tubing. Marked differences in R-time are also seen when endothelial cells are cultured on various extracellular matrix proteins and proteoglycans. Thus, R-time provides a robust metric of overall thrombogenicity of biomaterials, and these procedures provide a standardized method for TEG to facilitate direct comparison among candidate biomaterials undergoing in-vitro testing."}
{"id": "22098495", "title": "Biological determinants of bleeding in patients with heterozygous factor XI deficiency.", "content": "Biological determinants of bleeding in patients with heterozygous factor XI deficiency. Bleeding risk is not predictable in patients with factor XI (FXI; F11) deficiency. In this prospective study, our objectives were to determine the biological determinants for bleeding risk in patients with heterozygous FXI deficiency. Patients were classified as either bleeding patients or non-bleeding patients by calculating the bleeding score (BS) described for von Willebrand disease. Primary haemostasis, thrombin generation, thromboelastometry, procoagulant proteins, inhibitors, fibrinolysis, and F11 gene mutations were compared between bleeding and non-bleeding patients. Thirty-nine patients were included. BS significantly correlated with clinical assessment (P=0\u00b7001), and a score over 3 discriminated between bleeding (n=15) and non-bleeding (n=24) patients (P=0\u00b7034). Despite normal values, von Willebrand factor (VWF) and thrombomodulin (TM) plasma levels were significantly lower in bleeding patients than non-bleeding patients [ristocetin cofactor activity (VWF:RCo)=80\u00b76\u00b129\u00b77\u2003iu/dl and 101\u00b78\u00b129\u00b75iu/dl respectively, P=0\u00b7043; and VWF antigen (VWF:Ag)=84\u00b70\u00b128\u00b70\u2003iu/dl and 106\u00b73\u00b136\u00b71\u2003iu/dl respectively, P=0\u00b7035; and TM=17\u00b77\u00b111\u00b77ng/ml and 23\u00b76\u00b19\u00b77ng/ml respectively, P=0\u00b7043]. When considering BS as a continuous variable, only VWF:RCo remained significant (P=0\u00b7042), which accounted for 11% of the variability in BS."}
{"id": "22098131", "title": "Evaluation of hemostatic balance in blood from patients with polycythemia vera by means of thromboelastography: the effect of isovolemic erythrocytapheresis.", "content": "Evaluation of hemostatic balance in blood from patients with polycythemia vera by means of thromboelastography: the effect of isovolemic erythrocytapheresis. Polycythemia vera (PV) is associated with an increased frequency of thrombotic complications. This study was undertaken to evaluate the hemostatic balance in the blood of PV patients by means of thromboelastography (TEG). The effect of isovolemic erythrocytapheresis (ECP) on the hemostasis of PV patients was also studied. We assessed the coagulation status of 76 PV patients undergoing ECP and 50 of healthy controls. TEG measurements were performed immediately before and after the ECP procedure. Coagulation was triggered by recalcification in freshly collected citrated blood. We recorded clotting time (R), alpha angle, and maximum amplitude (MA) of the clot. The results presented here show that, compared with healthy controls, PV patients demonstrated an increase in alpha angle (p<0.005) and in MA (p=0.14). In the subgroup of PV patients with high (>440 \u00d7 10(9)l(-1)) platelet (PLT) count, differences in MA (p<0.01) and alpha angle (p<0.001) were more significant. Following ECP procedure, a significant (p \u2264 0.01) reduction of R time, a rise of alpha angle, and MA were observed, indicating augmentation of a hypercoagulable state. In PV patients, the rise in alpha angle positively correlated (r=0.549) with platelet count but not with the number of erythrocytes and leukocytes. Following ECP, this correlation was reduced (r=0.382). Dilution (with saline) of blood from PV patients and of healthy controls, to a degree similar to that used during the ECP procedure, resulted in reduction of R and rise of the alpha angle. In conclusion, TEG measurements show that the majority of PV patients demonstrate abnormal hemostasis in which a major role is played by platelets rather than plasma factors. The hypercoagulable state in PV patients is significantly augmented following the ECP and may be related to the hemodilution intrinsically included in this procedure. TEG may help to assess the thrombotic risk in individual PV patients."}
{"id": "22086509", "title": "Comparison of thromboelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae) with standard plasmatic coagulation testing in paediatric surgery.", "content": "Comparison of thromboelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae) with standard plasmatic coagulation testing in paediatric surgery. Thromboelastometry (ROTEM(\u00ae)) might be useful to detect intraoperative coagulation disorders early in major paediatric surgery. This observational trial compares this technique to standard coagulation tests. Intraoperative blood sampling was obtained in children undergoing elective major surgery. At each time point, standard coagulation tests [activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), prothrombin time (PT), and fibrinogen level] and ROTEM(\u00ae) analyses (InTEM, ExTEM, and FibTEM) were performed simultaneously by trained hospital laboratory staff. A total of 288 blood samples from 50 subjects were analysed. While there was a poor correlation between PT and aPTT to ExTEM clotting time (CT) and InTEM CT, respectively, a good correlation was detected between PT and aPTT to clot formation time, and a very good correlation between fibrinogen level and FibTEM assay (r=0.882, P<0.001). Notably, 64% of PT and 94% of aPTT measurements were outside the reference range, while impaired CT was observed in 13% and 6.3%, respectively. Standard coagulation test results were available after a median of 53 min [inter-quartile range (IQR): 45-63 min], whereas 10 min values of ROTEM(\u00ae) results were available online after 23 min (IQR: 21-24 min). PT and aPTT cannot be interchangeably used with ROTEM(\u00ae) CT. Based on the results of ROTEM(\u00ae), recommended thresholds for PT and aPTT might overestimate the need for coagulation therapy. A good correlation was found between the fibrinogen level and the FibTEM assay. In addition, ROTEM(\u00ae) offered faster turnaround times."}
{"id": "22079443", "title": "Thrombin generation in clinical conditions.", "content": "Thrombin generation in clinical conditions. Commercial assays for determining thrombin generation in plasma are being tested in clinical conditions associated with thrombosis or bleeding. While pre-analytical conditions remain a source of inter laboratory variation, demanding for further standardization, clinical research proceeds. In patients at risk of venous thrombosis thrombin generation (TG) analysis may be utilized to detect underlying thrombophilia and this has been achieved both with addition of thrombomodulin or activated protein C, to test the contribution of the protein C system. In patients with documented venous thromboembolism, increased TG values are seen in those patients at greatest risk for recurrence, although the data are not consistent yet. In patients with arterial vascular disease, effects on TG patterns are seen that both reflect atherosclerosis (and its risk factors) and link to risk of recurrent atherothrombosis (coronary or stroke), but the data are limited. In patients with a bleeding diathesis, like hemophilia, the main importance of TG assays lies in the application for monitoring replacement therapy, either with factor concentrate or rFVIIa. An interesting application is in conjunction with thromboelastography, for monitoring peri-operative transfusion policy. Finally, TG analysis may contribute to monitoring anticoagulant drug treatment, but these and other applications would greatly benefit from whole blood, point of care applications of TG testing."}
{"id": "22044540", "title": "Long-circulating non-toxic blood pool imaging agent based on hyperbranched polyglycerols.", "content": "Long-circulating non-toxic blood pool imaging agent based on hyperbranched polyglycerols. Currently, in vivo or in vitro(99m)Tc-radiolabelled red blood cells are the standard blood pool imaging agents. Due to risks associated with handling of blood and the problems with the current (99m)Tc shortage, we were interested in a long-circulating biocompatible synthetic macromolecule that would be simple to prepare and could also be used for PET imaging. A high molecular weight hyperbranched polyglycerol (HPG) of 500 kDa was derivatized to coordinate radioactive gallium and to establish its labelling efficiency, stability and pharmacokinetics. The resulting radiopharmaceutical in kit form was labelled rapidly within a couple of minutes at room temperature, was stable in transferrin and EDTA challenge tests, and was non-toxic in both cell viability and different hemocompatibility assays. A pharmacokinetic biodistribution study showed that the (67)Ga-HPGN was confined to the blood compartment with a biological half life of 50.7h. (67)Ga-HPGN is thus a simple to prepare blood pool imaging agent for applications where a long biological half-life is essential, i.e., the diagnosis of internal bleeding. Since radiolabelling of the same kit with (68)Ga was also confirmed, we plan to evaluate it shortly as a PET blood pool imaging agent for cardiac applications."}
{"id": "22014086", "title": "Comparative in vitro evaluation of apheresis platelets stored with 100% plasma or 65% platelet additive solution III/35% plasma and including periods without agitation under simulated shipping conditions.", "content": "Comparative in vitro evaluation of apheresis platelets stored with 100% plasma or 65% platelet additive solution III/35% plasma and including periods without agitation under simulated shipping conditions. A comparative study evaluated the retention of apheresis platelet (A-PLT) in vitro properties prepared with PLT additive solution (PAS)-III or 100% plasma and stored with continuous agitation (CA) and without continuous agitation (WCA). PLTs collected with the Amicus cell separator (Fenwal, Inc.) were utilized to prepare two matched components, each with approximately 4 \u00d7 10(11) PLTs. In the primary study, one component contained 65% PAS-III/35% plasma and the other 100% plasma. Four storage scenarios were used, one with CA and three with periods without agitation under simulated shipping conditions. In vitro assays were used early and after 5 days of storage. pH levels after 5 days with CA were less with PAS-III components than 100% plasma components, with levels always above 6.6 in any component. With CA, a number of other variables were reduced even early during storage with PAS-III including morphology, extent of shape change, hypotonic stress response, adhesion, and aggregation. Storage WCA resulted in only a limited increase in the magnitude of the assay differences between PAS-III and 100% plasma components. Periods WCA did not reduce the pH below 6.6. The thromboelastograph variable associated with the strengthening of clots by PLTs was essentially comparable with PAS-III and plasma components throughout storage with CA or WCA. The data indicate that a 100% plasma medium provides for better retention of specific in vitro PLT properties, with CA and WCA, although the clinical significance of these in vitro decrements due to PAS-III is unknown."}
{"id": "22011771", "title": "Hypercoagulability in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting: prevalence, patient characteristics and postoperative outcome.", "content": "Hypercoagulability in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting: prevalence, patient characteristics and postoperative outcome. To investigate the prevalence of preoperative hypercoagulability assessed by thromboelastography (TEG), to identify patient characteristics associated with hypercoagulability and to explore whether hypercoagulability is associated with a greater risk for myocardial infarction (MI), stroke and mortality 30 days after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) surgery. This is a prospective, observational study of 200 consecutive CABG surgery patients. Hypercoagulability was defined as TEG maximum amplitude >69 mm. Eighty-seven out of 200 (43.5%) CABG patients were TEG-hypercoagulable. In univariate regression analysis, age, female gender, hypertension, severe chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, platelet count and fibrinogen level were significantly associated with TEG-hypercoagulability. Multivariate regression analysis revealed higher age, platelet count and fibrinogen levels as variables independently associated with TEG-hypercoagulability. Thirty-day outcome data: MI (TEG-hypercoagulable 6.9% vs. TEG-normocoagulable 3.7%, NS), stroke (8.0 vs. 2.8%, NS) and mortality (4.6 vs. 0.9%, NS). There was a significant difference in 30-day combined event rate of MI, stroke and mortality (17.2 vs. 6.6%, P = 0.019). In univariate analysis, only female gender and TEG-hypercoagulability were significantly associated with 30-day combined event rate. In multivariate analysis, only female gender was significantly associated with 30-day outcome (P = 0.014), whereas TEG-hypercoagulability demonstrated a trend (P = 0.065). Hypercoagulability identified by TEG was preoperatively found in 43.5% of CABG patients, and the findings of this study support the notion that TEG-hypercoagulable patients have a higher risk for a combination of thromboembolic complications and death after surgery."}
{"id": "21955829", "title": "Fibrinogen concentrate therapy guided by thromboelastometry as an alternative to fresh frozen plasma in major vascular surgery.", "content": "Fibrinogen concentrate therapy guided by thromboelastometry as an alternative to fresh frozen plasma in major vascular surgery."}
{"id": "21933302", "title": "Perioperative course of FXIII in children undergoing major surgery.", "content": "Perioperative course of FXIII in children undergoing major surgery. \u2002 Acquired deficiency of FXIII because of perioperative hemodilution has been described several times in adults; however, data in children are scarce. We performed a prospective observational trial to evaluate the intraoperative course of FXIII in children undergoing elective major surgery. \u2002 Blood samples were repeatedly taken from 46 children aged 0.3-16\u2003years undergoing major surgery. Concentrations of FXIII and fibrinogen, thrombelastometry by ROTEM\u00ae, and cell count were assessed intraoperatively. \u2002 A significant decrease in FXIII concentration (median 60%; IQR 49-69%) was already noted at beginning of surgical procedures, while most ROTEM\u00ae traces remain unchanged. FXIII levels further deteriorated intraoperatively to minimal levels of 33% (15-61%). Lowest intraoperative clot strength (ExTEM) was 44\u2003mm (34-50\u2003mm), and fibrinogen plasma levels decreased to minimal levels of 130\u2003mg\u00b7dl(-1) (95-160\u2003mg\u00b7dl(-1) ). In 43 of 46 children, transfusion therapy was necessary. Despite of transfusion of fresh frozen plasma (cumulative total dose 22\u2003ml\u00b7kg(-1) [11-32\u2003ml\u00b7kg(-1) ]) in 21 of 46 children, FXIII level remains low in all children till the end of surgery at levels of 39% (20-46%). \u2002 Coagulation factor XIII decreased early during major surgery owing to hemodilution. Overall intraoperative FXIII levels remain low despite of transfusion of fresh frozen plasma."}
{"id": "21924639", "title": "Cardiac surgery without blood products in a Jehovah's Witness child with factor VII deficiency.", "content": "Cardiac surgery without blood products in a Jehovah's Witness child with factor VII deficiency."}
{"id": "21924638", "title": "Change in hemostatic intervention after implementation of thromboelastometry.", "content": "Change in hemostatic intervention after implementation of thromboelastometry. To monitor the use of blood products and hemostatic intervention after implementation of thromboelastometry. Observational prospective study using a historic control. Single-center university hospital. Patients undergoing cardiac surgery during 2008 (n = 811) were compared with similar patients in 2009 (n = 865). Thromboelastometry was implemented in December 2008. Changes in transfusion of blood products and changes in use of recombinant factor VIIa and fibrinogen were studied. Use of blood products was not decreased significantly after implementation of thromboelastometry. However, in patients receiving blood products, the units of red blood cells were decreased significantly (p = 0.04). Regarding hemostatic reagents, the use of recombinant factor VIIa was decreased significantly (p = 0.04), and the use of fibrinogen increased significantly (p < 0.001). Most blood products (>70%) were given to a minority of patients (\u223c10%) in 2008 and 2009. In 2009, thromboelastometry was performed in 146 patients (17%), and the use of blood products (p < 0.0001), recombinant factor VIIa (p < 0.001), and fibrinogen (p < 0.001) was significantly higher compared with patients in whom thromboelastometry was not performed. After implementation of thromboelastometry, the use of recombinant factor VIIa was decreased significantly, whereas the use of blood products was not decreased significantly in patients undergoing cardiac surgery."}
{"id": "21913899", "title": "Antiplatelet and antithrombotic effect of F 16618, a new thrombin proteinase-activated receptor-1 (PAR1) antagonist.", "content": "Antiplatelet and antithrombotic effect of F 16618, a new thrombin proteinase-activated receptor-1 (PAR1) antagonist. New antithrombotic agents with the potential to prevent atherothrombotic complications are being developed to target receptors on platelets and other cells involved in plaque growth. The aim of this study was to investigate the antiplatelet effects of F 16618, a new non-peptidic PAR1 (thrombin receptor) antagonist. We investigated the inhibitory effect of F 16618 on human platelet aggregation ex vivo, in whole blood and washed platelets, by using a multiple-electrode platelet aggregometer based on impedance and an optical aggregometer, respectively. Its effects on whole-blood haemostasis (clot parameters) were analysed with the ROTEM thromboelastometry device and the platelet function analyser PFA-100. A guinea-pig model of arterial thrombosis was used to investigate its effects on thrombus formation in vivo. F 16618 inhibited PAR1 agonist peptide (SFLLR-peptide)-induced washed platelet aggregation ex vivo. This effect was concentration-dependent and exhibited a competitive inhibition profile. Washed platelet aggregation, as well as P-selectin expression induced by thrombin, were significantly inhibited by 10 \u00b5M F 16618. In whole-blood experiments, 20 \u00b5M F 16618 inhibited SFLLR-induced platelet aggregation by 49%. In contrast, it had no effect on whole-blood haemostasis. In the guinea-pig model of carotid thrombosis, 0.32 mg\u00b7kg(-1) F 16618 doubled the occlusion time. F 16618 was shown to have strong antithrombotic activity in vivo and moderate antiplatelet effects ex vivo. As these effects were not associated with major effects on physiological haemostasis, this molecule is a good antiplatelet drug candidate for use either alone or in combination with current treatments."}
{"id": "21899867", "title": "Viscoelastic clot strength predicts coagulation-related mortality within 15 minutes.", "content": "Viscoelastic clot strength predicts coagulation-related mortality within 15 minutes. Predicting refractory coagulopathy early in resuscitation of injured patients may decrease a leading cause of preventable death. We hypothesized that clot strength (G) measured by point-of-care rapid thrombelastography (r-TEG) on arrival in the emergency department can predict massive transfusion (MT) and coagulation-related mortality (MT-death). Trauma alerts/activations from May 2008 to September 2010 were reviewed. The variables included the following: age, sex, injury severity score (ISS), systolic blood pressure (SBP), base deficit (BD), traditional coagulation tests (international normalized ratio ([INR], partial thromboplastin time [PTT]), TEG-derived G, and blood products transfused within the first 6 hours. Independent predictors of 2 outcomes (MT [\u226510 packed red blood cells units/6 h] and MT-related death) were identified using logistic regression. The individual predictive values of BD, INR, PTT, and G were assessed comparing the areas under the receiver operating characteristic curves (AUC ROC), while adjusting for age, ISS, and SBP. Among the 80 study patients, 48% required MT, and 21% died of MT-related complications. INR, ISS, and G were independent predictors of MT, whereas age, ISS, SBP, and G were independently associated with MT-death. The predictive power for outcome MT did not differ among INR (adjusted AUC ROC = 0.92), PTT (AUC ROC = 0.90, P = .41), or G (AUC ROC = 0.89, P = .39). For outcome MT-death, G had the greatest adjusted AUC ROC (0.93) compared with the AUC ROC for BD (0.87, P = .05), INR (0.88, P = .11), and PTT (0.89; P = .19). These data suggest that the point-of-care TEG parameter clot strength (G) provides consistent, independent prediction of MT and MT-death early in the resuscitation of injured patients."}
{"id": "21873363", "title": "Characterization of in vitro hemostatic peptide effects by thromboelastography.", "content": "Characterization of in vitro hemostatic peptide effects by thromboelastography. In this study, we validated a thromboelastography (TEG) method to evaluate the hemostatic effects of 3 peptides. The first peptide is an ideal amphipathic peptide composed of 22 leucine and lysine in a ratio of 2:1. At a very low concentration, the peptide had a procoagulant effect shown by decreases in reaction time (R) and coagulation time (K) but was impaired by a decrease in maximum amplitude (MA). At higher concentrations, the peptide had an anticoagulant effect. The \u03b1 angle was minimally affected by the peptide. The second peptide is melittin derived from bee venom. Melittin showed procoagulant effects reflected by a decrease in clotting time but led to lower MA. The third peptide derived from fibrinogen \u03b3 chain promoted hemostasis only at an optimal concentration and became anticoagulant at a higher concentration. The hemostatic mechanisms of each peptide were discussed. Our study would facilitate further development of peptides for either hemorrhage control or thrombosis treatment."}
{"id": "21872428", "title": "Principles and practice of thromboelastography in clinical coagulation management and transfusion practice.", "content": "Principles and practice of thromboelastography in clinical coagulation management and transfusion practice. In the recent years, thromboelastography has become a popular monitoring device for hemostasis and transfusion management in major surgery, trauma, and hemophilia. Thromboelastography is performed in whole blood and assesses the viscoelastic property of clot formation under low shear condition. Thromboelastography can be performed with a variety of activator and inhibitors at different concentrations representing the most important factors for different intervals and clot formation variables reported in multiple studies and algorithms. Furthermore, fibrinogen levels and platelet counts have a major influence on thromboelastographic variables. In addition, differences in patient populations, devices, and preanalytical conditions contribute to some conflicting findings in different studies."}
{"id": "21872302", "title": "The procoagulant properties of purified fibrinogen concentrate are enhanced by carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2.", "content": "The procoagulant properties of purified fibrinogen concentrate are enhanced by carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2. Fibrinogen concentrate has been demonstrated to enhance coagulation in vitro and in several clinical settings of coagulopathy. We have recently demonstrated that carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 (tricarbonyldichlororuthenium (II) dimer; CORM-2) enhances fibrinogen as a substrate for thrombin via an attached heme. The objective of this study was to determine if CORM-2 modified fibrinogen concentrate would enhance coagulation more effectively than CORM-2 na\u00efve fibrinogen concentrate. In the first series of experiments, fibrinogen concentrate (final concentration 300mg/dl) was exposed to 0, 50 or 100\u03bcM CORM-2 for 5min at 37\u00b0C prior to being added to citrated, fibrinogen depleted plasma. In another series of experiments, citrated plasma obtained from 12 normal subjects was 50% diluted with crystalloid to which was added fibrinogen concentrate (final concentration 300mg/dl) exposed to 0 or 100\u03bcM CORM-2. Coagulation was activated with tissue factor (n=8 per condition). Thrombus growth was monitored with thrombelastography for 15min. CORM-2 modification of fibrinogen concentrate significantly enhanced the velocity of clot formation (30-50%) and strength (15-31%) in fibrinogen deficient plasma. Similarly, while diluted plasma-derived thrombi demonstrated a marked decrease in velocity of formation (54%) and strength (61%), fibrinogen concentrate significantly enhanced velocity (217%) and strength (171%); however, CORM-2 modified fibrinogen concentrate significantly increased velocity (303%) and strength (205%) to a greater extent. Additional in vitro investigation and in vivo preclinical assessments of the hemostatic efficacy of CORM-2 modified fibrinogen concentrate are warranted."}
{"id": "21790635", "title": "Initial experiences with point-of-care rapid thrombelastography for management of life-threatening postinjury coagulopathy.", "content": "Initial experiences with point-of-care rapid thrombelastography for management of life-threatening postinjury coagulopathy. Massive transfusion (MTP) protocol design is hindered by lack of accurate assessment of coagulation. Rapid thrombelastography (r-TEG) provides point-of-care (POC) analysis of clot formation. We designed a prospective study to test the hypothesis that integrating TEG into our MTP would facilitate goal-directed therapy and provide equivalent outcomes compared to conventional coagulation testing. Thiry-four patients who received more than 6 units of red blood cells (RBCs)/6 hours who were admitted to our Level 1 trauma center after r-TEG implementation (TEG) were compared to 34 patients admitted prior to TEG implementation (Pre-TEG). Data are presented as mean\u00b1SEM. Emergency department pre-TEG versus TEG shock, and coagulation indices, were not different: systolic blood pressure (94 mmHg vs. 101 mmHg), temperature (35.3\u00b0C vs. 35.9\u00b0C), pH (7.16 vs. 7.11), base deficit (-13.0 vs. -14.7), lactate (6.5 vs. 8.1), international normalized ratio (INR; 1.59 vs. 1.83), and partial thromboplastin time (48.3 vs. 57.9). Although not significant, patients with Injury Severity Score range 26 to 35 were more frequent in the pre-TEG group. Fresh-frozen plasma (FFP):RBCs, platelets:RBCs, and cryoprecipitate (cryo):RBC ratios were not significantly different at 6 or 12 hours. INR at 6 hours did not discriminate between survivors and nonsurvivors (p=0.10), whereas r-TEG \"G\" value was significantly associated with survival (p=0.03), as was the maximum rate of thrombin generation (MRTG; mm/min) and total thrombin generation (TG; area under the curve) (p=0.03 for both). Patients with MRTG of more than 9.2 received significantly less components of RBCs, FFP, and cryo (p=0.048, p=0.03, and p=0.04, respectively). Goal-directed resuscitation via r-TEG appears useful for management of trauma-induced coagulopathy. Further experience with POC monitoring could result in more efficient management leading to a reduction of transfusion requirements."}
{"id": "21756263", "title": "A comparative evaluation of rotation thromboelastometry and standard coagulation tests in hemodilution-induced coagulation changes after cardiac surgery.", "content": "A comparative evaluation of rotation thromboelastometry and standard coagulation tests in hemodilution-induced coagulation changes after cardiac surgery. Coagulopathy after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) is caused by multiple perturbations in cellular and humoral elements of coagulation. A timely and comprehensive method to evaluate hemostasis would be helpful in the management of bleeding patients after CPB. The assessment of whole blood coagulation using rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM) was compared to coagulation tests routinely performed during cardiac surgery. Blood was obtained from 26 patients undergoing CPB surgery at baseline, at 60 minutes on CPB, at the end of CPB, and on admission to intensive care unit. ROTEM tests (extrinsically activated [EXTEM], intrinsically activated [INTEM], specific clot formation [FIBTEM]), prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, platelet (PLT) count, fibrinogen, prothrombin level, antithrombin level, and thrombin generation (TG) measurement were performed. We observed strong correlations between FIBTEM-amplitude at 10 minutes (A10) and fibrinogen level (r=0.87; p<0.001) and between EXTEM/ INTEM-A10 variables and PLT count (r=0.72 and 0.67, respectively; p<0.001). Receiver operating characteristic analysis demonstrated that EXTEM-A10 and INTEM-A10 are predictive of thrombocytopenia below 80\u00d710(9)/L (area under the curve [AUC], 0.83 and 0.82, respectively), and FIBTEM-A10 was highly predictive of fibrinogen level below 200 mg/dL (AUC, 0.96). There were only weak correlations found between TG peak and clot formation time of EXTEM or INTEM (r=0.30 and 0.29, respectively; p<0.05). ROTEM variables demonstrated clinically relevant correlations with PLT counts and fibrinogen levels. In particular, decreasing levels of fibrinogen can be quickly determined (<15-20 min) using FIBTEM."}
{"id": "21745216", "title": "Vitamin K-dependent coagulation factor deficiency in trauma: a comparative analysis between international normalized ratio and thromboelastography.", "content": "Vitamin K-dependent coagulation factor deficiency in trauma: a comparative analysis between international normalized ratio and thromboelastography. The use of international normalized ratio (INR) to diagnose vitamin K-dependent coagulation factor (VitK-CF) deficiency in trauma has limitations (inability to predict bleeding and long turnaround times). Thromboelastography (TEG) assesses the entire coagulation process. With TEG, reaction time (TEG-R) is used to assess global coagulation factor activity and takes less than 10 minutes. We assessed the ability of TEG-R to detect VitK-CF deficiency in trauma, compared to the INR. A total of 219 trauma patients with INR, TEG, and all VitK-CF measured at admission were included. Demographics and laboratory tests, drugs, blood transfusions, and severity scores were analyzed. Specificity, sensitivity, positive predictive value (PPV), and negative predictive value (NPV) of INR (\u22651.3 and \u22651.5) and TEG-R (>8 min) to diagnose VitK-CF deficits (\u226450%) were calculated. Secondary outcomes included time to INR and TEG results. Overall, TEG-R performed worse than INR. TEG-R had a sensitivity of 33% (95% CI, 16%-55%), specificity of 95% (95% CI, 91%-98%), PPV of 47% (95% CI, 23%-72%), and NPV of 92% (95% CI, 87%-95%). An INR of 1.5 or greater had a sensitivity of 67% (95% CI, 45%-84%), specificity of 98% (95% CI, 96%-99.7%), PPV of 84% (95% CI, 60%-97%), and NPV of 96% (95% CI, 92%-98%). An INR of 1.3 or greater also had better sensitivity, PPV, and NPV. For patients on warfarin, the times to INR results and TEG completion were 58 (\u00b123) and 92 (\u00b140) minutes (p=0.07), respectively. TEG-R was abnormal in only one patient on warfarin. Our study suggests that TEG-R is not superior at identifying VitK-CF deficiency compared to INR in trauma."}
{"id": "21703173", "title": "Minimal effects of acute liver injury/acute liver failure on hemostasis as assessed by thromboelastography.", "content": "Minimal effects of acute liver injury/acute liver failure on hemostasis as assessed by thromboelastography. Patients with acute liver injury/failure (ALI/ALF) are assumed to have a bleeding diathesis on the basis of elevated INR; however, clinically significant bleeding is rare. We hypothesized that patients with ALI/ALF have normal hemostasis despite elevated INR. Fifty-one patients with ALI/ALF were studied prospectively using thromboelastography (TEG), which measures the dynamics and physical properties of clot formation in whole blood. ALI was defined as an INR \u22651.5 in a patient with no previous liver disease, and ALF as ALI with hepatic encephalopathy. Thirty-seven of 51 patients (73%) had ALF and 22 patients (43%) underwent liver transplantation or died. Despite a mean INR of 3.4\u00b11.7 (range 1.5-9.6), mean TEG parameters were normal, and 5 individual TEG parameters were normal in 32 (63%). Low maximum amplitude, the measure of ultimate clot strength, was confined to patients with platelet counts <126\u00d710(9)/L. Maximum amplitude was higher in patients with ALF than ALI and correlated directly with venous ammonia concentrations and with increasing severity of liver injury assessed by elements of the systemic inflammatory response syndrome. All patients had markedly decreased procoagulant factor V and VII levels, which were proportional to decreases in anticoagulant proteins and inversely proportional to elevated factor VIII levels. Despite elevated INR, most patients with ALI/ALF maintain normal hemostasis by TEG, the mechanisms of which include an increase in clot strength with increasing severity of liver injury, increased factor VIII levels, and a commensurate decline in pro- and anticoagulant proteins."}
{"id": "21611876", "title": "Role of thrombolestagrophy in monitoring perioperative coagulation status and effect of thromboprophylaxis in bariatric surgery.", "content": "Role of thrombolestagrophy in monitoring perioperative coagulation status and effect of thromboprophylaxis in bariatric surgery. Thromboelastography is a technique that surveys the properties of viscoelastic blood clot. The purpose of this paper was to evaluate the hypercoagulability state and the effect of antithrombotic prophylaxis on thromboelastogram (TEG) results in bariatric surgery. Twenty-five patients enrolled received 0.8 ml of nodraparin starting on the day before surgery and continuing postoperatively. TEG profile was collected before induction of anesthesia, on the first and third postoperative days. Each sample was run also in a cup added with heparinase to eliminate the interference of antithrombotic prophylaxis. TEG analysis with heparinase showed a tendency to reduce the r-time (rate of initial fibrin formation) and k-time (time to clot firmness) and increase the alpha angle (rate of clot growth), while an increase of maximal amplitude (MA, a measure of maximal stiffness of the clot; p = 0.01) and GI or shear elastic modules strength (p = 0.03)was observed from basal to postoperative day 3 (POD3). TEG without heparinase evidenced and increase of r-time (p = 0.02) and k-time (p = 0.05), a reduction of the alpha angle (p = 0.03), and an increase of MA (p = 0.01) and GI (p = 0.03) from basal to POD3. The comparison of TEG techniques showed that normal TEGs had lower values of r-time and k-time and higher values of alpha angles and MA than TEG with heparinase. No differences were evident for basal and POD1 samples and the G values comparing the two TEG technique. No correlation was observed between the variation of normal TEG parameters and dosage of anticoagulant used in each patient. Our patients presented a tendency to hypercoagulability determined most by MA and GI. Comparison between TEGs indicates that low-molecular-weight heparin not titrated on weight is able to determine a reduction of hypercoabulable tendency in the early postoperative period with few effects on increasing MA and GI."}
{"id": "20950825", "title": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 improves protamine-mediated hypocoagulation/hyperfibrinolysis in human plasma in vitro.", "content": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 improves protamine-mediated hypocoagulation/hyperfibrinolysis in human plasma in vitro. Protamine sulfate has been implicated as a possible cause of coagulopathy for over 20 y. Protamine has been demonstrated to decrease thrombin activity and to prolong bleeding. We tested the hypothesis that a new hemostatic agent, carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 (tricarbonyldichlororuthenium (II) dimer; CORM-2), could attenuate protamine-mediated hypocoagulation/hyperfibrinolysis in plasma. Normal plasma was exposed to 0, 12.5, 25, or 50 \u03bcg/mL of protamine, with or without addition of 100 \u03bcM CORM-2. Tissue factor was used to initiate coagulation, and tissue type plasminogen activator was added in some experiments. Additional experiments were performed wherein plasma was exposed to protamine combined with 0% or 30% dilution with normal saline, with or without CORM-2 addition. Thrombelastography was performed until either stable clot strength or clot lysis occurred. Protamine, in a concentration-dependent fashion, significantly prolonged the onset of coagulation, decreased the velocity of thrombus growth, and decreased clot strength in the absence or presence of tissue type plasminogen activator. Further, protamine significantly decreased the time to onset of fibrinolysis and decreased clot lysis time. CORM-2 exposure significantly diminished all aforementioned protamine-mediated effects on coagulation and fibrinolysis. Lastly, CORM-2 addition significantly increased the velocity of clot growth and strength in diluted, protamine-exposed plasma. CORM-2 attenuated protamine-mediated hypocoagulation/hyperfibrinolysis at clinically encountered concentrations. Additional preclinical investigation is warranted to determine if CORM-2 administration will be efficacious in diminishing coagulopathy caused by protamine."}
{"id": "22435277", "title": "Contemporary anesthesia management for liver transplantation: a comparison of American and European methods.", "content": "Contemporary anesthesia management for liver transplantation: a comparison of American and European methods. This review article compares the organization of liver transplantation programs, anesthesia management and postoperative care in the United States and Europe. Liver transplantation is a definitive treatment for end-stage liver disease. The procedure is extremely complex and requires excellent surgical technique and experienced anesthesiologists who are able to provide precise management. Liver transplantation programs, which first started in the United States and a few years later in Europe, have quickly been able to achieve remarkable results. In the United States one organization, the United Network for Organ Sharing (UNOS) is responsible for the allocation of organs and data collection; in Europe there are various organizations with different levels of cooperation. The major difference between anesthesia management in the United States and Europe is the number of medications available for coagulation improvement. Substances such as prothrombin complex concentrate, fibrinogen, and antithrombin III allow for a greater flexibility in European anesthesia management. Thromboelastography, which is routinely used in the United States for overseeing coagulation, is now increasingly being used in Europe, and seems to be highly effective in providing precise information about coagulation. The overall ICU stay in Europe is longer than in the United States, and services such as maintenance of critical care, immunosuppression and nutrition are not separated in Europe. Despite these differences in liver transplantation programs, overall one-year patient survival rate is similar in the United States and in Europe, exceeding 85% in both."}
{"id": "22379760", "title": "Anaphylactic shock and hyperfibrinolysis measured with thromboelastography.", "content": "Anaphylactic shock and hyperfibrinolysis measured with thromboelastography. This case report presents anaphylactic shock in which hyperfibrinolysis was diagnosed with Thromboelastography (TEG). A 45 year old female patient was scheduled for vacuum-assisted wound closure. At induction, she developed an anaphylactic shock that stabilized after standard treatment. TEG analysis revealed hyperfibrinolysis. Surgery was delayed and there were no signs of spontaneous bleeding. A repeat TEG analysis performed 30 minutes later showed a completely normalized coagulation pattern. Few reports have documented the association between anaphylactic shock and hyperfibrinolysis. This case illustrates the transient and short-lived nature of the phenomenon. The mechanisms and potential consequences are discussed."}
{"id": "22343443", "title": "[Thromboelastography].", "content": "[Thromboelastography]. Coagulopathies of various origins have been mentioned among the leading causes of morbidity in hospitals all over the world. Time-consuming coagulation assays delay the diagnosis and response to a dynamic pathology. The need to analyse whole blood for the accurate identification of coagulopathies has led to a revival of interest in thromboelastography (TEG). This simple test can be performed at the bedside using non-anticoagulated blood, and enables complex assessment of extrinsic and intrinsic pathways of coagulation and fibrinolysis. TEG can be also used to predict postoperative bleeding and/or organ dysfunction. TEG has been widely used in research, but poor understanding of the technique has limited its clinical use. Controversies regarding the relationship between traditional tests and TEG have made the bedside use of TEG less popular than it should be. In the review, the authors discuss details of the process and practical aspects of its use in clinical settings."}
{"id": "22226090", "title": "Whole blood thromboelastometry: another Knight at the Roundtable?", "content": "Whole blood thromboelastometry: another Knight at the Roundtable? Thromboelastography and thromboelastometry represent viscoelastic diagnostic methodologies with promising application to diseases of altered coagulation. Their use in trauma-induced coagulopathy as a means of assessing the real-time status of the patient's functional coagulation profile in addition to its impact on effective and appropriate use of blood product support has been gaining acceptance among trauma surgeons, anesthesiologists, and transfusion medicine specialists. However, the ability of viscoelastic testing to augment or supplant conventional coagulation testing for the diagnosis and management of trauma-induced coagulopathy remains controversial. Many of these issues pertain to the differences in methodology, instrumentation, logic, accessibility, ease of use, operator variability, and the method's relationship to patient care, blood product use, cost, and conventional testing algorithms."}
{"id": "22221846", "title": "Fibrinogen concentrate in the treatment of severe bleeding after aortic aneurysm graft surgery.", "content": "Fibrinogen concentrate in the treatment of severe bleeding after aortic aneurysm graft surgery. Aortic aneurysm graft surgery involving cardiopulmonary bypass is often associated with substantial coagulopathic perioperative bleeding, requiring hemostatic intervention with allogeneic blood products, such as fresh frozen plasma, platelet concentrate, and red blood cells. We conducted a pilot study to determine the effects of fibrinogen concentrate in patients with microvascular bleeding during aortic valve surgery with ascending aorta replacement. Dosing of fibrinogen concentrate was individualized based on thromboelastometry. First-line therapy with fibrinogen concentrate reduced the need for allogeneic blood product support, including transfusions of fresh frozen plasma, platelet concentrate, and red blood cells. Similar results were seen in a second cohort study conducted in patients undergoing thoraco-abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery: patients who received fibrinogen concentrate required significantly less allogeneic blood product support following surgery. These results prompted the initiation of a randomized placebo-controlled trial in patients undergoing thoraco-abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery, aortic valve surgery with ascending aorta replacement, or aortic arch surgery. Results are expected to be published soon. Larger, multicenter studies are needed to determine the exact role of fibrinogen concentrate in the management of perioperative bleeding following cardiac surgery and cardiopulmonary bypass."}
{"id": "22183067", "title": "Comparing techniques: the use of recalcified plasma in comparison with citrated plasma alone and in combination with thrombin in ultrastructural studies.", "content": "Comparing techniques: the use of recalcified plasma in comparison with citrated plasma alone and in combination with thrombin in ultrastructural studies. Fibrin plays a vital role in the coagulation process and fibrin fiber morphology can be studied using ultrastructural techniques. When studying the ultrastructure of fibrin networks, thrombin may be added to the plasma, ensuing fibrin network formation. The question that arises is whether there are differences in morphology when thrombin is added to plasma, versus morphology observed when plasma from citrated or recalcified citrated whole blood, is studied. The current study therefore aimed to compare ultrastructure of platelets and fibrin networks from these three techniques. Results indicated comparable platelet ultrastructure between smears formed from the plasma of citrated blood and that of the citrated recalcified blood. This method might give us further information regarding the 'natural state' fibrin assembly and association with platelets, when studying haemostasis. However, when studying the ultrastructure of fibrin networks, the addition of thrombin is necessary to form an expansive, fully coagulated layer of fibrin fibers."}
{"id": "22182886", "title": "Use of freeze-dried plasma in French intensive care unit in Afghanistan.", "content": "Use of freeze-dried plasma in French intensive care unit in Afghanistan. Modern warfare causes severe injuries, and despite rapid transportation to theater regional trauma centers, casualties frequently arrive coagulopathic and in shock. Massive hemorrhage management includes transfusion of red blood cells and plasma in a 1:1 ratio. Fresh frozen plasma requires thawing and badly fits the emergency criteria. Since 1994, the French Military Blood Bank has been producing freeze-dried plasma (FDP) and providing it for overseas operation. The aim of our study was to evaluate the use of FDP in war settings and to assess its clinical efficiency and safety. We performed a prospective study of the FDP delivered at the International Security Assistance Force Role 3 Military Medical Treatment Facility in the Kabul Afghanistan International Airport between February 2010 and February 2011. We included every patient who received at least one unit of FDP. Basic clinical data were recorded at admission. Transfusion requirements were monitored. Biological testing were performed before and after administration of FDP including hemoglobin concentration, platelets count, fibrinogen level, prothrombin time (PT), and thromboelastography. Eighty-seven casualties received FDP during 93 episodes of transfusion. On average, 3.5 FDP units were transfused per episodes of transfusion. Of the 87 patients studied, 7 died because of nonsurvivable injuries and outcomes were unavailable for 11. The other 59 patients survived. PT significantly declined by an average of 3.3 seconds after FDP transfusion. This moderate decrease in PT reflects continued bleeding and resuscitation. It nevertheless suggests improvement in hemostasis before surgical control of bleeding. All FDP users reported ease of use, clinically observed efficacy equivalent to fresh frozen plasma and the absence of adverse effects associated with FDP. Our results provide evidence of the effectiveness of FDP for the prevention or correction of coagulopathy and hemorrhage in combat casualties."}
{"id": "22177437", "title": "[Effects of ulinastatin on coagulation function and deep vein thrombosis in patients undergoing hip joint replacement].", "content": "[Effects of ulinastatin on coagulation function and deep vein thrombosis in patients undergoing hip joint replacement]. To investigate the effects of ulinastatin (Uti) and low-molecular-weight heparin (Lmwh) on coagulation function and deep vein thrombosis (DVT) in patients undergoing hip joint replacement. From March to December 2010 150 ASAI-II patients with average age of 72.5 (65 - 85) years undergoing hip joint replacement were randomly divided into 3 groups (n = 50 each): normal saline (NS) control group (Group C), Uti group (Group U) and Lmwh group (Group L). Group U received intravenous infusion of ulinastatin (10 000 U/kg) at preoperative, perioperative and after operation 1, 2 and 3 d, respectively. Group C received the same volume of NS instead of Uti. Group L were injected Lmwh subcutaneously (3200 U/d) at preoperative, after operation 1, 2 and 3 d. Blood samples were taken before operation (T(0)), at the end of surgery (T(1)), 1 d (T(2)), 2 d (T(3)) and 3 d (T(4)) after operation for determination the values of R, K, \u03b1 angle, MA and CI, using thromboelastography, and the DVT were also examined through color Doppler ultrasonography at 3 d after operation. Compared with T(0), R, K were shorter, \u03b1 angle, MA and CI were larger in group C, the values at T(2) were up to the peak then declined at T(4). Compared with group C, the value of R, K were larger, the value of \u03b1 angle, MA and CI were shorter in group U and group L. The DVT checked by ultrasonography were found in 20 cases in group C, 1 case in group U, and zero case in group L. The differences were no statistically significant between group U and group L. Intravenous infusion of Uti during the period of operation can correct the hypercoagulability of blood and decrease the incidence of DVT after operation."}
{"id": "22164456", "title": "Blood component therapy in trauma guided with the utilization of the perfusionist and thromboelastography.", "content": "Blood component therapy in trauma guided with the utilization of the perfusionist and thromboelastography. 25-35% of all seriously injured multiple trauma patients are coagulopathic upon arrival to the emergency department, and therefore early diagnosis and intervention on this subset of patients is important. In addition to standard plasma based tests of coagulation, the thromboelastogram (TEG) has resurfaced as an ideal test in the trauma population to help guide the clinician in the administration of blood components in a goal directed fashion. We describe how thromboelastographic analysis is used to assist in the management of trauma patients with coagulopathies presenting to the emergency department, in surgery, and in the postoperative period. Indications for the utilization of the TEG and platelet mapping as point of care testing that can guide blood component therapy in a goal directed fashion in the trauma population are presented with emphasis on the more common reasons such as massive transfusion protocol, the management of traumatic brain injury with bleeding, the diagnosis and management of trauma in patients on platelet antagonists, the utilization of recombinant FVIIa, and the management of coagulopathy in terminal trauma patients in preparation for organ donation. The TEG allows for judicious and protocol assisted utilization of blood components in a setting that has recently gained acceptance. In our program, the inclusion of the perfusionist with expertise in performing and interpreting TEG analysis allows the multidisciplinary trauma team to more effectively manage blood products and resuscitation in this population."}
{"id": "22161443", "title": "Methods to decrease blood loss and transfusion requirements for liver transplantation.", "content": "Methods to decrease blood loss and transfusion requirements for liver transplantation. Excessive blood loss and increased blood transfusion requirements may have significant impact on the short-term and long-term outcomes after liver transplantation. To compare the potential benefits and harms of different methods of decreasing blood loss and blood transfusion requirements during liver transplantation. We searched The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials in The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, Science Citation Index Expanded, and metaRegister of Controlled Trials until September 2011. We included all randomised clinical trials that were performed to compare various methods of decreasing blood loss and blood transfusion requirements during liver transplantation. Two authors independently identified the trials and extracted the data. We analysed the data with both the fixed-effect and the random-effects model using RevMan Analysis. For each outcome we calculated the risk ratio (RR), mean difference (MD), or standardised mean difference (SMD) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) based on available data analysis. We also conducted network meta-analysis. We included 33 trials involving 1913 patients. The sample size in the trials varied from 8 to 209 participants. The interventions included pharmacological interventions (aprotinin, tranexamic acid, epsilon amino caproic acid, antithrombin 3, recombinant factor (rFvIIa), oestrogen, prostaglandin, epinephrine), blood substitutes (blood components rather than whole blood, hydroxy-ethyl starch, thromboelastography), and cardiovascular interventions (low central venous pressure). All the trials were of high risk of bias. Primary outcomes were reported in at least two trials for the following comparisons: aprotinin versus control, tranexamic acid versus control, recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) versus control, and tranexamic acid versus aprotinin. There were no significant differences in the 60-day mortality (3 trials; 6/161 (3.7%) in the aprotinin group versus 8/119 (6.7%) in the control group; RR 0.52; 95% CI 0.18 to 1.45), primary graft non-function (2 trials; 0/128 (0.0%) in the aprotinin group versus 4/89 (4.5%) in the control group; RR 0.15; 95% CI 0.02 to 1.25), retransplantation (3 trials; 2/256 (0.8%) in the aprotinin group versus 12/178 (6.7%) in the control group; RR 0.21; 95% CI 0.02 to 1.79), or thromboembolic episodes (3 trials; 4/161 (2.5%) in the aprotinin group versus 5/119 (4.2%) in the control group; RR 0.59; 95% CI 0.19 to 1.84) between the aprotinin and control groups. There were no significant differences in the 60-day mortality (3 trials; 4/83 (4.8%) in the tranexamic acid group versus 5/56 (8.9%) in the control group; RR 0.55; 95% CI 0.17 to 1.76), retransplantation (2 trials; 3/41 (7.3%) in the tranexamic acid group versus 3/36 (8.3%) in the control group; RR 0.79; 95% CI 0.18 to 3.48), or thromboembolic episodes (5 trials; 5/103 (4.9%) in the tranexamic acid group versus 1/76 (1.3%) in the control group; RR 2.20; 95% CI 0.38 to 12.64) between the tranexamic acid and control groups. There were no significant differences in the 60-day mortality (3 trials; 8/195 (4.1%) in the recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) group versus 2/91 (2.2%) in the control group; RR 1.51; 95% CI 0.33 to 6.95), thromboembolic episodes (2 trials; 24/185 (13.0%) in the rFVIIa group versus 8/81 (9.9%) in the control group; RR 1.38; 95% CI 0.65 to 2.91), or serious adverse events (2 trials; 90/185 (48.6%) in the rFVIIa group versus 30/81 (37.0%) in the control group; RR 1.30; 95% CI 0.94 to 1.78) between the rFVIIa and control groups. There were no significant differences in the 60-day mortality (2 trials; 6/91 (6.6%) in the tranexamic acid group versus 1/87 (1.1%) in the aprotinin group; RR 4.12; 95% CI 0.71 to 23.76) or thromboembolic episodes (2 trials; 4/91 (4.4%) in the tranexamic acid group versus 2/87 (2.3%) in the aprotinin group; RR 1.97; 95% CI 0.37 to 10.37) between the tranexamic acid and aprotinin groups. The remaining outcomes in the above comparisons and the remaining comparisons included only only trial under the primary outcome or the outcome was not reported at all in the trials. There were no significant differences in the mortality, primary graft non-function, graft failure, retransplantation, thromboembolic episodes, or serious adverse events in any of these comparisons. However, the confidence intervals were wide, and it is not possible to reach any conclusion on the safety of the interventions. None of the trials reported the quality of life in patients.Secondary outcomes were reported in at least two trials for the following comparisons - aprotinin versus control, tranexamic acid versus control, rFVIIa versus control, thromboelastography versus control, and tranexamic acid versus aprotinin. There was significantly lower allogeneic blood transfusion requirements in the aprotinin group than the control group (8 trials; 185 patients in aprotinin group and 190 patients in control group; SMD -0.61; 95% CI -0.82 to -0.40). There were no significant differences in the allogeneic blood transfusion requirements between the tranexamic acid and control groups (4 trials; 93 patients in tranexamic acid group and 66 patients in control group; SMD -0.27; 95% CI -0.59 to 0.06); rFVIIa and control groups (2 trials; 141 patients in rFVIIa group and 80 patients in control group; SMD -0.05; 95% CI -0.32 to 0.23); thromboelastography and control groups (2 trials; 31 patients in thromboelastography group and 31 patients in control group; SMD -0.73; 95% CI -1.69 to 0.24); or between the tranexamic acid and aprotinin groups (3 trials; 101 patients in tranexamic acid group and 97 patients in aprotinin group; SMD -0.09; 95% CI -0.36 to 0.19). The remaining outcomes in the above comparisons and the remaining comparisons included only only trial under the primary outcome or the outcome was not reported at all in the trials. There were no significant differences in the blood loss, transfusion requirements, hospital stay, or intensive care unit stay in most of the comparisons. Aprotinin, recombinant factor VIIa, and thromboelastography groups may potentially reduce blood loss and transfusion requirements. However, risks of systematic errors (bias) and risks of random errors (play of chance) hamper the confidence in this conclusion. We need further well-designed randomised trials with low risk of systematic error and low risk of random errors before these interventions can be supported or refuted."}
{"id": "22160030", "title": "Bleeding and clotting disorders in pediatric liver disease.", "content": "Bleeding and clotting disorders in pediatric liver disease. The coagulopathy of liver disease in pediatric patients presents an unusual set of challenges. Little pediatric data have been published, so this review is based largely on adult studies. There is a precarious balance between deficiencies of clotting factors and anticoagulation factors in liver disease that result in abnormal prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) tests that would suggest a bleeding tendency, yet the patients can form a clot and are at risk of thromboembolic disease. Attention has centered on thromboelastography and thrombin-generation assays to clarify the patient's ability to control bleeding, but these tests are not routinely available to many treating physicians."}
{"id": "22146167", "title": "The effects of 3 different intra-abdominal pressures on the thromboelastographic profile during laparoscopic cholecystectomy.", "content": "The effects of 3 different intra-abdominal pressures on the thromboelastographic profile during laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The aim was to determine the influence of the pneumoperitoneum at 10, 13, and 16 mm Hg on thromboelastograph (TEG) in laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Sixty patients were randomly allocated to 3 groups. The abdomen was insufflated with carbon dioxide to 10 mm Hg (group 1), 13 mm Hg (group 2), and 16 mm Hg (group 3) intra-abdominal pressures. We evaluated changes in the TEG values [reaction time (R), maximum amplitude (MA), \u03b1-angle, K time] preoperatively, intraoperatively, and postoperatively. In the postoperative 24th hour, the R-value was significantly lower in group 3 than that in group 1 and group 2 (P<0.05). We found increased values of MA intraoperative 30th minute and postoperative 24th hour in group 3 with respect to group 1 (P<0.05) and postoperative 24th hour, and the MA value in group 3 was significantly higher than those of group 2 (P<0.05). In group 3, the \u03b1-angle was significantly higher than that of group 1 and group 2 at intraoperative 30th minute and postoperative 24th hour (P<0.05). In postoperative 24th hour, the K-value was significantly lower in group 3 than in group 2 and group 1 (P<0.05). Laparoscopy with pneumoperitoneum at pressures of 10 and 13 mm Hg did not alter the TEG values and low intra-abdominal pressure must be used for peritoneal insufflation."}
{"id": "22111735", "title": "Acutely injured patients on dabigatran.", "content": "Acutely injured patients on dabigatran."}
{"id": "22099212", "title": "Bivalirudin-based versus conventional heparin anticoagulation for postcardiotomy extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.", "content": "Bivalirudin-based versus conventional heparin anticoagulation for postcardiotomy extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) after cardiac operations (postcardiotomy) is commonly used for the treatment of acute heart failure refractory to drug treatment. Bleeding and thromboembolic events are the most common complications of postcardiotomy ECMO. The present study is a retrospective comparison of the conventional heparin-based anticoagulation protocol with a bivalirudin-based, heparin-free protocol. Endpoints of this study are blood loss, allogeneic blood product use, and costs during the ECMO procedure. A retrospective study was undertaken in the setting of cardiac surgery, anesthesia, and intensive care departments of a university research hospital. Twenty-one patients (12 adults and nine children) who underwent postcardiotomy ECMO from 2008 through 2011 were retrospectively analyzed. The first consecutive eight patients were treated with heparin-based anticoagulation (H-group) and the next 13 consecutive patients with bivalirudin-based anticoagulation (B-group). The following parameters were analyzed: standard coagulation profile, thromboelastographic parameters, blood loss, allogeneic blood products use, thromboembolic complications, and costs during the ECMO treatment. Patients in the B-group had significantly longer activated clotting times, activated partial thromboplastin times, and reaction times at thromboelastography. The platelet count and antithrombin activity were not significantly different, but in the H-group a significantly higher amount of platelet concentrates, fresh frozen plasma, and purified antithrombin were administered. Blood loss was significantly lower in the B-group, and the daily cost of ECMO was significantly lower in pediatric patients treated with bivalirudin. Thromboembolic complications did not differ between groups. Bivalirudin as the sole anticoagulant can be safely used for postcardiotomy ECMO, with a better coagulation profile, less bleeding, and allogeneic transfusions. No safety issues were raised by this study, and costs are reduced in bivalirudin-treated patients."}
{"id": "22097979", "title": "A method for anticoagulation of children on mechanical circulatory support.", "content": "A method for anticoagulation of children on mechanical circulatory support. Anticoagulation of children on mechanical circulatory support presents a challenge. We implanted 28 devices in children and infants using a consistent anticoagulation protocol. We performed a retrospective review of all children implanted in our program with mechanical assist devices since 1997. Heparin, dipyridamole, and aspirin were used for anticoagulation and antiaggregation. Coagulation monitoring included thromboelastography (TEG), platelet aggregration studies, international normalized ratio, partial thromboplastin time, and platelet count. Twenty-eight children, ages 1 month to 16 years (mean 5.3; median 2.4 years), were implanted for 3-107 days (mean 27; median 17). Eighteen received left ventricular assist devices, seven received biventricular assist devices, and three received total artificial hearts. Adverse events during the 720 days of device support included the following: six (21%) reoperations for bleeding; seven strokes (25%): two fatal, two with a mild residual deficit, and three without deficit; and three (11%) visceral emboli: two fatal and one nonfatal. There were eight deaths (29%). Causes of death were embolic (four), graft failure post-transplantation (one), preimplant anoxic brain damage (two), and postexplant heart failure (one). 24/28 (86%) survived to transplantation or weaning from device and 20/28 (71%) were discharged from the hospital, 10 after transplantation and 10 after native heart recovery. All 20 early survivors survived long term. We describe an anticoagulation protocol based upon TEG and platelet aggregation studies and using heparin, aspirin, and dipyridamole. Adequate anticoagulation is more difficult in children. However, 71% of the patients in our study survived long term."}
{"id": "22096425", "title": "Efficacy and cost-effectiveness of a blood salvage system in primary total knee arthroplasty--a retrospective match-controlled chart review.", "content": "Efficacy and cost-effectiveness of a blood salvage system in primary total knee arthroplasty--a retrospective match-controlled chart review. We retrospectively reviewed the clinical and cost effectiveness of the OrthoPAT blood salvage system (Haemonetics Corp., Braintree, MA) following total knee arthroplasty (TKA). Two-hundred-and-two patients who received the OrthoPAT system were matched to 202 controls. A second match was performed for subjects weighing <75 kg. For all matched subjects, no significant difference in allogeneic blood transfusion (ABT) rate was found between the control and study groups (p=0.55). In the subjects <75 kg, use of the OrthoPAT system almost halved the incidence of ABT; however, in this small population the result was not statistically significant (p=0.10). Blood management costs for study patients were significantly higher than those of the control group in both the total matched pairs and those <75 kg (p< 0.0001 and p= 0.05, respectively)."}
{"id": "22093028", "title": "Effect of prednisone administration on coagulation variables in healthy Beagle dogs.", "content": "Effect of prednisone administration on coagulation variables in healthy Beagle dogs. Long-term corticosteroid therapy has been associated with increased risk of thrombotic disease in dogs. The purpose of this prospective study was to use thrombelastography (TEG) and thrombin generation (TG) to detect development of a hypercoagulable state in healthy Beagle dogs receiving oral prednisone. We hypothesized that administration of corticosteroids would result in a hypercoagulable profile on TEG tracings and an increase in TG. Six healthy adult Beagles from the University of Montreal's research colony were used to conduct a prospective longitudinal study in which all dogs received 1 mg/kg of prednisone orally once daily for 2 weeks, followed by a 6-week washout period, and then 4 mg/kg of prednisone orally once daily for 2 weeks. TEG tracings on citrated whole blood and TG measurements on frozen-thawed platelet-poor plasma were obtained before prednisone administration (baseline), at the end of the washout period, and at the end of both corticosteroid trials. Significant differences compared with baseline values were obtained for K, \u03b1, and MA, with tracings compatible with a hypercoagulable profile following both corticosteroid trials. There was a significant increase in endogenous thrombin potential only after low-dose (1 mg/kg) prednisone. Administration of prednisone to healthy Beagles resulted in hypercoagulability as indicated by TEG tracings, whereas the effect on TG was more variable. Further studies are needed to determine the underlying mechanisms of hypercoagulability and its clinical impact."}
{"id": "22092306", "title": "Intravenous injection of autologous amniotic fluid induces transient thrombocytopenia in a gravid rabbit model of amniotic fluid embolism.", "content": "Intravenous injection of autologous amniotic fluid induces transient thrombocytopenia in a gravid rabbit model of amniotic fluid embolism. Amniotic fluid embolism (AFE) is a rare but catastrophic complication of pregnancy characterized by severe hypotension, cardiovascular collapse, and massive consumptive coagulopathy. Several animal models of this syndrome have been proposed, but most have yielded inconclusive results. The objective of this study was to develop a suitable animal model of AFE. Twelve rabbits in late gestation (25 days) were used. Amniotic fluid was collected from the fetal amniotic sacs after laparotomy, and autologous fluid was injected into 6 rabbits via the left auricular vein. Six other rabbits received saline (control group). Blood pressure, platelet counts, and coagulation variables were measured at baseline and at various intervals for 60 minutes after injection. The in vitro effect of amniotic fluid on coagulation was assessed by thrombelastographic (TEG) analysis. Injection of amniotic fluid did not reproduce clinical signs of AFE and had no effect on activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), prothrombin time (PT), or Factor VIII activity. However, significant thrombocytopenia was observed 5 minutes after administration of amniotic fluid and resolved by 60 minutes. In vitro addition of amniotic fluid to blood resulted in accelerated clotting on TEG tracings. The syndrome of AFE was not reproduced in this rabbit model. However, injection of autologous amniotic fluid induced a transient and severe thrombocytopenia. Moreover, TEG analysis indicated that amniotic fluid could initiate the coagulation cascade. Other factors such as the presence of meconium in amniotic fluid may be needed to provoke more severe clinical signs."}
{"id": "22092122", "title": "Monitoring patients at risk of massive transfusion with Thrombelastography or Thromboelastometry: a systematic review.", "content": "Monitoring patients at risk of massive transfusion with Thrombelastography or Thromboelastometry: a systematic review. Thrombelastography (TEG) and Thrombelastometry (ROTEM) are viscoelastic whole-blood assays evaluating the haemostatic capacity of blood. These devices are used in algorithms to guide transfusion of haemostatic blood components. The methods used for this study were systematic reviews with meta-analyses and trial sequential analyses of randomised clinical trials (RCTs) of TEG/ROTEM-based algorithm compared with standard treatment in patients with bleeding. Primary outcome was all-cause mortality. We searched the literature in seven databases (up to 31 October 2010), reference lists, registers of ongoing trials, and contacted authors and experts. We extracted data from included studies related to study methods, interventions, outcomes, bias risk and adverse events using Cochrane methodology. All trials irrespective of blinding or language status were included. Nine trials involving 776 participants were included. Eight trials involved cardiac surgery with an average blood loss of 390-960\u2009 ml, and one trial investigated liver transplantations. One trial was classified as low-risk-of-bias trial. We found two ongoing trials. No impact was identified on mortality, amount of blood transfused, incidence of surgical reinterventions, time to extubation, or length of stay in hospital and intensive care unit. We identified a significant reduction in blood loss favouring the use of TEG/ROTEM {85 \u2009ml [95% confidence interval (CI) 29.4-140.7]} and in the proportion of patients receiving freshly frozen plasma and platelets [relative risk 0.39 (95%CI 0.27-0.57)]. There is currently weak evidence to support the use of TEG/ROTEM as a tool to guide transfusion in patients with severe bleeding. Further studies need to address other clinical settings and with larger blood losses."}
{"id": "22078266", "title": "FIBTEM provides early prediction of massive transfusion in trauma.", "content": "FIBTEM provides early prediction of massive transfusion in trauma. Prediction of massive transfusion (MT) among trauma patients is difficult in the early phase of trauma management. Whole-blood thromboelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae) tests provide immediate information about the coagulation status of acute bleeding trauma patients. We investigated their value for early prediction of MT. This retrospective study included patients admitted to the AUVA Trauma Centre, Salzburg, Austria, with an injury severity score \u226516, from whom blood samples were taken immediately upon admission to the emergency room (ER). ROTEM\u00ae analyses (extrinsically-activated test with tissue factor (EXTEM), intrinsically-activated test using ellagic acid (INTEM) and fibrin-based extrinsically activated test with tissue factor and the platelet inhibitor cytochalasin D (FIBTEM) tests) were performed. We divided patients into two groups: massive transfusion (MT, those who received \u226510 units red blood cell concentrate within 24 hours of admission) and non-MT (those who received 0 to 9 units). Of 323 patients included in this study (78.9% male; median age 44 years), 78 were included in the MT group and 245 in the non-MT group. The median injury severity score upon admission to the ER was significantly higher in the MT group than in the non-MT group (42 vs 27, P < 0.0001). EXTEM and INTEM clotting time and clot formation time were significantly prolonged and maximum clot firmness (MCF) was significantly lower in the MT group versus the non-MT group (P < 0.0001 for all comparisons). Of patients admitted with FIBTEM MCF 0 to 3 mm, 85% received MT. The best predictive values for MT were provided by hemoglobin and Quick value (area under receiver operating curve: 0.87 for both parameters). Similarly high predictive values were observed for FIBTEM MCF (0.84) and FIBTEM A10 (clot amplitude at 10 minutes; 0.83). FIBTEM A10 and FIBTEM MCF provided similar predictive values for massive transfusion in trauma patients to the most predictive laboratory parameters. Prospective studies are needed to confirm these findings."}
{"id": "22071999", "title": "Clotting factor deficiency in early trauma-associated coagulopathy.", "content": "Clotting factor deficiency in early trauma-associated coagulopathy. Coagulopathic bleeding is a leading cause of in-hospital death after injury. A recently proposed transfusion strategy calls for early and aggressive frozen plasma transfusion to bleeding trauma patients, thus addressing trauma-associated coagulopathy (TAC) by transfusing clotting factors (CFs). This strategy may dramatically improve survival of bleeding trauma patients. However, other studies suggest that early TAC occurs by protein C activation and is independent of CF deficiency. This study investigated whether CF deficiency is associated with early TAC. This is a prospective observational cohort study of severely traumatized patients (Injury Severity Score \u2265 16) admitted shortly after injury, receiving minimal fluids and no prehospital blood. Blood was assayed for CF levels, thromboelastography, and routine coagulation tests. Critical CF deficiency was defined as \u2264 30% activity of any CF. Of 110 patients, 22 (20%) had critical CF deficiency: critically low factor V level was evident in all these patients. International normalized ratio, activated prothrombin time, and, thromboelastography were abnormal in 32%, 36%, and 35%, respectively, of patients with any critically low CF. Patients with critical CF deficiency suffered more severe injuries, were more acidotic, received more blood transfusions, and showed a trend toward higher mortality (32% vs. 18%, p = 0.23). Computational modeling showed coagulopathic patients had pronounced delays and quantitative deficits in generating thrombin. Twenty percent of all severely injured patients had critical CF deficiency on admission, particularly of factor V. The observed factor V deficit aligns with current understanding of the mechanisms underlying early TAC. Critical deficiency of factor V impairs thrombin generation and profoundly affects hemostasis."}
{"id": "22068755", "title": "[Current coagulation diagnostics in intensive care medicine].", "content": "[Current coagulation diagnostics in intensive care medicine]. In the preoperative setting, a standardized questionnaire on bleeding history cannot be replaced by the Quick test or activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) measurement. Thrombelastometry provides rapid measurement of coagulation in the intra- and postoperative settings. Besides the Quick test and APTT, thrombelastometry provides information about clot firmness and clot stability. This allows goal-directed management in coagulopathy, which results in a reduction of transfusion of blood products. Furthermore, this can lead to not only an overall reduced length of stay in the hospital, but also in the intensive care unit, thus, contributing to a significant cost reduction."}
{"id": "22057685", "title": "Patients with isolated prolonged in vitro bleeding time. Clinical symptoms.", "content": "Patients with isolated prolonged in vitro bleeding time. Clinical symptoms. In patients with isolated prolonged in vitro bleeding time there is no standardised treatment concept. With this study we characterized the extent of bleeding symptoms. All diagnoses known to cause prolonged in vitro bleeding time (PFA-100) (epinephrine-cartridge >160 s, ADP-cartridge > 120 s) have been excluded, such as platelet function disorders, effects of medications, nutrition or von Willebrand disease. 75 patients (77%, n = 58 women; 23%, n = 17 men, median age 46 (16-81) years were included. All bleeding symptoms have been stored in a databank with help of a comprehensive questionnaire. 78% (n = 54) of all patients reported of having had an operation, 69.8% (n = 37) of them described postoperative bleedings (p = 0.0373). 13.5% (n = 5) of the 54 could remember having been randomly treated by the administration of a transfusion and only 2.7% (n = 1) were treated by substitution of von Willebrand factor. 71% (n = 51) patients indicated haematoma (p = 0.8116). About 33.8% (n = 24) patients had gum bleeding and 40.8% (n = 29, p = 0.7808) patients reported bleeding after the dentist. 41.4% (n = 29) patients suffered under frequent epistaxis (p = 0.0212). There was no correlation between prolonged epinephrine bleeding time to VWF:Ag (rho = 0.16) nor to VWF:RCo (rho = 0.12) nor between prolonged epinephrine and ADP bleeding time (rho = 0.01) nor to ROTEM\u00ae analysis. Patients with isolated prolonged PFA are mainly women and can be affected by all kinds of bleedings while haematoma is the main symptom. VWD might not be causal."}
{"id": "22050819", "title": "Thrombelastograph platelet mapping in a patient with von Willebrand disease who was treated with Humate-P.", "content": "Thrombelastograph platelet mapping in a patient with von Willebrand disease who was treated with Humate-P."}
{"id": "22049808", "title": "Massive transfusion.", "content": "Massive transfusion. Massive Transfusion is a part of Damage Control Resuscitation. The aim of transfusion therapy is to restore oxygen delivery to poorly perfused tissues and to treat the acute coagulopathy of trauma. The severity and complexity of modern injuries have led to the use of swift, protocol-driven care with the use of'Shock Packs' and management of metabolic complications. The proactive treatment of the coagulopathy has been termed Haemostatic Resuscitation. The delivery of this transfusion capability has required an increasingly sophisticated logistic and laboratory response. New operational capabilities have included cold chain solutions; laboratory management information systems; platelet apheresis and ROTEM. This investment in the massive transfusion capability has delivered rapid resuscitation. It has also enabled clinicians to direct individualised transfusion support following initial resuscitation i.e. goal directed therapy. Future technical solutions should further support the prehospital delivery of transfusion while addressing the logistic tail. However, the key to success is the knowledge and skills of frontline staff to deliver safe and appropriate blood transfusion."}
{"id": "22029598", "title": "Thrombelastography and biomarker profiles in acute coagulopathy of trauma: a prospective study.", "content": "Thrombelastography and biomarker profiles in acute coagulopathy of trauma: a prospective study. Severe injury induces an acute coagulopathy associated with increased mortality. This study compared the Thrombelastography (TEG) and biomarker profiles upon admission in trauma patients. Prospective observational study of 80 trauma patients admitted to a Level I Trauma Centre. Data on demography, biochemistry including standard coagulation tests, hematology, transfusions, Injury Severity Score (ISS) and TEG were recorded. Retrospective analysis of thawed plasma/serum for biomarkers reflecting tissue injury (histone-complexed DNA fragments), sympathoadrenal activation (adrenaline, noradrenaline), coagulation activation/inhibition and fibrinolysis (sCD40L, protein C, activated Protein C, tissue-type plasminogen activator, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, D-dimer, prothrombinfragment 1+2, plasmin/\u03b12-antiplasmin complex, thrombin/antithrombin complex, tissue factor pathway inhibitor, antithrombin, von willebrand factor, factor XIII). Comparison of patients stratified according to ISS/TEG maximum clot strength. Linear regression analysis of variables associated with clot strength. Trauma patients had normal (86%), hypercoagulable (11%) or hypocoagulable (1%) TEG clot strength; one had primary hyperfibrinolysis. Hypercoagulable patients had higher age, fibrinogen and platelet count (all p < 0.05), none had increased activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) or international normalized ratio (INR) and none required massive transfusion (> 10 red blood cells the initial 24 h). Patients with normal or hypercoagulable TEG clot strength had comparable biomarker profiles, but the few patients with hypocoagulable TEG clot strength and/or hyperfibrinolysis had very different biomarker profiles.Increasing ISS was associated with higher levels of catecholamines, histone-complexed DNA fragments, sCD40L, activated protein C and D-dimer and reduced levels of non-activated protein C, antithrombin, fibrinogen and factor XIII (all p < 0.05). Fibrinogen and platelet count were associated independently with clot strength in patients with ISS \u2264 26 whereas only fibrinogen was associated independently with clot strength in patients with ISS > 26. In patients with ISS > 26, adrenaline and sCD40L were independently negatively associated with clot strength. Trauma patients displayed different coagulopathies by TEG and variables independently associated with clot strength changed with ISS. In the highest ISS group, adrenaline and sCD40L were independently negatively associated with clot strength indicating that these may contribute to acute coagulopathy."}
{"id": "22024795", "title": "Observational study of fibrinogen concentrate in massive hemorrhage: evaluation of a multicenter register.", "content": "Observational study of fibrinogen concentrate in massive hemorrhage: evaluation of a multicenter register. In acute hemorrhage, a critical decrease in fibrinogen often induces acquired coagulopathy. Fibrinogen concentrate has been used to supplement fibrinogen during massive hemorrhage. However, there are limited data on the utilization of fibrinogen concentrate in this setting. This prospective, multicenter observational study analyzed clinical treatment with fibrinogen concentrate in acute bleeding. A prospective multicenter web-based register was developed to document closed cases of massive hemorrhage treated with fibrinogen concentrate perioperatively. Anonymized data including the cause and kinetics of the bleeding, coagulation parameters, coagulation therapy, clinical effects and adverse events were recorded. Two hundred and twenty-three cases entered between September 2008 and August 2009 were eligible for analysis. According to patient needs, additional common blood and coagulation products were administered. Fibrinogen substitution by fibrinogen concentrate and fresh frozen plasma (FFP) was initiated at a median blood loss of 2.0 l and plasma fibrinogen of 1.45\u200ag/l. After a median dose of 12.0\u200ag fibrinogen (4\u200ag in fibrinogen concentrate and 8\u200ag in FFP), plasma fibrinogen rose to 2.19\u200ag/l at the end of surgery; corresponding to a median increment of 0.045\u200ag/l per gram of fibrinogen administered. After substitution, 6% of patients had supra-physiological plasma fibrinogen levels. Three percent of patients sustained thromboembolic complications perioperatively. Logistic regression analysis showed positive correlation of postoperative plasma fibrinogen and survival (P\u200a<\u200a0.05). Clinical application of fibrinogen concentrate in bleeding patients is included within a multimodal therapeutic concept. High levels of fibrinogen are necessary in order to reach therapeutic goals. In bleeding patients, higher plasma fibrinogen might be associated with higher rates of survival."}
{"id": "22024794", "title": "Carbon monoxide and nitric oxide modulate \u03b1\u2082-antiplasmin and plasmin activity: role of heme.", "content": "Carbon monoxide and nitric oxide modulate \u03b1\u2082-antiplasmin and plasmin activity: role of heme. Cigarette smoke and carbon monoxide (CO) released from tricarbonyldichlororuthenium (II) dimer (CORM-2) attenuate fibrinolysis. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether CO diminished fibrinolysis by enhancement of \u03b1\u2082-antiplasmin via a putative heme group. Plasma, isolated \u03b1\u2082-antiplasmin and isolated plasmin were exposed to CO released from CORM-2 and nitric oxide (NO) via a NO donor to induce carboxyheme and metheme states, respectively. Exposed, isolated enzymes were placed in either \u03b1\u2082-antiplasmin-deficient or normal plasma. Effects of CO and NO on tissue-type plasminogen activator initiated fibrinolysis were determined by thrombelastography. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) was used to identify heme released from \u03b1\u2082-antiplasmin and plasmin. CO significantly enhanced \u03b1\u2082-antiplasmin activity, but decreased plasmin activity. NO decreased both \u03b1\u2082-antiplasmin and plasmin activity. Although inadequate LC-MS/MS data were obtained with \u03b1\u2082-antiplasmin (secondary to glycosylation), a putative plasmin-associated heme was identified. CO elicits hypofibrinolysis by enhancing \u03b1\u2082-antiplasmin activity and decreasing plasmin activity. On the basis of the responses to NO and LC-MS/MS data, it is highly likely that both enzymes are modulated by attached heme groups. Efforts to develop methods to detect CO-mediated hypercoagulability are ongoing, with the goal of identifying populations at risk of thrombotic morbidity secondary to cigarette smoking."}
{"id": "22020385", "title": "A zymogen-like factor Xa variant corrects the coagulation defect in hemophilia.", "content": "A zymogen-like factor Xa variant corrects the coagulation defect in hemophilia. Effective therapies are needed to control excessive bleeding in a range of clinical conditions. We improve hemostasis in vivo using a conformationally pliant variant of coagulation factor Xa (FXa(I16L)) rendered partially inactive by a defect in the transition from zymogen to active protease. Using mouse models of hemophilia, we show that FXa(I16L) has a longer half-life than wild-type FXa and does not cause excessive activation of coagulation. Once clotting mechanisms are activated to produce its cofactor FVa, FXa(I16L) is driven to the protease state and restores hemostasis in hemophilic animals upon vascular injury. Moreover, using human or murine analogs, we show that FXa(I16L) is more efficacious than FVIIa, which is used to treat bleeding in hemophilia inhibitor patients. FXa(I16L) may provide an effective strategy to enhance blood clot formation and act as a rapid pan-hemostatic agent for the treatment of bleeding conditions."}
{"id": "22017416", "title": "Management of major trauma haemorrhage: treatment priorities and controversies.", "content": "Management of major trauma haemorrhage: treatment priorities and controversies. The severely injured trauma patient often arrives in the emergency department bleeding, coagulopathic and in need of a blood transfusion. The diagnosis and management of these patients has vastly improved with a better understanding of acute traumatic coagulopathy (ATC). In the emergency setting, traditional laboratory coagulation screens are of limited use in the diagnosis and management of life-threatening bleeding. Whole blood assays, such as thrombelastography (TEG) and rotational thrombelastometry (ROTEM) provide a rapid evaluation of clot formation, strength and lysis. Rapid diagnosis of ATC and aggressive haemostatic transfusion strategies utilizing early high doses of plasma are associated with improved outcomes in trauma. At present there is no accurate guide for transfusion in trauma, therefore blood and clotting products are administered on an empiric basis. Targeted transfusion therapy for major trauma haemorrhage based on comprehensive and rapid measures of coagulation e.g. TEG/ROTEM may lead to improved outcomes while optimizing blood utilization. Evidence for the clinical application of TEG and ROTEM in trauma is emerging with a number of studies evaluating their ability to diagnose coagulopathy early and facilitate goal-directed transfusion. This review explores current controversies and best practice in the diagnosis and management of major haemorrhage in trauma."}
{"id": "22008904", "title": "Severe factor X deficiency in three unrelated Palestinian patients is caused by homozygosity for the mutation c302delG-correlation with thrombin generation and thromboelastometry.", "content": "Severe factor X deficiency in three unrelated Palestinian patients is caused by homozygosity for the mutation c302delG-correlation with thrombin generation and thromboelastometry. Factor X (FX) is one of the vitamin K-dependent serine proteases, which forms the prothrombinase complex converting prothrombin into thrombin. To search for mutations in F10 gene giving rise to severe FX deficiency and to study the contribution of thrombin generation and thromboelastometry as a tool for evaluation of hemostasis. Mutations in the F10 gene were sought by direct sequencing of all the eight exons and intron/exon boundaries. Thrombin generation and thromboelastometry were performed. Three unrelated Palestinian patients had undetectable FX level (<1\u200aU/dl). All patients were found to be homozygous for c302delG, a new frameshift mutation in the F10 gene causing a stop codon at amino acid 73. The mutant allele was not detected among 152 Palestinians analyzed. Thrombin generation was examined in one of the patients 4 days after fresh frozen plasma was applied, when his FX level was 2\u200aU/dl. Minute thrombin generation was observed, as compared to normal thrombin generation in heterozygotes for the mutation and a healthy control. Thromboelastometry revealed prolonged lag phase when patient's platelet-poor plasma and platelet-rich plasma were tested, with a slightly decreased initial clot formation rate, as compared to carriers' and control sample. Genetic analysis disclosed a unique mutation causing a severe phenotype. Thrombin generation assay may serve as a quick tool for confirming severe deficiency until the specific mutation is identified. Thrombin generation can also serve for monitoring and optimizing treatment. The correlation of thromboelastometry assay and severe FX deficiency is less striking."}
{"id": "21995153", "title": "Transdermal estrogen therapy effects on fibrinogen levels in women with a past history of venous thromboembolism: a pilot study.", "content": "Transdermal estrogen therapy effects on fibrinogen levels in women with a past history of venous thromboembolism: a pilot study. To evaluate thromboelastographic parameters and fibrinogen levels in women treated with transdermal 17beta estradiol. 29 menopausal women with a history of venous thromboembolic disease were included. Nine patients composed the treatment (HT) group and 20 the control group. Coagulation was assessed by thromboelastography in samples of whole blood and platelet-poor plasma (PPP). The following thromboelastographic variables were measured: time for initial coagulation (R), blood clotting speed (K and the alpha angle), clot tensile strength (MA and G), global index of coagulation (CI) and fibrinolysis (LY30) and fibrinogen levels. There were no differences in the other parameters comparing both groups. Fibrinogen levels showed a 13.77 +/- 19.94% reduction in the HT group and a 5.51 +/- 8.09% increase in the control group after 6 months. Our data suggested that transdermal estrogen may not increase blood coagulability, but that it reduces fibrinogen levels in HT women."}
{"id": "21989733", "title": "Influence of hydroxyethyl starch (HES) 130/0.4 on hemostasis as measured by viscoelastic device analysis: a systematic review.", "content": "Influence of hydroxyethyl starch (HES) 130/0.4 on hemostasis as measured by viscoelastic device analysis: a systematic review. Hydroxyethyl starch solutions (HES) are plasma volume expanders which affect hemostasis. Newer HES 130/0.4 is said to be safer. Reevaluation of published evidence is necessary after the recent retraction of studies. Systematic review of studies assessing HES 130/0.4 effects on hemostasis by thrombelastography (TEG, ROTEM) or Sonoclot (SCR) in comparison with crystalloid or albumin control fluids was performed. Only studies which provided statistical comparisons between study fluids were analyzed. Studies were divided into in vitro or in vivo hemodilution studies. We assessed study quality, HES effects which differed significantly from controls, values outside normal range, degree of hemodilution, and cumulative HES dose. Seventeen in vitro and seven in vivo hemodilution studies were analyzed. Four studies reported quality control measures. Nineteen studies (all 15 ROTEM studies, 3 of 5 in vitro TEG, and 1 of 2 SCR studies) showed a significant hypocoagulatory effect of HES 130/0.4 on clot formation, while clotting time was not uniformly affected. Three in vivo TEG studies with low HES doses or cancer patients found mixed or nonsignificant results. In studies which provided normal ranges (n = 9), more values were outside normal ranges in the HES than in the control groups (87/122 vs. 58/122, p < 0.001). Dose effects were apparent in the in vitro studies, which investigated higher dilutions up to 80%. In vivo studies were fewer and did not investigate doses >40 ml/kg. HES 130/0.4 administration results in a weaker and smaller clot. Until results from well-designed clinical trials are available, safer fluids should be chosen for patients with impaired coagulation."}
{"id": "21986393", "title": "Character traits of malodor patients.", "content": "Character traits of malodor patients. Many patients visit oral malodor clinics because of malodors which are brought to their attention by friends and family, or because they note the behavior of people around them, they suspect a problem and develop a fear of having an oral malodor. However, only around 30% of such patients actually have levels of malodor high enough to bother other people. Many patients exhibit halitophobia symptoms, which present as self-perception of malodor, and thus have a strong obsession about their smell which results in distress. Here, we carried out a study on 300 outpatients who visited the Tokyo Dental College Chiba Hospital Odor Clinic. We used the Tokyo University Egogram (TEG) to elucidate character traits of affected outpatients and compared the occurrence of TEG types in these patients with those of normal individuals. We discovered that 10.4% of patients were A-dominant type, which was 10.6% lower than the 21.0% of normal individuals. On the other hand, 18.4% of patients were N-type (NP high, FC low), which was 9.9% higher than the 8.5% of normal individuals. Results revealed that very few of the malodor outpatients exhibited the trait that shows intelligence, calm judgment, and self-affirmation, and as a result enjoy their life. Instead, many of these patients tended to show high levels of kindness and appeared to be holding themselves back and exercising patience."}
{"id": "21970887", "title": "First-line therapy with coagulation factor concentrates combined with point-of-care coagulation testing is associated with decreased allogeneic blood transfusion in cardiovascular surgery: a retrospective, single-center cohort study.", "content": "First-line therapy with coagulation factor concentrates combined with point-of-care coagulation testing is associated with decreased allogeneic blood transfusion in cardiovascular surgery: a retrospective, single-center cohort study. Blood transfusion is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. We developed and implemented an algorithm for coagulation management in cardiovascular surgery based on first-line administration of coagulation factor concentrates combined with point-of-care thromboelastometry/impedance aggregometry. In a retrospective cohort study including 3,865 patients, we analyzed the incidence of intraoperative allogeneic blood transfusions (primary endpoints) before and after algorithm implementation. Following algorithm implementation, the incidence of any allogeneic blood transfusion (52.5 vs. 42.2%; P < 0.0001), packed red blood cells (49.7 vs. 40.4%; P < 0.0001), and fresh frozen plasma (19.4 vs. 1.1%; P < 0.0001) decreased, whereas platelet transfusion increased (10.1 vs. 13.0%; P = 0.0041). Yearly transfusion of packed red blood cells (3,276 vs. 2,959 units; P < 0.0001) and fresh frozen plasma (1986 vs. 102 units; P < 0.0001) decreased, as did the median number of packed red blood cells and fresh frozen plasma per patient. The incidence of fibrinogen concentrate (3.73 vs. 10.01%; P < 0.0001) and prothrombin complex concentrate administration (4.42 vs. 8.9%; P < 0.0001) increased, as did their amount administered per year (179 vs. 702 g; P = 0.0008 and 162 \u00d7 10\u00b3 U vs. 388 \u00d7 10\u00b3 U; P = 0.0184, respectively). Despite a switch from aprotinin to tranexamic acid, an increase in use of dual antiplatelet therapy (2.7 vs. 13.7%; P < 0.0001), patients' age, proportion of females, emergency cases, and more complex surgery, the incidence of massive transfusion [(\u226510 units packed red blood cells), (2.5 vs. 1.26%; P = 0.0057)] and unplanned reexploration (4.19 vs. 2.24%; P = 0.0007) decreased. Composite thrombotic/thromboembolic events (3.19 vs. 1.77%; P = 0.0115) decreased, but in-hospital mortality did not change (5.24 vs. 5.22%; P = 0.98). First-line administration of coagulation factor concentrates combined with point-of-care testing was associated with decreased incidence of blood transfusion and thrombotic/thromboembolic events."}
{"id": "21970128", "title": "Markers of coagulation activation after hepatic resection for cancer: evidence of sustained upregulation of coagulation.", "content": "Markers of coagulation activation after hepatic resection for cancer: evidence of sustained upregulation of coagulation. We investigated the possibility that despite postoperative derangements of routine laboratory coagulation tests, markers of coagulation activation and thrombin generation would be normal or increased in patients undergoing hepatic resection for cancer In addition to the conventional coagulation tests prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time, we measured select markers of coagulation activation prothrombin fragments 1 and 2 (PF1 + 2), thrombin-antithrombin complexes and plasma von Willebrand Factor antigen in 21 patients undergoing hepatic resection. The impact of hepatic resection on coagulation and fibrinolysis was studied with thromboelastography. Preoperatively, routine laboratory coagulation and liver function tests were normal in all patients. On the first postoperative day, prothrombin time was prolonged (range 16 to 22 seconds) in eight patients (38%). For these patients, thromboelastography was normal in six (75%), PF1 + 2 was elevated in four (50%), and thrombin-antithrombin complexes and von Willebrand Factor antigen were elevated in all, which was evidence of acute phase reaction, sustained coagulation factor turnover and activation. By the fifth postoperative day, despite normalisation of prothrombin time, markers of increased coagulation activity remained greater than 85% of baseline values. The findings indicate that in patients undergoing liver resection for cancer, there is significant and prolonged postoperative activation of the haemostatic system despite routine coagulation tests being normal or even prolonged. Before considering therapeutic interventions an integrated approach to interpreting haematological data with clinical correlation is essential."}
{"id": "21970124", "title": "Hypocoagulability, hypercoagulability and the interpretation of 'normal' kaolin-activated thrombelastographs in the perioperative period.", "content": "Hypocoagulability, hypercoagulability and the interpretation of 'normal' kaolin-activated thrombelastographs in the perioperative period."}
{"id": "21962085", "title": "Tethered bilayer lipid membranes on mixed self-assembled monolayers of a novel anchoring thiol: impact of the anchoring thiol density on bilayer formation.", "content": "Tethered bilayer lipid membranes on mixed self-assembled monolayers of a novel anchoring thiol: impact of the anchoring thiol density on bilayer formation. Tethered bilayer lipid membranes (tBLMs) are designed on mixed self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) of a novel synthetic anchoring thiol, 2,3-di-o-palmitoylglycerol-1-tetraethylene glycol mercaptopropanoic acid ester (TEG-DP), and a new short dilution thiol molecule, tetraethylene glycol mercaptopropanoic acid ester (TEG). tBLM formation was accomplished by self-directed fusion of small unilamellar vesicles of 1-palmitoyl-2-oleoyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine. The influence of the dilution of the anchoring thiol molecule in the SAM on the vesicle fusion process and on the properties of the resulting tBLMs is studied. It is observed by quartz crystal microbalance that vesicle fusion is a one-step process for a pure TEG-DP SAM as well as for mixed SAMs containing a high concentration of the anchoring thiol. However, upon dilution of the anchoring thiol to moderate concentrations, this process is decelerated and possibly follows a pathway different from that observed on a pure TEG-DP SAM. Electrochemical impedance spectroscopy is used to qualitatively correlate the composition of the SAM to the electrical properties of the tBLM. In this paper we also delineate the necessity of a critical concentration of this anchoring TEG-DP thiol as a requisite for inducing the fusion of vesicles to form a tBLM."}
{"id": "21961488", "title": "Lepirudin dose-dependently increases thrombelastography parameters at therapeutic plasma concentrations as measured with ROTEM\u00ae - a pilot study.", "content": "Lepirudin dose-dependently increases thrombelastography parameters at therapeutic plasma concentrations as measured with ROTEM\u00ae - a pilot study. The aim of this in-vitro pilot study was to assess the usefulness of the thrombelastograph ROTEM\u00ae for determining the anticoagulant activity of lepirudin. The ROTEM\u00ae parameters, clotting-time, clot formation time and maximum clot firmness were measured in the presence of increasing concentrations of lepirudin (10-4 \u03bcg/ml - 10 \u03bcg/ml). Citrated blood was obtained from 16 healthy male subjects. Clotting-time increased from 79.1 \u00b1 53.4 s at baseline to 194.1 \u00b1 151.9 s at a drug concentration of 1\u03bcg/ml as measured with EXTEM (p < 0.0001). Borderline significance was found for the difference between maximum clot firmness at baseline (60.2 \u00b1 4.3 mm) and after drug application (55.5 \u00b1 6.5 mm). This pilot investigation shows that the ROTEM\u00ae device may be suitable for monitoring lepirudin at low concentrations but the results should be confirmed in a larger study and the ROTEM\u00ae device validated against standard methods."}
{"id": "21961337", "title": "[Therapy of acute massive blood loss in a hemophilic patient: case report].", "content": "[Therapy of acute massive blood loss in a hemophilic patient: case report]. A case is reported of management of massive intraoperative blood loss in a male patient with severe hemophilia. Extirpation of hip pseudotumor with one-stage osteosynthesis with an intramedullary joint-pin in a 43 year old male patient was accompanied with 7.5 l blood loss. The infusion-transfusion therapy (ITT) contained transfusion media about 1/3 of the total volume, fresh-frozen plasma and erythrocyte-containing media were used 1:1. Infusion solutions consisted of balanced polyelectrolytic solutions, hydroxyethylated starches 130/0.4, hyperchaes. Intraoperative normovolemic hemodilution and reinfusion of wound blood were made (CellSaver). ITT target markers were standard hemodynamics control tests. Hemostasis monitoring was conducted with thromboelastography. Complex ITT based on modern principles of clinical transfusiology provided a complete and safe compensation of massive intraoperative blood loss in a patient with severe hemophilia."}
{"id": "21959490", "title": "Review of \"primary fibrinolysis is integral in the pathogenesis of the acute coagulopathy of trauma\".", "content": "Review of \"primary fibrinolysis is integral in the pathogenesis of the acute coagulopathy of trauma\"."}
{"id": "21957617", "title": "[Thromboelastography as a method for preoperative assessment of hemostasis state in neurosurgical patients on long term aspirin therapy].", "content": "[Thromboelastography as a method for preoperative assessment of hemostasis state in neurosurgical patients on long term aspirin therapy]. The hemostasis state was assessed by routine tests and TEG in 169 patients on long term aspirin therapy. According to TEG results all the patients were divided into three groups: normo-, hypo- and hypercoagulation. The aspirin therapy was interrupted in normo- and hypercoagulation groups, but the surgery was not postponed. In cases of hypocoagulation the aspirin therapy was also interrupted and the surgery was postponed for 3-5 days until TEG results normalized. Also the frequency of intracranial hemorrhagic complications was analyzed in every group. The results showed that despite the method used the hypocoagulation group had the highest rate of postoperative hemorrhage complications. Thromboelastography enables to assess hemostasis state in neurosurgical patients on long term aspirin therapy promptly and effectively."}
{"id": "21955460", "title": "Reduced clot strength upon admission, evaluated by thrombelastography (TEG), in trauma patients is independently associated with increased 30-day mortality.", "content": "Reduced clot strength upon admission, evaluated by thrombelastography (TEG), in trauma patients is independently associated with increased 30-day mortality. Exsanguination due to uncontrolled bleeding is the leading cause of potentially preventable deaths among trauma patients. About one third of trauma patients present with coagulopathy on admission, which is associated with increased mortality and will aggravate bleeding in a traumatized patient. Thrombelastographic (TEG) clot strength has previously been shown to predict outcome in critically ill patients. The aim of the present study was to investigate this relation in the trauma setting. A retrospective study of trauma patients with an injury severity qualifying them for inclusion in the European Trauma Audit and Research Network (TARN) and a TEG analysis performed upon arrival at the trauma centre. Eighty-nine patients were included. The mean Injury Severity Score (ISS) was 21 with a 30-day mortality of 17%. Patients with a reduced clot strength (maximal amplitude < 50 mm) evaluated by TEG, presented with a higher ISS 27 (95% CI, 20-34) vs. 19 (95% CI, 17-22), p = 0.006 than the rest of the cohort. Clot strength correlated with the amount of packed red blood cells (p = 0.01), fresh frozen plasma (p = 0.04) and platelet concentrates (p = 0.03) transfused during the first 24 hours of admission. Patients with low clot strength demonstrated increased 30-day mortality (47% vs. 10%, p < 0.001). By logistic regression analysis reduced clot strength was an independent predictor of increased mortality after adjusting for age and ISS. Low clot strength upon admission is independently associated with increased 30-day mortality in trauma patients and it could be speculated that targeted interventions based on the result of the TEG analysis may improve patient outcome. Prospective randomized trials investigating this potential are highly warranted."}
{"id": "21947241", "title": "Interactions between residues 2228-2240 within factor VIIIa C2 domain and factor IXa Gla domain contribute to propagation of clot formation.", "content": "Interactions between residues 2228-2240 within factor VIIIa C2 domain and factor IXa Gla domain contribute to propagation of clot formation. Factor (F)VIII functions as a cofactor in the tenase complex responsible for phospholipid (PL)-dependent FXa generation by FIXa. We have recently reported that the FVIIIa C2 domain (residues 2228-2240) interacts with the FIXa Gla domain in this complex. We examined the role of this interaction in the generation of tenase activity during the process of clot formation, using a synthetic peptide corresponding to residues 2228-2240. The peptide 2228-2240 inhibited FVIIIa/FIXa-mediated FX activation dose-dependently in the presence of PL by >95% (IC50; ~10 \u03bcM). This effect was significantly greater than that obtained by peptide 1804-1818 (IC50; ~180 \u03bcM) which corresponds to another FIXa-interactive site in the light chain that provides the majority of binding energy for FIXa interaction. Peptide 2228-2240 had little effect on the prothrombin time and did not inhibit FIX activation in the coagulation process mediated by FVIIa/tissue factor or FXIa, suggesting specific inhibition of the intrinsic tenase complex. Clot waveform analysis, a plasma based-assay used to evaluate the process of intrinsic coagulation, demonstrated that peptide 2228-2240 significantly depressed both maximum coagulation velocity (|min1|) and acceleration (|min2|), reflecting the propagation of clot formation, although the clotting time was only marginally prolonged. Thromboelastography, an alternative whole blood based-assay, demonstrated that the peptide inhibited clot formation time, \u03b1-angle and maximal clot firmness, but had little effect on the clotting time. Interactions of the FVIIIa C2 domain (residues 2228-2240) with the FIXa Gla domain in the tenase complex appeared to contribute essentially to the propagation of clot formation."}
{"id": "21942848", "title": "Thromboelastometric (ROTEM) findings in patients suffering from isolated severe traumatic brain injury.", "content": "Thromboelastometric (ROTEM) findings in patients suffering from isolated severe traumatic brain injury. Severe traumatic brain injury (sTBI) is often accompanied by coagulopathy and an increased risk of bleeding. To identify and successfully treat bleeding disorders associated with sTBI, rapid assessment of coagulation status is crucial. This retrospective study was designed to assess the potential role of whole-blood thromboelastometry (ROTEM(\u00ae), Tem International, Munich, Germany) in patients with isolated sTBI (abbreviated injury scale [AIS](head) \u22653 and AIS(extracranial) <3). Blood samples were obtained immediately following admission to the emergency room of the Trauma Centre Salzburg in Austria. ROTEM analysis (EXTEM, INTEM, and FIBTEM tests) and standard laboratory coagulation tests (prothrombin time index [PTI, percentage of normal prothrombin time], activated partial thromboplastin time [aPTT], fibrinogen concentration, and platelet count) were compared between survivors and non-survivors. Out of 88 patients with sTBI enrolled in the study, 66 survived and 22 died. PTI, fibrinogen, and platelet count were significantly higher in survivors (p<0.005). Accordingly, aPTT was shorter in this group (p<0.0001). ROTEM analysis revealed shorter clotting times in extrinsically activated thromboelastometric test (EXTEM) and intrinsically activated thromboelastometric test (INTEM) (p<0.001), shorter clot formation times in EXTEM and INTEM (p<0.0001), and higher maximum clot firmness in EXTEM, INTEM, and FIBTEM (p<0.01) in survivors compared with non-survivors. Logistic regression analysis revealed extrinsically activated thromboelastometric test with cytochalasin D (FIBTEM) MCF and aPTT to have the best predictive value for mortality. According to the degree of coagulopathy, non-survivors received more RBC (p=0.016), fibrinogen concentrate (p=0.01), and prothrombin complex concentrate (p<0.001) within 24\u2009h of arrival in the emergency room. ROTEM testing appeared to offer an early signal of severe life-threatening sTBI. Further studies are warranted to confirm these results and to investigate the role of ROTEM in guiding coagulation therapy."}
{"id": "21918164", "title": "Hyperfibrinolysis diagnosed by rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) is associated with higher mortality in patients with severe trauma.", "content": "Hyperfibrinolysis diagnosed by rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) is associated with higher mortality in patients with severe trauma. We investigated whether hyperfibrinolysis and its severity was associated with outcome of traumatized and nontraumatized patients. From April 2008 to April 2010, all emergency patients with hyperfibrinolysis were enrolled in this study. Hyperfibrinolysis patients were divided into traumatized (trauma hyperfibrinolysis group) and nontraumatized (nontrauma hyperfibrinolysis group). The trauma hyperfibrinolysis group was matched with 24 polytrauma patients without hyperfibrinolysis (matched trauma group). Data from rotational thromboelastometry measurements, blood gas analysis (metabolic state), laboratory analysis, injury severity score, and 30-day mortality were collected. Thirty-five patients with hyperfibrinolysis were identified (13 traumatized, 22 nontraumatized). Overall mortality for hyperfibrinolysis was 54%. Mortality in the trauma hyperfibrinolysis group (77%\u00b112%) was significantly higher than in the nontrauma hyperfibrinolysis group (41%\u00b110%; P=0.001, 95% CI 5%-67%) and the matched trauma group (33%\u00b110%; P=0.009, 95% CI 13%-74%). Hyperfibrinolysis is significantly (P=0.017) associated with mortality in trauma patients. In the blood gas analysis representing the metabolic state, only pH (P=0.02) and potassium (P=0.01) were significantly lower in the trauma hyperfibrinolysis group compared to the nontrauma hyperfibrinolysis group. Mortality from hyperfibrinolysis is significantly higher in trauma compared with nontrauma patients, and hyperfibrinolysis is an independent factor predicting mortality in trauma patients. Rotational thromboelastometry provides real-time recognition of hyperfibrinolysis allowing early treatment."}
{"id": "21907567", "title": "Management of a parturient with TAR syndrome during caesarean section and the use of thromboelastography.", "content": "Management of a parturient with TAR syndrome during caesarean section and the use of thromboelastography."}
{"id": "21901227", "title": "Prothrombin complex concentrate reduces blood loss and enhances thrombin generation in a pig model with blunt liver injury under severe hypothermia.", "content": "Prothrombin complex concentrate reduces blood loss and enhances thrombin generation in a pig model with blunt liver injury under severe hypothermia. Although prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC) is increasingly used for the treatment of trauma-induced coagulopathy, few studies have investigated the impact and safety of PCC for this indication. The present study was performed to assess PCC for treatment of coagulopathy after blunt liver injury under severe hypothermia. Coagulopathy in 14 anaesthetised pigs was induced by haemodilution. Subsequently, standardised blunt liver injury was induced under severe hypothermia (32.8-33.2\u00b0C). Animals were randomised to receive either PCC (35 IU kg\u207b\u00b9) or saline (control). Coagulation was assessed over the following 2 hours by thromboelastometry and thrombin generation. Internal organs were examined to determine presence of emboli. The administration of PCC showed a significant reduction in blood loss (p=0.002 vs. controls) and a significant increase in the rate of survival (p=0.022 vs. controls). Plasma thrombin generation in the PCC group increased considerably above baseline levels, with significant increases in peak thrombin levels and endogenous thrombin potential versus controls throughout the follow-up period. In addition, PT decreased significantly in the PCC group versus the control group. However, only slight improvements in thromboelastometry variables were observed. Histology showed an equal degree of liver injury in both groups, and no thromboembolism. In severely hypothermic pigs, the application of PCC corrected trauma-induced coagulopathy and reduced blood loss. Thus, the infusion of PCC might be a reasonable approach to reduce the need for blood cell transfusion in trauma. Furthermore, the impact and safety of PCC application can be monitored through thrombin generation and thromboelastometry under hypothermia."}
{"id": "21893014", "title": "Evidence based evaluation of immuno-coagulatory interventions in critical care.", "content": "Evidence based evaluation of immuno-coagulatory interventions in critical care. Cochrane systematic reviews with meta-analyses of randomised trials provide guidance for clinical practice and health-care decision-making. In case of disagreements between research evidence and clinical practice, high quality systematic reviews can facilitate implementation or deimplementation of medical interventions into clinical practice. This applies especially to treatment of critically ill patients where interventions are most often costly and the clinical conditions are associated with high mortality. To assess the potential benefits or harms of 1) antithrombin III (AT III) for critically ill patients; 2) inhaled nitric oxide (INO) for acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and acute lung injury (ALI); 3) aerosolized prostacyclin for ARDS and ALI; 4) thrombelastography (TEG) or thromboelastometry (ROTEM) to monitor haemotherapy versus usual care in patients with massive transfusion. We performed four systematic reviews of relevant randomised clinical trials. To quantify the estimated effect of various interventions, we conducted meta-analyses, where appropriate, to determine intervention effects using the Cochrane Collaboration methodology, trial sequential analyses (TSA), the GRADE, and the PRISMA-guidelines when conducting our systematic reviews. All reviews were performed according to published protocols following the recommendations of the Cochrane Handbook for systematic reviews of interventions. We performed multiple subgroup and sensitivity analyses with regard to methodological quality and various clinical outcomes. Trials were identified through Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE Science Citation Index-Expanded, The Chinese Biomedical Database and LILACS. We included all randomized clinical trials. We hand-searched reference lists, reviews, and contacted authors and experts for additional trials. We searched ClinicalTrials.gov, Centre Watch Clinical Trials Listing Service and ControlledTrials.com for missed, unreported, or ongoing trials. We screened bibliographies of relevant articles and conference proceedings and wrote to trialists and pharmaceutical companies producing the drugs in question. Four systematic reviews included a total of 44 trials with 5,551 patients. Only 15 of the trials were classified as trials with low risk of bias (high methodological quality) regarding generation of the allocation sequence, allocation concealment, blinding, follow-up and other types of bias. 1) Compared with placebo or no intervention, AT III did not significantly affect overall mortality (relative risk (RR) 0.96, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.89 to 1.03). No subgroup analyses on risk of bias, populations of patients, or with and without adjuvant heparin yielded significant results. AT III significantly increased the risk of bleeding events (RR 1.52, 95% CI 1.30 to 1.78). 2) INO showed no statistically significant effect on overall mortality (RR 1.06, 95% CI 0.93 to 1.22) and in several subgroup and sensitivity analyses, indicating robust results. Limited data demonstrated no effect of INO on duration of ventilation, ventilator-free days, and length of stay in the intensive care unit and hospital. We found a statistically significant, but transient improvement in oxygenation in the first 24 hours, expressed as the ratio of PO2 to fraction of inspired oxygen (mean difference (MD) 15.91, 95% CI 8.25 to 23.56). However, INO appears to significantly increase the risk of renal impairment among adults (RR 1.59, 95% CI 1.17 to 2.16) but did not significantly affect the risk of bleeding or methaemoglobin or nitrogen dioxide formation. 3) We found only one small low risk of bias paediatric trial examining the role of aerosolized prostacyclin in ALI or ARDS. Based on this limited amount of data, we were unable to support or refute the routine use of this intervention in ALI or ARDS. 4) Compared with standard treatment, TEG or ROTEM showed no statistically significant effect on overall mortality (RR 0.77, 95% CI 0.35 to 1.72) but only five trials provided data on mortality. Our analyses demonstrated a statistically significant effect of TEG or ROTEM on the amount of bleeding (MD -85.05 ml, 95% CI -140.68 to -29.42) but failed to show any statistically significant effect on other predefined outcomes. However, whether this reduction has implication for the patient's clinical condition is still uncertain. We did not find reliable evidence to support the clinical use of the assessed immuno-coagulatory interventions for general use in critical care based on the available evidence. A large proportion of the trials had serious methodological shortcomings, small number of patients, and short trial duration. The sparse data provided in the included trials may be or may not be promising but is not necessarily evidence of absence of a beneficial or harmful effect, because many of the outcome measures have not been adequately addressed so far. There is an urgent need for several randomised clinical trials with low risk of bias and low risk of random error to evaluate the use of the assessed interventions."}
{"id": "21890888", "title": "Reversal of clopidogrel-induced bleeding with rFVIIa in healthy subjects: a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, exploratory study.", "content": "Reversal of clopidogrel-induced bleeding with rFVIIa in healthy subjects: a randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, exploratory study. Clopidogrel (Plavix\u00ae) therapy, although effective for minimizing risk of thrombotic events, is also associated with potential bleeding risk. Recombinant activated FVII (rFVIIa, NovoSeven\u00ae) induces hemostasis in hemophilia patients with inhibitors (alloantibodies) and has been proposed as potential treatment for mitigating clopidogrel therapy-mediated bleeding. In this single-center, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, dose-escalation, exploratory phase I trial, we assessed the safety and effects of rFVIIa in reversing clopidogrel-enhanced bleeding in an experimentally induced punch biopsy in healthy subjects. Efficacy assessments included the reversal of bleeding characteristics (bleed duration [BD], the primary end point and blood loss volume [BV] induced by punch biopsy, and thromboelastograph [TEG\u00ae] parameters) with rFVIIa or placebo after clopidogrel treatment. A significant number of subjects (56%) had limited response to clopidogrel (defined as \u226430% platelet aggregation inhibition) and were discontinued from study. The remaining subjects continued and had 4 biopsies. Of 40 subjects randomized, 37 were evaluated for efficacy. Clopidogrel treatment increased BD and BV compared with the baseline biopsy. Recombinant FVIIa (10 and 20 \u03bcg/kg) significantly mitigated the clopidogrel-induced effects on BV (P = 0.007 and P = 0.001, respectively). Early trial termination limited the evaluation of effects of higher rFVIIa doses. Subgroup analyses of subjects biopsied by the same physician demonstrated significant reduction of clopidogrel-induced BD with 20 \u03bcg/kg rFVIIa (P = 0.048). Ex vivo analysis of rFVIIa demonstrated clotting dynamics presented by parameters time to clot onset (TEG\u00ae-R) and clot angle (TEG\u00ae-A) (P < 0.005). In this clinical study, rFVIIa (10 and 20 \u03bcg/kg) reversed the effect of clopidogrel on blood loss."}
{"id": "21883380", "title": "Dalteparin dose-dependently increases ROTEM(\u00ae) thrombelastography parameters only at supratherapeutic anti-factor Xa levels: an in vitro study.", "content": "Dalteparin dose-dependently increases ROTEM(\u00ae) thrombelastography parameters only at supratherapeutic anti-factor Xa levels: an in vitro study. 1. The low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) dalteparin is used, for example, to prevent primary venous thromboembolism in patients undergoing surgery or in medically ill patients. The anticoagulant activity of dalteparin can be monitored by measuring anti-factor Xa levels and activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT); however, aPTT is an unreliable parameter in this case. The aim of the present in vitro study was to evaluate the thrombelastograph ROTEM(\u00ae) (Tem International, Munich, Germany) with respect to determining the anticoagulant activity of dalteparin at therapeutic and supratherapeutic plasma concentrations. 2. The ROTEM(\u00ae) parameters, namely coagulation time (CT), clot formation time (CFT) and maximum clot firmness (MCF), were measured using the reagents EXTEM and INTEM (Pentapharm, Munich, Germany) at increasing concentrations of dalteparin (0.01-10 \u03bcg/mL, which corresponded to anti-factor Xa levels of 1-1000 U/mL, respectively). 3. The mean CT measured using EXTEM was found to increase from 65.4 \u00b1 27.9 s at baseline to 173.3 \u00b1 112.2 s and 332.2 \u00b1 200.7 s at drug concentrations of 1 and 10 \u03bcg/mL, respectively (P\u2003<\u20030.0001 for both). Moreover, the mean CFT value (EXTEM) increased from 97.7 \u00b1 21.5 s at baseline to 187.6 \u00b1 115.2 s (P\u2003=\u20030.0001) at a drug concentration of 10\u2003\u03bcg/mL, which is greater than the therapeutic anti-factor Xa concentrations for LMWH. The results obtained when INTEM was used as the reagent were similar to those obtained using EXTEM. 4. In conclusion, the results indicate that the thrombelastograph ROTEM(\u00ae) can detect the anticoagulant effects of dalteparin only at supratherapeutic levels of anti-factor Xa."}
{"id": "21848180", "title": "A technique for autologous priming of the veno-venous bypass circuit during liver transplantation.", "content": "A technique for autologous priming of the veno-venous bypass circuit during liver transplantation. Orthotopic liver transplantations (OLT) have been associated with significant blood loss and hemodilution, necessitating significant homologous blood component replacement. Increasing administration of homologous blood products has been found to be inversely related to patient and graft survival. Various methods to reduce the amount of blood products patients receive during OLT, such as antifibrinolytic therapy, thromboelastography-guided transfusion, phlebotomy, reduced central venous pressures intraoperatively, and the use of the veno-venous bypass (VVB) circuit, have been explored.The asanguineous priming volume of the VVB circuit increases the likelihood of the patient receiving homologous blood products due to hemodilution. It was reasoned that autologous priming of the VVB circuit in OLT surgery was a plausible adjunctive blood conservation technique given its application to the extracorporeal circuit during cardiac surgery. We describe our technique of modifying the VVB circuit for autologous priming. This technique adds minimal risk and a small amount of cost to the procedure, requires slightly more communication among members of the surgical team, and with proper sequencing, adds no additional length to the surgical procedure. It is recommended that this technique be considered for addition to the arsenal of blood conservation techniques when VVB is used during OLT."}
{"id": "21848174", "title": "Severe thrombotic and bleeding complications in a baby with heterozygous factor V Leiden and acquired von Willebrand disease on ECMO.", "content": "Severe thrombotic and bleeding complications in a baby with heterozygous factor V Leiden and acquired von Willebrand disease on ECMO. We aim to present the case of a 5-week-old girl with severe respiratory failure placed on veno-venous extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) that was then switched to veno-arterial ECMO. She required up to 60 units/kg/hr of heparin to keep her heparin level within the target range at .3-.7 units/mL. During the ECMO course, substantial thrombus formation was observed within the venous site of the ECMO cannula, which led to two circuit changes on ECMO day 9 and day 20. On ECMO day 15, she was noticed to have purpuric lesions on her chest and her right hand with no obvious arterial or venous clot detected by Doppler ultrasound. She was also noted to have remarkable hemolysis as the plasma free hemoglobin levels were substantially elevated up to 700 mg/dL. She was noted to have continuous oozing from the catheter insertion sites despite adequate underlying coagulation status. Her subsequent platelet function analysis, the thromboelastography, and thromboelastography platelet mapping suggested substantial platelet dysfunction. Her von Willebrand panel revealed absence of high molecular weight multimers. Further coagulation workup was prompted which revealed heterozygosity for factor V Leiden. The patient developed severe pulmonary hemorrhages and ECMO was discontinued on day 40."}
{"id": "21840203", "title": "Monitoring transfusion requirements in major obstetric haemorrhage: out with the old and in with the new?", "content": "Monitoring transfusion requirements in major obstetric haemorrhage: out with the old and in with the new?"}
{"id": "21839631", "title": "The use of thromboelastography for the peripartum management of a patient with platelet storage pool disorder.", "content": "The use of thromboelastography for the peripartum management of a patient with platelet storage pool disorder."}
{"id": "21835606", "title": "Assessment of coagulation in the obstetric population using ROTEM\u00ae thromboelastometry.", "content": "Assessment of coagulation in the obstetric population using ROTEM\u00ae thromboelastometry. Assessment of maternal coagulation to determine suitability for neuraxial anaesthesia and management of obstetric haemorrhage remains a challenge. Thromboelastography provides point of care patient assessment of the viscoelastic properties of whole blood clotting and can assist the clinician in haemostatic decision-making. The study aim was to determine the ROTEM\u00ae thromboelastometer 95% reference limits for third trimester parturients and to compare these with non-pregnant female controls. Following ethics committee approval and informed consent, citrated blood was sampled from 120 age-matched healthy pregnant and non-pregnant women. Thromboelastometry, using a ROTEM\u00ae point of care monitor, was performed with specific activators to measure the coagulation time (CT), clot formation time (CFT) and the maximal clot firmness (MCF) in order to evaluate the extrinsic (EXTEM\u00ae test) and intrinsic (INTEM\u00ae test) coagulation systems, as well as the fibrinogen contribution to coagulation (FIBTEM\u00ae test). After exclusions, data from 54 subjects in each group were analysed. Parturients had significantly lower haemoglobin values and platelet counts (P<0.01). Despite this, thromboelastometry exhibited significantly lower INTEM\u00ae CT (7.3%), INTEM\u00ae CFT (11.1%) and EXTEM\u00ae CFT (18.0%) in the pregnant group (P<0.001). MCF values were significantly higher (INTEM\u00ae (10.9%), EXTEM\u00ae (10.6%) and FIBTEM\u00ae (47.1%)) in the pregnant group compared to the non-pregnant group (P<0.0001). ROTEM\u00ae thromboelastometry clearly demonstrates the hypercoagulability of pregnancy. Formal reference ranges for ROTEM\u00ae that may be potentially useful in the haemostatic management of the parturient are presented."}
{"id": "21833443", "title": "Monitoring low dose recombinant factor VIIa therapy in patients with severe factor XI deficiency undergoing surgery.", "content": "Monitoring low dose recombinant factor VIIa therapy in patients with severe factor XI deficiency undergoing surgery. Although factor XI (FXI) concentrate is an effective replacement therapy in severe FXI deficiency without inhibitors, some patients are unwilling to receive it because it is plasma-derived. We report on the use and monitoring of low dose, recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa, NovoSeven\u00ae), to cover surgery (caesarean section, cholecystectomy and abdominoplasty) in four female patients (FXI:C 2-4 IU/dl, aged 32-51 years) who wished to avoid exposure to plasma. None of our patients had inhibitors to FXI. Our aim was to find the optimal dose of rFVIIa by in vitro spiking of patient samples and to correlate this with the response to rFVIIa in vivo . Prior to surgery, venous blood was collected into sodium citrate with corn trypsin inhibitor and spiked with 0.25-1.0 \u03bcg/ml rFVIIa in vitro , equivalent to a 15-70 \u03bcg/kg dose of rFVIIa in vivo . Analysis using thromboelastometry and thrombin generation assays, triggered with tissue factor, showed that the thrombin generation assay was insufficiently sensitive to the haemostatic defect in these patients. A concentration of 0.5 \u03bcg/ml was as effective as 1.0 \u03bcg/ml FVIIa in normalising thromboelastometry in vitro in all four patients. Therefore, patients received 15-30 \u03bcg/kg rFVIIa at 2-4 hourly intervals with tranexamic acid 1g every six hours. Post treatment samples were taken at 10-240 minutes and showed initial normalisation of thromboelastometry with gradual return to baseline after 2-4 hours. In conclusion, low-dose rFVIIa therapy was successfully used in four patients with severe FXI deficiency undergoing surgery to prevent bleeding and can be monitored using thromboelastometry."}
{"id": "21825945", "title": "Rapid thrombelastography delivers real-time results that predict transfusion within 1 hour of admission.", "content": "Rapid thrombelastography delivers real-time results that predict transfusion within 1 hour of admission. Recognition of trauma-induced coagulopathy by conventional coagulation testing (CCT) is limited by their slow results, incomplete characterization, and their poor predictive nature. Rapid thrombelastography (r-TEG) delivers a more comprehensive assessment of the coagulation system but has not been prospectively validated in trauma patients. The purpose of this pilot study was to evaluate the timeliness of r-TEG results, their correlation with CCTs, and the ability of r-TEG to predict early blood transfusion. Over a 5-month period, 583 consecutive major trauma activations were prospectively entered into a database, of which 272 met entry criteria. r-TEG and CCTs (prothrombin time, international normalized ratio, partial thromboplastin time, and platelet count) were obtained on all patients. Graphical results for r-TEG were displayed \"real time\" in the trauma bay. Spearman's correlation and regression models were used to compare r-TEG and CCTs. Early r-TEG values (activated clotting time [ACT], k-time, and r-value) were available within 5 minutes, late r-TEG values (maximal amplitude and \u03b1-angle) within 15 minutes, and CCTs within 48 minutes (p < 0.001). ACT, r-value, and k-time showed strong correlation with prothrombin time, international normalized ratio, and partial thromboplastin time (all r >0.70; p < 0.001), whereas maximal amplitude (r = -0.49) and \u03b1-angle (r = 0.40) correlated with platelet count (both p < 0.001). Linear regression demonstrated ACT predicted red blood cells (coef. 0.05; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.04-0.06; p < 0.001), plasma (coef. 0.03; 95% CI, 0.02-0.04; p < 0.001), and platelet (coef. 0.06; 95% CI, 0.04-0.07; p < 0.001) transfusions within the first 2 hours of arrival. Controlling for all demographics and Emergency Department vitals, ACT >128 predicted massive transfusion (\u226510 U) in the first 6 hours (odds ratio, 5.15; 95% CI, 1.36-19.49; p = 0.01). In addition, ACT <105 predicted patients who did not receive any transfusions in the first 24 hours (odds ratio, 2.80; CI, 1.02-7.07; p = 0.04). Graphical r-TEG results are available within minutes, correlate with conventional coagulation test that are not as rapidly available, and are predictive of early transfusions of packed red blood cells, plasma, and platelets."}
{"id": "21823408", "title": "Kaolin activated thromboelastography can result in false positive fibrinolytic trace.", "content": "Kaolin activated thromboelastography can result in false positive fibrinolytic trace."}
{"id": "21822127", "title": "Platelet-mediated thrombolysis in patients with \u03b4-storage pool deficiency: a thrombelastographic analysis.", "content": "Platelet-mediated thrombolysis in patients with \u03b4-storage pool deficiency: a thrombelastographic analysis. We present the first thrombelastographic descriptions of three patients with \u03b4-storage pool deficiency, a platelet disorder that involves a deficiency of dense granules and moderate bleeding. The patients demonstrated a 49-54% loss of platelet-mediated clot strength over a 1-2-h period after normal thrombus formation. This pattern persisted, with some attenuation of loss of strength following administration of epsilon aminocaproic acid, desmopressin and platelets for tonsillectomy. Assessment of platelet function in patients with platelet granule disorders can be accomplished with thrombelastographic methods in ambulatory and perioperative settings; however, the effects of therapy for this disorder cannot be monitored with thrombelastography without obtaining a blood sample prior to prophylactic hemostatic intervention."}
{"id": "21822126", "title": "Redox-based thrombelastographic method to detect carboxyhemefibrinogen-mediated hypercoagulability.", "content": "Redox-based thrombelastographic method to detect carboxyhemefibrinogen-mediated hypercoagulability. Cigarette smoking is associated with plasmatic hypercoagulability, and carbon monoxide has been demonstrated to enhance coagulation by binding to a fibrinogen-bound heme. Our objective was to design and test a redox-based method to detect carboxyhemefibrinogen. Normal, pooled, citrated plasma was exposed to 0-100\u200a \u03bcmol/l carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 (tricarbonyldichlororuthenium (II) dimer; CORM-2) before or after exposure to the organic reductant phenylhydroxylamine (PHA, 0-30\u200a mmol/l), a compound that rapidly converts Fe(+2) to Fe(+3) in heme. Addition of calcium and tissue factor activation in disposable thrombelastographic cups was performed, followed by data collection at 37\u00b0C for 15\u200a min. Elastic modulus (G, dynes/cm(2)) was the primary endpoint. CORM-2 significantly increased G values by 67.8% compared to unexposed plasma; pretreatment with 10\u200a mmol/l PHA significantly decreased G values in CORM-2-exposed plasma by 77.1%, whereas 30\u200a mmol/l PHA was required to significantly decrease G values by 64.0% in plasma following CORM-2 pre-exposure. G values were not significantly different between unexposed plasma and plasma exposed to CORM-2 followed by 30\u200a mmol/l PHA addition. Conversion of fibrinogen-bound to the metheme state alone decreased G by 34.3-38.9% following exposure to 10-30\u200a mmol/l PHA. Conversion of fibrinogen-bound heme Fe(+2) to Fe(+3) with PHA abrogated carbon monoxide-mediated increases in clot strength. Clinical trials are planned to investigate smoking individuals to mechanistically link carboxyhemefibrinogen formation with in-vitro hypercoagulability."}
{"id": "21822125", "title": "Intrarater and interrater variability of point of care coagulation testing using the ROTEM delta.", "content": "Intrarater and interrater variability of point of care coagulation testing using the ROTEM delta. This study aimed to assess intrarater and interrater variability of coagulation point-of-care testing (POCT) using ROTEM delta operated by trained staff. Arterial blood samples were taken from 43 anesthetized piglets aged up to 6 weeks and weighing 4-6 kg. The following clotting measurements were recorded: clotting time, clot formation time (CFT), maximum clot firmness (MCF) and alpha angle using ROTEM delta assays ExTEM, InTEM, FibTEM and ApTEM. Intrarater variability was assessed when a single operator performed the same assay simultaneously in all four channels of the ROTEM device. Interrater variability was assessed by two different operators simultaneously performing the same assay. Variance components of the data were analyzed using linear mixed modeling. Three hundred and forty-three tests from 86 samples were loaded and analyzed. The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) was more than 0.7 for clotting measurements except for CFT and alpha in InTEM. For intrarater and interrater assessment, different relative variability for the ROTEM measurements were found with consistently higher variability for clotting time and CFT and lower variability of MCF and alpha angle. Interrater variability was not statistically significant as supported using Akaike's information criterion. Piglet coagulation testing using ROTEM delta showed a high ICC. Variability was significantly lower in MCF and angle alpha compared with clotting time and CFT. No further variability was added by a second user. Based on these data, ROTEM delta appears to be suitable as POCT."}
{"id": "21817820", "title": "Effect of hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 on blood loss and coagulation in patients with recent exposure to dual antiplatelet therapy undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery.", "content": "Effect of hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 on blood loss and coagulation in patients with recent exposure to dual antiplatelet therapy undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solutions are often used for maintaining intravascular volume and improving microperfusion, while a large amount of HES can cause adverse effects on coagulation. As the indications for clopidogrel expand, an increasing number of patients undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery (OPCAB) are also undergoing dual antiplatelet therapy (DAPT), with its higher risk of bleeding complications. The aim of the present study was to determine whether a moderate dose of 6% HES 130/0.4 significantly increases perioperative blood loss in patients with continued DAPT within 5 days of OPCAB. Patients who received clopidogrel and aspirin within 5 days of OPCAB were randomly allocated to receive HES 130/0.4 (\u2264 30 ml/kg) followed by crystalloid infusion (HES group, n=53), or crystalloid only (crystalloid group, n=53) perioperatively. The amount of perioperative blood loss (sum of bleeding during the intraoperative and postoperative 24-h period), transfusion requirements, modified thromboelastography and coagulation variables, hemodynamic parameters, and fluid balance were recorded. Perioperative blood loss and coagulation profiles were similar between the groups, but the postoperative hemoglobin level was higher in the crystalloid group. Up to 30 ml\u00b7kg\u207b\u00b9\u00b7day\u207b\u00b9 of 6% HES 130/0.4 did not increase the perioperative blood loss compared to crystalloid in patients with recent exposure to DAPT undergoing OPCAB. HES 130/0.4 caused a similar degree and duration of coagulation impairment as observed when only crystalloid was given."}
{"id": "21814115", "title": "Poly-N-acetyl glucosamine fibers accelerate hemostasis in patients treated with antiplatelet drugs.", "content": "Poly-N-acetyl glucosamine fibers accelerate hemostasis in patients treated with antiplatelet drugs. Nanofibers consisting of poly-N-acetyl glucosamine (pGlcNAc), as the functional component of products for surface hemostasis, have been shown to activate platelets and thereby the clotting mechanism. The nanofiber-activated platelets provide a catalytic surface for acceleration of the intrinsic coagulation cascade, thrombin generation, and fibrin polymerization. Thromboelastographic analysis was undertaken to study the role of the pGlcNAc nanofibers in platelet activation and acceleration of fibrin polymerization. Thromboelastographic studies were performed without added activators of coagulation. The pGlcNAc nanofibers were found to accelerate fibrin polymerization in whole blood and platelet-rich plasma. Treatment with eptifibatide (an inhibitor of the platelet GPIIbIIIa receptor) and corn trypsin inhibitor inhibited clotting of whole blood and platelet-rich plasma. The inhibition was reversed by treatment with pGlcNAc nanofibers. Inhibition was not observed after treatment with aspirin alone, MRS2359 (platelet ADP receptor inhibitor), or by a combination of aspirin and MRS2359. The pGlcNAc nanofibers accelerate clotting in normal blood treated with aspirin and MRS2359. Clopidogrel (Plavix) and aspirin did not affect the kinetics of pGlcNAc-mediated fibrin polymerization in blood from patients treated with antiplatelet drugs compared with nontreated blood. These results provide evidence that pGlcNAc nanofibers activate platelets and accelerate the clotting of blood, and on how best to achieve surface hemostasis when patients are coagulopathic because of shock and/or to treatment with antiplatelet drugs."}
{"id": "21801953", "title": "Reduction of thienopyridine-associated bleeding using multiple electrode whole-blood aggregometry.", "content": "Reduction of thienopyridine-associated bleeding using multiple electrode whole-blood aggregometry."}
{"id": "21795297", "title": "Effect of clopidogrel withdrawal on platelet reactivity and vascular inflammatory biomarkers 1 year after drug-eluting stent implantation: results of the prospective, single-centre CESSATION study.", "content": "Effect of clopidogrel withdrawal on platelet reactivity and vascular inflammatory biomarkers 1 year after drug-eluting stent implantation: results of the prospective, single-centre CESSATION study. The optimal duration of clopidogrel treatment, particularly following drug-eluting stent (DES) implantation, remains contentious. Previous studies have observed a clustering of adverse events following clopidogrel cessation 1 year after DES, the aetiology of which is poorly understood. To investigate, in the prospective CESSATION study, the effect of clopidogrel withdrawal at 1 year after DES implantation on (i) arachidonic acid (AA)- and adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet aggregation, and (ii) biomarkers of vascular inflammation, including soluble CD40 ligand (sCD40L), high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hsCRP) and interleukin 6 (IL-6). The prospective CESSATION study was undertaken in 33 patients receiving aspirin and due to discontinue clopidogrel 1 year after DES. Platetet reactivity was measured using short thromboelastography, and compliance with aspirin determined from serum thromboxane B(2) (TXB(2)) levels. Venesection was performed at 4 weeks and 24 h before, and at 24 h, 48 h, 1, 2 and 4 weeks after, clopidogrel cessation. Following clopidogrel withdrawal, there was (i) a predictable increase in ADP-induced platelet aggregation (ii) an unexpected significant increase in AA-induced platelet aggregation (iii) a decline in IL-6 and hsCRP at 1 week and 4 weeks respectively; and (iv) a non-significant increase in sCD40L at 4 weeks TXB(2) levels were consistently suppressed, indicating complete inhibition of cyclo-oxygenase-1 by aspirin. An aspirin-independent, time-dependent increase in AA-induced platelet activation following clopidogrel withdrawal in patients with a DES has been described. New insights into a potential mechanism for the observed clustering of adverse events that occur early after clopidogrel cessation have been provided. These findings raise the question as to whether AA-induced clotting is an appropriate test of aspirin sensitivity."}
{"id": "21765358", "title": "Functional definition and characterization of acute traumatic coagulopathy.", "content": "Functional definition and characterization of acute traumatic coagulopathy. To identify an appropriate diagnostic tool for the early diagnosis of acute traumatic coagulopathy and validate this modality through prediction of transfusion requirements in trauma hemorrhage. Prospective observational cohort study. Level 1 trauma center. Adult trauma patients who met the local criteria for full trauma team activation. Exclusion criteria included emergency department arrival >2 hrs after injury, >2000 mL of intravenous fluid before emergency department arrival, or transfer from another hospital. None. Blood was collected on arrival in the emergency department and analyzed with laboratory prothrombin time, point-of-care prothrombin time, and rotational thromboelastometry. Prothrombin time ratio was calculated and acute traumatic coagulopathy defined as laboratory prothrombin time ratio >1.2. Transfusion requirements were recorded for the first 12 hrs following admission. Three hundred patients were included in the study. Laboratory prothrombin time results were available at a median of 78 (62-103) mins. Point-of-care prothrombin time ratio had reduced agreement with laboratory prothrombin time ratio in patients with acute traumatic coagulopathy, with 29% false-negative results. In acute traumatic coagulopathy, the rotational thromboelastometry clot amplitude at 5 mins was diminished by 42%, and this persisted throughout clot maturation. Rotational thromboelastometry clotting time was not significantly prolonged. Clot amplitude at a 5-min threshold of \u226435 mm had a detection rate of 77% for acute traumatic coagulopathy with a false-positive rate of 13%. Patients with clot amplitude at 5 mins \u226435 mm were more likely to receive red cell (46% vs. 17%, p < .001) and plasma (37% vs. 11%, p < .001) transfusions. The clot amplitude at 5 mins could identify patients who would require massive transfusion (detection rate of 71%, vs. 43% for prothrombin time ratio >1.2, p < .001). In trauma hemorrhage, prothrombin time ratio is not rapidly available from the laboratory and point-of-care devices can be inaccurate. Acute traumatic coagulopathy is functionally characterized by a reduction in clot strength. With a threshold of clot amplitude at 5 mins of \u226435 mm, rotational thromboelastometry can identify acute traumatic coagulopathy at 5 mins and predict the need for massive transfusion."}
{"id": "21755833", "title": "Correlation between rotation thrombelastometry ROTEM analysis and standard haemostatic parameters during liver transplantation.", "content": "Correlation between rotation thrombelastometry ROTEM analysis and standard haemostatic parameters during liver transplantation. The determination of the correlations between simultaneously performed rotation thrombelastometry ROTEM analysis and standard haemostatic analysis during liver transplantations is indispensable for performing an adequate perioperative haemostatic monitoring. Perioperative haemostatic monitoring was performed to 30 patients undergoing orthotopic liver transplantation (13 male (42%) and 17 female (58%), age: (mean +/- SD; 21 +/- 17 years). Standard coagulation parameters (PT, APTT, FIB) were assessed chronometrically on STA-Compact Analyzer (Diagnostica Stago - La Roche), rotation thrombelastometry analyses - on ROTEM analyzer (Petapharm GmbH) and platelets (PLT) - on Cell Dyn 3700 (Abbott Diagnostica), MAPSS technology. A protocol was successfully developed for the implementation of perioperative haemostatic control during orthotopic liver transplantations, performing parallel thrombelastometric and standard haemostatic analyses. Significant correlation was established between PT(INR) and EXTEM_CFT ( r = 0.834; p < 0.001) and between APTT and INTEM_CFT (r = 0.707; p < 0.001) in the preoperative period (R1). The correlation was reduced to insignificant during the intraoperative periods (R2-R5) and two hours postoperatively (R6). Significant correlation was determined between PLT/INTEM and between FIB/MCF_FIBTEM during all perioperative periods (R1 -R6). The correlations found in the present study suggest to perform the haemoststic liver transplantation monitoring through a parallel systematic analysis of both standard and rotation thrombelastometry parameters and confirm the ROTEM method as preferable and highly informative."}
{"id": "21742756", "title": "The effect of a cardiopulmonary bypass system with biocompatible coating on fibrinogen levels determined by the TEG--functional fibrinogen method: preliminary results.", "content": "The effect of a cardiopulmonary bypass system with biocompatible coating on fibrinogen levels determined by the TEG--functional fibrinogen method: preliminary results. When cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) is used, the blood comes into contact with foreign surfaces. To diminish this impact, various types of biocompatibly coated surfaces have been developed. The study assessed the effects of heparin-coated CPB systems on the level and function of fibrinogen as measured by thromboelastography (TEG), as compared with non-coated systems. No statistically significant differences between both groups were revealed by comparing paired data. In our study, heparin-coated CPB circuits had no significant effect on either fibrinogen level or its function."}
{"id": "21737102", "title": "Characteristics of clinical sepsis reflected in a reliable and reproducible rodent sepsis model.", "content": "Characteristics of clinical sepsis reflected in a reliable and reproducible rodent sepsis model. Sepsis models are frequently based on induction of peritonitis, with cecal ligation and puncture reflecting the prototypical model. However, there is an ongoing discussion about the limitations of these models due to their variability in progression and outcome. Since standardization is a cornerstone of experimental models, we aimed to develop a reliable and reproducible procedure for induction of peritonitis. A human stool batch was processed for -80\u00b0 storage. For induction of peritonitis in fluid-resuscitated rats, a defined volume of stool suspension from this batch was injected intraperitoneally. For characterization of the model, physiologic and inflammatory changes were evaluated after sepsis induction. Survival analyses with the same batch were repeated in four independent experiments over a time period of 16 mo. The polymicrobial infection resulted in severe peritoneal inflammation with a systemic increase in cytokines. The mortality rate at 15 h was 29% and this was reproducible over a 16 mo time period. If antibiotic treatment was applied, a 50% survival was achieved. Laboratory markers indicated a progressive multi-organ dysfunction, while blood gas analysis showed respiratory compensation of a metabolic acidosis, and maintenance of PaO(2). Intravital microscopy of the liver revealed an impaired microcirculation. A decreased hemostatic potential was demonstrated by rotational thromboelastometry. Despite clinical recovery within 3 d, surviving animals showed laboratory and histologic signs of persisting inflammation even after 2 wk. This model reflects many features of human sepsis. Application of an infectious focus that is both quantitatively and qualitatively defined assures high reproducibility. Moreover, the procedure is simple and can be easily standardized."}
{"id": "21732671", "title": "Polysulfated xanthones: multipathway development of a new generation of dual anticoagulant/antiplatelet agents.", "content": "Polysulfated xanthones: multipathway development of a new generation of dual anticoagulant/antiplatelet agents. A multipathway strategy was used to evaluate the in vitro and in vivo antithrombotic effects of a new synthetic family of sulfated small molecules. Polysulfated xanthonosides showed highly effective anticoagulation effects in vitro, both in plasma (clotting times) and in whole human blood (thromboelastography), as well as in vivo (ip administration, mice). Physicochemical properties were assessed for mangiferin heptasulfate (7), which showed high solubility and stability in water and in human plasma and no putative hepatotoxicity in vivo. Mangiferin heptasulfate (7) was found to be a direct inhibitor of FXa, while persulfated 3,6-(O-\u03b2-glucopyranosyl)xanthone (13) acted as a dual inhibitor of FXa (directly and by antithrombin III activation). By impedance aggregometry, compounds 7 and 13 exhibited the antiplatelet effect by inhibition of both arachidonic acid and ADP-induced platelet aggregation. Dual anticoagulant/antiplatelet agents, such as sulfated xanthonosides 7 and 13, are expected to lead to a new therapeutic approach for the treatment of both venous and arterial thrombosis."}
{"id": "21729518", "title": "Can RoTEM\u00ae analysis be applied for haemostatic monitoring in paediatric congenital heart surgery?", "content": "Can RoTEM\u00ae analysis be applied for haemostatic monitoring in paediatric congenital heart surgery? Successful management of bleeding disorders after congenital heart surgery requires detection of specific coagulation disturbances. Whole-blood rotation thromboelastometry (RoTEM\u00ae) provides continuous qualitative haemostatic profiles, and the technique has shown promising results in adult cardiac surgery. To compare the performance of RoTEM\u00ae with that of conventional coagulation tests in children, we conducted a descriptive study in children undergoing congenital cardiac surgery. For that purpose, 60 children were enrolled and had blood samples taken before, immediately after, and 1 day after surgery. Conventional coagulation tests included: activated partial thromboplastin time, prothrombin time, fibrinogen, fibrin D-dimer, thrombin clotting time, factor XIII, and platelet count. Post-surgical haemostatic impairment was present to some degree in all children, as seen by pronounced changes in activated partial thromboplastin time, prothrombin time, thrombin clotting time, and platelet count, as well as RoTEM\u00ae analysis. RoTEM\u00ae showed marked changes in clotting time - prolonged by 7-18% - clot formation time - prolonged by 46-71% - maximum clot firmness - reduced by 10-19%, and maximum velocity - reduced by 29-39%. Comparison of the two techniques showed that conventional coagulation tests and RoTEM\u00ae performed equally well with regard to negative predictive values for excessive post-operative drain production - more than 20 millilitres per kilogram per 24 hours after surgery - with an area under the curve of approximately 0.65. RoTEM\u00ae can detect haemostatic impairments in children undergoing cardiac surgery and the method should be considered as a supplement in the perioperative care of the children where targeted transfusion therapy is necessary to avoid volume overload."}
{"id": "21718668", "title": "Patients with liver cirrhosis suffer from primary haemostatic defects? Fact or fiction?", "content": "Patients with liver cirrhosis suffer from primary haemostatic defects? Fact or fiction? Patients with cirrhosis can have abnormalities in laboratory tests reflecting changes in primary haemostasis, including bleeding time, platelet function tests, markers of platelet activation, and platelet count. Such changes have been considered particularly relevant in the bleeding complications that occur in cirrhosis. However, several studies have shown that routine diagnostic tests, such as platelet count, bleeding time, PFA-100, thromboelastography are not clinically useful to stratify bleeding risk in patients with cirrhosis. Moreover, treatments used to increase platelet count or to modulate platelet function could potentially do harm. Consequently the optimal management of bleeding complications is still a matter of discussion. Moreover, in the last two decades there has been an increased recognition that not only bleeding but also thrombosis complicates the clinical course of cirrhosis. Thus, we performed a literature search looking at publications studying both qualitative and quantitative aspects of platelet function to verify which primary haemostasis defects occur in cirrhosis. In addition, we evaluated the contribution of qualitative and quantitative aspects of platelet function to the clinical outcome in cirrhosis and their therapeutic management according to the data available in the literature. From the detailed analysis of the literature, it appears clear that primary haemostasis may not be defective in cirrhosis, and a low platelet count should not necessarily be considered as an automatic index of an increased risk of bleeding. Conversely, caution should be observed in patients with severe thrombocytopenia where its correction is advised if bleeding occurs and before invasive diagnostic and therapeutic procedures."}
{"id": "21705350", "title": "Prevalence and impact of abnormal ROTEM(R) assays in severe blunt trauma: results of the 'Diagnosis and Treatment of Trauma-Induced Coagulopathy (DIA-TRE-TIC) study'.", "content": "Prevalence and impact of abnormal ROTEM(R) assays in severe blunt trauma: results of the 'Diagnosis and Treatment of Trauma-Induced Coagulopathy (DIA-TRE-TIC) study'. ROTEM(\u00ae)/TEG(\u00ae) (rotational thromboelastometry) assays appear to be useful for the treatment of bleeding trauma patients. However, data on the prevalence and impact of abnormal ROTEM(\u00ae) assays are scarce. This is a prospective cohort study of blunt trauma patients (Injury Severity Score \u226515 or Glasgow Coma Score \u226414) admitted to Innsbruck Medical University Hospital between July 2005 and July 2008. Standard coagulation tests, antithrombin (AT), prothrombin fragments (F1+2), thrombin-antithrombin complex (TAT), and ROTEM(\u00ae) assays were measured after admission. Data on 334 patients remained for final analysis. ROTEM(\u00ae) parameters correlated with standard coagulation tests (all Spearman r>0.5), and significant differences in mortality were detected for defined ROTEM(\u00ae) thresholds [FIBTEM 7 mm (21% vs 9%, P=0.006), EXTEM MCF (maximum clot firmness) 45 mm (25.4% vs 9.4%, P=0.001)]. EXTEM MCF was independently associated with early mortality [odds ratio (OR) 0.94, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.9-0.99] and MCF FIBTEM with need for red blood cell transfusion (OR 0.92, 95% CI 0.87-0.98). In polytrauma patients with or without head injury (n=274), the prevalence of low fibrinogen concentrations, impaired fibrin polymerization, and reduced clot firmness was 26%, 30%, and 22%, respectively, and thus higher than the prolonged international normalized ratio (14%). Hyperfibrinolysis increased fatality rates and occurred as frequently in isolated brain injury (n=60) as in polytrauma (n=274) (5%, 95% CI 1.04-13.92 vs 7.3%, 95% CI 4.52-11.05). All patients showed elevated F1+2 and TAT and low AT levels, indicating increased thrombin formation. Our data enlarge the body of evidence showing that ROTEM(\u00ae) assays are useful in trauma patients. Treatment concepts should focus on maintaining fibrin polymerization and treating hyperfibrinolysis."}
{"id": "21691196", "title": "Diagnostic performance and therapeutic consequence of thromboelastometry activated by kaolin versus a panel of specific reagents.", "content": "Diagnostic performance and therapeutic consequence of thromboelastometry activated by kaolin versus a panel of specific reagents. Thromboelastography/metry (TEG\u00ae; Haemoscope, Niles, IL/ROTEM\u00ae; Tem International GmbH, Munich, Germany) is increasingly used to guide transfusion therapy. This study investigated the diagnostic performance and therapeutic consequence of using kaolin-activated whole blood compared with a panel of specific TEM\u00ae-reagents to distinguish: dilutional coagulopathy, thrombocytopenia, hyperfibrinolysis, and heparinization. Blood was drawn from 11 healthy volunteers. Dilutional coagulopathy was generated by 50% dilution with hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 whereas thrombocytopenia (mean platelet count 20 \u00d710\u2079/l) was induced using a validated model. Hyperfibrinolysis and heparin contamination were generated by tissue plasminogen activator 2 nM and unfractionated heparin 0.1U/ml, respectively. Coagulation tests were run on ROTEM\u00ae delta. Kaolin-activated whole blood showed no differences between dilutional coagulopathy and thrombocytopenia (mean clotting time 450 s vs. 516 s, \u03b1-angle 47.1\u00b0 vs. 41.5\u00b0, maximum clot firmness 35.0 mm vs. 34.2 mm, all P values \u22650.14). Hyperfibrinolysis specifically disclosed an increased maximum lysis (median: 100%, all P values less than 0.001), and heparin induced a distinctly prolonged clotting time (2283 s, all P values less than 0.02). The coagulopathies were readily distinguishable using a panel of TEM-reagents. In particular, dilutional coagulopathy was separated from thrombocytopenia using FIBTEM (maximum clot firmness 1.9 mm vs. 11.2 mm, P < 0.001). The run time of analysis to achieve diagnostic data was shorter applying a panel of TEM-reagents. A transfusion algorithm based on kaolin suggested platelets in case of dilutional coagulopathy, whereas an algorithm applying TEM-reagents suggested fibrinogen. Monoanalysis with kaolin was unable to distinguish coagulopathies caused by dilution from that of thrombocytopenia. Algorithms based on the use of kaolin may lead to unnecessary transfusion with platelets, whereas the application of TEM-reagents may result in goal-directed fibrinogen substitution."}
{"id": "21681082", "title": "Overcoming delayed in-vitro response to rFVIIa: effects of rFVIIa and rFVIIa analogue (vatreptacog alfa) concentration escalation in whole blood assays.", "content": "Overcoming delayed in-vitro response to rFVIIa: effects of rFVIIa and rFVIIa analogue (vatreptacog alfa) concentration escalation in whole blood assays. In a previous pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic study in nonbleeding hemophilia patients, variability in laboratory response to recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) 90\u200a\u03bcg/kg was noted, and the patients were described as delayed or rapid laboratory responders based on time to clot formation. The current study determined whether in-vitro experiments could reproduce previous in-vivo findings; whether the delayed laboratory response to rFVIIa 90 \u03bcg/kg is improved by spiking with high-dose rFVIIa or rFVIIa analogue (vatreptacog alfa); whether a dose-response is observed with our method. In-vitro experiments were conducted in our previous patient cohort using rFVIIa 1.28 and 3.84 \u03bcg/ml and vatreptacog alfa 0.28 and 0.56 \u03bcg/ml. Whole blood studies were conducted using the Hemodyne Hemostasis Analysis System (platelet contractile force, clot elastic modulus, force onset time) and rotational thromboelastometry (clotting time, maximum clot firmness). Spiking with rFVIIa 1.28 \u03bcg/ml showed the same distribution of delayed and rapid laboratory response as observed previously. Increasing in-vitro rFVIIa concentrations improved the coagulation parameters; however, there remained delayed and rapid responders. Vatreptacog alfa improved the coagulation parameters at all concentrations tested, and the 0.56 \u03bcg/ml concentration normalized the force onset time, platelet contractile force, clot elastic modulus and clotting time parameters. A dose-response was observed with both assays. There was good agreement between the laboratory responses obtained after intravenous administration of rFVIIa 90 \u03bcg/kg and in-vitro spiking studies. Escalating rFVIIa and vatreptacog alfa concentrations improved coagulation parameters in all patients compared to rFVIIa 1.28 \u03bcg/ml. Vatreptacog alfa produced more pronounced coagulation effects at lower concentrations than rFVIIa; and the 0.56 \u03bcg/ml concentration completely normalized responses in all patients."}
{"id": "21675080", "title": "Hypocoagulation state in severe systemic inflammatory response syndrome/sepsis is consistent with endogenous heparinoid effect as detected by thromboelastography.", "content": "Hypocoagulation state in severe systemic inflammatory response syndrome/sepsis is consistent with endogenous heparinoid effect as detected by thromboelastography."}
{"id": "21672316", "title": "The effects of colloid pre-loading on thromboelastography prior to caesarean delivery: hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 versus succinylated gelatine.", "content": "The effects of colloid pre-loading on thromboelastography prior to caesarean delivery: hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 versus succinylated gelatine. This prospective, randomized, double-blind study compared the effects on thromboelastography (TEG) of pre-loading with two different colloid fluids prior to spinal anaesthesia for caesarean section. Healthy full-term parturients received either 500 ml 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 (HES, n = 25) or 500 ml 4% succinylated gelatine (GEL, n = 25) prior to spinal anaesthesia. TEG parameters including reaction time (r-time), clot formation time (k-time), clot formation rate (\u03b1-angle) and maximum amplitude (MA) were measured immediately before and after pre-loading. Both groups had significantly shorter r-time and lower MA after pre-loading. The \u03b1-angle was significantly decreased after pre-loading with HES but not with GEL. No significant differences in k-time were induced pre-loading. In conclusion, pre-loading with HES or GEL was associated with a mild hypocoagulable effect in healthy parturients presenting for elective caesarean section; however, all TEG parameters in both groups remained within or very close to the normal range after pre-loading."}
{"id": "21672283", "title": "Which is the most effective strategy: early detection of coagulopathy with thromboelastometry or use of hemostatic factors or both?", "content": "Which is the most effective strategy: early detection of coagulopathy with thromboelastometry or use of hemostatic factors or both?"}
{"id": "21668862", "title": "Methods for testing platelet function for transfusion medicine.", "content": "Methods for testing platelet function for transfusion medicine. Currently only indirect measures are required for monitoring the function of platelets in platelet concentrates (PC). This is an overview on currently available commercialized methods that have been used to determine platelet function in donors, concentrates and after transfusion. We show examples for the application of the no/low shear methods light-transmission aggregometry, flow cytometry, multiple electrode aggregometry, thrombelastography and dynamic light scattering, and those applying high shear, the platelet function analyzer-100, and the cone and plate analyzer. Advantages and disadvantages of the various methods to screen donors, evaluate the haemostatic properties maintained in the PC and after transfusion are discussed, based on considerations of platelet physiology, and the feasibility of the various procedures. This survey focuses on reports from the last 10 years, as the technology for the production of PCs has advanced significantly during the last few years. Specific aspects of platelet function can be assessed by the no/low shear methods, while the high shear methods provide more general analysis of platelet haemostatic competence. Yet, there is no strong evidence that the in vitro data correspond with the clinical outcome."}
{"id": "21667202", "title": "Cardiac catheterization: haemostatic changes in pediatric versus adult patients.", "content": "Cardiac catheterization: haemostatic changes in pediatric versus adult patients. Thrombophilic or haemorrhagic complications are possible adverse events following cardiac catheterization particularly in pediatric patients. It was therefore the aim of our study to compare the cardiac catheterization-related haemostatic changes in children with that in adults. The total of 50 patients was subdivided into Gr I (1-6\u00a0years), Gr II (7-18\u00a0years), and Gr III (19-58\u00a0years). Parameters of coagulation activation, plasma levels of various clotting factors and heparinase-modified thrombelastometry parameters were determined prior and immediately after cardiac catheterization. The haemostatic system of pediatric patients was markedly more affected by the procedure than that of adults. Levels of thrombin/antithrombin complex and prothrombin fragment 1+2 in the post-catheter plasma samples were significantly increased in Grs I and II, not in Gr III. The catheter-related decrease in fibrinogen and F II levels was higher in Gr I than in Grs II and III. F VII levels were significantly decreased in Grs I and II, not in Gr III. The catheter-related prolongation of Coagulation times was highest in Gr I, followed by Gr II and finally Gr III. A significant catheter-related decrease of maximum clot firmness was observed solely in Gr I. Our results show that cardiac catheterisation perturbs the haemostatic system of adults, and, even more pronounced, that of pediatric patients. Thus, our results indicate that children might be at a higher risk for either thrombotic complications or post-operative bleeding events than adults."}
{"id": "21663556", "title": "Potential of whole blood coagulation reconstitution by desmopressin and fibrinogen under conditions of hypothermia and acidosis--an in vitro study using rotation thrombelastometry.", "content": "Potential of whole blood coagulation reconstitution by desmopressin and fibrinogen under conditions of hypothermia and acidosis--an in vitro study using rotation thrombelastometry. Desmopressin (DDAVP) and fibrinogen improve platelet function and clot stability. We investigated the influence of DDAVP and fibrinogen on whole blood coagulation in an in vitro model of hypothermia and acidosis. After IRB approval and written consent blood samples were taken from 10 healthy volunteers. Samples were prepared with hydrochloric acid to maintain--beside normal pH--reduced pH (\u223c7.2) and severely reduced pH (\u223c7.0), and were assigned to four treatment groups: addition of either isotonic saline for compensation of dilutional effects (ISO), desmopressin (DDAVP+), fibrinogen (FIB+), or both substances (DDAVP+FIB+). Baseline was ISO at 37\u00b0C and normal pH. Remaining samples were incubated for 30 min and measured at 32\u00b0. Rotation thrombelastometry (ROTEM) after extrinsically activation and fibrin polymerization was tested. Repeated measures ANOVA were performed (p < 0.05). Hypothermia and acidosis synergistically impaired whole blood coagulation. DDAVP+ normalized maximum clot firmness (MCF) at normal pH. Coagulation time (CT) was not affected. FIB+ normalized MCF at pH 7.35 and pH 7.2. CT was normalized independently of pH. DDAVP+FIB+ did not show additional effects to FIB+. Fibrin polymerization was increased by FIB+ and DDAVP+FIB+ independently of pH. DDAVP+ did not alter fibrin polymerization. DDAVP and fibrinogen increased whole blood coagulation under hypothermia. Acidosis diminished this effect. Thus, acidosis should be corrected first and then both substances could be used for bridging until normothermia can be achieved. In combination, the effects of fibrinogen were overwhelming DDAVP effects. Thus, combined administration did not show any benefit compared to fibrinogen administration alone."}
{"id": "21655681", "title": "Platelet function following trauma. A multiple electrode aggregometry study.", "content": "Platelet function following trauma. A multiple electrode aggregometry study. Platelets play a central role in coagulation. Currently, information on platelet function following trauma is limited. We performed a retrospective analysis of patients admitted to the emergency room (ER) at the AUVA Trauma Centre, Salzburg, after sustaining traumatic injury. Immediately after admission to the ER, blood was drawn for blood cell counts, standard coagulation tests, and platelet function testing. Platelet function was assessed by multiplate electrode aggregometry (MEA) using adenosine diphosphate (ADPtest), collagen (COLtest) and thrombin receptor activating peptide-6 (TRAPtest) as activators. The thromboelastometric platelet component, measuring the contribution of platelets to the elasticity of the whole-blood clot, was assessed using the ROTEM device. The study included 163 patients, 79.7% were male, and the median age was 43 years. The median injury severity score was 18. Twenty patients (12.3%) died. Median platelet count was significantly lower among non-survivors than survivors (181,000/\u03bcl vs. 212,000/\u03bcl; p=0.01). Although platelet function defects were relatively minor, significant differences between survivors and non-survivors were observed in the ADPtest (94 vs. 79 U; p=0.0019), TRAPtest (136 vs. 115 U; p<0.0001), and platelet component (134 vs.103 MCEEXTEM - MCEFIBTEM; p=0.0012). Aggregometry values below the normal range for ADPtest and TRAPtest were significantly more frequent in non-survivors than in survivors (p=0.0017 and p=0.0002, respectively). Minor decreases in platelet function upon admission to the ER were a sign of coagulopathy accompanying increased mortality in patients with trauma. Further studies are warranted to confirm these results and investigate the role of platelet function in trauma haemostatic management."}
{"id": "21655674", "title": "Haemostatic profiles assessed by thromboelastography in patients with end-stage renal disease.", "content": "Haemostatic profiles assessed by thromboelastography in patients with end-stage renal disease. Patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) have abnormalities in the cellular and plasmatic systems regulating blood homeostasis, which may contribute to their risk for thrombotic and bleeding complications. However, their relative contributions in this population are poorly understood. The aim of this study was to evaluate the distribution of enzymatic and cellular abnormalities in ESRD patients on haemodialysis as assessed by thromboelastography (TEG\u00ae). Whole blood samples were analysed by TEG in ESRD patients (n=70) and in a control group (n=70) of subjects with coronary artery disease. Profiles were constructed considering the maximum amplitude (MA), a marker of platelet function, and reaction time (R), a marker of thrombin generation, values. R values were higher in ESRD patients compared with the control group (8.2 \u00b1 2.8 vs. 5.7 \u00b1 1.9 minutes [min], p <0.0001), while there were no differences in MA (66.7 \u00b1 8.1 vs. 66.2 \u00b1 6.6 mm, p=0.562). Normal manufacturer defined coagulation (2-8 min) and aggregation (51-69 mm) parameters were present in 31% of ESRD patients compared with 56% of controls (p=0.006). A hypocoagulable status was observed in 42.9% of ESRD patients compared with 8.9% in the control group (p<0.0001). There were no differences in platelet function, which showed a hyperaggregable status in 41.4% versus 35.7% of cases (p=0.603). Abnormalities in both parameters were observed in 15.7% of ESRD patients versus 1.4% in the control group (p= 0.004), which were more common among older patients (p= 0.005). In conclusion, patients with ESRD have an elevated prevalence of abnormal haemostatic profiles, which may contribute to their elevated risk of bleeding and thrombotic complications."}
{"id": "21642611", "title": "An in vitro investigation of the coagulation effects of exogenous oxytocin using thromboelastography in healthy parturients.", "content": "An in vitro investigation of the coagulation effects of exogenous oxytocin using thromboelastography in healthy parturients. We investigated the coagulation effects in vitro of exogenous oxytocin in whole blood of healthy term parturients. Thromboelastography (TEG\u00ae) was performed on kaolin-activated citrated blood samples from 25 healthy, term, nonlaboring parturients. We compared the in vitro effects on the maternal thromboelastographic profile of 3 different exogenous oxytocin concentrations (22.5, 30.1, and 32.9 \u03bcU/mL) and a control (0 \u03bcU/mL). These exogenous oxytocin concentrations were chosen to approximate maternal plasma oxytocin concentrations during elective cesarean delivery, vaginal delivery, and nonelective cesarean delivery, respectively. Increasing the oxytocin concentration was significantly associated with hypercoagulable effects as observed with TEG\u00ae (decreasing reaction time, clot formation time, and Tmax; increasing \u03b1 angle and maximum rate of thrombus generation). Compared with control samples, the median percentage change (interquartile range) in TEG\u00ae values for samples with the highest exogenous oxytocin concentration (32.9 \u03bcU/mL) was largest for reaction time: -40.3% (-45.8%, -22.2%); and Tmax: -39.2% (-42.9%, -28.5%). The results of this in vitro investigation suggest that exogenous oxytocin is associated with modest hypercoagulable effects in the maternal blood of healthy term parturients."}
{"id": "21641791", "title": "Use of thromboelastography to guide thromboprophylaxis after caesarean section.", "content": "Use of thromboelastography to guide thromboprophylaxis after caesarean section. Thromboprophylaxis is commonly required following caesarean section. However the effect of thromboprophylactic dosages of subcutaneous heparin on coagulation is unknown because conventional laboratory tests are largely unaffected. The aim of this study was to determine if thromboelastography could detect and quantify the effect of unfractionated heparin on coagulation profile when given at the time of surgery. Nineteen women undergoing elective caesarean section were recruited. Blood samples collected before and after administration of subcutaneous unfractionated heparin 7500 IU underwent thromboelastography using both plain and heparinase cuvettes. Anti-factor Xa levels were also measured. There was a significant difference in R times between plain and heparinase samples (-10.6%, P=0.0072) indicating that thromboelastography could detect an effect of unfractionated heparin. Compared to baseline there were significant decreases of R times in plain (-20.4%, P=0.033) and heparinase (-28.8%, P=0.0001) samples despite the administration of unfractionated heparin. Anti-factor Xa levels were virtually undetectable (mean 0.01 U/mL). Thromboelastography was able to detect and quantify the effect of unfractionated heparin on blood coagulability, an effect not detected by conventional laboratory tests. Thromboelastography demonstrated a pro-coagulant effect of surgery that was only partially mitigated by the use of unfractionated heparin. In this study, at a dose of 7500 IU subcutaneous unfractionated heparin appears to have little anticoagulant effect."}
{"id": "21641410", "title": "Redistribution and hemostatic action of recombinant activated factor VII associated with platelets.", "content": "Redistribution and hemostatic action of recombinant activated factor VII associated with platelets. Clinical evidence accumulated from hemophilic patients during prophylaxis with recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) suggests that the duration of the hemostatic action of rFVIIa exceeds its predicted plasma half-life. Mechanisms involved in this outcome have not been elucidated. We have investigated in vitro the redistribution of rFVIIa in platelets from healthy donors, patients with FVII deficiency, and one patient with Bernard-Soulier syndrome. Platelet-rich plasma was exposed to rFVIIa (3 to 60 \u03bcg/mL). Flow cytometry, immunocytochemistry, and coagulation tests were applied to detect and quantify rFVIIa. The hemostatic effect of rFVIIa associated to platelets was evaluated using perfusion models. Our studies revealed a dose-dependent association of rFVIIa to the platelet cytoplasm with redistribution into the open canalicular system, and \u03b1 granules. Mechanisms implicated in the internalization are multiple, involve GPIb and GPIV, and require phospholipids and cytoskeletal assembly. After platelet activation with thrombin, platelets exposed rFVIIa on their membrane. Perfusion studies revealed that the presence of 30% of platelets containing FVIIa improved platelet aggregate formation and enhanced fibrin generation (P < 0.01 versus control). Our results indicate that, at therapeutic concentrations, rFVIIa can be internalized into platelets, where it is protected from physiological clearance mechanisms and can still promote hemostatic activity. Redistribution of rFVIIa into platelets may explain the prolonged prophylactic effectiveness of rFVIIa in hemophilia."}
{"id": "21641201", "title": "Labor and delivery in a patient with hemophilia B.", "content": "Labor and delivery in a patient with hemophilia B. Hemophilia B is a rare X-linked disorder that may cause dramatic bleeding. Women account for only 3.2% of those clinically affected. The X-linked inheritance frequently delays the diagnosis in women and may expose the patient to an increased risk of adverse events. There is limited experience with these patients during labor and delivery. A 28-year-old primiparous woman with hemophilia B (bleeding phenotype) delivered a male infant by an unplanned cesarean delivery under general anesthesia following treatment with factor IX and normalization of her coagulation parameters, guided by thromboelastography. Postpartum vaginal bleeding required transfusion of two units of packed red blood cells. Factor IX supplementation continued for one week. Once diagnosed with hemophilia B, a multidisciplinary approach and advanced antenatal planning can increase the likelihood of a safe delivery. Neuraxial approaches and cesarean delivery are recommended only after normalization of the coagulation profile. The male fetus of a hemophilia A or B patient requires special attention. Operative vaginal delivery and invasive fetal monitoring should be avoided. Thromboelastography is an excellent technique to assess parturients with bleeding disorders or peripartum hemorrhage and may be underused."}
{"id": "21614414", "title": "Impact of adjunctive cilostazol therapy on platelet function profiles in patients with and without diabetes mellitus on aspirin and clopidogrel therapy.", "content": "Impact of adjunctive cilostazol therapy on platelet function profiles in patients with and without diabetes mellitus on aspirin and clopidogrel therapy. Cilostazol is a platelet inhibitor which when added to aspirin and clopidogrel has shown to reduce the risk of recurrent ischaemic events without an increase in bleeding. These clinical benefits have shown to be more pronounced in patients with diabetes mellitus (DM). However, it remains unknown whether cilostazol exerts different pharmacodynamic effects in patients with and without DM. This was a randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, cross-over pharmacodynamic study comparing platelet function in patients with and without DM on aspirin and clopidogrel therapy. Patients (n=111) were randomly assigned to either cilostazol 100 mg or placebo twice daily for 14 days and afterwards crossed-over treatment for another 14 days. Platelet function was performed at baseline, 14 days post-randomisation, and 14 days post-cross-over. Functional testing to assess P2Y12 signalling included flow cytometric analysis of phosphorylation status of vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein measured by P2Y12 reactivity index (PRI), light transmittance aggregometry and VerifyNow. Thrombin generation processes were also studied using thrombelastography. Significantly lower PRI values were observed following treatment with cilostazol compared with placebo both in DM and non-DM groups (p < 0.0001). The absolute between-treatment differences of PRI between groups was a 35.1% lower in patients with DM (p=0.039). Similar results were obtained using all other functional measures assessing P2Y12 signalling. Thrombin generation was not affected by cilostazol. Cilostazol reduces platelet reactivity both in patients with and without DM, although these pharmacodynamic effects are enhanced in patients with DM. Despite the marked platelet inhibition, cilostazol does not alter thrombin-mediated haemostatic processes, which may explain its ischaemic benefit without the increased risk of bleeding."}
{"id": "21613681", "title": "Defined-size DNA triple crossover construct for molecular electronics: modification, positioning and conductance properties.", "content": "Defined-size DNA triple crossover construct for molecular electronics: modification, positioning and conductance properties. We present a novel, defined-size, small and rigid DNA template, a so-called B-A-B complex, based on DNA triple crossover motifs (TX tiles), which can be utilized in molecular scale patterning for nanoelectronics, plasmonics and sensing applications. The feasibility of the designed construct is demonstrated by functionalizing the TX tiles with one biotin-triethylene glycol (TEG) and efficiently decorating them with streptavidin, and furthermore by positioning and anchoring single thiol-modified B-A-B complexes to certain locations on a chip via dielectrophoretic trapping. Finally, we characterize the conductance properties of the non-functionalized construct, first by measuring DC conductivity and second by utilizing AC impedance spectroscopy in order to describe the conductivity mechanism of a single B-A-B complex using a detailed equivalent circuit model. This analysis also reveals further information about the conductivity of DNA structures in general."}
{"id": "21610535", "title": "Effect of hemodilution on coagulation and recombinant factor VIIa efficacy in human blood in vitro.", "content": "Effect of hemodilution on coagulation and recombinant factor VIIa efficacy in human blood in vitro. This study evaluates the effect of hemodilution by various common resuscitation fluids, and the efficacy of activated recombinant factor VII (rFVIIa) on coagulation parameters in human blood in vitro. Samples from normal healthy volunteers (n = 9) were hemodiluted from 0% to 90% with normal saline, or 0%, 40%, 60%, and 80% with 5% albumin, Hespan, Hextend, normal saline, or lactated Ringer's, and incubated at 37\u00b0C \u00b1 1\u00b0C for 30 minutes with and without rFVIIa (1.26 \u03bcg/mL). There was a strong correlation between the dilution of hemoglobin (Hb), platelets, or fibrinogen and coagulation parameters. Hemodilution 0% to 90% changed coagulation parameters (prothrombin time [PT], activated partial thromboplastin time [aPTT], and thromboelastography) in an exponential fashion; the greatest changes occurred after hemodilution lowered Hb <6 mg/dL, platelet count < 100,000/mm(3), and fibrinogen concentration <200 mg/dL. PT and aPTT were significantly prolonged after 60% and 80% dilution for all fluids. Hemodilution of 60% and 80% significantly decreased clot strength (maximum amplitude) and the kinetics of clot development (\u03b1 angle) and increased the clot formation time (K). Hemodilution with Hextend and Hespan decreased maximum amplitude and \u03b1 angle >5% albumin, lactated Ringer's, or normal saline. rFVIIa significantly improved PT at 60% and 80% dilutions, and aPTT at 80% dilution. There was a significant effect of dilution, but not fluid type, on the efficacy of rFVIIa to change PT and aPTT, and the onset of clotting (R). We have strong in vitro evidence that Hb <6 mg/dL, platelet count <100,000/mm(3), and fibrinogen concentration <200 mg/dL can be used as indexes of hemodilution-induced coagulopathy. This study also shows that Hextend and Hespan tend to decrease the clotting ability >5% albumin or the crystalloids. rFVIIa significantly decreased PT at all dilutions and aPTT at the highest dilution. The effectiveness of rFVIIa on PT and aPTT was significantly affected by the degree of dilution, but not by the type of fluid."}
{"id": "21610449", "title": "Is thromboelastography useful to achieve an fresh frozen plasma: packed red blood cell transfusion ratio more than or equal to 1:1.5?", "content": "Is thromboelastography useful to achieve an fresh frozen plasma: packed red blood cell transfusion ratio more than or equal to 1:1.5?"}
{"id": "21610182", "title": "Effects of combined balanced colloid and crystalloid on rotational thromboelastometry in vitro.", "content": "Effects of combined balanced colloid and crystalloid on rotational thromboelastometry in vitro. Our objective was to investigate the in vitro effects of a totally balanced fluid concept on whole blood coagulation. Venous blood from 12 healthy volunteers was diluted by 20% and 40% with a combination of an equal amount of colloid (balanced or unbalanced 6% HES 130/0.4, or 4% gelatin) and crystalloid (balanced or unbalanced Ringer's acetate). Blood samples were analyzed with rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae). The initiation of coagulation was delayed in all dilutions except for the 20 vol% gelatin-dilution. In the extrinsic activation test, maximum clot firmness was decreased and clot formation time prolonged after 40 vol% hemodilution with a balanced Ringer's/unbalanced HES combination, more than in the corresponding gelatin hemodilution. In the fibrin-based test, after both 20- and 40 vol% hemodilution with unbalanced Ringer's/gelatin solution, maximum clot firmness was significantly stronger than in the Ringer's/HES-combinations. The combination of balanced colloid and crystalloid has similar coagulation effects in vitro as their respective combination of unbalanced solutions."}
{"id": "21609551", "title": "[Establishment of normal reference values for thromboelastography on Chinese population in Beijing].", "content": "[Establishment of normal reference values for thromboelastography on Chinese population in Beijing]. To determine the normal values for thromboelastography (TEG) in Chinese healthy adult volunteers residing in Beijing for over three years and compare them with those of the manufacturer's. A total of 137 healthy adult volunteers were enrolled from June 2010 to August 2010. The technique was standardized with citrated blood and kaolin activator. And a Haemoscope 5000 device was employed. The TEG parameters analyzed were R, K, \u03b1, maximal amplitude (MA), LY30 and coagulation index (CI). All volunteers underwent the tests of prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), thrombin time (TT) and plasma fibrinogen level with the same blood sample. The reference ranges of 95% for 137 volunteers were R: 3.8 - 8.4 min, K: 0.8 - 3.3 min, \u03b1-Angle: 46.2 - 76.2\u00b0, MA: 50.0 - 70.8 mm, LY30: -3.3% - 4.0% and CI: -3.8 - 2.9. Overall, 24.1% (33/137) of the volunteers had at least one abnormal parameter while 7.3% (10/137) would have been considered coagulopathy had the manufacturer's reference values been used, resulting in a test specificity of 76.0%. As compared with the western ethnicity (the manufacturer's reference values), Chinese healthy volunteers were associated with lower fibrinogen functions. There were significantly different in R, K, \u03b1-Angle, MA and CI between men and women groups (all P < 0.01). This study supports the manufacturer's recommendation that each institute should determine its own normal reference values."}
{"id": "21594225", "title": "Influence of 2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate concentration on polymer network of adhesive resin.", "content": "Influence of 2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate concentration on polymer network of adhesive resin. To evaluate the effect of variations in 2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate (HEMA) concentrations in an experimental comonomer blend on degree of conversion, water sorption, solubility, and ultimate tensile strength of adhesive resin. The effect of HEMA content (0, 15, 30, and 50%wt - control, G15, G30, and G50 groups, respectively) was tested in an experimental comonomer blend of bis-GMA, bis-EMA, TEG-DMA, and HEMA. The degree of conversion, polymerization rate, ultimate tensile strength, water sorption, and solubility of the adhesive resin blends were determined. At 40 s of light activation time, groups G30 and G50 showed a decrease of 30% and 61%, respectively, in degree of conversion compared to control. Water sorption and solubility differed for all groups, and was statistically higher in G50. For ultimate tensile strength, the control and G15 groups showed statistically higher values than the other groups (p < 0.05). Higher HEMA content increases dental adhesive resin degradation."}
{"id": "21574963", "title": "Hydroxyethyl starches and dextran during hip replacement surgery: effects on blood volume and coagulation.", "content": "Hydroxyethyl starches and dextran during hip replacement surgery: effects on blood volume and coagulation. Colloid fluids influence the coagulation system by diluting the plasma and, potentially, by exerting other effects that are unique for each fluid product. We hypothesised that changes in the coagulation measured at the end of surgery would be mainly governed by differences in half-life between the colloid fluids. Eighty-four patients were randomised to receive one of four colloids: HES 130/0.42/6:1 (Venofundin(\u00ae)), 130/0.4/9:1 (Voluven(\u00ae)), 200/0.5/5:1 (Haes-steril(\u00ae)) and 6% dextran 70 (Macrodex(\u00ae)). Blood samples were taken just before and after a preoperative 500 ml bolus, and also after subsequent elective hip replacement surgery. Volume expansion was estimated from the blood dilution and coagulation assessed by ROTEM, activated partial thromboplastin time, prothrombin international normalised ratio (PT-INR), D-dimer and thrombin-antithrombin complex (TAT). The blood volume expansion amounted to approximately 600 ml for all four colloids directly after infusion. Voluven(\u00ae) and Haes-steril(\u00ae) prolonged the aPT time and Venofundin(\u00ae) increased TAT. Although all colloids increased PT-INR and D-dimer, the ROTEM analyses showed that they consistently shortened the clotting time and weakened the clot strength. These effects were mainly unchanged after surgery, during which the haemorrhage averaged 500-600 ml. Macrodex(\u00ae) produced a stronger volume support at the end of the surgery (91% of infused volume; P<0.001) than the three starch solutions (42-60%). All tested colloid fluids induced a mild hypercoagulable state with faster clotting, but with weaker clot strength. The additive influence of surgery was relatively small, and postoperative changes in coagulation were mainly due to differences in the half-life of each colloid."}
{"id": "21570625", "title": "Novel use of Thrombelastograph platelet mapping in a patient taking dipyridamole.", "content": "Novel use of Thrombelastograph platelet mapping in a patient taking dipyridamole."}
{"id": "21565974", "title": "Rotation thromboelastography (ROTEM) parameters are influenced by age, gender, and oral contraception.", "content": "Rotation thromboelastography (ROTEM) parameters are influenced by age, gender, and oral contraception. Rotation thromboelastography (ROTEM) is a screening method that allows the rapid detection of plasma- and platelet-related haemostatic abnormalities. To use this procedure more efficiently, reference values depending on gender, age, and oral contraception are required. In this study, five cohorts of healthy subjects were examined by ROTEM upon activation of the extrinsic or intrinsic pathway of coagulation, or recalcification alone. The cohorts comprised male subjects below (1) and above (2) 45 years of age, female subjects below 45 years of age with (3) or without (4) oral contraception, and female subjects above 45 years (5) without hormone replacement therapy. A significant influence of gender, age, and oral contraception on parameters determined by ROTEM was observed. Thus, adjustment for age, gender, and oral contraception is required when ROTEM is used to screen for distinct abnormalities of haemostasis."}
{"id": "21560095", "title": "[Hemostasis management based on ROTEM(\u00ae): contra].", "content": "[Hemostasis management based on ROTEM(\u00ae): contra]. Diagnostic point of care testing based on thrombelastometry with the aim to fully understand the overall changes in global haemostasis during the perioperative phase is today performed in several operating theatres. Therapeutic measures are based on these laboratory results. Within the scope of a pro and contra outline of the journal this paper comment, why point of care diagnostic solely based on laboratory testing using the ROTEM is not recommendable. On the other hand the author values the thrombelastometry as a supplementary supportive method used directly by haemostasis specialists or in a tight cooperation with such skilled specialists."}
{"id": "21560094", "title": "[Coagulation Monitoring using ROTEM(\u00ae): Pro].", "content": "[Coagulation Monitoring using ROTEM(\u00ae): Pro]. Coagulation and haemostasis in critical ill patients, either in massively bleeding patients in the emergency room and the operating theatre (TIC = trauma induced coagulopathy) or in septic patients suffering from multiorgan failure (DIC = disseminated intravascular coagulopathy) have to be identified and monitored promptly to initiate and monitor an effective therapy - either aggressive therapy using coagulation factor concentrates and blood products or a keen anticoagulation. Under this circumstances, standard coagulation monitoring using PT (INR), aPTT and fibrinogen (Clauss method) is limited. In critical ill patients, these parameters are neither able to predict risk of bleeding nor the risk of thrombosis. New viscoelastic methods like the ROTEM\u00ae may help to improve coagulation monitoring and management even in the emergency situation or under critical care conditions."}
{"id": "21557684", "title": "Can thrombelastography be a new tool to assess bleeding risk in patients with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura?", "content": "Can thrombelastography be a new tool to assess bleeding risk in patients with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura? Thrombelastography (TEG) analyses the status of blood coagulation including abnormalities associated with low platelet count. The aim of this study was to investigate the changes in TEG parameters in idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) patients. Thirty nine patients with ITP (platelet count\u2009<\u2009100\u2009\u00d7\u2009103\u2009\u2009\u00b5l\u207b\u00b9) were included in the study. Age-matched 17 patients with thrombocytopenia due to chemotherapy were selected as a control group. Platelet count was positively correlated with maximum clot formation (MCF) in INTEM (r\u2009=\u20090.716, p\u2009<\u20090.001) and MCF in EXTEM (r\u2009=\u20090.679, p\u2009<\u20090.001); negatively correlated with clot formation time (CFT) in INTEM (r\u2009=\u2009-0.755, p\u2009<\u20090.001) and CFT in EXTEM (r\u2009=\u2009-0.585, p\u2009<\u20090.001) in ITP patients. Platelet count was positively correlated with MCF in INTEM (r\u2009=\u20090.776, p\u2009<\u20090.001) and MCF in EXTEM (r\u2009=\u20090.878, p\u2009<\u20090.001); negatively correlated with CFT in INTEM (r\u2009=\u2009-0.627, p\u2009<\u20090.001) in control group. Receiver operating characteristic curves to describe the critical platelet count and fibrinogen level that affect MCF revealed 31\u2009\u00d7\u2009103\u2009\u00b5l\u207b\u00b9 and 375 mg\u2009dl\u207b\u00b9 as cut-off values, respectively. In conclusion, ROTEM determines the contribution of fibrinogen and platelets to clot strength in patients with ITP. MCF appears to be the most important TEG parameter in predicting bleeding in ITP patients that makes TEG superior to other hemostatic tests."}
{"id": "21549397", "title": "Bleeding and management of coagulopathy.", "content": "Bleeding and management of coagulopathy. Bleeding after cardiac surgery remains a significant problem, increasing both length of stay and mortality, and is caused by multiple factors including dilutional changes, ongoing fibrinolysis, and platelet dysfunction. The evaluation of coagulopathy is problematic because of the long turnaround time of standard coagulation tests. Algorithms involving point of care testing, including thromboelastography and thromboelastometry, have been published; all have the potential to reduce transfusion requirements. Massive transfusion coagulopathy that occurs in trauma can also be seen in complex aortic surgery and other massive bleeding patients and should prompt consideration of a transfusion protocol involving fixed ratios of fresh frozen plasma, platelets, and red blood cells. Pharmacologic agents such as antifibrinolytics are commonly administered, but a multimodal approach to management is important. Recombinant and purified coagulation products are being studied and provide clinicians specific agents to treat targeted deficiencies. A general multi-modal approach is required and recommendations are made for the management of bleeding and coagulopathy in cardiac surgical patients."}
{"id": "21545904", "title": "Trauma induces a hypercoagulable state that is resistant to hypothermia as measured by thrombelastogram.", "content": "Trauma induces a hypercoagulable state that is resistant to hypothermia as measured by thrombelastogram. The aim of this study was to test the hypothesis that severely injured trauma patients would be hypercoagulable compared with controls measured by thromboelastography and that this hypercoagulability would persist over a broad range of temperatures. A prospective study evaluating the effects of temperature on coagulation in trauma patients with Injury Severity Scores \u2265 15 and controls was completed. Thromboelastography was performed 24 hours after admission at 4 temperatures ranging from 32\u00b0C to 38\u00b0C. Ninety-two subjects (46 patients) were analyzed. Patients had a median Injury Severity Score of 20 (interquartile range, 16\u201326). Time to clot formation increased (P < .001) and fibrin cross-linking decreased (P < .01) in both groups as temperature decreased. Between groups, time to clot formation, fibrin cross-linking, and clot strength were significantly different at each temperature (P < .01), with patients being more hypercoagulable. Time to clot formation and fibrin cross-linking were more affected by temperature in controls compared with patients (P < .02). Severely injured patients are more hypercoagulable than controls throughout a broad range of temperature. Decreasing temperature has a greater effect on coagulation in controls compared with patients."}
{"id": "21543108", "title": "New recommendations for thromboelastography reference ranges for pregnant women.", "content": "New recommendations for thromboelastography reference ranges for pregnant women. The target of this study was to compare thromboelastography coagulation parameters in pregnant and non-pregnant women. If appropriate, we would propose recommendations for new reference ranges for pregnant women in their third trimester. Prospective observational study, comparing, by using thromboelastography, the blood samples of 60 healthy women in third trimester of pregnancy (group GRAV) to the samples of the control group of 43 healthy non-pregnant fertile women (group NON-GRAV). Selective percentiles were used to determine new reference limits. Mean values and standard deviations (SD) in both groups were as follows (GRAV vs NON-GRAV): time r 4.7 min (SD 1.7) vs. 7.8 (SD 2.8); time k1.5 min (SD 0.5) vs. 2,7 (SD 0,9); alpha angle 69.6\u00b0 (SD 5.5) vs. 54.4 (SD 11.5); maximum amplitude 71.3mm (SD 4.5) vs. 63.1 (SD 5.4); coagulation index 2.7 (SD 1.8) vs. -1.9 (SD 3.0); LY60 1.1% (SD 1.8) vs. 4.8 (SD 3.6). Due to statistically significant differences between both groups, we established, based on our results, these new thromboelastography reference limits for pregnant women: time r 2-8 min (\"common\" range 4-8 min), time k 1-3 min (\"common\" range 1-4 min), alpha angle 60-77\u00b0 (\"common\" range 47-74\u00b0), maximum amplitude 64-76 mm (\"common\" range 55-73 mm), LY60 0-3% (\"common\" range 0-15%), coagulation index 0-5 (\"common\" range (-3) - (+3)). It may not be suitable to use the same reference ranges for pregnant women as for the general population. Therefore, we suggest new reference limits for thromboelastography in pregnant women."}
{"id": "21543036", "title": "Coagulation status in patients with coronary artery disease taking 100 mg aspirin and healthy volunteers using PFA-100\u00ae and ROTEM\u00ae.", "content": "Coagulation status in patients with coronary artery disease taking 100 mg aspirin and healthy volunteers using PFA-100\u00ae and ROTEM\u00ae. Previous investigation revealed that age is a major risk factor for thomboembolic events. Earlier studies with thrombelastography have demonstrated procoagulant activity in elderly patients with coronary artery disease. The aim of the present study was to investigate age-related differences in the coagulation status of patients with documented coronary artery disease, healthy elderly and healthy young volunteers with the rotation thrombelastography (ROTEM\u00ae) and PFA-100\u00ae. Measured with ROTEM\u00ae, mean clot formation time (CFT (EXTEM)) in healthy young volunteers (120.8 \u00b1 73.5 s) was significantly longer than in healthy elderly (78.3 \u00b1 36.7 s, p < 0.05) and in patients with coronary artery disease (74.3 \u00b1 59.1 s, p < 0.05). No difference was found between healthy elderly and patients with coronary artery disease. The lowest value for mean maximum clot formation (MCF (EXTEM)) was seen in healthy young volunteers (57.0 \u00b1 6.1 mm) which was significantly different to healthy elderly (61.9 \u00b1 4.8 mm, p < 0.05) and patients with coronary artery disease (65.3 \u00b1 8.4 mm, p < 0.05). No difference could be found between healthy elderly and patients with coronary artery disease, although a trend to higher mean MCF (EXTEM) and lower mean CFT (EXTEM)in patients with coronary artery disease was found. Measured with the collagen/epinephrine cartridge of the PFA-100\u00ae, healthy young volunteers (166.4 \u00b1 59.5 s) had numerical but insignificantly longer mean closure times compared to healthy elderly (138.5 \u00b1 53.3 s). These findings point to agerelated differences in thrombelastographic parameters. The ROTEM\u00ae analysis indicates an increased coagulability in patients with coronary artery disease and healthy elderly compared to healthy young volunteers."}
{"id": "21540658", "title": "Balanced hydroxyethylstarch preparations: are they all the same? In-vitro thrombelastometry and whole blood aggregometry: Retraction.", "content": "Balanced hydroxyethylstarch preparations: are they all the same? In-vitro thrombelastometry and whole blood aggregometry: Retraction."}
{"id": "21537071", "title": "Emergence of multiple drug resistance Vibrio cholerae O1 in East Delhi.", "content": "Emergence of multiple drug resistance Vibrio cholerae O1 in East Delhi. Considering the changing geographical and temporal occurrence of Vibrio cholerae, there is a continuing need to monitor the strain characteristics and antibiotic resistance patterns of this pathogen. The present study was conducted to document the changing biology of V. cholerae isolates in and around Delhi, India, and the development of antibiotic resistance. A total of 1,424 stool samples or rectal swabs from patients with acute secretory diarrhoea admitted to Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Delhi, between January 2007 and December 2009 were processed using standard bacteriological methods. Strains identified as V. cholerae were further subjected to serogrouping, phage typing and antimicrobial susceptibility testing. Minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of gentamicin and tetracycline was determined. V. cholerae was isolated in 242/1,424 (17.0%) specimens. Of these, the majority were V. cholerae O1 serotype (98.3%) and serovar Ogawa. The drugs to which V. cholerae O1 isolates showed high levels of resistance were nalidixic acid, furazolidone, and cotrimoxazole throughout the study period, whereas strains were usually susceptible to chloramphenicol and cefotaxime. In 2007, there was a sudden increase of resistance to gentamicin and tetracycline, followed by a slow reversal to previous levels in subsequent years. The phage typing pattern (Basu and Mukherjee scheme) showed a dominance of phage type 2 throughout the study period. The importance of reporting all cases of V. cholerae, should be greatly emphasized, with the ultimate goal of understanding the constantly changing resistance patterns of this pathogen."}
{"id": "21536113", "title": "Comprehensive comparison of two new biodegradable gene carriers.", "content": "Comprehensive comparison of two new biodegradable gene carriers. Safety and high transfection efficiency are the prerequisites for an ideal gene vector. Polyethylenimine (PEI), especially PEI 25k (25 kDa), is a well-known cationic gene carrier with high transfection efficiency. However, the high toxicity, depended on its molecular weight, has limited its use as a potential gene carrier. In our research, for the purpose of reducing the toxicity and increasing the transfection efficiency and further to inspect where the degradation of these biodegradable polymers take place would be more beneficial, in cytoplasm or in endocytic vesicles, two kinds of degradable polymers were synthesized. One is an acid-liable PEI derivate (PEI-GA) which was cross-linked by PEI 2k with glutadialdehyde (GA) through imine linkages and the other one (PEI-TEG) was cross-linked PEI 2k with modified triethyleneglycol (TEG) through biscarbamate linkages and can be degraded at neutral environment. By the use of a series of assay methods both in vitro and in vivo, the results showed that PEI-TEG was found to be biodegradable at neutral environment and exhibit high transfection ability with low toxicity, which indicated its potential as a candidate carrier for gene therapy."}
{"id": "21535979", "title": "[Functional haemostatic tests are fast and reliable by transfusion demanding bleeding].", "content": "[Functional haemostatic tests are fast and reliable by transfusion demanding bleeding]. Viscoelastic haemostatic tests (VHT) like thrombelastography (TEG) and rotationel thrombelastometry (ROTEM) are cell-based whole blood assays, which assess the viscoelastic properties of coagulation. The focus of this narrative review is to describe the TEG/ROTEM methodology and interpretation of the TEG/ROTEM results. Current clinical applications and limitations are also discussed. It is concluded that VHT are inexpensive point of care assays that allow quick assessment of the haemostatic function and thereby allow faster and more focused interventions than traditional coagulation tests do."}
{"id": "21535978", "title": "[Hyperfibrinolysis as the cause of haemorrhage and increased mortality in trauma patients].", "content": "[Hyperfibrinolysis as the cause of haemorrhage and increased mortality in trauma patients]. Trauma-associated coagulopathies are at times present upon arrival at the emergency department. Hyperfibrinolysis is a condition in which the natural ability to dissolve blood clots is pathologically enhanced. It is present in 2-8% of trauma patients and associated with shock and increased mortality. Hyperfibrinolysis is easily detected by thromboelastography. The condition is treated with antifibrinolytics such as tranexamic acid--whereas transfusion with blood products is inefficient. This article explores the mechanisms and diagnostics of hyperfibrinolysis in trauma patients and the relevant treatment options."}
{"id": "21518592", "title": "Omeprazole affects clopidogrel efficacy but not ischemic events in patients with acute coronary syndrome undergoing elective percutaneous coronary intervention.", "content": "Omeprazole affects clopidogrel efficacy but not ischemic events in patients with acute coronary syndrome undergoing elective percutaneous coronary intervention. Omeprazole, usually used in the antiplatelet therapy during percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in acute coronary syndrome (ACS), has been reported to increase ischemic events in retrospective studies. However, other clinical trials gave paradoxical results. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of omeprazole on clopidogrel efficacy and clinical events. All patients (n = 172) received aspirin (loading dose 300 mg and maintenance dose 100 mg/d) and clopidogrel (loading dose 600 mg and maintenance dose 75 mg/d) during the therapy. They were randomized to receive omeprazole (20 mg/d) or placebo for 30 days. Residual platelet activities in the adenosine 5'-diphosphate (ADP) pathway were detected on the fifth day after PCI with thrombelastography (TEG)-mapping. The clinical events were recorded after one month. According to the five levels of platelet activities, the frequency distributions of the inhibition rates were significantly different (P = 0.0062). However, no significant change was seen in the distribution among the highest or the lowest inhibiting levels (> 95% and < 30% inhibition rate). And there were no significant differences (P > 0.05) in events incidence, while gastro-intestinal bleeding decreased in co-administration of omeprazole. Omeprazole significantly blunts clopidogrel efficacy while not exacerbates ischemic events in ACS undergoing PCI. Omeprazole even can decrease gastro-intestinal bleeding in those patients."}
{"id": "21515652", "title": "Appropriate comparison of thrombelastography?", "content": "Appropriate comparison of thrombelastography?"}
{"id": "21509986", "title": "[Hemocoagulation and markers of endothelial dysfunction in endoprosthetic hip joint replacement].", "content": "[Hemocoagulation and markers of endothelial dysfunction in endoprosthetic hip joint replacement]. The purpose of the investigation was to evaluate changes in the functional activity of the vascular endothelium (by the levels of adhesion molecules) and in blood hemostatic function (plasma hemostasis, thromboelastography) in 70 patients with coxarthrosis before and after endoprosthetic hip joint replacement. The blood coagulation system was normal in the patients prior to the surgery. According to the content of adhesion molecules, there were two groups of patients: 1) those with their normal levels and 2) those with their elevated ones. Following the surgery, all the patients developed a hypercoagulation reaction in the blood coagulation system. In the patients with the normal baseline level of adhesion molecules, the latter were higher after endoprosthetic replacement and in those with their elevated baseline levels, the latter were lower."}
{"id": "21509749", "title": "Clinical and cellular effects of hypothermia, acidosis and coagulopathy in major injury.", "content": "Clinical and cellular effects of hypothermia, acidosis and coagulopathy in major injury. Hypothermia, acidosis and coagulopathy have long been considered critical combinations after severe injury. The aim of this review was to give a clinical update on this triad in severely injured patients. A non-systematic literature search on hypothermia, acidosis and coagulopathy after major injury was undertaken, with a focus on clinical data from the past 5 years. Hypothermia (less than 35 \u00b0C) is reported in 1\u00b76-13\u00b73 per cent of injured patients. The occurrence of acidosis is difficult to estimate, but usually follows other physiological disturbances. Trauma-induced coagulopathy (TIC) has both endogenous and exogenous components. Endogenous acute traumatic coagulopathy is associated with shock and hypoperfusion. Exogenous effects of dilution from fluid resuscitation and consumption through bleeding and loss of coagulation factors further add to TIC. TIC is present in 10-34 per cent of injured patients, depending on injury severity, acidosis, hypothermia and hypoperfusion. More expedient detection of coagulopathy is needed. Thromboelastography may be a useful point-of-care measurement. Management of TIC is controversial, with conflicting reports on blood component therapy in terms of both outcome and ratios of blood products to other fluids, particularly in the context of civilian trauma. The triad of hypothermia, acidosis and coagulopathy after severe trauma appears to be fairly rare but does carry a poor prognosis. Future research should define modes of early detection and targeted therapy."}
{"id": "21505720", "title": "Evaluation of a modified thromboelastography assay for the screening of von Willebrand disease.", "content": "Evaluation of a modified thromboelastography assay for the screening of von Willebrand disease. Thromboelastography (TEG) has been shown to be a valuable point-of-care device for the rapid diagnosis of various bleeding disorders. However, TEG has thus far not been used for the screening for von Willebrand disease (VWD). We evaluated the performance of a modified TEG assay for the laboratory screening of VWD. Three hundred twenty-eight patients (148 male, 180 female, median age 8.4 years, range 0.1 - 72.7 years) were included in the study. The diagnosis and classification of patients was based on personal and familial case history, von Willebrand factor antigen, ristocetin cofactor levels, collagen binding assay, factor VIII coagulant activity and multimer analysis. The ratio of clot strength after preincubation with ristocetin, and without ristocetin, represents the component of clot strength that is formed by cross-linked fibrin fibres and is dependent on the agglutinated platelet fraction. The decrease of the maximum amplitude is a function of the ristocetin concentration and provides a diagnostic parameter able to differentiate between healthy individuals and patients having VWD. Based on a preliminary cut-off value of 25% for the area under the curve (AUC) ratio, the sensitivity varied from 53% to 100% for the different VWD patient groups. The test is suitable for use as a screening test using whole blood and has the additional benefit of being suitable as a point of care test. It appears also useful for monitoring responses to desmopressin (DDAVP) and infusion therapy."}
{"id": "21492909", "title": "Comparison of porcine and human coagulation by thrombelastometry.", "content": "Comparison of porcine and human coagulation by thrombelastometry. Although the pig is a standard model for the evaluation of various diseases in humans, including coagulopathy, it is not clear whether results in animals can be extrapolated to man. In 75 anesthetized pigs, we assessed reagent-supported thrombelastometry (ExTEM\u00ae), platelet-blocked thrombelastometry (FibTEM\u00ae), and aprotinin thrombelastometry (ApTEM\u00ae). Results were compared to values from 13 anesthetized humans. RESULTS (MEDIAN, 95% CI): ExTEM\u00ae: While clot strength was comparable in pigs (66 mm, 65-67 mm) and in humans (64 mm, 60-68 mm; NS), clotting time in animals was longer (pigs 64 s, 62-66 s; humans 55 s, 49-71 s; P<0.05) and clot formation time shorter (pigs 52 s, 49-54 s; humans 83 s, 67-98 s, P<0.001). The clot lysis index at 30 minutes was lower in animals (96.9%, 95.1-97.3%) than in humans (99.5%, 98.6-99.9%; P<0.001). ApTEM\u00ae showed no hyperfibrinolysis in animals. Modification of the anesthesia protocol in animals resulted in significant ExTEM\u00ae changes. FibTEM\u00ae: Complete platelet inhibition yielded significantly higher platelet contribution to clot strength in pigs (79%, 76-81%) than in humans (73%, 71-77%; P<0.05), whereas fibrinogen contribution to clot strength was higher in humans (27%, 24-29%) than in animals (21%, 19-24%; P<0.05). Maximum clot firmness is comparable in human and porcine blood. However, clot lysis, platelet and fibrinogen contribution to clot strength, as well as initiation and propagation of clotting, are considerably different between pigs and humans. In addition, anesthesic drugs seem to influence thrombelastometry in animals. Accordingly, coagulation abnormalities in pigs subjected to diseases may not necessarily represent the coagulation profile in sick patients."}
{"id": "21490079", "title": "Thromboelastography to expand transfusion practice.", "content": "Thromboelastography to expand transfusion practice."}
{"id": "21483397", "title": "In vitro effects of ulinastatin on blood coagulation using thromboelastography.", "content": "In vitro effects of ulinastatin on blood coagulation using thromboelastography. The effects of ulinastatin, urinary trypsin inhibitor, on coagulation are not fully understood. The aim of the present study was to examine the in vitro effects of ulinastatin on coagulation using modified computerised thromboelastography (ROTEM\u00ae) with InTEM\u00ae. A venous blood sample was obtained from the antecubital vein without stasis from 12 healthy adult men. A 290 \u00b5L aliquot of blood was combined with either 10 \u00b5L of ulinastatin (100 [U100], 200 [U200] or 1000 [U1000] U/mL) or 10 \u00b5L of normal saline. The samples were analysed simultaneously at 37 \u00baC on a four channel ROTEM\u00ae with InTEM\u00ae. Clotting time was significantly increased in the U200 (155.8\u00b19.3 s) and U 1000 (173.6\u00b114.5 s) groups, compared with the control group (136.1\u00b112.6 s). The U 1000 group significantly increased clot formation time (77.6\u00b116.2 s; control group, 63.8\u00b113.4 s) and significantly decreased \u03b1 angle (74.6\u00b13.3\u00ba; control group, 77.4\u00b12.4\u00ba). No significant difference in maximum clot firmness or maximum lysis was found between the control and ulinastatin groups. In-vitro ulinastatin had a direct anticoagulant effects, as assessed by ROTEM\u00ae with InTEM\u00ae, and the results were within the normal ranges."}
{"id": "21475775", "title": "Reference values for rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae) parameters following non-haemorrhagic deliveries. Correlations with standard haemostasis parameters.", "content": "Reference values for rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae) parameters following non-haemorrhagic deliveries. Correlations with standard haemostasis parameters."}
{"id": "21474664", "title": "The association between thromboelastographic parameters and total estimated blood loss in patients undergoing elective cesarean delivery.", "content": "The association between thromboelastographic parameters and total estimated blood loss in patients undergoing elective cesarean delivery. In this study, we assessed the relationship between coagulation parameters using kaolin-activated thromboelastography (TEG\u00ae) and total estimated blood loss (EBL) in patients undergoing elective cesarean delivery (CD). TEG\u00ae parameters were recorded in 52 patients before and after elective CD. Laboratory markers of coagulation (prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, fibrinogen) were also assessed in a smaller subset (21 patients). Correlation and linear regression analysis was used to assess the relationship among TEG\u00ae parameters, relevant clinical variables, and total EBL. Secondary analysis included comparisons of TEG\u00ae and coagulation profiles pre-CD versus post-CD. EBL weakly correlated with percentage change in maximum amplitude (r=0.3; P=0.04) and post-CD maximum rate of thrombus generation (r=0.31; P=0.02). Post-CD values for split point, reaction time, time to maximum rate of thrombin generation, prothrombin time, and activated partial thromboplastin time were significantly increased compared with baseline values (P<0.05). Post-CD \u03b1 angle, maximum amplitude, total thrombus generation, fibrinogen, and platelet counts were significantly decreased compared with baseline values (P<0.05). There is a weak association between clot strength (as assessed by kaolin-activated TEG\u00ae) and EBL in patients undergoing elective CD under neuraxial anesthesia, and a modest reduction in the degree of maternal hypercoagulability occurs in the early postpartum period after elective CD."}
{"id": "21474661", "title": "Differential roles of fibrinogen and von Willebrand factor on clot formation and platelet adhesion in reconstituted and immune thrombocytopenia.", "content": "Differential roles of fibrinogen and von Willebrand factor on clot formation and platelet adhesion in reconstituted and immune thrombocytopenia. Bleeding tendencies in immune thrombocytopenia (ITP) do not always correlate with the number of platelets, suggesting platelet function variation. We used a model of normal whole blood thrombocytopenia to compare platelet function and other hemostatic variables with ITP patients. We further investigated the effect of in vitro spiking with von Willebrand factor (vWF) and fibrinogen on platelet function and hemostatic variables. The Cone and Plate(let) Analyzer was used to measure platelet adhesion (surface coverage [SC], %) and aggregation (average size, \u03bcm(2)) under defined shear rate (1200 s(-1)). Rotational thromboelastometry was used to determine variables of clot formation triggered by CaCl(2) and tissue factor. In both the model of thrombocytopenia as well as in ITP, the SC and to some extent the average size were correlated to the platelet number over a range of 5 to 80 \u00d7 10(6)/mL. The results obtained for most ITP samples were within the boundaries of the lower and upper limits set by the whole blood model of thrombocytopenia. The addition of 2 U/mL vWF (Haemate-P) to whole blood (calculated to plasma volume) results in an increase in the SC and average size without affecting clot formation. Spiking with fibrinogen (100 and 300 mg/dL) did not affect platelet deposition but improved clot formation. Using a model of whole blood thrombocytopenia enables us to establish reference variables for the Cone and Plate(let) Analyzer and rotational thromboelastometry and to assess platelet function and clot formation in the presence of severe thrombocytopenia. We demonstrated that in most cases of ITP, platelet function is comparable to normal platelets. This work also suggests that vWF and fibrinogen differentially affect primary and secondary hemostasis and therefore both may perform a function in the bleeding phenotype and possibly may be considered for treatment in patients with ITP."}
{"id": "21472635", "title": "The effect of valproate therapy on thrombin generation determined by calibrated automated thrombography.", "content": "The effect of valproate therapy on thrombin generation determined by calibrated automated thrombography. There is some evidence for coagulation disorders, e.g. decreased coagulation factor activity or thrombocytopenia, related to the use of antiepileptic drugs, mainly associated with valproate. The aim of our study was to evaluate the influence of valproate on thrombin generation. Patients with epilepsy receiving multiple anticonvulsant medications either with, or without, valproate were compared. The study group included 90 samples from patients with epilepsy, aged 1.3-20.1 years. Antiepileptic combination therapy without valproate was administered in 50 cases and therapy including valproate in 40 cases. The reference group consisted of 50 non-epileptic patients. Thrombin generation in platelet poor plasma was measured by calibrated automated thrombography. No differences were measured for thrombin generation parameters between controls and patients without valproate therapy. In epileptic patients with valproate therapy, peak height and lag time were significantly lower in comparison to non-epileptic patients. In comparison to epileptic patients without valproate therapy, significant differences were found for lag time and peak time. Patients with valproate therapy had a significantly lower fibrinogen concentration. Platelet counts were decreased in a dose dependent manner. No major differences in thrombin generation were found between children on antiepileptic therapy with and without valproate. The decreased fibrinogen levels result in shorter lag time and peak time."}
{"id": "21467918", "title": "The prognostic value of thrombelastography in identifying neurosurgical patients with worse prognosis.", "content": "The prognostic value of thrombelastography in identifying neurosurgical patients with worse prognosis. Coagulopathy in patients with intracranial haemorrhage or traumatic brain injury (TBI) is associated with clinical deterioration and worse outcome. Whole blood viscoelastic haemostatic assays, like thrombelastography (TEG), might aid conventional coagulation assays in identification of patients with worse prognosis. We performed a review of patients (totalling 78 patients) with primary acute intracranial haemorrhage or isolated TBI admitted to a neurointensive care unit (NICU) for more than 24 h during a period of 9 months, who had TEG analysis performed at admission. Primary outcome was all-cause 30-day mortality, whereas decline in Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS) score at 24 h after admission or death due to cerebral incarceration were secondary outcomes. Patients were defined as hypocoaguable if TEG reaction time was more than 8 min, angle less than 55\u00b0 and/or maximal amplitude less than 51 mm. Patients were defined hypocoaguable according to conventional coagulation assays if international normalized ratio was more than 1.3, platelet counts less than 100\u00d710/l and/or activated partial thromboplastine time more than 35 s. Eight patients were hypocoaguable by TEG on admission to NICU and had higher 30-day mortality (63% vs. 16%, P=0.008), more often declined in GCS (57% vs. 16%, P=0.02) and expired due to cerebral incarceration (50% vs. 6%, P=0.02). Hypocoagulability by TEG, lower admission GCS and subarachnoid haemorrhage were independently associated with higher 30-day mortality [TEG: odds ratio (OR) 14.8 (2.2-100.1), P=0.006; GCS: OR 1.3 (1.1-1.5), P=0.006; subarachnoid haemorrhage: OR: 5.3 (1.3-22.3), P=0.02]. Only two patients were hypocoaguable by both conventional coagulation assays and TEG. The current data indicate that hypocoagulability by TEG at admission to NICU predicts worse prognosis. Low concordance with conventional coagulation assays indicates that TEG might be valuable in identifying patients with clinically relevant coagulopathy."}
{"id": "21453422", "title": "Evaluation of the overall haemostatic effect of recombinant factor VIIa by measuring thrombin generation and stability of fibrin clots.", "content": "Evaluation of the overall haemostatic effect of recombinant factor VIIa by measuring thrombin generation and stability of fibrin clots. It has been reported that thrombin generation test (TGT) may be a useful tool to monitor recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa). However, TGT does not reflect the stability of fibrin clot and its resistance to fibrinolysis which are crucial. Using whole-blood thromboelastography (TEG) and tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), we developed an in-vitro model to assess fibrin clot stability. Fibrin fibres were thicker in haemophiliacs compared with controls (P < 0.0001). After addition of rFVIIa 90 \u03bcg kg(-1), the diameter of fibrin fibres was dramatically decreased (P = 0.006). TEG-tPA assay showed a dose-dependent improvement of clot stability in the presence of rFVIIa. These data demonstrate a significant correlation between fibrin clot structure and its stability (P = 0.001). We also showed a correlation between thrombin generating capacity and clot resistance to fibrinolysis. Despite this overall correlation, a relatively large spreading around a general trend was observed, suggesting that the two assays bring complementary information on the haemostatic effect of rFVIIa."}
{"id": "21453421", "title": "The role of recombinant factor VIIa for obstetric block in women with severe factor XI deficiency.", "content": "The role of recombinant factor VIIa for obstetric block in women with severe factor XI deficiency. Regional blocks like spinal, epidural and combined spinal epidural (CSE) are relatively contraindicated in individuals with bleeding disorders. Consequently pregnant women with severe factor XI (FXI) deficiency are often denied this option during labour and caesarean section. We describe three women with severe FXI deficiency in whom regional block was performed with low-dose recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) for their operative procedures during delivery. All women achieved haemostasis and had uncomplicated regional block, delivery and surgical procedures. The point of care device--rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) was used to monitor the patients' coagulation and determine the dose of rFVIIa to achieve in vitro haemostasis in these women that was then subsequently used in vivo. Low-dose rFVIIa seems to be effective and safe in the management of delivery and enables provision of regional blocks in women with severe FXI deficiency."}
{"id": "21451399", "title": "Fibrinogen is a heme-associated, carbon monoxide sensing molecule: a preliminary report.", "content": "Fibrinogen is a heme-associated, carbon monoxide sensing molecule: a preliminary report. The objective of this study was to determine how carbon monoxide directly modifies fibrinogen utilizing liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) by examining fibrinogen exposed to carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 [tricarbonyldichlororuthenium (II) dimer; CORM-2]. Purified fibrinogen was exposed to 0, 25, 50 or 100 \u03bcmol/l CORM-2 for 5 min at 37\u00b0C and then stored at -80\u00b0C before analyses with LC-MS/MS. In a second series of experiments, normal plasma was exposed to 0 or 100 \u03bcmol/l CORM-2 in the absence or presence of the nitric oxide donor sodium nitroprusside and hydroquinone (an organic reductant) to compete with carbon monoxide binding to a putative heme group found on fibrinogen. Coagulation was activated with tissue factor (n=8 per condition). Thrombus growth was monitored with thrombelastography for 15 min. LC-MS/MS did not detect any direct modifications of amino acids in fibrinogen, but detection of small regions of both the alpha and gamma chains was lost following exposure to CORM-2 and endoproteinase digestion with trypsin and Glu-C. An ion with the same m/z and expected retention time as heme was found in the purified fibrinogen. Exposure of plasma to nitric oxide/hydroquinone significantly decreased CORM-2-mediated enhancement of coagulation without affecting the coagulation kinetics of plasma not exposed to CORM-2. Carbon monoxide derived from CORM-2 likely modifies fibrinogen via modulation of a fibrinogen-associated heme group(s). Whereas the precise molecular location of heme attachment and three-dimensional conformational change secondary to carbon monoxide exposure remain to be determined, fibrinogen appears to be a carbon monoxide sensing molecule."}
{"id": "21451072", "title": "A new plasma-adapted hydroxyethylstarch preparation: in vitro coagulation studies using thrombelastography and whole blood aggregometry: Retraction.", "content": "A new plasma-adapted hydroxyethylstarch preparation: in vitro coagulation studies using thrombelastography and whole blood aggregometry: Retraction."}
{"id": "21449231", "title": "Thromboelastograph guided management of a patient requiring Abiomed biventricular support with consumptive coagulopathy.", "content": "Thromboelastograph guided management of a patient requiring Abiomed biventricular support with consumptive coagulopathy. A 69-year-old male, who underwent cardio-pulmonary bypass surgery, required biventricular support using the Abiomed. The patient subsequently developed a consumptive coagulopathy. The thromboelastograph was used to administer NovoSeven and guide allogenic transfusions to achieve a hematocrit of greater than 30% and a platelet count greater than 100,000 per microL. Disseminated intravascular coagulation was resolved and the patient was transported to a tertiary care center within 72 hours. The Abiomed BVS 5000 provided a bridge to the native heart recovery and was successfully explanted."}
{"id": "21446994", "title": "Viscoelastic coagulation testing: technology, applications, and limitations.", "content": "Viscoelastic coagulation testing: technology, applications, and limitations. Use of viscoelastic point-of-care (POC) coagulation instrumentation is relatively new to veterinary medicine. In human medicine, this technology has recently undergone resurgence owing to its capacity to detect hypercoagulability. The lack of sensitive tests for detecting hypercoagulable states, along with our current understanding of in vivo coagulation, highlights the deficiencies of standard coagulation tests, such as prothrombin and partial thromboplastin times, which are performed on platelet-poor plasma. Viscoelastic coagulation analyzers can provide an assessment of global coagulation, from the beginning of clot formation to fibrinolysis, utilizing whole blood. In people, use of this technology has been reported to improve management of hemostasis during surgery and decrease usage of blood products and is being used as a rapid screen for hypercoagulability. In veterinary medicine, clinical use of viscoelastic technology has been reported in dogs, cats, foals, and adult horses. This article will provide an overview of the technology, reagents and assays, applications in human and veterinary medicine, and limitations of the 3 viscoelastic POC analyzers in clinical use."}
{"id": "21441889", "title": "Blood transfusion in trauma patients: unresolved questions.", "content": "Blood transfusion in trauma patients: unresolved questions. Massive transfusion is an essential part of resuscitation efforts in acute trauma patients. The goal is to quickly correct trauma-induced coagulopathy and replace red blood cell (RBC) mass with the minimal number as well as the appropriate choice of blood components to minimize the possible adverse effects of transfusions. Early trauma induced coagulopathy (ETIC) is present in about 20% of patients upon hospital admission and predicts for decreased survival. The mechanism of ETIC is still being elucidated; however, most theories of ETIC's pathophysiology justify the early use of plasma. Most massive transfusion protocol (MTP) ratios deliver blood products in a ratio of 1:1:1 for RBCs:plasma:platelets, which is supported by the majority of the literature demonstrating improved patient survival with higher ratios (>1 plasma and platelet for every 2 RBCs transfused). Indeed, formula-driven MTPs allow trauma services to react quickly to ETIC and provide coagulation factors and platelets in these ratios without having to wait for the results of coagulation assays while the patient's coagulopathy worsens. New MTPs are being created which are adjusted according to an individual's coagulation laboratory values based on point-of-care laboratory tests, such as thromboelastography. When creating an MTP, product wastage due to inappropriate activation and improper product storage should be considered and closely monitored. Another area of discussion regarding transfusion in trauma includes the potential association of prolonged storage of RBCs and adverse outcomes, which has yet to be confirmed. Significant progress has been made in the transfusion management of trauma patients, but further studies are required to optimize patient care and outcomes."}
{"id": "21440202", "title": "Coagulation biomarkers in critically ill patients.", "content": "Coagulation biomarkers in critically ill patients. This article discusses coagulation biomarkers in critically ill patients where coagulation abnormalities occur frequently and may have a major impact on the outcome. An adequate explanation for the cause is important, since many underlying disorders may require specific treatment and supportive therapy directed at the underlying condition. Deficiencies in platelets and coagulation factors in bleeding patients or patients at risk for bleeding can be achieved by transfusion of platelet concentrate or plasma products, respectively. Prohemostatic treatment may be beneficial in case of severe bleeding, whereas restoring physiological anticoagulant pathways may be helpful in patients with sepsis and disseminated intravascular coagulation."}
{"id": "21433147", "title": "Solubility and aggregation behavior of dendronized poly(p-benzamide)s.", "content": "Solubility and aggregation behavior of dendronized poly(p-benzamide)s. A series of Fr\u00e9chet dendronized poly(p-benzamide)s have been synthesized. To attach the dendron-functionalities to the poly(p-benzamide) backbone, a propargyl side chain was introduced to p-aminobenzoic acid. Then, copper catalyzed azide-alkyne cycloaddition was used to click a first generation (G(1)), respectively, a second generation (G(2)) Fr\u00e9chet-dendron azide onto the amino acid monomer. The resulting amino acids were polymerized using triphenylphosphite to obtain a poorly organo-soluble G(1)-dendronized polymer and a non-aggregating G(2)-dendronized polymer showing good organo-solubility. Furthermore, a strictly alternating non-aggregating G(1)-TEG-dendronized polymer with good organo-solubility was synthesized. The aggregation behavior of these polymers was investigated by dynamic light scattering."}
{"id": "21429567", "title": "Fibrin formation is more impaired than thrombin generation and platelets immediately following cardiac surgery.", "content": "Fibrin formation is more impaired than thrombin generation and platelets immediately following cardiac surgery. Cardiac surgery performed on cardio-pulmonary bypass (CPB) may be complicated by coagulopathy and bleeding. This prospective observational study investigated the CPB-induced changes in thrombin generation, fibrin formation, and in the platelet component of the whole blood clot elasticity. The effects of haemostatic therapy with fresh frozen plasma (FFP) and platelet concentrate on these parameters were also evaluated. In 90 cardiac surgery patients, thrombin generation was measured using the calibrated automated thrombogram, fibrin formation was assessed as the maximum clot elasticity of the fibrin-based clot in the thromboelastometry FIBTEM test (MCE(FIBTEM)), and the platelet component was defined as the difference in maximum elasticity between the whole blood clot obtained through extrinsic activation and the fibrin-based clot (MCE(EXTEM)-MCE(FIBTEM)). Blood samples were collected before surgery, immediately after CPB, and after administration of FFP or FFP and platelet concentrate. Following CPB, the endogenous thrombin potential decreased to 93%, from median 1485 (interquartile range 1207, 1777) to 1382 (1190, 1533) nM*min (P>0.05), MCE(FIBTEM) decreased to 62%, from 21 (19, 29) to 14 (12, 19) (P<0.001), and the platelet component to 73%, from 139 (119, 174) to 101 (87, 121) (P<0.001). Administration of 11 (10, 13) ml per kg of bodyweight (ml/kgbw) FFP (40 patients), or of 13 (10, 18) ml/kgbw FFP and 7 (5, 9) ml/kgbw platelet concentrate (18 patients) brought no statistically significant changes in these parameters. Fibrin formation is more impaired than thrombin generation and the platelet component of the whole blood clot immediately after cardiopulmonary bypass."}
{"id": "21427234", "title": "Reference values of biochemical and hematological parameters for Guizhou minipigs.", "content": "Reference values of biochemical and hematological parameters for Guizhou minipigs. The pig is not only an economically important livestock animal but is also a valuable model animal for biomedical research and xenotransplantation. Reference values for clinical biochemical and hematological parameters are required for accurate data interpretation while using a pig model. In this study, whole blood samples were collected from 54 healthy Chinese Guizhou minipigs. We analyzed routine biochemical and hematological parameters and special coagulation parameters, including thrombelastography and coagulation factor activities, and have presented the baseline values of these parameters. These data provide valuable information for investigators using minipigs as animal models in biomedical studies and useful physiological data for veterinarians and livestock producers. We also compared all the results for the minipigs with the corresponding data from healthy humans. The bilirubin, uric acid and cholesterol levels of minipigs were significantly lower than those of humans (14%, 0.086% and 48% of human levels, respectively), whereas the serum enzyme levels were much higher than those in humans (e.g. the hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase and creatine kinase levels of the minipigs were 19- and 8.4-fold higher than the human reference values). The red blood cell counts, platelet counts and white blood cell counts of the minipigs were significantly higher than those of the humans. The coagulation activities of factor VII and factor X were higher in minipigs than in humans. The significant differences observed between minipigs and humans for many of these parameters suggest substantial interspecies disparities in organs and tissues. These differences merit greater attention in biomedical research involving minipigs, particularly in the area of pig-to-human transplantation."}
{"id": "21421614", "title": "Comparison between RapidTEG\u00ae and conventional thromboelastography in cardiac surgery patients.", "content": "Comparison between RapidTEG\u00ae and conventional thromboelastography in cardiac surgery patients."}
{"id": "21421259", "title": "Decline in platelet microparticles contributes to reduced hemostatic potential of stored plasma.", "content": "Decline in platelet microparticles contributes to reduced hemostatic potential of stored plasma. In an effort to administer life-saving transfusions quickly, some trauma centers maintain thawed plasma (TP). According to AABB, TP is approved for transfusion for up to five days when stored at 1-6\u00b0 C. However, the alterations in microparticles (MP) contained in the plasma, which are an integral component of plasma's hemostatic capacity, are not well characterized. We report on MP changes in TP between its initial thaw (FFP-0) and five days (FFP-5) of storage. FFP units (n=30) were thawed at 37\u00b0 C and kept refrigerated for five days. Phenotypes of residual cells, which include platelets, erythrocytes, leukocytes, monocytes, endothelial cells, and MP counterparts of each cell type, were analyzed by flow cytometry. Functional assays were used for MP procoagulant activity, plasma thrombin generation, and clotting properties (thromboelastography). In FFP-0 the majority (94%) of residual cells were platelets, along with significant levels of platelet MPs (4408 \u00d7 10(3)/L). FFP-5 showed a decline in MP count by 50% (p<0.0001), and procoagulant activity by 29% (p<0.0001). FFP-5 exhibited only 54% (p<0.0001) of the potential for thrombin generation as FFP-0, while thromboelastography indicated a slower clotting response (p<0.0001) and a longer delay in reaching maximum clot (p<0.01). Removal of MP by filtration resulted in reduced thrombin generation, while the MP replacement restored it. Decline in MP with storage contributes to FFP-5's reduced ability to provide the hemostatic potential exhibited by FFP-0, suggesting the presence of platelet MPs in freshly TP may be beneficial and protective in the initial treatment of hemorrhage."}
{"id": "21414427", "title": "Sequential co-immobilization of thrombomodulin and endothelial protein C receptor on polyurethane: activation of protein C.", "content": "Sequential co-immobilization of thrombomodulin and endothelial protein C receptor on polyurethane: activation of protein C. In an effort to control the surface-mediated activation of thrombin and clot formation, proteins and molecules which mimic the anticoagulant properties of the vascular endothelial lining were immobilized on material surfaces. When immobilized on biomaterial surfaces, thrombomodulin (TM), an endothelial glycoprotein that binds thrombin and activates protein C (PC), was shown to generate activated PC (APC) and delay clot formation. However, TM-mediated activation of PC on biomaterial surfaces was shown to be limited by the transport of PC to the surface, with maximum activation obtained at a surface density of \u223c40 fmole TM cm(-2). This work investigates surface immobilized with TM and endothelial protein C receptor (EPCR), a natural cofactor to TM which increases the rate of activation of PC on the native endothelium. A sequential and ordered immobilization of TM and EPCR on polyurethane at an enzymatically relevant distance (<10 nm) resulted in higher amounts of APC compared with surfaces with immobilized TM or with TM and EPCR immobilized randomly and at TM surface densities (1400 fmole cm(-2)) which were previously shown to be transport limited. Ordered TM and EPCR samples also showed increased time to clot formation in experiments with platelet-poor plasma, as measured by thromboelastography. Surfaces immobilized with TM and its natural cofactor EPCR at an enzymatically relevant distance are able to overcome transport limitations, increasing anticoagulant activation and time to clot formation."}
{"id": "21412912", "title": "Thrombelastography (TEG) or thromboelastometry (ROTEM) to monitor haemotherapy versus usual care in patients with massive transfusion.", "content": "Thrombelastography (TEG) or thromboelastometry (ROTEM) to monitor haemotherapy versus usual care in patients with massive transfusion. Severe bleeding and coagulopathy as a result of massive transfusion are serious clinical conditions that are associated with high mortality. Thromboelastography (TEG) and thromboelastometry (ROTEM) are increasingly used to guide transfusion strategy but their roles remain disputed. To systematically assess the benefits and harms of a TEG or ROTEM guided transfusion strategy in randomized trials involving patients with severe bleeding. Randomized clinical trials (RCTs) were identified from electronic databases: Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2010, Issue 9); MEDLINE; EMBASE; Science Citation Index Expanded; International Web of Science; CINAHL; LILACS; and the Chinese Biomedical Literature Database (up to 31st October 2010). We contacted trial authors, authors of previous reviews, and manufacturers in the field. We included all RCTs, irrespective of blinding or language, that compared transfusion guided by TEG or ROTEM to transfusion guided by clinical judgement and standard laboratory tests, or both. Two authors independently abstracted data; they resolved any disagreements by discussion. We presented pooled estimates of the intervention effects on dichotomous outcomes as relative risks (RR) and on continuous outcomes as mean differences, with 95% confidence intervals (CI). Our primary outcome measure was all cause mortality. We performed subgroup and sensitivity analyses to assess the effect of TEG or ROTEM in adults and children on various clinical and physiological outcomes. We assessed the risk of bias through assessment of trial methodological components and the risk of random error through trial sequential analysis. We included nine RCTs with a total of 776 participants; only one trial had a low risk of bias. We found two ongoing trials but were unable to retrieve any data from them. Compared with standard treatment, TEG or ROTEM showed no statistically significant effect on overall mortality (3.78% versus 5.11%, RR 0.77, 95% CI 0.35 to 1.72; I(2) = 0%) but only five trials provided data on mortality. Our analyses demonstrated a statistically significant effect of TEG or ROTEM on the amount of bleeding (MD -85.05 ml, 95% CI -140.68 to -29.42; I(2) = 26%) but failed to show any statistically significant effect on other predefined outcomes. There is an absence of evidence that TEG or ROTEM improves morbidity or mortality in patients with severe bleeding. Application of a TEG or ROTEM guided transfusion strategy seems to reduce the amount of bleeding but whether this has implications for the clinical condition of patients is still uncertain. More research is needed."}
{"id": "21403095", "title": "Platelet protease nexin-1, a serpin that strongly influences fibrinolysis and thrombolysis.", "content": "Platelet protease nexin-1, a serpin that strongly influences fibrinolysis and thrombolysis. Protease nexin-1 (PN-1) is a serpin that inhibits plasminogen activators, plasmin, and thrombin. PN-1 is barely detectable in plasma, but we have shown recently that PN-1 is present within the \u03b1-granules of platelets. In this study, the role of platelet PN-1 in fibrinolysis was investigated with the use of human platelets incubated with a blocking antibody and platelets from PN-1-deficient mice. We showed by using fibrin-agar zymography and fibrin matrix that platelet PN-1 inhibited both the generation of plasmin by fibrin-bound tissue plasminogen activator and the activity of fibrin-bound plasmin itself. Rotational thromboelastometry and laser scanning confocal microscopy were used to demonstrate that PN-1 blockade or deficiency resulted in increased clot lysis and in an acceleration of the lysis front. Protease nexin-1 is thus a major determinant of the lysis resistance of platelet-rich clots. Moreover, in an original murine model in which thrombolysis induced by tissue plasminogen activator can be measured directly in situ, we observed that vascular recanalization was significantly increased in PN-1-deficient mice. Surprisingly, general physical health, after tissue plasminogen activator-induced thrombolysis, was much better in PN-1-deficient than in wild-type mice. Our results reveal that platelet PN-1 can be considered as a new important regulator of thrombolysis in vivo. Inhibition of PN-1 is thus predicted to promote endogenous and exogenous tissue plasminogen activator-mediated fibrinolysis and may enhance the therapeutic efficacy of thrombolytic agents."}
{"id": "21389323", "title": "Aptamer ARC19499 mediates a procoagulant hemostatic effect by inhibiting tissue factor pathway inhibitor.", "content": "Aptamer ARC19499 mediates a procoagulant hemostatic effect by inhibiting tissue factor pathway inhibitor. Hemophilia A and B are caused by deficiencies in coagulation factor VIII (FVIII) and factor IX, respectively, resulting in deficient blood coagulation via the intrinsic pathway. The extrinsic coagulation pathway, mediated by factor VIIa and tissue factor (TF), remains intact but is negatively regulated by tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI), which inhibits both factor VIIa and its product, factor Xa. This inhibition limits clot initiation via the extrinsic pathway, whereas factor deficiency in hemophilia limits clot propagation via the intrinsic pathway. ARC19499 is an aptamer that inhibits TFPI, thereby enabling clot initiation and propagation via the extrinsic pathway. The core aptamer binds tightly and specifically to TFPI. ARC19499 blocks TFPI inhibition of both factor Xa and the TF/factor VIIa complex. ARC19499 corrects thrombin generation in hemophilia A and B plasma and restores clotting in FVIII-neutralized whole blood. In the present study, using a monkey model of hemophilia, FVIII neutralization resulted in prolonged clotting times as measured by thromboelastography and prolonged saphenous-vein bleeding times, which are consistent with FVIII deficiency. ARC19499 restored thromboelastography clotting times to baseline levels and corrected bleeding times. These results demonstrate that ARC19499 inhibition of TFPI may be an effective alternative to current treatments of bleeding associated with hemophilia."}
{"id": "21382181", "title": "Laboratory-based ROTEM(\u00ae) analysis: implementing pneumatic tube transport and real-time graphic transmission.", "content": "Laboratory-based ROTEM(\u00ae) analysis: implementing pneumatic tube transport and real-time graphic transmission. ROTEM(\u00ae) is considered a helpful point-of-care device to monitor blood coagulation. Centrally performed analysis is desirable but rapid transport of blood samples and real-time transmission of graphic results are an important prerequisite. The effect of sample transport through a pneumatic tube system on ROTEM(\u00ae) results is unknown. The aims of the present work were (i) to determine the influence of blood sample transport through a pneumatic tube system on ROTEM(\u00ae) parameters compared to manual transportation, and (ii) to verify whether graphic results can be transmitted on line via virtual network computing using local area network to the physician in charge of the patient. Single centre study with 30 normal volunteers. Two whole blood samples were transferred to the central haematology laboratory by either normal transport or pneumatic delivery. EXTEM, INTEM, FIBTEM and APTEM were analysed in parallel with two ROTEM(\u00ae) devices and compared. Connection between central laboratory, emergency and operating rooms was established using local area network. All collected ROTEM(\u00ae) parameters were within normal limits. No statistically significant differences between normal transport and pneumatic delivery were observed. Real-time transmission of the original ROTEM(\u00ae) curves using local area network is feasible and easy to establish. At our institution, transport of blood samples by pneumatic delivery does not influence ROTEM(\u00ae) parameters. Blood samples can be analysed centrally, and results transmitted live via virtual network computing to emergency or operating rooms. Prior to analyse blood samples centrally, the type of sample transport should be tested to exclude in vitro blood activation by local pneumatic transport system."}
{"id": "21375741", "title": "Transfusion in trauma: thromboelastometry-guided coagulation factor concentrate-based therapy versus standard fresh frozen plasma-based therapy.", "content": "Transfusion in trauma: thromboelastometry-guided coagulation factor concentrate-based therapy versus standard fresh frozen plasma-based therapy. Thromboelastometry (TEM)-guided haemostatic therapy with fibrinogen concentrate and prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC) in trauma patients may reduce the need for transfusion of red blood cells (RBC) or platelet concentrate, compared with fresh frozen plasma (FFP)-based haemostatic therapy. This retrospective analysis compared patients from the Salzburg Trauma Centre (Salzburg, Austria) treated with fibrinogen concentrate and/or PCC, but no FFP (fibrinogen-PCC group, n = 80), and patients from the TraumaRegister DGU receiving \u2265 2 units of FFP, but no fibrinogen concentrate/PCC (FFP group, n = 601). Inclusion criteria were: age 18-70 years, base deficit at admission \u2265 2 mmol/L, injury severity score (ISS) \u2265 16, abbreviated injury scale for thorax and/or abdomen and/or extremity \u2265 3, and for head/neck < 5. For haemostatic therapy in the emergency room and during surgery, the FFP group (ISS 35.5 \u00b1 10.5) received a median of 6 units of FFP (range: 2, 51), while the fibrinogen-PCC group (ISS 35.2 \u00b1 12.5) received medians of 6 g of fibrinogen concentrate (range: 0, 15) and 1200 U of PCC (range: 0, 6600). RBC transfusion was avoided in 29% of patients in the fibrinogen-PCC group compared with only 3% in the FFP group (P< 0.001). Transfusion of platelet concentrate was avoided in 91% of patients in the fibrinogen-PCC group, compared with 56% in the FFP group (P< 0.001). Mortality was comparable between groups: 7.5% in the fibrinogen-PCC group and 10.0% in the FFP group (P = 0.69). TEM-guided haemostatic therapy with fibrinogen concentrate and PCC reduced the exposure of trauma patients to allogeneic blood products."}
{"id": "21370413", "title": "Point of care testing in children undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Point of care testing in children undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass. Excessive hemorrhage is a major complication after cardiac surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). The aim of this study was to define the potential role of the cone and platelet analyzer (CPA) and the rotating thromboelastogram (ROTEM) point of care tests in children undergoing CPB. We prospectively studied 15 pediatric patients aged 1 month to 10 years. Blood count, blood coagulation tests (prothrombin time [PT], activated partial thromboplastin time, fibrinogen, thrombin time), CPA and ROTEM parameters were measured before and after CPB. Demographic and surgical data were recorded as were those on perioperative blood loss and blood product transfusion. Low body weight, longer duration on CPB and lower core body temperature were associated with an increased bleeding risk. The ROTEM test showed a significant prolongation of clotting time and decreased maximal clot firmness (MCF) postoperatively in children with increased bleeding. The coagulation parameters associated with increased bleeding were: prolonged PT, lower fibrinogen levels, prior to surgery, and lower MCF after surgery. CPA test findings were not associated with postoperative bleeding in our patients. CPA did not serve as a prognostic tool for predicting bleeding risk in children undergoing CPB. The change in ROTEM's post-CPB results associated with bleeding tendency, and they may predict for poorer clot formation and stability."}
{"id": "21369792", "title": "Comparison of hypertonic saline and mannitol on whole blood coagulation in vitro assessed by thromboelastometry.", "content": "Comparison of hypertonic saline and mannitol on whole blood coagulation in vitro assessed by thromboelastometry. Hypertonic saline (HS) is an alternative to mannitol for decreasing intracranial pressure in traumatic brain injury and before craniotomy. Both HS and mannitol may interfere with blood coagulation but their influence on coagulation has not been compared in controlled situations. Therefore, we evaluated different strengths of HS and 15% mannitol on blood coagulation in vitro. Citrated fresh whole blood, withdrawn from 10 volunteers, was diluted with 0.9%, 2.5%, or 3.5% HS or 15% mannitol to make 10 vol.% and 20 vol.% hemodilution in vitro. The diluted blood and undiluted control samples were analyzed with thromboelastometry (ROTEM(\u00ae)) using two activators, tissue thromboplastin without (ExTEM(\u00ae)) or with cytochalasin (FibTEM(\u00ae)). In the FibTEM(\u00ae) analysis, maximum clot firmness (MCF) was stronger in the 2.5% HS group than in the mannitol group after both dilutions (P < 0.05). In the ExTEM(\u00ae) analysis, clot formation time (CFT) was more delayed in the mannitol group than in the 0.9%, 2.5%, or 3.5% HS groups in 20 vol.% hemodilution (P < 0.05). MCF was weaker in the mannitol group than in the other groups after 20 vol.% dilution (P < 0.05). MCF was also weaker in the 3.5% than in the 0.9% saline group after 20 vol.% dilution (P < 0.05). Blood coagulation is disturbed more by 15% mannitol than by equiosmolar 2.5% saline. This disturbance seems to be attributed to overall clot formation and strength but also to pure fibrin clot firmness. This saline solution might be more favorable than mannitol before craniotomy in patients with a high risk of bleeding."}
{"id": "21366858", "title": "GlycoPEGylated rFVIIa (N7-GP) has a prolonged hemostatic effect in hemophilic mice compared with rFVIIa.", "content": "GlycoPEGylated rFVIIa (N7-GP) has a prolonged hemostatic effect in hemophilic mice compared with rFVIIa."}
{"id": "21362113", "title": "Monitoring rFVIIa 90 \u03bcg kg\u207b\u00b9 dosing in haemophiliacs: comparing laboratory response using various whole blood assays over 6 h.", "content": "Monitoring rFVIIa 90 \u03bcg kg\u207b\u00b9 dosing in haemophiliacs: comparing laboratory response using various whole blood assays over 6 h. Recombinant FVIIa is a haemostatic agent administered to patients with severe FVIII or FIX deficiency with inhibitors. Although rFVIIa is effective at stopping bleeding, a reliable assay to monitor its effect is lacking. To characterize the pharmacokinetics and global coagulation effects of rFVIIa for 6 h following a IV dose of 90 \u03bcg kg\u207b\u00b9. Ten non-bleeding subjects with severe FVIII or FIX deficiency were infused with a single-dose of rFVIIa 90 \u03bcg k\u207b\u00b9 body weight and blood was collected before and at 0.5, 1, 2, 4 and 6 h postdose. Global haemostasis was characterized throughout the study utilizing whole blood analyses (Hemodyne HAS, TEG, ROTEM). The clearance and half-life of factor FVII:C was estimated as 39.0 \u00b1 8.8 mL h\u207b\u00b9 kg\u207b\u00b9 and 2.1 \u00b1 0.2 h respectively. There was good inter-assay agreement with respect to clot initiation parameters (R, CT and FOT) and these parameters all fell to a mean of approximately 9 min following rFVIIa dosing. The platelet contractile force (PCF) and clot elastic modulus (CEM) were positively correlated to FVII:C (P < 0.0001), and these parameters were dynamic throughout the 6-h period. The MA and MCF did not correlate to FVII:C nor did they significantly change during the study. Prothrombin F1 + 2 significantly increased following rFVIIa dosing (P < 0.001), but remained steady throughout the study. There was no change in D-dimer concentrations over time. The FOT, R and CT characterized clot initiation following rFVIIa dosing. The PCF and CEM were correlated to FVII:C and characterized the dynamics of platelet function and clot strength over the rFVIIa dosing interval. The clinical significance of these findings needs additional study."}
{"id": "21352237", "title": "A comparison of fibrinogen measurement methods with fibrin clot elasticity assessed by thromboelastometry, before and after administration of fibrinogen concentrate in cardiac surgery patients.", "content": "A comparison of fibrinogen measurement methods with fibrin clot elasticity assessed by thromboelastometry, before and after administration of fibrinogen concentrate in cardiac surgery patients. Fibrinogen concentrate administration can be guided by measuring fibrinogen concentration or quality of the fibrin-based clot. This study compared different fibrinogen concentration measurement methods with maximum clot firmness (MCF) of the fibrin clot, assessed by thromboelastometry (FIBTEM), in 33 cardiovascular surgery patients receiving fibrinogen concentrate for hemostatic therapy. Blood samples were collected after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and after fibrinogen concentrate administration. FIBTEM MCF was measured using a rotational thromboelastometry device (ROTEM, Tem International). Fibrinogen concentration was measured using photo-optical (CA-7000, Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics), mechanical (KC-10 steel ball, Schnitger and Gross hook, Amelung GmbH), and electromechanical (STA-R, Diagnostica Stago) coagulometers. Assessments included agreement between fibrinogen concentration measurements and correlations between fibrinogen concentration and FIBTEM MCF. After CPB, correlations were significant (p\u2003<\u20030.001) between FIBTEM MCF and fibrinogen concentration determined by steel ball (r\u2003=\u20030.71), hook (r\u2003=\u20030.73), STA-R (r\u2003=\u20030.81), and CA-7000 (r\u2003=\u20030.82) coagulometers. After fibrinogen concentrate administration, agreement between fibrinogen measurement methods was severely impaired, and correlations with FIBTEM MCF were 0.39 (steel ball), 0.33 (hook), 0.59 (STA-R), and 0.33 (CA-7000). Agreement between fibrinogen concentration measurement methods decreased considerably after fibrinogen concentrate administration. All methods correlated acceptably with FIBTEM MCF at the end of CPB, but not after hemostatic therapy. Further investigation is needed to explain these findings."}
{"id": "21346555", "title": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 improves coagulation in patient plasma in vitro following cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 improves coagulation in patient plasma in vitro following cardiopulmonary bypass. The objective of the present study was to determine if a new procoagulant molecule, carbon monoxide releasing molecule (tricarbonyldichlororuthenium (II) dimer; CORM-2) would improve coagulation following cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). Plasma was obtained from patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery requiring CPB. Whole blood was collected and anticoagulated with sodium citrate after induction of anesthesia and again after CPB and heparin neutralization with protamine. Blood samples were centrifuged for 15 min, with plasma collected and stored at -80\u00b0C prior to analysis. Samples were subsequently exposed to 0 or 100 \u03bcmol/l CORM-2, with coagulation activated with tissue factor. Data were collected with thrombelastography until clot strength stabilized. Patients underwent CPB for 133 \u00b1 61 min (mean \u00b1 SD). The velocity of thrombus formation was significantly decreased (52%) by CPB, as was clot strength (53%). Addition of CORM-2 to plasma samples obtained after CPB significantly increased the velocity of clot formation (75%) and strength (52%) compared to matched unexposed samples. The lesion of plasmatic coagulation associated with CPB was significantly improved in vitro by addition of CORM-2. If preclinical assessments of efficacy and safety of CORM-2 are favorable, future clinical trials involving CORM-2 or other CORMs as a hemostatic intervention in the setting of CPB are justified."}
{"id": "21330915", "title": "The influence of platelets, plasma and red blood cells on functional haemostatic assays.", "content": "The influence of platelets, plasma and red blood cells on functional haemostatic assays. Functional whole blood haemostatic assays are used increasingly to guide transfusion therapy and monitor medical treatment and are also applied for in-vitro evaluations of the haemostatic potential of stored platelets. We investigated how the cellular and plasmatic elements, both isolated and combined, influenced the two methodologically different assays, thrombelastography (TEG) and impedance aggregometry (Multiplate). Platelet-rich plasma (200 \u00d7 10/l) or pure plasma (0 platelets), with and without added red blood cells (RBCs), hematocrit 0, 0.15 or 0.29, were produced in vitro from platelet concentrates, fresh frozen plasma and stored RBC. Pure platelets were investigated by removing plasma components from platelet concentrates by diafiltration against the platelet storage solution Intersol. Plasma was readded by diafiltration against plasma in Intersol. Haemostatic function was evaluated by TEG and Multiplate. In the TEG, increasing amounts of RBC reduced clot strength and clot kinetics (\u03b1-angle), most markedly in plasma/RBC without platelets. In contrast, RBC in a platelet concentrate matrix enhanced Multiplate aggregation in response to weak agonists (ADP and arachidonic acid). Furthermore, removing plasma from platelet concentrates eliminated the TEG response and diminished the Multiplate aggregation response, but readding plasma to the pure platelet concentrates restored the response. Each of the elements in whole blood, plasma, platelets and RBC, affected the Multiplate and TEG results differently. The results emphasize that the concentrations of all cellular and plasmatic components in whole blood should be taken into account when interpreting results obtained by TEG and multiplate."}
{"id": "21330914", "title": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 enhances \u03b12-antiplasmin activity.", "content": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 enhances \u03b12-antiplasmin activity. The objective of this study was to determine whether carbon monoxide releasing molecule (tricarbonyldichlororuthenium (II) dimer, CORM-2) directly affects \u03b12-antiplasmin activity. For this purpose, purified \u03b12-antiplasmin was exposed to 0 or 100 \u03bcmol/l CORM-2 for 5 min at 37\u00b0C and then placed in \u03b12-antiplasmin-deficient plasma (25 \u03bcg/ml \u03b12-antiplasmin and 3.3 \u03bcmol/l CORM-2 final concentrations). In a second series of experiments, \u03b12-antiplasmin and deficient plasma were combined and then exposed to 0 or 100 \u03bcmol/l CORM-2. Coagulation was activated with tissue factor and fibrinolysis initiated with tissue-type plasminogen activator (n = 8 per condition). Thrombus growth/disintegration kinetics were monitored with thrombelastography until clot lysis time occurred. Samples containing \u03b12-antiplasmin preexposed to 100 \u03bcmol/l CORM-2 demonstrated no changes in the velocity of clot growth, but had a significant prolongation of the time to maximum rate of lysis, clot lysis time, and a significant decrease in the maximum rate of clot lysis compared with samples preexposed to 0 \u03bcmol/l CORM-2. In sharp contrast, addition of 100 \u03bcmol/l CORM-2 to premixed \u03b12-antiplasmin in its deficient plasma resulted in significant, marked increases in the velocity of clot growth and the strength with concurrent antifibrinolytic effects as in the first series. In conclusion, CORM-2 exerts its antifibrinolytic effects by direct enhancement of \u03b12-antiplasmin activity. It appears that combined modification of both fibrinogen and \u03b12-antiplasmin are responsible for the robust procoagulant/antifibrinolytic effects of CORM-2 in the fibrinolytic environment."}
{"id": "21323795", "title": "Standardization of thromboelastography: a report from the TEG-ROTEM working group.", "content": "Standardization of thromboelastography: a report from the TEG-ROTEM working group. Laboratory evaluation of bleeding disorders has been performed with the standard clotting assays such as the PT and PTT for several decades. Our improved understanding of the process of blood coagulation has now revealed the important role played by the cellular elements such as platelets, monocytes and red blood cells. The need for a test that can assess clotting in a more 'global' manner, beyond the initiation of clot formation, has led to greater interest in assays such as thrombin generation and thromboelastography. Even though there are several publications using thromboelastography it remains a research tool as the methodology is not standardized. In an attempt to show reproducibility and consistency using thromboelastography, a group of investigators from different countries joined hands to form the TEG-ROTEM Working Group. Two studies were performed using PRP and FVIII deficient plasma and an intrinsic pathway activator. This article summarizes the results of the first international effort at standardization of thromboelastography. Both of the instruments using this technology (TEG(\u00ae) and ROTEM(\u00ae)) were used. Nine laboratories from countries around the globe participated in this effort. The results showed a significant inter-laboratory variance with CV's greater than 10%. Although these results were not satisfactory, this has been the first effort to standardize this methodology and significant work remains to be done to improve reliability and reproducibility. These studies were performed on PRP and the results may be more reliable when preformed on whole blood samples. We believe that it is important to continue this work so that we may investigate the usefulness and potential applications of thromboelastography in the evaluation of bleeding and thrombosis."}
{"id": "21320286", "title": "Homozygous F5 deep-intronic splicing mutation resulting in severe factor V deficiency and undetectable thrombin generation in platelet-rich plasma.", "content": "Homozygous F5 deep-intronic splicing mutation resulting in severe factor V deficiency and undetectable thrombin generation in platelet-rich plasma. Coagulation factor (F) V deficiency is associated with a bleeding tendency of variable severity, but phenotype determinants are largely unknown. Recently, we have shown that three patients with undetectable plasma FV and mild bleeding symptoms had sufficient residual platelet FV to support thrombin generation in platelet-rich plasma (PRP). Therefore, we hypothesized that FV-deficient patients with severe bleeding manifestations may lack platelet FV. To characterize a FV-deficient patient with a severe bleeding diathesis. We performed FV mutation screening and functional studies in a 31-year-old male (FV:C < 1%) with umbilical bleeding at birth, recurrent hemarthrosis and muscle hematomas, and a recent intracranial hemorrhage. The proband was homozygous for a deep-intronic mutation (F5 IVS8 +268A\u2192G) causing the inclusion of a pseudo-exon with an in-frame stop codon in the mature F5 mRNA. Although platelet FV antigen was detectable by immunoprecipitation followed by Western blotting, no FV activity could be demonstrated in the proband's plasma or platelets with a prothrombinase-based assay. Moreover, no thrombin generation was observed in PRP triggered with 1-50 pm tissue factor (even in the presence of platelet agonists), whereas an acquired FV inhibitor was excluded. Clot formation in the proband's whole blood, as assessed by thromboelastometry, was markedly delayed but not abolished. This is the first report of a pathogenic deep-intronic mutation in the F5 gene. Our findings indicate that the minimal FV requirement for viability is extremely low and suggest that thrombin generation in PRP may predict bleeding tendency in patients with undetectable plasma FV."}
{"id": "21320282", "title": "Effects of in vitro adult platelet transfusions on neonatal hemostasis.", "content": "Effects of in vitro adult platelet transfusions on neonatal hemostasis. Thrombocytopenia is frequent among neonates, and 20-25% of affected infants are treated with platelet transfusions. These are frequently given for mild thrombocytopenia (platelets: 50-100 \u00d7 10(9) L(-1)), largely because of the known hyporeactivity of neonatal platelets. In tests of primary hemostasis, however, neonates have shorter bleeding and closure times (CTs) than adults. This has been attributed to their higher hematocrits, higher von Willebrand factor (VWF) concentrations, and predominance of longer VWF polymers. To determine whether the 'transfusion' of adult (relatively hyperreactive) platelets into neonatal blood results in a hypercoagulable profile. Cord blood (CB) and adult peripheral blood (PB) were separated (with a modified buffy coat method) to generate miniaturized platelet concentrates (PCs) and thrombocytopenic blood. PB-derived and CB-derived PCs (n = 7 per group) were then 'transfused'in vitro into thrombocytopenic CB and PB. The effects of autologous vs. allogeneic (developmentally mismatched) 'transfusions' were evaluated with whole blood aggregometry, a platelet function analyzer (PFA-100), and thromboelastography (TEG). Adult platelets aggregated significantly better than neonatal platelets in response to thrombin receptor-activating peptide, ADP, and collagen, regardless of the blood into which they were transfused. The 'transfusion' of adult platelets into thrombocytopenic CB resulted in shorter CTs-EPI (PFA-100) and higher clot strength and firmness (TEG) than 'transfusion' of neonatal autologous platelets. In vitro'transfusion' of adult platelets into neonatal blood results in shorter CTs than 'transfusion' with neonatal platelets. Our findings should raise awareness of the differences between the neonatal and adult hemostatic system and the potential 'developmental mismatch' associated with platelet transfusions for neonatal hemostasis."}
{"id": "21318436", "title": "Coagulation management in multiple trauma: a systematic review.", "content": "Coagulation management in multiple trauma: a systematic review. The management of trauma patients suffering from active bleeding has improved with a better understanding of trauma-induced coagulopathy. The aim of this manuscript is to give recommendations for coagulation management. A systematic literature search in the PubMed database was performed for articles published between January 2000 and August 2009. A total of 230 articles were included in the present systematic review. The \"coagulopathy of trauma\" is a discrete disease which has a decisive influence on survival. Diagnosis and therapy of deranged coagulation should start immediately after admission to the emergency department. A specific protocol for massive transfusion should be introduced and continued. Loss of body temperature should be prevented and treated. Acidaemia should be prevented and treated by appropriate shock therapy. If massive transfusion is performed using fresh frozen plasma (FFP), a ratio of FFP to pRBC (packed red blood cells) of 1:2-1:1 should be achieved. Fibrinogen should be substituted at levels of <1.5 g/L. For patients suffering from active bleeding, permissive hypotension (i.e. mean arterial pressure ~65 mmHg) may be aimed for until surgical cessation of bleeding. This option is contraindicated in injuries of the central nervous system and in patients with coronary heart disease, or with known hypertension. Thrombelastography or -metry may be performed to guide coagulation diagnosis and substitution. Hypocalcaemia <0.9 mmol/L should be avoided and may be treated. For actively bleeding patients, pRBC may be given at haemoglobin <10 g/L (6.2 mmol/L) and haematocrit may be targeted at 30%."}
{"id": "21315618", "title": "Are the point-of-care diagnostics MULTIPLATE and ROTEM valid in the setting of high concentrations of heparin and its reversal with protamine?", "content": "Are the point-of-care diagnostics MULTIPLATE and ROTEM valid in the setting of high concentrations of heparin and its reversal with protamine? To evaluate the in vitro effects of high concentrations of heparin and its reversal with protamine on routine laboratory parameters as well as on modified thromboelastogram (ROTEM; TEM International, Munich, Germany) and impedance aggregometry (MULTIPLATE; Dynabyte, Munich, Germany). An observational, nonrandomized in vitro study. A single-center, university hospital. Ten healthy volunteers. Heparinization of whole blood to levels of 2, 4, 6, and 8 IU/mL of heparin and reversal with protamine. For MULTIPLATE measurements, heparin levels up to 20 IU/mL were tested. The present results show that the prothrombin time (PT) and fibrinogen measurements are altered significantly by heparin concentrations above 2 IU/mL. Protamine reversal also affected coagulation tests except for the fibrinogen. The INTEM test using the ROTEM system was influenced significantly by heparin concentrations of 2 IU/mL or higher, whereas EXTEM measurements remained stable up to 4 IU/mL. The findings for the FIBTEM test were stable up to 6 IU/mL but then declined to values less than 50% of baseline at 8 IU/mL. HEPTEM results remained valid under all concentrations of heparin tested. The effect of protamine on ROTEM was seen mainly in the INTEM and HEPTEM measurements. Heparin concentrations up to a level of 20 U/mL had no effect on MULTIPLATE measurements. Effects of protamine on MULTIPLATE became significant at heparin-to-protamine ratios below 1:1 and were more pronounced for adenosine diphosphate than for thrombin receptor-activated protein testing. Neither fibrinogen (Clauss) nor derived fibrinogen or FIBTEM testing is valid in the setting of high concentrations of heparin unless antagonized by heparinase. Reversal of heparin with protamine worsens platelet function at all ratios as detected by aggregometry (MULTIPLATE) and thromboelastography (ROTEM), starting at a 1:1 ratio. Therefore, appropriate coagulation testing under cardiopulmonary bypass conditions should be selected carefully according to heparin levels. In particular, fibrinogen values are falsely low at heparin levels of 2 IU/mL and above. Therefore, newer algorithms promoting the correction of fibrinogen levels on cardiopulmonary bypass should be based on appropriate testing."}
{"id": "21312255", "title": "Plasma extraction rate and collection efficiency during therapeutic plasma exchange with Spectra Optia in comparison with Haemonetics MCS+.", "content": "Plasma extraction rate and collection efficiency during therapeutic plasma exchange with Spectra Optia in comparison with Haemonetics MCS+. For therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE), continuous and intermittent flow separators are known to be efficient. This study was undertaken to compare the performances of the Spectra Optia, a continuous flow centrifugal apheresis system recently developed by CaridianBCT, with the Haemonetics Multicomponents System (MCS)+ apheresis system based on intermittent flow centrifugation. The primary objective of the study was to compare the time required to exchange one total plasma volume with both separators. The secondary objectives were to determine the plasma exchange efficiency, the plasma extraction rate, the percentage of target exchange volume achieved, and the loss of cellular components. The study involved prospectively paired comparison of 16 TPE on each device performed in patients with chronic diseases treated with TPE. The time required to exchange 1 total plasma volume was 182 \u00b1 36 minutes for MCS+ procedures and 100 \u00b1 20 minutes for the Spectra Optia procedures (P < 0.05, all results presented as mean \u00b1 standard deviation). A significantly higher plasma extraction rate was achieved (30.2 \u00b1 4.3 vs 16.8 \u00b1 3.4 mL/min, respectively, P < 0.05), and the plasma exchange efficiency was slightly better with the Spectra Optia compared with the MCS+ procedures (83.4 \u00b1 7.0 vs 80.0 \u00b1 8.5%, P < 0.05). The platelet loss was significantly lower with the Spectra Optia compared with the MCS+ procedures (1.6 \u00b1 2.3 vs 7.5 \u00b1 4.2%, respectively, P < 0.05), whereas the red blood cells loss was comparable. In conclusion, the Spectra Optia has significantly higher extraction rate and exchange efficiency than the MCS+ allowing to remove the same amount of plasma in less time, by processing less blood. It also removes significantly less platelets than the MCS+ separator."}
{"id": "21311320", "title": "An uncommon cause of postoperative bleeding.", "content": "An uncommon cause of postoperative bleeding. The postoperative phase can be associated with an increased risk of thrombosis and abnormal bleeding. We report the case of a patient admitted to our intensive care unit for postoperative monitoring who developed two episodes of hemorrhagic shock. A thromboelastogram performed with heparinase I digestion demonstrated the action of endogenous heparin-like substances whose presence was subsequently confirmed at the histological examination of the tumor. Heparinase-modified thromboelastography has proven to be an effective and rapid point-of-care coagulation test and in our case allowed early detection of circulating heparinoids."}
{"id": "21310047", "title": "In vitro impairment of whole blood coagulation and platelet function by hypertonic saline hydroxyethyl starch.", "content": "In vitro impairment of whole blood coagulation and platelet function by hypertonic saline hydroxyethyl starch. Hypertonic saline hydroxyethyl starch (HH) has been recommended for first line treatment of hemorrhagic shock. Its effects on coagulation are unclear. We studied in vitro effects of HH dilution on whole blood coagulation and platelet function. Furthermore 7.2% hypertonic saline, 6% hydroxyethylstarch (as ingredients of HH), and 0.9% saline solution (as control) were tested in comparable dilutions to estimate specific component effects of HH on coagulation. The study was designed as experimental non-randomized comparative in vitro study. Following institutional review board approval and informed consent blood samples were taken from 10 healthy volunteers and diluted in vitro with either HH (HyperHaes, Fresenius Kabi, Germany), hypertonic saline (HT, 7.2% NaCl), hydroxyethylstarch (HS, HAES6%, Fresenius Kabi, Germany) or NaCl 0.9% (ISO) in a proportion of 5%, 10%, 20% and 40%. Coagulation was studied in whole blood by rotation thrombelastometry (ROTEM) after thromboplastin activation without (ExTEM) and with inhibition of thrombocyte function by cytochalasin D (FibTEM), the latter was performed to determine fibrin polymerisation alone. Values are expressed as maximal clot firmness (MCF, [mm]) and clotting time (CT, [s]). Platelet aggregation was determined by impedance aggregrometry (Multiplate) after activation with thrombin receptor-activating peptide 6 (TRAP) and quantified by the area under the aggregation curve (AUC [aggregation units (AU)/min]). Scanning electron microscopy was performed to evaluate HyperHaes induced cell shape changes of thrombocytes. 2-way ANOVA for repeated measurements, Bonferroni post hoc test, p < 0.01. Dilution impaired whole blood coagulation and thrombocyte aggregation in all dilutions in a dose dependent fashion. In contrast to dilution with ISO and HS, respectively, dilution with HH as well as HT almost abolished coagulation (MCFExTEM from 57.3 \u00b1 4.9 mm (native) to 1.7 \u00b1 2.2 mm (HH 40% dilution; p < 0.0001) and to 6.6 \u00b1 3.4 mm (HT 40% dilution; p < 0.0001) and thrombocyte aggregation (AUC from 1067 \u00b1 234 AU/mm (native) to 14.5 \u00b1 12.5 AU/mm (HH 40% dilution; p < 0.0001) and to 20.4 \u00b1 10.4 AU/min (HT 40% dilution; p < 0.0001) without differences between HH and HT (MCF: p = 0.452; AUC: p = 0.449). HH impairs platelet function during in vitro dilution already at 5% dilution. Impairment of whole blood coagulation is significant after 10% dilution or more. This effect can be pinpointed to the platelet function impairing hypertonic saline component and to a lesser extend to fibrin polymerization inhibition by the colloid component or dilution effects.Accordingly, repeated administration and overdosage should be avoided."}
{"id": "21308350", "title": "Diverse inhibition of plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 by theaflavins of black tea.", "content": "Diverse inhibition of plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 by theaflavins of black tea. Fruits, vegetables, spices and a variety of teas are suggested for the prevention of many diseases. They encompass active, non-nutritional ingredients called nutraceuticals which are defined as food products that provide health benefits. Many nutraceuticals have been tested to identify inhibitors of plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1). PAI-1 is the major and fast acting physiological inhibitor of fibrinolysis. However, preclinical studies of PAI-1 inhibitors have revealed an additional role of PAI-1 in the pathogenesis of vascular remodeling, renal injury, diabetes, obesity, Alzheimer's disease and cancer. Thus PAI-1 is a potential therapeutic target in some of these diseases. Our previous study revealed that a black tea extract (containing mostly theaflavins) inhibits PAI-1. In this study we report results for four pure (>98%) theaflavins. Inactivation of PAI-1 was tested by clot formation and by its lysis using thromboelastometry and measurements of human plasma turbidity. Among four tested theaflavins, theaflavin-3'-gallate was the most potent in PAI-1 inhibition trailed by theaflavin-3,3'-digallate, while the other two i.e., theaflavin and theaflavin-3-gallate did not show inhibitory activity."}
{"id": "21296250", "title": "Reversal of hypercoagulability with hydroxyethyl starch during transplantation: a case series.", "content": "Reversal of hypercoagulability with hydroxyethyl starch during transplantation: a case series. During transplant surgery, clot formation resulting in life-threatening thromboembolic phenomena or graft loss may be a consequence unless close monitoring of coagulation and anticoagulation treatment is instituted in a timely manner. Three cases with a hypercoagulable state, as determined by thrombelastography at the time of surgery, but whose hypercoagulation was gradually attenuated with hydroxyethyl starch infusion during transplantation, are presented."}
{"id": "21277261", "title": "Platelet activation of platelet concentrates derived from buffy coat and apheresis methods.", "content": "Platelet activation of platelet concentrates derived from buffy coat and apheresis methods. Preparation for storage may cause platelet activation. The quality of platelet concentrates plays an important role in transfusion therapy. Platelet concentrates are produced by different centrifugation methods; buffy coat (buffy coat-derived platelet concentrates-BC) and plateletpheresis (apheresis-derived platelet concentrates-APC). Their quality was assessed using the following parameters: platelet, WBC and RBC counts pH, volume, platelet factor 4 (PF4) and Annexin V. The present paper compares the quality of both platelet preparations in vitro. In this experimental study, 30 platelet concentrates were harvested with the Haemonetics MCS plus and 30 units via the buffy coat (BC) method. The percentages of Annexin V expression, PF4 levels, platelet, WBC and RBC counts, pH and volume were measure immediately after collection and after 3 days of storage. During storage for up to 3 days, BC units displayed, no significant pH or RBC, difference in comparison with apheresis preparations (p>0.05). During storage for up to 3 days, BC units displayed a significant increase in the PF4 and Annexin V expression, compared to the apheresis preparations on day three (p<0.05). The kinetics of PF4 and Annexin V levels are influenced by the method used to prepare platelets for storage. The different levels of PF4 and Annexin V in BCs and APCs clearly demonstrates a progressive activation of BC platelets exceeding that of APC. However, in vivo studies should be performed to confirm these findings."}
{"id": "21255454", "title": "Optimization of glutathione production in batch and fed-batch cultures by the wild-type and recombinant strains of the methylotrophic yeast Hansenula polymorpha DL-1.", "content": "Optimization of glutathione production in batch and fed-batch cultures by the wild-type and recombinant strains of the methylotrophic yeast Hansenula polymorpha DL-1. Tripeptide glutathione (gamma-glutamyl-L-cysteinyl-glycine) is the most abundant non-protein thiol that protects cells from metabolic and oxidative stresses and is widely used as medicine, food additives and in cosmetic industry. The methylotrophic yeast Hansenula polymorpha is regarded as a rich source of glutathione due to the role of this thiol in detoxifications of key intermediates of methanol metabolism. Cellular and extracellular glutathione production of H. polymorpha DL-1 in the wild type and recombinant strains which overexpress genes of glutathione biosynthesis (GSH2) and its precursor cysteine (MET4) was studied. Glutathione producing capacity of H. polymorpha DL-1 depending on parameters of cultivation (dissolved oxygen tension, pH, stirrer speed), carbon substrate (glucose, methanol) and type of overexpressed genes of glutathione and its precursor biosynthesis during batch and fed-batch fermentations were studied. Under optimized conditions of glucose fed-batch cultivation, the glutathione productivity of the engineered strains was increased from ~900 up to ~ 2300 mg of Total Intracellular Glutathione (TIG) or GSH+GSSGin, per liter of culture medium. Meantime, methanol fed-batch cultivation of one of the recombinant strains allowed achieving the extracellular glutathione productivity up to 250 mg of Total Extracellular Glutathione (TEG) or GSH+GSSGex, per liter of the culture medium. H. polymorpha is an competitive glutathione producer as compared to other known yeast and bacteria strains (Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Candida utilis, Escherichia coli, Lactococcus lactis etc.) with good perspectives for further improvement especially for production of extracellular form of glutathione."}
{"id": "21252577", "title": "Effect of early or delayed administration of warfarin with heparin on thrombosis in pulmonary thromboembolism.", "content": "Effect of early or delayed administration of warfarin with heparin on thrombosis in pulmonary thromboembolism. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of early or delayed warfarin administration with unfractionated heparin (UFH) on coagulation parameters in pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE). This study was performed between November 2006 and July 2007. Thirty-three patients with PTE were sequentially slotted to early (n = 16) and delayed (n = 17) warfarin treatment groups. In the early group, both UFH infusion and warfarin were started simultaneously and in the delayed group, warfarin was added (1-3 days later) based on when partial thromboplastin time reached the therapeutic level with UFH. The proteins C and S, D-dimer, hematocrit levels, and platelet counts for all patients were studied prior to treatment and 6, 24, and 48 h after warfarin treatment. In order to determine the overall effect of early and delayed warfarin treatment on clot formation, a thromboelastogram was performed simultaneously. In both groups, a similar chronological decrease in protein C levels reaching maximum at 24 h with warfarin treatment was observed. However, intragroup or intergroup decreases in protein S levels were not different. On thromboelastogram, INTEM and EXTEM clotting times were significantly prolonged chronologically, but this prolongation was not different between groups. The suppressor effect of warfarin on proteins C and S in the early period of double anticoagulant treatment did not appear to aggravate the risk of thrombosis in patients with PTE in whom warfarin was started simultaneously with UFH."}
{"id": "21251146", "title": "Correlations between global clotting function tests, duration of operation, and postoperative chest tube drainage in pediatric cardiac surgery.", "content": "Correlations between global clotting function tests, duration of operation, and postoperative chest tube drainage in pediatric cardiac surgery. Systemic coagulation disorders after cardiac surgery represent serious postoperative complications. There have been few reports, however, identifying preoperative coagulation tests that predict postoperative bleeding. The aim of the present study was to investigate the relationship between postoperative hemorrhage and coagulation parameters determined by global coagulation assays, to define potential predictive markers. Twenty-one pediatric patients were enrolled. Blood samples were collected before and 24 h after cardiac surgery. Laboratory investigations included platelet count, hematocrit, classical coagulation tests [prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, thrombin-antithrombin complex (TAT)], rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM), and the thrombin generation test (TGT). The duration of the surgical procedure was recorded. Chest tube drainage was monitored for 24 h after operation as an index of postoperative hemorrhage. Comparisons between preoperative and postoperative results indicated that TAT increased significantly after operation, whereas ROTEM parameters did not show a hypercoagulable pattern. Preoperative endogenous thrombin potential (ETP) measured in the TGT and clot formation time (CFT) in the ROTEM correlated with chest tube drainage. The classical coagulation tests were not informative. Postoperatively, peak height and ETP in TGT, all ROTEM parameters, and duration of surgery were correlated with chest tube drainage. Duration of surgery was correlated with postoperative ROTEM parameters but not with TGT. Postoperative maximum clot firmness and AUC were correlated with platelet count decrease ratio. The preoperative CFT and ETP provide useful indices for predicting postoperative chest tube drainage volume. In addition, the duration of surgery also correlated with chest tube drainage and affected ROTEM parameters."}
{"id": "21245747", "title": "Postoperative changes in procoagulant factors after major surgery.", "content": "Postoperative changes in procoagulant factors after major surgery. Surgical patients are primarily at an increased risk of perioperative bleeding; however, after surgery, these patients develop hypercoagulability that favors thrombotic events. Currently, the time course of postoperative coagulation is not well characterized. Thus, the aim of the present study was to provide a detailed description of the changes in procoagulant factors in patients after major surgery and to evaluate coagulation tests based on their ability to detect hypercoagulability. Fifty-one consecutive patients undergoing different types of major surgery were analyzed. Blood samples were taken preoperatively and on postoperative days (PODs) 1, 2, 3, and 6. In addition to prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), all PT-dependent and aPTT-dependent clotting factors, von Willebrand factor (vWF), and fibrinogen were obtained, and thrombelastometry and multiplate electrode aggregometry (MEA) were performed. On POD 1, the majority of clotting factors, including factors II, VII, X, XI, and XII, showed a significant decrease from baseline. Factors II, X, XI, and XII remained significantly reduced until POD 3. In contrast, starting on POD 2, fibrinogen, factor VIII, and vWF continuously increased. No relevant changes were found for PT or aPTT. Thrombelastometry revealed a continuous increase in clot firmness, and MEA demonstrated an increase in platelet aggregation on POD 6. However, absolute values remained within normal ranges, and only serial measurements showed hypercoagulation. Beginning on POD 2 after major surgery, significant hypercoagulability developed in patients. However, clinically used global coagulation tests and point-of-care devices did not reliably reflect the hypercoagulatory state."}
{"id": "21242833", "title": "Disseminated intravascular coagulation during resection of a meningioma: case report.", "content": "Disseminated intravascular coagulation during resection of a meningioma: case report. Disseminated intravascular coagulation is a relatively common complication in patients with trauma, sepsis, obstetric calamities, and certain malignancies. We report a rare case of DIC after embolization and surgery for a large meningioma. We also review the literature on coagulopathy during brain tumor surgery as well as the diagnosis and treatment of this complication. A 62-year-old woman presented with a 3-week history of aphasia, difficulty with handwriting, personality change, and right-sided weakness. Magnetic resonance imaging demonstrated a 6.3 \u00d7 5.4-cm multilobe and avidly enhancing mass within the left frontal region. The patient underwent preoperative transcatheter Onyx embolization of the tumor, followed immediately by craniotomy for resection of the tumor. Surgery was complicated by coagulopathy leading to substantial blood loss. The diagnosis of disseminated intravascular coagulation was established by intraoperative thromboelastography, after which the patient was treated with replacement therapy, Amicar, and modest hypotension. One year after surgery, the patient had fully recovered and had no focal neurological deficit. This case report adds to the few reported cases of disseminated intravascular coagulation as a complication of brain tumor surgery. This patient's successful outcome may be attributed to timely recognition of the condition and effective, prompt treatment."}
{"id": "21241416", "title": "Ultrasound-guided bilateral paravertebral continuous nerve blocks for a mildly coagulopathic patient undergoing exploratory laparotomy for bowel resection.", "content": "Ultrasound-guided bilateral paravertebral continuous nerve blocks for a mildly coagulopathic patient undergoing exploratory laparotomy for bowel resection. Regional anesthesia techniques commonly utilized in post-operative pain management are often considered contraindicated in coagulopathic patients. We report on successful postoperative pain control utilizing peripheral nerve blockade after exploratory laparotomy with small bowel resection in a mildly coagulopathic patient. In our case, complicated by abnormal PT, PTT and INR, a thromboelastogram (TEG) was performed before the procedure and found to be normal. An ultrasound-guided bilateral paravertebral blockade with continuous paravertebral catheters was then performed in this pediatric patient without complications. The patient expressed satisfaction with his pain control. More studies are needed to evaluate the validity of TEG in the prediction of bleeding risk and the safety of this regional technique in a mildly coagulopathic patients."}
{"id": "21231856", "title": "\"Short\" thrombelastography as a test of platelet reactivity in response to antiplatelet therapy: validation and reproducibility.", "content": "\"Short\" thrombelastography as a test of platelet reactivity in response to antiplatelet therapy: validation and reproducibility. A significant proportion of patients receiving dual antiplatelet therapy following percutaneous coronary intervention experience recurrent ischaemic events despite standard doses of treatment. Although clinical studies show significant heterogeneity in antiplatelet therapy responses, routine testing is not undertaken due to (i) lack of a standardized test, and (ii) poor clarity with regards to definition of abnormal responses. Short Thrombelastography (s-TEG) is a validated test that allows rapid measurement of clotting responses to antiplatelet therapy. This study sought to determine the reproducibility of s-TEG and to compare s-TEG with VerifyNow in assessment of responses to antiplatelet therapy. (i) intra-individual variability was assessed using s-TEG Area Under the Curve (AUC15) and maximum amplitude (MA) in one volunteer at 20 time-points on no medication and at 10 time-points pre and post 300\u2009mg aspirin treatment (ii) inter-individual variability was determined from a retrospective analysis of data on MA and AUC15 obtained from 56 volunteers on no medication, 25 volunteers pre and post 300\u2009mg aspirin treatment and 28 patients pre and post 600\u2009mg clopidogrel treatment (iii) a comparison between AUC15 arachidonic-acid (AA) channel and VerifyNow aspirin response units (VN ARU) and between AUC15 adenosine diphosphate (ADP) channel and VerifyNow P2Y12 reactivity units (VN PRU) was obtained from retrospective analysis of data at 370 and 296 time-points respectively. There was minimal intra-and inter-individual variability in MA and AUC15 in the AA, ADP and thrombin channels. There was a good correlation between AA AUC15 and VN ARU (r\u2009=\u20090.701, p\u2009<\u20090.001) and between ADP AUC15 and VN PRU (r\u2009=\u20090.609, p\u2009<\u20090.001). s-TEG is a reproducible and reliable near-patient test that correlates well with VerifyNow. Large scale studies are needed to determine its potential role in individually tailored antiplatelet therapy."}
{"id": "21227981", "title": "Expanding perfusion across disciplines: the use of thrombelastography technology to reduce risk in an obstetrics patient with Gray Platelet Syndrome--a case study.", "content": "Expanding perfusion across disciplines: the use of thrombelastography technology to reduce risk in an obstetrics patient with Gray Platelet Syndrome--a case study. It is important that our speciality continues to push its boundaries. Our perfusion team has invested time lecturing to non-cardiac specialties about perfusion-led technology. This resulted in working closely with the obstetrics team to treat a pregnant patient with the bleeding disorder Gray Platelet Syndrome. In the first instance, we used our Thromboelastograph (TEG) platelet mapping programme to assess the patient. These results agreed with the platelet aggregation tests, showing a degree of platelet inhibition, but it was the overall clotting profile (basic thrombelastograph), showing a borderline hyper-coagulable state, that was of most interest and commonly seen in pregnancy. We believe a TEG result within acceptable limits could help re-adjust the risk of spinal haematomas following regional anaesthesia, thereby, reducing the risks of difficult intubation and general anaesthetic exposure to the baby. The case study describes both basic and platelet mapping thrombelastographs and their potential role in not only this patient with Gray Platelet Syndrome, but any obstetric patient where there are bleeding concerns."}
{"id": "21223296", "title": "Coagulation factor content of plasma produced from whole blood stored for 24 hours at ambient temperature: results from an international multicenter BEST Collaborative study.", "content": "Coagulation factor content of plasma produced from whole blood stored for 24 hours at ambient temperature: results from an international multicenter BEST Collaborative study. There is increasing international interest in producing components from blood that has been stored at room temperature for 24 hours. The lack of comprehensive data on the quality of plasma produced from blood stored in this way led to this international study. A total of 128 units of whole blood were pooled in groups of four and split to produce 32 sets of four identical blood units that were processed either within 8 hours of blood collection or after 24-hour storage at 18 to 25\u00b0C. Storage of whole blood for 24 hours resulted in a 23% decrease in the activity of Factor (F)VIII, but not significant loss of activity of coagulation factors FV, FVII, FXI, FXII, fibrinogen, antithrombin, or von Willebrand factor. There was a small, but significant decrease in levels of FII, FIX, and FX (all <5%) as well as protein C (6%) and free protein S activity (14%). The ability of plasma to generate thrombin after 24-hour storage as whole blood was unaltered, as assessed by real-time thrombin generation tests as was the rate and strength of clot formation by rotational thombelastometry. Levels of all coagulation factors measured were above 0.50 U/mL in plasma produced from whole blood stored for 24 hours. These data show that there is minimal effect of storing whole blood at ambient temperature for 24 hours on the coagulation activity of plasma and that this is an acceptable alternative to producing plasma on the day of blood collection."}
{"id": "21219320", "title": "Fresh thinking about fresh whole blood.", "content": "Fresh thinking about fresh whole blood."}
{"id": "21217486", "title": "Hemostatic effects of fresh frozen plasma may be maximal at red cell ratios of 1:2.", "content": "Hemostatic effects of fresh frozen plasma may be maximal at red cell ratios of 1:2. Damage control resuscitation targets acute traumatic coagulopathy with the early administration of high-dose fresh frozen plasma (FFP). FFP is administered empirically and as a ratio with the number of packed red blood cells (PRBC). There is controversy over the optimal FFP:PRBC ratio with respect to outcomes, and their hemostatic effects have not been studied. We report preliminary findings on the effects of different FFP:PRBC ratios on coagulation. This is a prospective observational cohort study of trauma patients requiring >4 U of PRBCs. Blood was drawn before and after each 4-U PRBC interval for prothrombin time and analysis by rotational thromboelastometry. Interval change in coagulation parameters were compared with the FFP:PRBC ratio received during each interval. Sixty 4-U PRBC intervals from 50 patients were available for analysis. All measures of coagulation deteriorated with low FFP:PRBC ratios (<1:2). Maximal hemostatic effect was observed in the 1:2 to 3:4 group: 12% decrease in prothrombin time (p=0.006), 56% decrease in clotting time (p=0.047), and 38% increase in maximum clot firmness (p=0.024). Transfusion with \u22651:1 ratio did not confer any additional improvement. There was a marked variability in response to FFP, and hemostatic function deteriorated in some patients exposed to 1:1 ratios. The beneficial effects of plasma were confined to patients with coagulopathy. Interim results from this prospective study suggest that FFP:PRBC ratios of \u22651:1 do not confer any additional advantage over ratios of 1:2 to 3:4. Hemostatic benefits of plasma therapy are limited to patients with coagulopathy."}
{"id": "21217484", "title": "Multiple levels of degradation diminish hemostatic potential of thawed plasma.", "content": "Multiple levels of degradation diminish hemostatic potential of thawed plasma. Severe bleeding after injury requires transfusion of blood products, including fresh frozen plasma (FFP). Many centers are keeping thawed plasma (TP) ready for massively transfused patients. According to the American Association of Blood Banks Standards, TP is approved for transfusion up to 5 days after thawing, when stored at 1\u00b0C to 6\u00b0C. However, there are no clinical data analyzing the effects of the approved 5-day storage on plasma. We hypothesize that the hemostatic potential (HP) of freshly thawed (FFP-0) was superior to plasma stored for 5 days (FFP-5). FFP from 30 single donors were thawed at 37\u00b0C and kept at 1\u00b0C to 6\u00b0C for 5 days. HP was evaluated at day 0 and 5 by measuring kinetics of thrombin generation (TG), kinetics of clot formation by thromboelastography, clotting factors and inhibitors, and cell-derived microparticles (MPs) by flow cytometry. When comparing FFP-5 to FFP-0, FFP-5 exhibited only 40% of the potential of FFP-0 for TG (6.2 nM/min vs. 14.3 nM/min, p<0.0001), a slower clotting response via thromboelastography (reaction time: 4.3 minutes vs. 3.2 minutes, p<0.0001) and a longer delay in reaching maximum thrombus generation (5.7 minutes vs. 4.6 minutes, p<0.01). Diminished HP was accompanied by a significant decline in multiple coagulation proteins, including FV, VII, VIII, von Willebrand factor, and free Protein S, by up to 30%, and a decrease of 50% in MP counts. The HP and clot forming ability of TP significantly declined with storage. Hence, freshly TP may have a greater ability to restore hemostasis and correct coagulopathy compared with FFP-5. The clinical consequences for transfused patients deserve further exploration."}
{"id": "21193107", "title": "Coagulation update: what's new in hemostasis testing?", "content": "Coagulation update: what's new in hemostasis testing? The current report provides a personal perspective summarising some interesting recent developments in hemostasis, as well as providing a brief glimpse into some possible imminent changes to come. We briefly review routine coagulation tests, and what changes may take place related to the new emerging anticoagulants. We also briefly review the old and new global tests of hemostasis, including thrombin generation and thromboelastography. Also briefly discussed within the diagnostics of bleeding and thrombotic disorders are the role of microparticles, the rise and fall of thrombophilia testing, the 'disappearance' of fibrinolysis pathway tests, and the absence of tests related to the endothelium, in part reflecting upon Virchow's triad."}
{"id": "21183368", "title": "In vitro effects of detergent sclerosants on clot formation and fibrinolysis.", "content": "In vitro effects of detergent sclerosants on clot formation and fibrinolysis. To investigate the in vitro effects of detergent sclerosants sodium tetradecyl sulphate (STS) and polidocanol (POL) on clot formation and lysis. clot kinetics were assessed in whole blood by thromboelastography (TEG\u00ae) and rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae). Fibrinogen was measured by the Clauss method in plasma and factor XIII (FXIII) by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). Turbidity measurements were used to assess clot lysis in plasma, and fibrinolysis in non-cross-linked and cross-linked fibrin. D-dimer was measured by VIDAS\u00ae, STA\u00aeLiatest\u00ae and AxSYM\u00ae assays. Strong clots were formed at low sclerosant concentrations (0.075-0.1%). At midrange concentrations (0.15% STS, 0.15-0.3% POL), both agents inhibited the contribution of platelets to clot firmness and formed weak clots prone to lysis. At higher concentrations (STS \u2265 0.3% and POL \u2265 0.6%), clot formation was inhibited. STS destroyed FXIII at \u2265 0.15% and fibrinogen at \u2265 0.6%. Neither sclerosant had a significant effect on cross-linked fibrin, but STS had a lytic effect on non-cross-linked fibrin. STS caused an artefactual elevation of D-dimer in the VIDAS\u00ae assay when fibrinogen was present. Detergent sclerosants demonstrated a trimodal effect on clot formation, initiating strong clots at low concentrations, weak clots at midrange concentrations and preventing clot formation at higher concentrations. Neither agent had fibrinolytic activity."}
{"id": "21177722", "title": "The impact of balanced hydroxylethyl starch cardiopulmonary bypass priming solution on the fibrin part of clot formation: ex vivo rotation thromboelastometry.", "content": "The impact of balanced hydroxylethyl starch cardiopulmonary bypass priming solution on the fibrin part of clot formation: ex vivo rotation thromboelastometry. Balanced colloidal priming solutions are supposed to further minimize the effects of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) on haemostasis as compared to gelatin-based preparations. This exploratory study investigated whether clot formation, in particular the fibrin part of the clot, is less altered by a modern balanced HES solution as compared to a gelatin-based priming solution. CPB priming solutions containing 60% gelatin (Gelofusin\u00ae) or balanced HES starch (100% or 60% Tetraspan\u00ae) were mixed with blood samples from healthy volunteers and compared with respect to their impact on clotting time (CT), alpha angle, maximum clot firmness (MCF), and fibrinogen, using thromboelastometry. The 100% and 60% HES priming solutions significantly increased the EXTEM CT from 66 \u00b1 9 s to 82 \u00b1 19 and 83 \u00b1 13, respectively (both P<0.05 vs. baseline). The speed of solid clot formation decreased significantly for all priming solutions compared with baseline values. The INTEM MCF decreased from 59 \u00b1 4 mm to 47 \u00b1 4, 44 \u00b1 4 and 43 \u00b1 3 mm, whereas the EXTEM MCF decreased from 57 \u00b1 4 mm to 51 \u00b1 4, 51 \u00b1 4 and 50 \u00b1 4 mm after dilution with 60% gelatin, 100% HES or 60% HES priming solution, respectively (all P<0.01 vs. baseline). The priming solutions containing HES induced the largest decrease in MCF attributed to fibrinogen from 12 \u00b1 3 mm to 4 \u00b1 4 mm and 3 \u00b1 2 mm (both P<0.05) for the 100% and mixed priming solution, respectively. Ex vivo rotation thromboelastometry did not reveal the expected preservation of coagulation parameters, in particular the fibrin part of clot formation, by a balanced HES priming solution."}
{"id": "21168326", "title": "The use of thromboelastography for the peripartum management of a patient with platelet storage pool disorder.", "content": "The use of thromboelastography for the peripartum management of a patient with platelet storage pool disorder. We describe the peripartum management of a 26-year-old primigravida with a platelet storage pool disorder who underwent spontaneous vaginal delivery of twins with epidural analgesia. Postpartum hemorrhage from uterine atony, and cervical and vaginal lacerations were treated successfully with 1-desamino-8D-arginine vasopressin and blood products. The use of thromboelastography in the assessment and management of bleeding risk in the setting of platelet storage pool disorder is described."}
{"id": "21157300", "title": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 enhances coagulation and attenuates fibrinolysis by two mechanisms: insights gained with colloid dilution.", "content": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 enhances coagulation and attenuates fibrinolysis by two mechanisms: insights gained with colloid dilution. Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 (CORM-2, tricarbonyldichlororuthenium (II) dimer) enhances coagulation and attenuates vulnerability to fibrinolysis. Our goal was to further define the CORM-2-mediated mechanisms using colloids with known effects on coagulation/fibrinolytic proteins. Plasma diluted 0 or 30% with 0.9% NaCl, 5% human albumin, low molecular weight hydroxyethyl starch (130 kDa) or high molecular weight hydroxyethyl starch (450 kDa) was exposed to 0 or 100 \u03bcmol/l CORM-2 before activation with tissue factor (n = 8 per condition). A second identically diluted series of experiments were performed with the addition of tissue-type plasminogen activator. Thrombelastographic data were collected until clot strength stabilized or clot lysis occurred. Dilution resulted in fluid-specific decreases in velocity of clot growth, strength and clot growth time with progressive increases in macromolecule size. CORM-2 exposure significantly increased the velocity of clot formation and strength (thin fibrin fiber promoting), but not clot growth time, under all conditions. Fibrinolysis was enhanced to the greatest extent by hydroxyethyl starch (anti\u03b12-antiplasmin effect), and CORM-2 addition attenuated fibrinolysis in all conditions (\u03b12-antiplasmin enhancement). CORM-2 exposure attenuated the decrease in coagulation kinetics mediated by hemodilution by two different mechanisms based on kinetic profile differences between the diluents tested. Further laboratory-based investigation is warranted to further define the molecular mechanisms responsible for CORM-2-mediated effects on coagulation and fibrinolysis."}
{"id": "21157299", "title": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 attenuates the anticoagulant and amplifies the hypofibrinolytic effects of hypothermia in human plasma in vitro.", "content": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 attenuates the anticoagulant and amplifies the hypofibrinolytic effects of hypothermia in human plasma in vitro. Hypothermia is known to contribute to coagulopathy in trauma and other major surgical procedures. Although the effects of hypothermia on coagulation have been characterized, the effects on fibrinolysis remained to be elucidated. Thus, our goals were to discern the effects of hypothermia on fibrinolysis in human plasma, and secondarily determine if a new procoagulant/antifibrinolytic molecule, carbon monoxide releasing molecule (tricarbonyldichlororuthenium (II) dimer; CORM-2) would modify thrombus growth/disintegration under hypothermic conditions. Normal plasma was exposed to 0 or 100 \u03bcmol/l CORM-2, with coagulation activated by tissue factor and fibrinolysis initiated with 100 U/ml tissue-type plasminogen activator. Plasma samples were exposed to 37\u00b0, 35\u00b0, 33\u00b0, 31\u00b0, 29\u00b0, or 27\u00b0C (n = 6 per temperature/CORM-2 concentration). Thrombus growth/disintegration kinetics were monitored with thrombelastography until clot lysis time occurred. Hypothermia significantly prolonged the onset and decreased the velocity of clot growth in plasma without decreasing clot strength. Although hypothermia did not affect the time to onset of fibrinolysis, it did significantly decrease the velocity of lysis. The addition of CORM-2 significantly increased the velocity of clot growth and clot strength at all temperatures tested compared with unexposed plasma. Further, CORM-2 addition significantly prolonged the onset of fibrinolysis and diminished the velocity of lysis. Hypothermia resulted in slower growing, slower lysing thrombi in normal plasma. CORM-2 enhanced coagulation and markedly attenuated fibrinolysis at all temperatures tested. Further investigation is warranted to determine if CORM-2 administration can improve hemostasis in preclinical models of hypothermia and trauma."}
{"id": "21155966", "title": "Factor XIII combined with recombinant factor VIIa: a new means of treating severe hemophilia A.", "content": "Factor XIII combined with recombinant factor VIIa: a new means of treating severe hemophilia A. Abnormal thrombin generation is considered the key defect in hemophilia. Conventional treatment seeks to correct this using coagulation factor replacement or bypassing agents, for example recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa). Previous studies demonstrate abnormal FXIII activation in patients with hemophilia. FXIII activation is essential for formation of structurally normal, stable clots. The present study challenges the hypothesis that in hemophilia the use of plasma-derived FXIII (pdFXIII) in combination with rFVIIa will produce a greater improvement in clot stability than promotion of thrombin generation alone. Fourteen individuals with severe hemophila A were enrolled. Whole blood was spiked ex vivo with buffer, rFVIIa (2 \u03bcg mL(-1)) or rFVIIa (2 \u03bcg mL(-1)) plus pdFXIII (10 \u03bcg mL(-1)). Whole blood thromboelastometry assessed clot stability, after activation with tissue factor (TF) (0.15 pm) plus tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPa) (2 nm). The primary outcome measure of clot stability was area under the elasticity curve (AUEC). The combination of pdFXIII and rFVIIa significantly improved clot stability as measured by AUEC (P < 0.05) compared with rFVIIa alone. The use of pdFXIII resulted in superior clot stability compared with solely enhancing thrombin generation and we suggest that increasing thrombin generation alone fails to fully correct dysregulation of clot-stabilizing mechanisms associated with bleeding disorders. Hemorrhage control in hemophilia may be improved using clot stabilizing drugs. FXIII shows potential as a novel agent."}
{"id": "21152677", "title": "Platelet function testing in clinical diagnostics.", "content": "Platelet function testing in clinical diagnostics. Although the utility of platelet function testing is still under debate, the necessity to inhibit platelets in patients suffering from cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease is undoubted and well proven. The wide variety of available platelet function tests often using different methodologies, the apparent lack of standardization, and finally the emerging evidence on the clinical value of platelet function testing are resulting in a considerable uncertainty in the clinical practice, how to deal with the issue of platelet function testing. Platelet function testing might not only yield clinical benefits for the patients but also economical advantages by identifying the right drug at the right dose for the right patient. This article intends to provide an overview of the current platelet function tests such as light transmittance aggregometry, whole blood impedance aggregometry, the PFA-1001 system, the VerifyNow2 system, flow cytometry, as well as other promising technologies like Plateletworks3, IMPACT-R4, PADA, thromboelastography, and the mean platelet component (MPC), briefly addressing strengths, weaknesses and clinical utility of these tests."}
{"id": "21152676", "title": "[Role of thrombelastometry for the monitoring of factor XIII. A prospective observational study in neurosurgical patients].", "content": "[Role of thrombelastometry for the monitoring of factor XIII. A prospective observational study in neurosurgical patients]. Recently published studies give evidence, that an increased maximum lysis in the APTEM\u00ae - test (ML60 > 12%) of the ROTEM\u00ae (Tem International GmbH, Munich, Germany) might indicate a factor XIII deficiency (FXIII < 70%). It was the aim of this study to investigate the feasibility of thrombelastometric measurements with the ROTEM device to reflect the isolated influence of FXIII on clot stability and therefore to indicate potential factor XIII deficiencies. After approval by the local Scientific and Ethic Review Board, 26 consecutive patients, scheduled for elective craniotomy for tumour resection, were prospectively enrolled into this study. Blood samples were taken for conventional laboratory coagulation analyses, FXIII analyses and thrombelastometric measurements (EXTEM, FIBTEM and APTEM tests) after induction of general anaesthesia (T1), before skin incision (T2) as well as at (T3) and 24 hours after (T4) postoperative admission to ICU, respectively. Statistical analyses included Spearman rank order correlations and multiple linear regressions. FXIII concentrations did not correlate with the ML60 in the APTEM test at any measuring point. Neither platelet count nor fibrinogen nor FXIII concentrations were of predictive value for ML60 of the APTEM test. The results lead to the assumption that thrombelastometric measurements may not be appropriate for the perioperative monitoring of FXIII concentration."}
{"id": "21150581", "title": "A comparison of the mechanical, kinetic, and biochemical properties of fibrin clots formed with two different fibrin sealants.", "content": "A comparison of the mechanical, kinetic, and biochemical properties of fibrin clots formed with two different fibrin sealants. The objective of the present study was to compare the mechanical, kinetic, and biochemical properties of fibrin clots produced using EVICEL Fibrin Sealant (Human) and TISSEEL Fibrin Sealant. The stiffness/elasticity and strength of fibrin clots formed with EVICEL and TISSEEL were assessed using applied mechanical force and thromboelastography (TEG). The factor XIII content of the fibrin clots was also evaluated. Mean Young modulus and tensile strength of the fibrin clots produced by EVICEL were significantly higher than those of clots produced by TISSEEL (P < 0.05 for both). The mean time to initial clot formation and mean time to the predefined level of clot formation were numerically shorter for EVICEL compared with TISSEEL. Furthermore, mean maximal amplitude of the clots formed with EVICEL was significantly greater than that for the clots formed with TISSEEL. Mean concentration of factor XIII for the EVICEL fibrinogen samples tested was 9 IU/ml compared with undetectable concentrations of factor XIII for the TISSEEL fibrinogen samples. Fibrin clots formed with EVICEL have a much higher resistance to stretching and tensile strength and are more capable of maintaining their structure against applied force than those formed with TISSEEL. EVICEL also allows more rapid development of fibrin clots than TISSEEL. This superior clot strength and resilience obtained with EVICEL relative to TISSEEL may be due in large part to the presence of factor XIII."}
{"id": "21150227", "title": "Effects of nadroparin, enoxaparin, and unfractionated heparin on endogenous formation of factor Xa and IIa and on thrombelastometry profiles in cord versus adult blood.", "content": "Effects of nadroparin, enoxaparin, and unfractionated heparin on endogenous formation of factor Xa and IIa and on thrombelastometry profiles in cord versus adult blood. To date, only few pharmacokinetic studies on low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWHs) in neonates exist not allowing to formally assess pharmacodynamics of LMWHs in neonates. To evaluate the anticoagulant effects of the two LMWHs nadroparin and enoxaparin on endogenous formation of FXa or FIIa in cord versus adult platelet-poor plasma (PPP) and on thrombelastometry profiles in cord versus adult whole blood (WB). Unfractionated heparin (UH) was the reference antithrombotic drug. The effects of nadroparin, enoxaparin, or UH on endogenous formation of FXa or FIIa was investigated in tissue factor-activated PPP using a subsampling technique and chromogenic substrates. The anticoagulant efficacy of these drugs was also investigated in WB triggered by the physiological relevant activator collagen/endogenous thrombin using thrombelastometry. The major findings are (i) nadroparin is as efficient as enoxaparin concerning inhibition of the endogenous formation of FXa and FIIa, (ii) cord PPP and WB are significantly more susceptible to the addition of LMWHs or UH than adult PPP or WB, and (iii) compared by equivalent anti-FXa activity, the anticoagulant action of UH is markedly higher than that of the LMWHs in PPP and WB of neonatal or adult origin. Administration of LMWHs in neonates has to be performed carefully to avoid bleeding side effects due to their high anticoagulant efficacy in cord PPP and WB."}
{"id": "21138266", "title": "Flavonoids with an oligopolysulfated moiety: a new class of anticoagulant agents.", "content": "Flavonoids with an oligopolysulfated moiety: a new class of anticoagulant agents. Polysulfated (oligo)flavonoids were synthesized and assayed for their in vitro and in vivo anticoagulant activities. The approach was based on molecular hybridization of two classes of anticoagulants, sulfated polysaccharides and sulfated flavonoids. The synthesis was optimized using microwave-assisted sulfation with triethylamine-sulfur trioxide. The obtained polysulfated flavonosides were highly effective in increasing clotting times and able to completely block the clotting process, in contrast to their corresponding aglycones. The thromboelastography proved that polysulfated flavonosides possess good whole blood anticoagulation activity. The following structure-activity relationships were found: 3-O-rutinosides (10, 13) were direct inhibitors of FXa, while 7-O-rutinosides (7, 8) showed inhibition of FXa by ATIII activation. Furthermore, compounds 7 and 13 were stable in plasma and active in vivo and preliminary toxicity studies would lead us to rule out acute side effects. From the overall results, the polysulfated flavonosides showed the potential as new effective and safe agents for anticoagulant therapy."}
{"id": "21130474", "title": "Normovolemic modified ultrafiltration is associated with better preserved platelet function and less postoperative blood loss in patients undergoing complex cardiac surgery: a randomized and controlled study.", "content": "Normovolemic modified ultrafiltration is associated with better preserved platelet function and less postoperative blood loss in patients undergoing complex cardiac surgery: a randomized and controlled study. The purpose of the investigation was to study the impact of normovolemic modified ultrafiltration (N-MUF) on hemostasis and perioperative blood loss. Fifty patients scheduled for elective complex cardiac surgery were enrolled in this prospective, randomized, and controlled study. Patients were randomized into a control group (n = 25) or an N-MUF group (n = 25). N-MUF was performed using a BC140plus Filter (Maquet Cardiopulmonary AG, Hirrlingen, Germany) in the N-MUF group. Blood samples were taken before (T1) and 30 minutes after (T2) N-MUF in the N-MUF group and at corresponding time points in the control group. Platelet function analyses (TRAPtest, ASPItest, ADPtest) using multiple electrode aggregometry (Multiplate, Dynabyte, Munich, Germany), thrombelastometry (ROTEM, Pentapharm GmbH, Munich, Germany), and conventional laboratory coagulation analyses were performed at each time point. Intraoperative and postoperative transfusion requirements, hemostatic therapy, and blood loss were recorded. There were no significant group differences in demographic or surgical data. At T1, platelet aggregation revealed no significant group differences in the TRAPtest, ASPItest, or ADPtest. Platelet aggregation at T2 was significantly higher in the N-MUF group compared with the control group in the TRAPtest (65 [50/87] U vs 44 [28/51]; P < .001), the ASPItest (52 [36/69] U vs 22 [8/47] U; P = .001), or the ADPtest (39 [28/51] U vs 28 [19/39] U; P = .009). The postoperative chest tube blood loss was significantly lower in the N-MUF at 24 hours (890 [500/1100] mL vs 1075 [800/1413] mL in the N-MUF group vs the control group; P = .039) and 48 hours (900 [550/1350] mL vs 1400 [900/1750] mL; P = .026) postoperatively. Conventional laboratory coagulation analyses and thrombelastometric parameters did not differ within the groups at T1 or T2. N-MUF improved general platelet aggregation and reduced postoperative blood loss in a significant manner. However, performing N-MUF did not result in less postoperative transfusion requirements."}
{"id": "21121898", "title": "Platelet function testing: methods of assessment and clinical utility.", "content": "Platelet function testing: methods of assessment and clinical utility. Platelets play a central role in the regulation of both thrombosis and haemostasis yet tests of platelet function have, until recently, been exclusively used in the diagnosis and management of bleeding disorders. Recent advances have demonstrated the clinical utility of platelet function testing in patients with cardiovascular disease. The ex vivo measurement of response to antiplatelet therapies (aspirin and clopidogrel), by an ever-increasing array of platelet function tests, is with some assays, predictive of adverse clinical events and thus, represents an emerging area of interest for both the clinician and basic scientist. This review article will describe the advantages and disadvantages of the currently available methods of measuring platelet function and discuss both the limitations and emerging data supporting the role of platelet function studies in clinical practice."}
{"id": "21111429", "title": "Nanostructuring of CyPLOS (Cyclic Phosphate-Linked OligoSaccharides), novel saccharide-based synthetic ion transporters.", "content": "Nanostructuring of CyPLOS (Cyclic Phosphate-Linked OligoSaccharides), novel saccharide-based synthetic ion transporters. Ionophores are an important class of synthetic molecules which mimic natural ion channels or carriers. Here we report the aggregation behavior in pseudo-physiological environment of three Cyclic Phosphate-Linked Oligosaccharides (CyPLOS) derivatives, synthetic ion transporters based on cyclic, phosphate-linked disaccharide skeleton differing for the nature of the tails (tetraethylene-TEG glycol and/or n-undecyl chains) attached to the C-2 and C-3 of the constitutive monosaccharides. Their aggregation behavior has been studied by a combined use of dynamic light scattering (DLS), electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy (EPR) and Small Angle Neutron Scattering (SANS). DLS measurements were performed to reveal the formation and size distribution of the CyPLOS aggregates. EPR measurements, by using 5-doxyl stearic acid (5-DSA) as spin-probe, showed that the aggregates are mainly due to the formation of double layers and allowed to analyze the local fluidity. Finally, SANS measurements allowed estimating the layer thickness of the double layers. Our results indicate that the three CyPLOS analogs show self-aggregation properties that depend on the different nature of the inserted tails."}
{"id": "21093284", "title": "Thromboelastography-platelet mapping expanding in non-cardiac surgery.", "content": "Thromboelastography-platelet mapping expanding in non-cardiac surgery."}
{"id": "21091865", "title": "Assessment of thrombin generation measured before and after cardiopulmonary bypass surgery and its association with postoperative bleeding.", "content": "Assessment of thrombin generation measured before and after cardiopulmonary bypass surgery and its association with postoperative bleeding. Bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) is a major cause of morbidity and mortality and consumes large amounts of blood. Identifying patients at increased risk of bleeding secondary to hemostatic impairment may improve clinical outcomes by allowing early intervention. This present study recruited 77 patients undergoing CPB and measured coagulation screens, coagulation factors, TEG(\u00ae), Rotem(\u00ae) and thrombin generation (TG) before surgery and 30 min after heparin reversal. The tests were analyzed to investigate whether they identified patients at increased risk of excess bleeding (defined as > 1000 mL) in the first 24 h postoperatively. Patients who bled > 1000 mL had a lower: platelet count (P < 0.02), factors (F)IX, X and XI (P < 0.005), endogenous thrombin potential (ETP) and an initial rate of TG (P < 0.02) and higher activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) (P < 0.001) than patients who bled < 1000 mL. Receiver operating characteristic (ROC) analysis was significant for post-operative TG and aPTT (P < 0.001). Furthermore, reduced pre-operative TG was associated with increased postoperative bleeding (P < 0.02). Pre- and postoperative TG were correlated (\u03c1 = 0.7, P < 0.001). TEG(\u00ae), Rotem(\u00ae) and prothrombin time (PT) at either time point were not associated with increased bleeding. These data suggest that pre-operative defects in the propagation phase of hemostasis are exacerbated during CPB, contributing to bleeding post-CPB. TG taken both pre- and postoperatively could potentially be used to identify patients at an increased risk of bleeding post-CPB."}
{"id": "21068699", "title": "Comparison of thrombelastometry with simplified acute physiology score II and sequential organ failure assessment scores for the prediction of 30-day survival: a cohort study.", "content": "Comparison of thrombelastometry with simplified acute physiology score II and sequential organ failure assessment scores for the prediction of 30-day survival: a cohort study. Disseminated intravascular coagulation contributes to mortality of sepsis. The study was performed to investigate thromboelastometry as a potential predictor of 30-day survival in severe sepsis and to compare thromboelastometry to Simplified Acute Physiology Score II (SAPS II) and Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) scores. Ninety-eight patients with severe sepsis were included in the cohort study. Thromboelastometry clotting time, clot formation time (CFT), maximum clot firmness (MCF), and \u03b1 angle as well as SAPS II and SOFA scores were determined at the day of diagnosis. Thromboelastometry variables differed in survivors and nonsurvivors. Mean CFT was prolonged (276 \u00b1 194 vs. 194 \u00b1 109 s, P = 0.021; mean \u00b1 SD), and both MCF (52.7 \u00b1 12.1 mm vs. 57.3 \u00b1 11.5 mm, P = 0.042) and \u03b1 angle (53.4 \u00b1 12.8 degrees vs. 58.9 \u00b1 11.8 degrees, P = 0.028) were reduced in nonsurvivors. Clotting time and SAPS II and SOFA scores were not different. Thromboelastometry values were classified as normal and pathological, respectively, using the median of the variables as the cutoff. Thromboelastometry values were normal if CFT was less than 185 s, MCF was greater than 55 mm, and \u03b1 was greater than 57.5 degrees. Thirty-day survival was 85.7% when all thromboelastometry variables were normal, but 58.7% when at least one variable was pathological (P = 0.005). Multivariate analysis revealed that the absence or presence of at least one pathological thromboelastometry variable allows for better prediction of 30-day survival in severe sepsis than the SAPS II and SOFA scores (P = 0.01; odds ratio, 4.1), respectively, emphasizing the importance of the coagulation system in sepsis."}
{"id": "21048096", "title": "Intraoperative thromboelastometry is associated with reduced transfusion prevalence in pediatric cardiac surgery.", "content": "Intraoperative thromboelastometry is associated with reduced transfusion prevalence in pediatric cardiac surgery. The majority of pediatric cardiac surgery patients receive blood transfusions. We hypothesized that the routine use of intraoperative thromboelastometry to guide transfusion decisions would reduce the overall proportion of patients receiving transfusions in pediatric cardiac surgery. One hundred pediatric cardiac surgery patients were included in the study. Fifty patients (study group) were prospectively included and compared with 50 procedure- and age-matched control patients (control group). In the study group, thromboelastometry, performed during cardiopulmonary bypass, guided intraoperative transfusions. Intraoperative and postoperative transfusions of packed red blood cells, fresh frozen plasma, platelets, and fibrinogen concentrates, and postoperative blood loss and hemoglobin levels were compared between the 2 groups. The proportion of patients receiving any intraoperative or postoperative transfusion of packed red blood cells, fresh frozen plasma, platelets, or fibrinogen concentrates was significantly lower in the study group than in the control group (32 of 50 [64%] vs 46 of 50 [92%], respectively; P < 0.001). Significantly fewer patients in the study group received transfusions of packed red blood cells (58% vs 78%, P = 0.032) and plasma (14% vs 78%, P < 0.001), whereas more patients in the study group received transfusions of platelets (38% vs 12%, P = 0.002) and fibrinogen concentrates (16% vs 2%, P = 0.015). Neither postoperative blood loss nor postoperative hemoglobin levels differed significantly between the study group and the control group. The results suggest that routine use of intraoperative thromboelastometry in pediatric cardiac surgery to guide transfusions is associated with a reduced proportion of patients receiving transfusions and an altered transfusion pattern."}
{"id": "20976666", "title": "Differences in coagulation among Asians and Caucasians and the implication for reconstructive microsurgery.", "content": "Differences in coagulation among Asians and Caucasians and the implication for reconstructive microsurgery. Microvascular reconstructive surgery has seen a revival with the introduction of muscle-sparing perforator flaps. Recognition of potential ethnic differences in coagulation profiles would be important to a microvascular surgeon. Based on clinical observations, we hypothesize that Asian patients have a less thrombogenic coagulation profile than Caucasians. An extensive retrospective review was performed. The annual incidence of venous thromboembolism in the United States is generally accepted to range from 70 to 120 events per 100,000 people versus 16 to 17 events per 100,000 persons in Asia. Autopsy analysis of pulmonary embolism incidence was noted to be 15% in North Americans and less than 1% in Asian populations. Thromboelastography analysis of Asian and Caucasian patients undergoing cholecystectomy revealed different hemostatic mechanisms. Comparison of Asians and Caucasians undergoing the Fontan procedure revealed significantly lower postoperative factor levels in Asians than Caucasians. Baseline comparison of factor and serum levels revealed Asians with the least thrombogenic profiles compared with other ethnic groups. Asians and Caucasians demonstrate different baseline rates of deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, different hemostatic responses to surgery, and different baseline levels of clotting factors. Further study may lead to better pre-, intra-, and postoperative care of the free flap patient based on their ethnic coagulation profile."}
{"id": "20961395", "title": "The role of thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor and factor XI in platelet-mediated fibrinolysis resistance: a thromboelastographic study in whole blood.", "content": "The role of thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor and factor XI in platelet-mediated fibrinolysis resistance: a thromboelastographic study in whole blood. The resistance of platelet-rich thrombi to fibrinolysis is generally attributed to clot retraction and platelet PAI-1 release. The role of TAFI in platelet-mediated resistance to lysis is unclear. We investigated the contribution of TAFI to the antifibrinolytic effect of platelets in whole blood by thromboelastography. Platelet-poor (PP-WB, < 40 \u00d7 10(3) \u03bcL(-1) ) and platelet-rich (PR-WB, > 400 \u00d7 10(3) \u03bcL(-1) ) blood samples were obtained from normal human blood (N-WB, 150-220 \u00d7 10(3) \u03bcL(-1) ). Clot lysis time was measured by thromboelastography in recalcified blood supplemented with t-PA (100 ng mL(-1) ) and tissue factor (1:1000 Recombiplastin). t-PA-induced lysis time increased in parallel with platelet concentration (up to 3-fold). Neutralization of TAFI, but not of PAI-1, shortened the lysis time by \u223c 50% in PR-WB and by < 10% in PP-WB. Accordingly, prothrombin F1+2 and TAFIa accumulation was greater in PR-WB than in PP-WB. A similar TAFI-dependent inhibition of fibrinolysis was observed when clot retraction was prevented by cytochalasin D or abciximab, or when platelet membranes were tested. Moreover, in blood with an intact contact system, platelet-mediated fibrinolysis resistance was attenuated by an anti-FXI but not by an anti F-XII antibody. Finally, platelets made the clots resistant to the profibrinolytic effect of heparin concentrations displaying a strong anticoagulant activity. Our data indicate that TAFI activation is one major mechanism whereby platelets make clots resistant to fibrinolysis and underscore the importance of TAFI inhibitors as new antithrombotic agents."}
{"id": "20958275", "title": "Use of thromboelastometry in the assessment of coagulation before epidural insertion after massive transfusion.", "content": "Use of thromboelastometry in the assessment of coagulation before epidural insertion after massive transfusion. A British soldier presented to the UK Field Hospital, Afghanistan with bilateral traumatic lower limb amputations. Resuscitation and surgery followed accepted damage control principles. Blood component therapy was in keeping with UK military guidelines and included platelets and cryoprecipitate. The patient's trachea was extubated following insertion of an effective epidural. Ten days later, in the UK, he developed neurological symptoms and the presence of a subdural haematoma was confirmed on magnetic resonance imaging. Conventional laboratory coagulation results in this patient were above accepted limits for epidural insertion; however, thromboelastometry before insertion was suggestive of reduced platelet function. This case highlights the risk of relying solely on platelet count as a marker of platelet function following massive transfusion. Thromboelastometry provides additional information for the assessment of coagulation and should form part of the assessment of coagulation following massive transfusion before epidural insertion."}
{"id": "20927618", "title": "Diethylene glycol in health products sold over-the-counter and imported from Asian countries.", "content": "Diethylene glycol in health products sold over-the-counter and imported from Asian countries. Diethylene glycol (DEG), a chemical that has been implicated in multiple medication-associated mass poisonings, can result in renal and neurological toxicity if ingested. Three previous such mass poisonings implicated Chinese manufacturers as the origin of contaminated ingredients. No literature exists on potential DEG or triethylene glycol (TEG), a related compound, contamination of health products imported from Asian countries to the USA. Our primary objective was to quantitatively assess the amount of DEG present in a convenience sampling of these health products. The study's secondary objectives were to: (1) evaluate for, and quantify TEG levels in these samples; (2) compare DEG and TEG levels in these products directly to levels in medications implicated in previous similar mass poisonings; and (3) to estimate DEG dose (in mg/kg) based on the manufacturer's instructions and compare these values to toxic doses from past mass poisonings and the literature. A quantitative assessment of DEG and TEG was performed in a convenience sampling of over-the-counter health products imported from Asian countries. Results were converted to volume to volume (v/v) % and compared with DEG levels in medications implicated in previous mass poisonings. Estimated doses (based on the manufacturer's instructions) of each product with detectable levels of DEG for a 70 kg adult were compared to toxic doses of DEG reported in the literature. Seventeen of 85 (20%) samples were not able to be analyzed for DEG or TEG due to technical reasons. Fifteen of 68 (22%) samples successfully tested had detectable levels of DEG (mean, 18.8 \u03bcg/ml; range, 0.791-110.1 \u03bcg/ml; and volume to volume (v/v) range, 0.00007-0.01%). Two of 68 (3%) samples had TEG levels of 12.8 and 20.2 \u03bcg/ml or 0.0012% and 0.0018% TEG v/v. The product with the highest DEG% by v/v was 810 times less than the product involved in the Panama DEG mass poisoning (8.1%). The lowest reported toxic dose from a past DEG mass poisoning (14 mg/kg) was more than 150 times higher than the highest daily dose estimated in our study (0.09 mg/kg). Sixty-eight of 85 (80%) samples were able to be successfully analyzed for DEG and TEG. DEG and TEG were detectable in 15/68 (22%) and 2/68 (3%) samples, respectively. Based on current standards, these levels probably do not represent an acute public health threat. Additional research focusing on why DEG is found in these products and on the minimum amount of DEG needed to result in toxicity is needed."}
{"id": "20922353", "title": "[Management of complex thrombocytopenia with thrombelastometry : a case of simultaneous posttransfusion purpura and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia].", "content": "[Management of complex thrombocytopenia with thrombelastometry : a case of simultaneous posttransfusion purpura and heparin-induced thrombocytopenia]. The case presented describes the combined onset of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia II (HIT) and post-transfusion purpura (PTP) 5-10 days following exposure to heparin and blood transfusion during aortic dissection repair. On day 4 the platelet count decreased by 40% and D-dimers started to increase again. Despite a low clinical probability for HIT-II at this time (4T score of 3) serological testing was done the next day and yielded a negative test result. Following a transient rise after platelet transfusion another 40% decrease in platelet count occurred on day 8. To increase precision of the 4T score, screening ultrasonography was performed and identified a clinically unapparent jugular vein thrombosis. As this increased the 4T score to 6 points, serological testing was repeated and now showed the presence of HIT-II antibodies. Despite switching from heparin to argatroban the platelet count continued to decrease to <5\u00d710(3)/\u00b5l. Conventional clotting tests showed a prolonged prothrombin time and severe hypofibrinogenemia. Because of the female sex, age >50 years, history of pregnancy and transfusion 8 days before, PTP was suspected. The alteration of the plasmatic coagulation, however, could not be explained by PTP. Therefore, disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) and interference of argatroban with conventional clotting tests were considered as alternative diagnoses. In order to differentiate between the two alternatives rotational thrombelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae) was performed and revealed an increased functional fibrinogen level without signs of hyperfibrinolysis. This argued for an interference of argatroban with the Clauss method of fibrinogen measurement and rendered DIC unlikely. Under suspicion of PTP, treatment with immunoglobulin was initiated and blood transfusions were avoided. Detection of PTP antibodies 1 day later confirmed the combined presence of PTP and HIT-II. As hyperfibrinogenemia compensated for the effects of thrombocytopenia on clot firmness in ROTEM\u00ae, anticoagulation with lepirudin was started at 9\u00d710(3) platelets/\u00b5l only. The next day the platelet count increased to 32\u00d710(3)/\u00b5l and clot firmness returned to normal. No thromboembolic complications and no relevant bleeding were observed. In summary, this case shows for the first time that HIT-II and PTP can occur in parallel in patients with simultaneous exposure to heparin and blood transfusions. Confounding effects of argatroban on conventional clotting tests may mimic DIC under these circumstances and make diagnosis difficult. Careful evaluation of the time-related magnitude in platelet decrease, patient history, course of D-dimers, screening ultrasonography and ROTEM\u00ae seem to be helpful to initiate early appropriate therapy before serological test results become available. In contrast to the Clauss method of fibrinogen measurement, assessment of clot firmness in ROTEM\u00ae is not influenced by argatroban. Moreover, ROTEM\u00ae reveals the compensatory effects of increased functional fibrinogen on clot firmness during severe thrombocytopenia as an important variable for anticoagulation therapy during thrombocytopenia with increased thromboembolic risk."}
{"id": "20880114", "title": "Decreased in vitro thrombin generation and clot stability in human FXII-null blood and plasma.", "content": "Decreased in vitro thrombin generation and clot stability in human FXII-null blood and plasma."}
{"id": "20858853", "title": "An accompanying genetic severe deficiency of tissue factor protects mice with a protein C deficiency from lethal endotoxemia.", "content": "An accompanying genetic severe deficiency of tissue factor protects mice with a protein C deficiency from lethal endotoxemia. Mice with a severe genetic deficiency of protein C (PC), PC(-/-)PC(tg4), display enhanced susceptibility to lethal effects of gram-negative endotoxemia induced by lipopolysaccharide (LPS), whereas mice severely deficient in tissue factor (TF), TF(-/-)hTF(tg), are protected from LPS-mediated lethality. In this study, we show that a simultaneous severe deficiency of TF protected low-PC mice from LPS-induced death, resulting in a survival profile similar to that experienced by wild-type (WT) mice. Plasma and whole blood coagulation assays, the latter measured by thromboelastography, demonstrated development of coagulopathies in LPS-treated mice, which were more severe in the case of the doubly deficient TF(-/-)hTF(tg)/PC(-/-)PC(tg4) mice, mainly reflecting earlier signs of disseminated intravascular coagulation in this latter cohort. Markers of inflammation were also elevated in response to LPS in both groups of mice at times just preceding death. We conclude that whereas coagulopathies are more exacerbated in LPS-treated TF(-/-)hTF(tg)/PC(-/-)PC(tg4) mice, the lowering of TF levels in mice with an accompanying severe PC deficiency confers protection against death compared with mice with a single severe PC deficiency. This suggests that proteases generated as a result of factor VIIa/TF-mediated thrombin generation play a mechanistic role in the enhanced lethality seen under very low PC conditions in an endotoxemia model in mice."}
{"id": "20807229", "title": "The effects of in vitro hemodilution with 6% hydroxyethyl starch (HES) (130/0.4) solution on thrombelastograph analysis in patients undergoing liver transplantation.", "content": "The effects of in vitro hemodilution with 6% hydroxyethyl starch (HES) (130/0.4) solution on thrombelastograph analysis in patients undergoing liver transplantation. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of in vitro hemodilution with 6% HES (130/0.4) solution on thrombelastograph(\u00ae) (TEG) parameters in whole blood samples from patients with end-stage liver disease (ESLD). \u2002 Enrollment consisted of 95 patients with ESLD undergoing liver transplantation. Blood was diluted by 11%, 22%, and 33% with 6% HES (130/0.4) solution. Normal saline was used as a control diluent. When blood was diluted by 33% with normal saline, only the reaction time (r) was increased (p < 0.0001) compared to the baseline value. When blood was diluted with 6% HES (130/0.4), 11% dilution decreased maximum amplitude (MA) (p = 0.003) compared to baseline. At 33% dilution, the r (p < 0.0001, vs. baseline) and K (p < 0.0001, vs. baseline; p < 0.0001, vs. normal saline) increased, and the MA, alpha angle, and coagulation index (p < 0.0001, vs. baseline; p < 0.0001, vs. normal saline) decreased. Hemodilution with 6% HES (130/0.4) solution results in TEG abnormalities even with 11% hemodilution, in whole blood samples of patients with ESLD undergoing liver transplantation."}
{"id": "20723169", "title": "Hemostatic function of buffy coat platelets in additive solution treated with pathogen reduction technology.", "content": "Hemostatic function of buffy coat platelets in additive solution treated with pathogen reduction technology. Pathogen reduction technologies (PRTs) may influence the hemostatic potential of stored platelet (PLT) concentrates. To investigate this, buffy coat PLTs (BCPs) stored in PLT additive solution (SSP+) with or without Mirasol PRT treatment (CaridianBCT Biotechnologies) were compared by functional hemostatic assays. We performed in vitro comparison of PRT (PRT-BCP) and control pooled-and-split BCPs (CON-BCP) after 2, 3, 6, 7, and 8 days' storage. Hemostatic function was evaluated with thrombelastography (TEG) and impedance aggregometry (Multiplate), the latter also in a sample matrix (Day 2) with or without addition of red blood cells (RBCs), control plasma, and/or PRT-treated plasma. PRT treatment of 8-day-stored BCPs influenced clot formation (TEG) minimally, with reductions in maximum clot strength (maximum amplitude, p\u2003=\u20030.014) but unchanged initial fibrin formation (R), clot growth rate (\u03b1), and fibrinolysis resistance. In the absence of RBCs and plasma, PRT impaired aggregation (Multiplate) in stored BCPs, with reduced aggregation against thrombin receptor activating peptide-6 (p\u2003<\u20030.001), collagen (p\u2003=\u20030.014), adenosine 5'-diphosphate (p\u2003=\u20030.007), and arachidonic acid (p\u2003=\u20030.070). Addition of RBCs and PRT-treated or untreated plasma to PRT-BCP and CON-BCP, respectively, enhanced aggregation in both groups. Mirasol PRT treatment of BCPs had a minimal influence on clot formation, whereas aggregation in the absence of RBCs and plasma was significantly reduced. Addition of RBCs and plasma increased agonist-induced responses resulting in comparable aggregation between PRT-BCP and CON-BCP. The clinical relevance for PLT function in vivo of these findings will be investigated in a clinical trial."}
{"id": "20693919", "title": "Carbon monoxide-releasing molecule-2 enhances coagulation and diminishes fibrinolytic vulnerability in diluted plasma in vitro.", "content": "Carbon monoxide-releasing molecule-2 enhances coagulation and diminishes fibrinolytic vulnerability in diluted plasma in vitro. A carbon monoxide-releasing molecule (tricarbonyldichlororuthenium (II) dimer; CORM-2) enhances coagulation and attenuates vulnerability to fibrinolysis in normal and hemophiliac human plasma. We tested the hypothesis that plasma diluted with resuscitative fluids would demonstrate improved coagulation and decreased fibrinolytic vulnerability after exposure to CORM-2. Normal, platelet-poor plasma was diluted 0%, 20%, 30%, 40%, or 50% with 0.9% NaCl (NS) or low-molecular-weight hydroxyethyl starch (VOL) and, subsequently, exposed to 0 \u03bcmol/L or 100 \u03bcmol/L CORM-2 before activation with tissue factor (n = 4 per condition). Additional plasma samples diluted with NS or VOL (0% or 30%) were exposed to 0 \u03bcmol/L or 100 \u03bcmol/L CORM-2 and 0 U/mL or 100 U/mL tissue-type plasminogen activator to assess fibrinolytic vulnerability (n = 8 per condition). Thrombelastographic data were collected until either clot strength stabilized or clot lysis occurred, as appropriate. CORM-2 exposure maintained normal to supranormal velocity of clot formation and strength in plasma diluted up to 40% with NS. In contrast, although CORM-2 exposure improved coagulation kinetics, dilution with VOL markedly degraded thrombus formation kinetics. Similarly, fibrinolytic vulnerability to tissue-type plasminogen activator was markedly improved by CORM-2 exposure in samples diluted with NS, whereas VOL-diluted thrombi were still abnormally weak and easily lysed compared with undiluted samples despite CORM-2 exposure. CORM-2 exposure attenuated the decrease in coagulation kinetics and enhancement of fibrinolytic vulnerability associated with hemodilution. Extensive preclinical investigation remains to be performed to determine the route of administration, safety, and efficacy of CORM-2 and other CORMs to treat trauma-associated bleeding."}
{"id": "20663116", "title": "Toward a definition of \"fresh\" whole blood: an in vitro characterization of coagulation properties in refrigerated whole blood for transfusion.", "content": "Toward a definition of \"fresh\" whole blood: an in vitro characterization of coagulation properties in refrigerated whole blood for transfusion. The hemostatic property of \"fresh\" whole blood (WB) has been observed in military application and cardiac surgery and is associated with reduced blood loss, transfusion requirements, and donor exposures. The time from donation to transfusion defining \"fresh\" has not been systematically studied. We undertook an in vitro study of coagulation properties of refrigerated WB stored for 31 days. Twenty-one WB units were obtained from healthy volunteer donors and stored under standard AABB refrigerated conditions. Samples were obtained on the day after donation and again on Days 2, 4, 7, 11, 14, 17, 21, 24, and 31. Tests included complete blood count, pH, pO2, pCO2, glucose, lactate, thromboelastography (TEG), and platelet function by light transmission aggregometry (LTA). There was progressive decline in pH, pO2, glucose, and sodium, but progressive increase in potassium, pCO2, and lactate. TEG variables in all units were normal through Day 11; abnormal values in some variables in some units began on Day 14. Final aggregation levels exhibited no change from Day 1 to Day 21 with adenosine diphosphate and epinephrine, but a decline with collagen (Day 7) and ristocetin (Day 17). This in vitro study of coagulation properties demonstrates preservation of normal integrated coagulation function to a minimum of 11 days under standard conditions of refrigerated storage of WB for transfusion. These observations strongly suggest that the hemostatic quality of WB may extend beyond current transfusion practices. If confirmed clinically, this would increase availability and extend benefits of reduced donor exposure and transfusion requirements."}
{"id": "20530059", "title": "Effect of oxidized fibrinogen on hemostatic system: in vitro study.", "content": "Effect of oxidized fibrinogen on hemostatic system: in vitro study. Standard coagulation assays were performed with control and oxidized fibrinogen (Fg), using prothrombin time (PT; 12.5 \u00b1 0.4 vs 25 \u00b1 0.8 seconds, P < .001) and activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT; 33 \u00b1 2.5 vs 63 \u00b1 4.7 seconds, P < .001). Fibrin clot (MA), clot formation initiation (r), and rate of clot lysis (LY30) were measured, a reflection exposure of Fg to Fe(3+)/ ascorbate oxidative system by thrombelastograph (TEG) analysis (0, 6, 12, 24, and 48 hours, 6.2 \u00b1 1.3 vs 5.5 \u00b1 1.2, 4.3 \u00b1 1.0 [P < .01], 3.9 \u00b1 1.6, 3.2 \u00b1 0.8, [P < .001]). Maximum amplitude level was found to be lower than control (69.1 \u00b1 7.2 vs 67.9 \u00b1 12.4, 64.0 \u00b1 11.4, 60.2 \u00b1 21.2, 42.2 \u00b1 15.2, P < .001). The lysis rate was changed according to oxidation time between Fg exposed to Fe(3+)/ascorbate and control exposed to Fe( 3+)/ascorbate for the same treatment time (1.9 \u00b1 0.71 vs 7 \u00b1 0.5, 1.6 \u00b1 0.1, 1.2 \u00b1 0.5, 0.9 \u00b1 1.3, P < .001). We revealed dysregulation of hemostatic system with contribution of oxidized Fg, which was in direct proportion to the intensity of Fg oxidation."}
{"id": "20530054", "title": "Prophylactic fibrinogen infusion in cardiac surgery patients: effects on biomarkers of coagulation, fibrinolysis, and platelet function.", "content": "Prophylactic fibrinogen infusion in cardiac surgery patients: effects on biomarkers of coagulation, fibrinolysis, and platelet function. We have recently reported that prophylactic fibrinogen infusion reduces bleeding after coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) surgery. Because fibrinogen for the first time was administered to patients without hereditary fibrinogen deficiency or ongoing bleeding, a detailed analysis of the effects of fibrinogen concentrate on biomarkers of coagulation, fibrinolysis, and platelet function was performed. Twenty CABG patients with preoperative plasma fibrinogen levels <3.8 g/L were included in a prospective study. Patients were randomized to preoperative infusion of 2 g fibrinogen concentrate (fibrinogen group) or no infusion (control group). Activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), prothrombin time, activated clotting time, and plasma concentrations of fibrinogen, antithrombin, thrombin-antithrombin complex, prothrombin fragment 1.2, and D-dimer, thromboelastometry, platelet count, and platelet aggregometry were analyzed before and 15 minutes after infusion, and 2 and 24 hours after surgery. Fifteen minutes after infusion of fibrinogen concentrate, fibrinogen plasma levels increased by 0.6 \u00b1 0.2 g/L (P < .001 between groups), and induced minimal changes in aPTT and plasma levels of antithrombin, while remaining variables remained unchanged. After surgery, fibrinogen levels no longer differed between groups. D-dimer was significantly higher after surgery in the fibrinogen group (P = .03), while none of the other markers were statistically different between groups. Infusion of 2 g fibrinogen to cardiac surgery patients, without hereditary or acquired fibrinogen deficiency or ongoing bleeding, results in no or minimal changes in biomarkers reflecting coagulation and platelet function. An increased release of fibrin degradation products was detected after surgery in fibrinogen-treated patients."}
{"id": "22471194", "title": "Unusual manifestations in dengue outbreak 2009, Delhi, India.", "content": "Unusual manifestations in dengue outbreak 2009, Delhi, India. Epidemics of Dengue fever (DF) and Dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF) are common in Southeast Asia. DF is defined & classified according to WHO criteria. Variable clinical manifestations of DF & DHF have been described in earlier studies. But some patients present with unusual clinical features and clinical profile not classifiable according to the present WHO criteria. Some of these complications if not recognized early and treated properly can even prove fatal. So this study was done to describe various clinical features in Dengue fever with special emphasis on unusual manifestations. This study was conducted at University College of Medical Sciences and associated Guru Teg Bahadur hospital; a tertiary care hospital, located in East Delhi in India. It was a retrospective study of 76 patients of probable DF; including 4 cases of DHF (according to WHO classification); 60 males & 16 females above 12 years of age admitted in medical wards of Guru Teg Bahadur hospital in an outbreak of DF which occurred during September-December 2009. The data obtained was analyzed to see clinical and laboratory profile of DF/DHF with special emphasis on unusual manifestations. The mean age of the patients was 28 +/- 9.6 years. Fever was present in all the cases with an average duration of fever being 5.47 +/- 2.2 days with body ache, (84.2%), vomiting (61.8%), abdominal pain (51.3%) and headache (19.7%) being the other presenting complaints. Hemorrhagic manifestations in the form of gum bleeding and epistaxis (35.5%), positive tourniquet test (27.6%); skin rashes (15.8%), melena (15.8%) and hematemesis (5.26%) were also present. In our study a fair no of patients presented with unusual symptoms like pain in abdomen 39 (51.3%), nausea 32 (42.1%), & vomiting 47 (61.8%), which is higher than that reported previous outbreak. Of the 39 patients who presented with abdominal pain; ultrasonography of abdomen was done in 25 patients. Fifteen (38%) of these were found to have acalculous cholecystitis. Amongst the known manifestations of DF, abdominal pain has been well described, but acalculous cholecystitis as a cause of abdominal pain is scantly reported. Another unusual manifestation was the presentation of patients (7.89%) in circulatory failure without the evidence of plasma leakage and not fulfilling all the criterion proposed by WHO for DHF/DSS. All of the above patients had very low platelet counts & tourniquet test was positive in all these six patients. Hepatomegaly and splenomegaly were observed in 34.2% and 7.89% of cases, respectively. Renal dysfunction was observed in 13.1% of cases. Laboratory investigations revealed thrombocytopenia (with a platelet count of < 100,000/microl) in all cases. Leucopenia (WBC < 4,000/mm2) and Hemoconcentration (Hct > 20% of expected for age and sex) were found in 38% and 5.26% of the cases, respectively. Results of our study indicate that apart from usual manifestations, sometimes unusual but clinically extremely important manifestations can occur which if not detected early can prove fatal. So a vigilant and timely approach is warranted."}
{"id": "21598443", "title": "Point of care diagnostic: thromboelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae).", "content": "Point of care diagnostic: thromboelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae)."}
{"id": "21391830", "title": "The coagulopathy of cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "The coagulopathy of cardiopulmonary bypass. There have been numerous publications on the coagulopathy of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). This review provides an introduction to the history and main components of current CPB circuits and summarizes the current knowledge of pathogenesis, prevention, and treatment of the CPB coagulopathy. It encompasses an overview of intra- and postoperative monitoring of coagulation with special emphasis on the near-patient testing, its main complications, and the transfusion support, while taking into account the major changes in the technology used and supportive care provided since its inception."}
{"id": "21180269", "title": "Thrombelastography during an acute normovolemic hemodilution in patient undergoing radical retropubic prostatectomy.", "content": "Thrombelastography during an acute normovolemic hemodilution in patient undergoing radical retropubic prostatectomy. The aim of our study was to monitor a patient undergoing radical prostatectomy (RP) with an extraordinary large blood loss of 3600 ml. The perioperative bleeding was minimalized through an acute normovolemic hemodilution (ANH). During the procedure we monitored the patient's hemocoagulation profile. ANH is one of the possibilities for practical and pragmatic hemotherapy. It is a safe and effective method when facing massive blood loss or when it is necessary to temporarily replace or substitute the blood with a fluid during the operation (through a transfusion of allogeneic blood); and the patient benefits from the procedure. We argue that during ANH, the hypercoagulatory state appears in the patient--and even during the introduction of a combined solution of both crystalloids and colloids. In fact, during ANH it should not be recommended to provide a substitute for the patient's blood using only a single crystalloid solution alone (Tab. 2, Ref. 16)."}
{"id": "21176363", "title": "[Effect of rhG-CSF on blood coagulation in beagles irradiated by 2.3 Gy neutron].", "content": "[Effect of rhG-CSF on blood coagulation in beagles irradiated by 2.3 Gy neutron]. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of recombinant human granulocyte stimulating factor (rhG-CSF) on blood coagulation of beagles irradiated by 2.3 Gy neutron so as to provide new therapy for blood coagulation disorder after neutron irradiation. 10 beagles were exposed to 2.3 Gy neutron, and then randomly assigned into supportive care group and rhG-CSF-treated group. The rhG-CSF-treated cohorts were injected subcutaneously with rhG-CSF (10 \u00b5g/kg\u00b7d) beginning at the day of exposure for 21 consecutive days. Peripheral blood platelet counts were examined once every two days. In vitro platelet aggregation test, thromboelastography and blood clotting tetrachoric tests were also performed. The results indicated that the blood clotting system of irradiated dogs was in hypercoagulable state in the early days after 2.3 Gy neutron irradiation, and became hypocoagulable at crisis later and were mainly on intrinsic coagulation pathway. Blood fibrinogen increased markedly during the course of disease, while platelet counts and aggregation function were decreased remarkably. rhG-CSF administered daily could correct hypercoagulable state induced by 2.3 Gy neutron irradiation at the early time post exposure, shortened the thromboplastin generation time and clotting formation, down-regulated the abnormal high fibrinogen in blood, and improved platelet aggregation function. It is concluded that rhG-CSF can improve coagulation disorders of irradiated dogs."}
{"id": "21168653", "title": "Postoperative bleeding after AB0-incompatible living donor kidney transplantation.", "content": "Postoperative bleeding after AB0-incompatible living donor kidney transplantation. Since 2007, we have performed 14 AB0-incompatible (AB0i) living kidney transplantations to increase the number of living kidney transplantations. To prevent clotting, donor kidneys were perfused with an HTK/heparin solution with heparin washed out immediately pretransplantation. However, in 4/14 recipients, significant postoperative diffuse hemorrhage occurred with the need for surgical intervention in 3 patients. To analyze the cause of postoperative diffuse bleeding, sequentially before and after opening the graft anastomosis, we prospectively performed coagulation studies: partial thromboplastin time (PTT), thrombin time, thromboplastin time, fibrinogen, antithrombin, D-dimers, plasminogen, and thrombelastography. We found no clotting disturbances owing to blood group-specific immunoadsorption. However, 3/4 patients with bleeding complications showed elevated PTT values even 2 hours after opening the anastomosis, which was proven to be a heparin effect by in vitro application of heparinase. Hyperfibrinolysis and disturbances of platelet aggregation were not detected. Because of these results, we lowered the heparin dose administered after donor nephrectomy from initially 10,000-20,000 to 4000 IU resulting in significantly lower PTT values at 2 hours (34.6 \u00b1 4.5 s among patients 6-14 vs 69.0 \u00b1 16.3 s among patients 1-5; P = .012). There were no further bleeding complications. Lowering the heparin dosage had no impact on graft function: serum creatinine at discharge of 1.5 \u00b1 0.1 versus 1.6 \u00b1 0.2 mg/dL. Our data indicated that postoperative hemorrhage after AB0i kidney transplantation was associated with the amount of heparin used for graft perfusion after donor nephrectomy. The use of antifibrinolytic agents may be harmful; no hyperfibrinolysis takes place in the AB0i transplant setting."}
{"id": "21150521", "title": "The role of rotation thromboelastometry in early prediction of massive transfusion.", "content": "The role of rotation thromboelastometry in early prediction of massive transfusion. Early prediction of massive transfusion (MT) is critical in the management of severely injured trauma patients. Variables available early after injury including physiologic, laboratory, and rotation thromboelastometric (ROTEM) parameters were evaluated as predictors for the need of MT. After Institutional Review Board approval, we retrospectively reviewed a cohort of severely injured trauma patients (Injury Severity Score \u2265 16) admitted to a Level I trauma center with available ROTEM measurements on hospital admission during a 1-year study period. Patients with isolated head injury (Abbreviated Injury Scale head \u2265 3 and Abbreviated Injury Scale chest, abdomen, and extremity < 3) and patients with a penetrating mechanism of injury were excluded. Patients who received a MT (\u2265 10 units packed red blood cell within 24 hours of admission) were compared with patients who did not. Variables independently associated with MT were identified using stepwise logistic regression. A total of 53 patients met inclusion criteria. Of these, 18 patients (34.0%) received a MT and 35 patients (66.0%) did not. Massively transfused patients had significantly lower baseline hemoglobin values (7.9 g/dL \u00b1 0.4 g/dL vs. 11.4 g/dL \u00b1 0.4 g/dL; p < 0.001) and a trend toward higher lactate (4.8 mmol/L \u00b1 0.8 mmol/L vs. 3.0 mmol/L \u00b1 0.3 mmol/L; p = 0.056) and base deficit values (5.9 mmol/L \u00b1 1.1 mmol/L vs. 3.6 mmol/L \u00b1 0.6 mmol/L; p = 0.052). Mean international normalized ratio (1.46 \u00b1 0.07 vs. 1.22 \u00b1 0.05; p = 0.001) and partial thromboplastin times (42.4 seconds \u00b1 5.0 seconds vs. 29.7 seconds \u00b1 1.8 seconds; p < 0.001) were significantly higher in MT patients. Patients receiving a MT had significantly altered ROTEM values on admission compared with non-MT patients. An increase in the clot formation time (471.3 seconds \u00b1 169.9 seconds vs. 178.1 seconds \u00b1 19.9 seconds; p = 0.001), a shortening of the maximum clot firmness (37.5 mm \u00b1 2.9 mm vs. 50.7 mm \u00b1 1.4 mm; p < 0.001), and a shortening of the clot amplitude at all time points (10/20/30 minutes) were observed in massively transfused trauma patients. Variables independently associated with MT included a hemoglobin level \u2264 10 g/dL and an abnormal maximum clot firmness value (area under the receiver operator characteristic curve: 0.831 [95% confidence interval: 0.719-0.942; p < 0.001]). Hemoglobin \u2264 10 g/dL and an abnormal maximum cloth firmness measured by rotation thromboelastometry on admission reliably predict the need for MT. Prospective validation of the effectiveness of thromboelastometry to guide the transfusion practice after trauma is warranted."}
{"id": "21141445", "title": "Heparinase-modified thrombelastometry: inactivation of heparin in plasma samples.", "content": "Heparinase-modified thrombelastometry: inactivation of heparin in plasma samples. The heparinase-modified thrombelastometry (HEPTEM) assay is a promising tool to assess the coagulation status of heparinised patients. The aim of our study was to examine the heparin neutralizing capability of the HEPTEM assay in plasma samples. In the HEPTEM assay, blood or plasma samples become activated via the intrinsic pathway in the presence of a heparin processing enzyme. We examined coagulation times (CTs) in the presence of increasing amounts (0-4 IU/mL) of heparin. We found that up to a concentration of 0.5 IU/mL, heparin is completely neutralized. However, CTs increased linearly in the presence of heparin concentrations higher than 0.5 IU/mL, indicating incomplete heparin neutralization in the standard HEPTEM assay. We provide herein a mathematical procedure to correct the misleadingly prolonged CTs (for heparin > 0.5 IU/mL) for the HEPTEM assay performed in plasma samples to allow better estimation of the coagulation status in patients requiring intense anticoagulation (e.g., patients undergoing cardiac surgery)."}
{"id": "21138569", "title": "Blood product ratio in acute traumatic coagulopathy--effect on mortality in a Scandinavian level 1 trauma centre.", "content": "Blood product ratio in acute traumatic coagulopathy--effect on mortality in a Scandinavian level 1 trauma centre. Trauma is the leading cause of loss of life expectancy worldwide. In the most seriously injured patients, coagulopathy is often present on admission. Therefore, transfusion strategies to increase the ratio of plasma (FFP) and platelets (PLT) to red blood cells (RBC), simulating whole blood, have been introduced. Several studies report that higher ratios improve survival in massively bleeding patients. Here, the aim was to investigate the potential effect of increased FFP and PLT to RBC on mortality in trauma patients. In a retrospective before and after study, all trauma patients primarily admitted to a level-one Trauma Centre, receiving blood transfusion, in 2001-3 (n = 97) and 2005-7 (n = 156), were included. In 2001-3, FFP and PLT were administered in accordance with the American Society of Anesthesiologists (ASA) guidelines whereas in 2005-7, Hemostatic Control Resuscitation (HCR) entailing pre-emptive use of FFP and PLT in transfusion packages during uncontrolled haemorrhage and thereafter guided by thrombelastograph (TEG) analysis was employed. The effect of transfusion therapy and coagulopathy on mortality was investigated. Patients included in the early and late period had comparable demography, injury severity score (ISS), admission hematology and coagulopathy (27% vs. 34% had APTT above normal). There was a significant change in blood transfusion practice with shorter time interval from admission to first transfusion (median time 3 min vs.28 min in massive bleeders, p < 0.001), transfusion of higher ratios of FFP:RBC, PLT:RBC and PLT:FFP in the HCR group but 30-day mortality remained comparable in the two periods. In the 2005-7 period, higher age, ISS and Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (APTT) above normal were independent predictors of mortality whereas no association was fund between blood product ratios and mortality. Aggressive administration of FFP and PLT did not influence mortality in the present trauma population."}
{"id": "21128767", "title": "Artifact hyperfibrinolysis in thromboelastography with the use of a heparinase cup.", "content": "Artifact hyperfibrinolysis in thromboelastography with the use of a heparinase cup."}
{"id": "21126640", "title": "Clopidogrel responsiveness regardless of the discontinuation date predicts increased blood loss and transfusion requirement after off-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery.", "content": "Clopidogrel responsiveness regardless of the discontinuation date predicts increased blood loss and transfusion requirement after off-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery. the purpose of this study was to evaluate the association of the percentage of platelet inhibitory response to clopidogrel as assessed by modified thromboelastography with bleeding and transfusion requirement after off-pump coronary artery bypass graft (OPCABG) surgery. Interindividual variability of clopidogrel responsiveness may influence bleeding and transfusion requirement. one hundred patients who received clopidogrel within 5 days of OPCABG were prospectively enrolled. The primary end point was to compare post-operative bleeding and transfusion requirement in relation to the tertile distribution of the percentage of platelet inhibitory response to clopidogrel. blood loss in the patients in the third tertile was 914 \u00b1 264 ml compared with 623 \u00b1 249 ml in those in the first and 683 \u00b1 254 ml in those in the second tertiles (p = 0.001). Significantly more patients in the third tertile were transfused, and the number of units transfused was also larger. On multivariate analysis, the third tertile was associated with an 11-fold increased risk of transfusion (95% confidence interval: 2.77 to 47.30, p = 0.001). The optimal cutoff value for the transfusion requirement measured by receiver-operator characteristic curve analysis was 70% platelet inhibitory response to clopidogrel (area under the curve: 0.771; 95% confidence interval: 0.674 to 0.868; p < 0.001). a high percentage of platelet inhibitory response to clopidogrel, regardless of the proximity of clopidogrel exposure, predicts increased blood loss and transfusion requirement after OPCABG with a cutoff value of 70% for increased risk of transfusion. These findings might implicate a potential role of modified thromboelastography in deciding the timing of OPCABG in patients who need continued clopidogrel therapy."}
{"id": "21123867", "title": "The 2.7\u2005\u00c5 resolution structure of the glycopeptide sulfotransferase Teg14.", "content": "The 2.7\u2005\u00c5 resolution structure of the glycopeptide sulfotransferase Teg14. The TEG gene cluster was recently isolated from an environmental DNA library and is predicted to encode the biosynthesis of a polysulfated glycopeptide congener. Three closely related sulfotransferases found in the TEG gene cluster (Teg12, Teg13 and Teg14) have been shown to sulfate the teicoplanin aglycone at three unique sites. Crystal structures of the first sulfotransferase from the TEG cluster, Teg12, in complex with the teicoplanin aglycone and its desulfated cosubstrate PAP have recently been reported [Bick et al. (2010), Biochemistry, 49, 4159-4168]. Here, the 2.7\u2005\u00c5 resolution crystal structure of the apo form of Teg14 is reported. Teg14 sulfates the hydroxyphenylglycine at position 4 in the teicoplanin aglycone. The Teg14 structure is discussed and is compared with those of other bacterial 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphosulfate-dependent sulfotransferases."}
{"id": "21120773", "title": "[Point-of-care-monitoring of coagulation].", "content": "[Point-of-care-monitoring of coagulation]. In recent years, point-of-care coagulation monitoring systems have gained widespread use during surgical procedures. By providing quick and goal directed diagnostic information, they enable the attending physician to deliver a quick and goal directed therapy, thereby saving blood products and reduce resource utilisation. In order to maintain a high quality level, the physician in charge needs to have a sound knowledge of both the available methods including their indications and limitations and possible sources of error. This article summarizes the popular POC coagulation systems in Germany. Indications and limitations are described with special emphasis on the legal prerequisites that have been changed according to the new guidelines for laboratory investigations launched by the German college of physicians in 2008. Even though several issues regarding the necessary quality controls are still under debate especially with the more complex methods, it is of paramount importance that a comprehensive quality management is established for these POC methods."}
{"id": "21109919", "title": "Study of pro-thrombotic and pro-inflammatory factors in Chagas cardiomyopathy.", "content": "Study of pro-thrombotic and pro-inflammatory factors in Chagas cardiomyopathy. The relationship between inflammatory and prothrombotic activity in chagas cardiomyopathy and in other etiologies is unclear. To study the profile of pro-thrombotic and pro-inflammatory markers in patients with Chagas' heart failure and compare them with patients of non-chagas etiology. Cross-sectional cohort. left ventricle ejection fraction (LVEF) < 45% and onset time to symptoms > one month. The patients were divided into two groups: group 1 (G1) - seropositive for Chagas - and group 2 (G2) - seronegative for Chagas. Pro-inflammatory factor: Ultra-sensitive CRP. Pro-thrombotic factors: thrombin-antithrombin factor, fibrinogen, von Willebrand factor antigen, plasma P-selectin and thromboelastography. Sample calculated for 80% power, assuming a standard deviation difference of 1/3; significant p if it is < 0.05. Fisher's exact test for categorical variables; unpaired Student's t-test for parametric continuous variables and Mann-Whitney test for nonparametric continuous variables. Between January and June 2008, 150 patients were included, 80 in G1 and 70 in G2. Both groups maintained the averages of high sensitivity CRP above baseline values, however, there was no significant difference (p = 0.328). The fibrinogen levels were higher in G2 than in G1 (p = 0.015). Among the thromboelastography variables, the parameters MA (p=0.0013), G (p=0.0012) and TG (p =0.0005) were greater in G2 than in G1. There is no evidence of greater pro-thrombotic status among patients with Chagas disease. The levels of fibrinogen and the MA, G and TG parameters of the thromboelastography point to pro-thrombotic status among non-chagas patients. Both groups had increased inflammatory activity."}
{"id": "21106098", "title": "The contemporary role of blood products and components used in trauma resuscitation.", "content": "The contemporary role of blood products and components used in trauma resuscitation. There is renewed interest in blood product use for resuscitation stimulated by recent military experience and growing recognition of the limitations of large-volume crystalloid resuscitation. An editorial review of recent reports published by investigators from the United States and Europe is presented. There is little prospective data in this area. Despite increasing sophistication of trauma care systems, hemorrhage remains the major cause of early death after injury. In patients receiving massive transfusion, defined as 10 or more units of packed red blood cells in the first 24 hours after injury, administration of plasma and platelets in a ratio equivalent to packed red blood cells is becoming more common. There is a clear possibility of time dependent enrollment bias. The early use of multiple types of blood products is stimulated by the recognition of coagulopathy after reinjury which may occur as many as 25% of patients. These patients typically have large-volume tissue injury and are acidotic. Despite early enthusiasm, the value of administration of recombinant factor VIIa is now in question. Another dilemma is monitoring of appropriate component administration to control coagulopathy. In patients requiring large volumes of blood products or displaying coagulopathy after injury, it appears that early and aggressive administration of blood component therapy may actually reduce the aggregate amount of blood required. If recombinant factor VIIa is given, it should be utilized in the fully resuscitated patient. Thrombelastography is seeing increased application for real-time assessment of coagulation changes after injury and directed replacement of components of the clotting mechanism."}
{"id": "21092037", "title": "Perioperative monitoring of thromboelastograph on blood protection and recovery for severely cyanotic patients undergoing complex cardiac surgery.", "content": "Perioperative monitoring of thromboelastograph on blood protection and recovery for severely cyanotic patients undergoing complex cardiac surgery. In this study, we assessed the clinical effect of a new transfusion therapy guided by thromboelastograph (TEG) on blood protection. Thirty-one children with severe cyanosis (hematocrit \u226554%), who were diagnosed as having transposition of the great arteries or double outlet right ventricle with or without pulmonary valve stenosis, and underwent arterial switch operation or double roots transplantation, were involved and were divided into two groups. In group F (n=17), the transfusion therapy after cardiopulmonary bypass was performed with fibrinogen administration combined with traditional transfusion, guided by TEG. In group C (n=14), traditional transfusion guided by clinical experiences only was performed. We observed the blood protection effects and recovery conditions of these patients. In surgery, compared with group C, the chest closure time, fresh-frozen plasma (FFP), and platelet (PLT) volume used at closure time had no significant reductions in group F (P>0.05, respectively), and the patients in group F had no significant reductions in the amount of chest drainage (P>0.05). The total PLT and total red blood cells usage were also the same (P>0.05). But during the first 24h, FFP usage in the intensive care unit (ICU) and total perioperative FFP usage had significantly dropped in group F (P<0.05); the mechanical ventilator time, ICU stay, and hospitalization time in group F were much shorter than those in group C (P<0.05). So, TEG was effective in perioperative blood protection. Fibrinogen could be a substitute for FFP to restore hemostasis and improve the prognosis for these patients."}
{"id": "21048101", "title": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 enhances coagulation and diminishes fibrinolytic vulnerability in plasma exposed to heparin or argatroban.", "content": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 enhances coagulation and diminishes fibrinolytic vulnerability in plasma exposed to heparin or argatroban. It has been recently demonstrated that a carbon monoxide releasing molecule (tricarbonyldichlororuthenium [II] dimer; CORM-2) enhances coagulation and attenuates vulnerability to fibrinolysis in normal and hemophiliac human plasma. We tested the hypothesis that plasma anticoagulated with heparin or argatroban would demonstrate improved coagulation and decreased fibrinolytic vulnerability after exposure to CORM-2. Normal plasma was anticoagulated with 0 to 0.1 U/mL unfractionated heparin or 0 to 1 \u03bcg/mL argatroban. Samples were subsequently exposed to 0 or 100 \u03bcM CORM-2 and activated with tissue factor. Additional samples with the same anticoagulant and CORM-2 exposure schema were incubated with 100 U/mL tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) to assess fibrinolytic vulnerability. Thrombelastographic data were collected until either clot strength stabilized or clot lysis occurred as appropriate. In the absence of tPA, CORM-2 significantly increased the velocity of clot growth in heparin (75%) and argatroban-exposed (40%) samples. Clot strength was also significantly increased in heparin (69%) and argatroban-exposed (72%) samples. In the presence of tPA, CORM-2-treated samples had even greater (94%-731%) increases in velocity of growth and strength after exposure to either anticoagulant and significantly increased clot lysis time (103%-200%). CORM-2 exposure resulted in faster-growing, stronger, longer-lived thrombi after anticoagulation with heparin or argatroban. Additional preclinical investigation is warranted to determine whether CORM-2 administration will be useful in attenuating bleeding complications associated with thromboprophylaxis."}
{"id": "21038666", "title": "[Impact of different proton pump inhibitors on the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel in combination with aspirin for patients undergoing coronary stent implantation].", "content": "[Impact of different proton pump inhibitors on the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel in combination with aspirin for patients undergoing coronary stent implantation]. To evaluate the impact of different proton pump inhibitors on the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel. A total of 60 hospitalized patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention were randomly assigned to receive omeprazole group 40 mg/d (20 patients), pantoprazole group 40 mg/d (20 patients) and control group (20 patients). All patients also received standard clopidogrel therapy, continuing 30 days treatments. The percentage clotting inhibition was measured by the use of thrombelastogram and the maximal platelet aggregation rate (MPAR) was measured by turbidity method at the first day before admission and 15 or 30 days after treatment. Major adverse cardiac and cerebral events (MACCE) and hemorrhagic events within 30 days were recorded. The baseline clinical characteristics, angiography and PCI result were compared among the three groups. At the first day before admission and 15 or 30 days after treatment, no significant difference was shown in the percentage clotting inhibition measured by thrombelastogram and the maximal platelet aggregation rate (MPAR) measured by turbidity method among the three groups. Though the platelet agglutination inhibition rate measured at 15 and 30 days increased and MPAR measured at 15 and 30 days declined compared with the baseline data (P < 0.05), no significant difference was found between levels measured at 15 and 30 days (P > 0.05). The rates of MACCE had no significant difference among the three groups. Compared with control group, the rates of hemorrhagic event were significantly decreased in omeprazole or pantoprazole group (P < 0.05), but no significant difference was shown between the omeprazole and pantoprazole group. No significant impact of different proton pump inhibitors on the antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel has been found in patients undergoing coronary stent implantation and short-time combined administration is safe."}
{"id": "20978996", "title": "Quality assurance and quality control of thrombelastography and rotational Thromboelastometry: the UK NEQAS for blood coagulation experience.", "content": "Quality assurance and quality control of thrombelastography and rotational Thromboelastometry: the UK NEQAS for blood coagulation experience. Global hemostasis devices are currently being employed in operating rooms to assess the bleeding risk and outcomes for patients undergoing surgery. Two devices currently available are the TEG (Thromboelastograph; Haemoscope Corp., Niles, IL) and the ROTEM (Rotation Thromboelastometer; Pentapharm GmbH, Munich, Germany). Both measure the speed of clot formation, the strength of the clot when formed, and clot fibrinolysis kinetics. The two devices use different parameters so no cross comparisons of results can be made. The devices are usually operated by a member of the operating team and not a laboratory scientist; thus their testing and performance is generally not laboratory controlled, despite quality control being required to ensure reliable results. The UK National External Quality Assessment Scheme (NEQAS) for Blood Coagulation has undertaken a series of exercises evaluating the provision of External Quality Assessment (EQA) material for these devices. A series of four studies have taken place using lyophilized plasmas as the test material. Up to 18 TEG users and 10 ROTEM users have been involved in testing two samples per study, for a total of eight samples tested. The samples were normal plasmas, factor VIII or XI deficient samples, or normal plasmas spiked with heparin. The precision of the tests varied greatly for both devices, with coefficients of variances ranging from 7.1 to 39.9% for TEG and 7.0 to 83.6% for ROTEM. Some centers returned results that were sufficiently different from those obtained by other participants to predict alterations in patient management decisions. Our data indicate that regular EQA/proficiency testing is needed for these devices."}
{"id": "20978994", "title": "Global hemostasis in pregnancy: are we using thromboelastography to its full potential?", "content": "Global hemostasis in pregnancy: are we using thromboelastography to its full potential? Pregnancy is a unique situation where significant physiological changes in all maternal organ systems take place. Most of these changes return to normal after delivery. During normal pregnancy the hemostatic balance changes in the direction of hypercoagulability, thus decreasing bleeding complications at time of delivery. The pregnancy-associated hypercoagulability sets a foundation for hemostatic abnormalities during pregnancy and may be associated with pregnancy complications. Assessment of the hemostatic status in pregnancy and its complications can be critical to diagnosis and management not only within the obstetric ward but in trauma, anesthesia, and other situations. Conventional global tests such as prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time cannot define this status appropriately, and full assessment requires measurements of several parameters. Thromboelastography (TEG) is a global hemostatic test that can analyze both coagulation and fibrinolysis. The technique has been available since the 1940s, but only recently has it shown great impact within the clinical practice arena. TEG measures the interactive dynamic coagulation process from the initial fibrin formation to platelet interaction and clot strengthening to fibrinolysis, which makes it superior to other conventional tests. In addition, TEG can guide therapy by documenting changes in coagulation in vitro before a therapy is instituted and also by helping the clinician make critical decisions. Despite the clear value as a test for monitoring hemostatic status of pregnancy-related complications, TEG is still underused for reasons such as poor awareness regarding the technique and interpretations, lack of full standardization, and the unavailability of large clinical studies. However, the fact remains that TEG is undoubtedly attractive to both researchers and clinicians, particularly in a point-of-care setting. We hope that much more investment is directed to TEG studies in both experimental and clinical fields to improve applications and promote use, especially with respect to clinical decision making in pregnancy-related complications."}
{"id": "20978993", "title": "Coagulation abnormalities in the trauma patient: the role of point-of-care thromboelastography.", "content": "Coagulation abnormalities in the trauma patient: the role of point-of-care thromboelastography. Current recommendations for resuscitation of the critically injured patient are limited by a lack of point-of-care (POC) assessment of coagulation status. Accordingly, the potential exists for indiscriminant blood component administration. Furthermore, although thromboembolic events have been described shortly after injury, the time sequence of post-injury coagulation changes is unknown. Our current understanding of hemostasis has shifted from a classic view, in which coagulation was considered a chain of catalytic enzyme reactions, to the cell-based model (CBM), representing the interplay between the cellular and plasma components of clot formation. Thromboelastography (TEG), a time-sensitive dynamic assay of the viscoelastic properties of blood, closely parallels the CBM, permitting timely, goal-directed restoration of hemostasis via POC monitoring of coagulation status. TEG-based therapy allows for goal-directed blood product administration in trauma, with potential avoidance of the complications resulting from overzealous component administration, as well as the ability to monitor post-injury coagulation status and thromboprophylaxis. This overview addresses coagulation status and thromboprophylaxis management in the trauma patient and the emerging role of POC TEG."}
{"id": "20978992", "title": "Critical factors contributing to the thromboelastography trace.", "content": "Critical factors contributing to the thromboelastography trace. The thromboelastography trace provides a graphical and numerical representation of the viscoelastic changes associated with fibrin polymerization. When used with whole blood, the shape of this trace is a composite of the effects of white and red cell content and composition, platelet number and function, fibrinogen concentration, as well as coagulation protein function and balance. The trace is also influenced by pharmacological agents such as anticoagulants, antiplatelet therapy, and coagulation factor supplementation. As such the main role of this technology has been as a point-of-care device to guide transfusion of blood components. Recently the technology has moved from the cardiac and hepatic surgical settings, where most of the early work was focused, into other areas of hemostatic monitoring. New applications for pharmaceutical monitoring and patient screening are being explored. This review gives a broad overview of the applications of the technology. In particular it considers the factors that most influence the characteristics of the trace, be they preanalytical, analytical, or clinical."}
{"id": "20978991", "title": "Standardization of thromboelastography: values and challenges.", "content": "Standardization of thromboelastography: values and challenges. Laboratory evaluation of hemostasis has been performed using plasma for several decades. The cell-based model of coagulation has now led to renewed interest in the global assays of coagulation such as thrombin generation and thromboelastography. These tests have remained as research tools, however, because of the lack of studies to demonstrate their reliability. The number of publications in the field of thromboelastography is growing daily, and many areas of clinical medicine are targeting the ability of this assay to evaluate in real time the process of coagulation and fibrin polymerization. It is clear that the methods employed by different investigators differ significantly, and therefore the results are not comparable. It is therefore critical to standardize the assay to achieve clinical relevance. This article summarizes the TEG-ROTEM Working Group's efforts to try and standardize thromboelastography and the challenges faced in this process. Although this has been the first effort to standardize this test, it is extremely important to continue this work, so that we may investigate the usefulness and possible applications of thromboelastography in evaluating the process of hemostasis."}
{"id": "20978990", "title": "Clinical utility of thromboelastography: one size does not fit all.", "content": "Clinical utility of thromboelastography: one size does not fit all. Coagulation management requires the balancing of different components that contribute to clot formation. These components include the interactions between platelets, procoagulant, anticoagulant, and fibrinolytic factors. The cause of bleeding or thrombotic events is often multifactorial; however, the tests clinicians most frequently use to assess hemostasis do not reflect the complexity of the coagulation system. The paucity of global measurements of hemostasis has resulted in either an empirical or a one-size-fits-all approach to treatment. In contrast, thromboelastography is a test that monitors the different phases of clot formation and lysis, providing the clinician with a tool for making informed therapeutic decisions. This review provides an overview of thromboelastography in the management of hypocoagulable and hypercoagulable conditions."}
{"id": "20978989", "title": "Global hemostasis: new approaches to patient diagnosis and treatment monitoring. Preface.", "content": "Global hemostasis: new approaches to patient diagnosis and treatment monitoring. Preface."}
{"id": "20978988", "title": "Global hemostasis: new approaches to patient diagnosis and treatment monitoring. Foreword.", "content": "Global hemostasis: new approaches to patient diagnosis and treatment monitoring. Foreword."}
{"id": "20973236", "title": "[Effects of extracellular calcium concentration on platelets aggregation, coagulation indices and thromboelastography].", "content": "[Effects of extracellular calcium concentration on platelets aggregation, coagulation indices and thromboelastography]. To detect the effect of extracellular Ca2+ concentrations on test results of coagulation-related parameters. Blood samples of outpatient medical volunteers were collected and then different doses of calcium chloride added. The rate of platelet aggregation (n = 42), prothrombin time (PT), thrombin time (TT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) (n = 21) and parameters of thromboelastography (n = 30) were detected according to the standard protocols by plasma turbidimetry, coagulation and recalcification respectively. When the plasma Ca2+ concentration was in the range of 0.1 - 33.7 mmol/L, the rate of platelet aggregation gradually increased with a increasing concentration of Ca2+. And the rates induced by adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and arachidonic acid (AA) were (51.8 +/- 9.6)% - (94.7 +/- 4.8)% and (64.4 +/- 12.2)% - (93.2 +/- 5.5)% respectively. When the Ca2+ concentration was 39.0 mmol/L, the rate decreased markedly [ADP (9.1 +/- 5.3)%, AA (11.1 +/- 4.5)%, both P < 0.01]. When the Ca2+ concentration was in the range of 0.1 - 33.7 mmol/L, the values of PT gradually increased with a increasing concentration of Ca2+. The values of TT changed in \"V\"-type and became minimum when the calcium concentration was 4.4 mmol/L. The values of APTT decreased with higher calcium concentrations and could not be determined when the concentration increased above 0.5 mmol/L. When the Ca2+ concentration was in the range of 0.4 - 27.3 mmol/L, the values of reaction time and coagulation time of thromboelastography changed in \"V\"-type and became nearly minimal at the Ca2+ concentration of about 2.1 mmol/L. The values of alpha angle and maximum amplitude changed in \"V\"-type and became maximal at the Ca2+ concentration of 2.1 mmol/L. The effect of Ca2+ concentration on the testing results of coagulation-related parameters is significant. A high calcium ( > or = 39 mmol/L) can inhibit the platelet aggregation, coagulation factor activity and blood coagulation. The Ca2+ concentration of 2.1 mmol/L seems to be the optimal concentration for thromboelastography by recalcification method."}
{"id": "20970652", "title": "Considerations regarding major bleeding after cardiac transplantation.", "content": "Considerations regarding major bleeding after cardiac transplantation. Postoperative bleeding is one of the most frequent complications after cardiac surgery, leading to longer stays in the intensive care unit (ICU) and the hospital as well as increased morbidity and mortality. We designed an observational prospective study to evaluate early complications after cardiac transplantation, focusing on major bleeding and transfusion requirements. We also evaluated whether massive transfusion was related to increased morbidity and mortality. In patients who received \u22656 blood units, we observed significant differences regarding the need for continuous renal replacement techniques (50% vs 12.5%; P=.01) and ICU mortality (33.3% vs 4%; P=.01). This difference in mortality was also observed when comparing plasma transfusion requirements (35.3% vs 9.4%; P=.04). The overall mortality rate was 24.50%, showing significant differences in patients with massive transfusion (83.3% vs 37.8%; P=.008). In conclusion, perioperative bleeding and massive transfusion were associated with increased morbidity and mortality in this group of patients, which may prompt a review of surgical procedures and the introduction of new techniques, such as thromboelastography."}
{"id": "20970586", "title": "Introduction of fibrinogen in the treatment of hemostatic disorders during orthotopic liver transplantation: implications in the use of allogenic blood.", "content": "Introduction of fibrinogen in the treatment of hemostatic disorders during orthotopic liver transplantation: implications in the use of allogenic blood. Orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) requires a large amount of blood-derived resources. The indications for their availability in the surgery area is based on empirical protocols. The implementation of point-of-care apparatuses gives rise to the detection of hemostatic alterations due to functional deficits of fibrinogen. To monitor coagulation disorders and other biochemical parameters, we used thromboelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae) and a MovlLab\u00ae unit, respectively. We evaluated the stability and firmness of the clot based on fibrin (FibTem test). The measurements were performed during all of the liver transplant stages: baseline, anhepatic, and reperfusion. Fibrinogen (hemocompletan) was administered to achieve maximum clot firmness, based on patient weight and the existence of surgical bleeding. This pilot cohort of 20 transplant patients (group B) compared outcomes with the 59 patients from the previous year (group A). Haemocompletan was administered to 45% of the 20 patients. The ratio of red blood cell components per patient diminished from 8.4 to 3.9 (53% reduction) and, fresh frozen plasma from 5.6 to 1.9 (65% reduction). Transfusions of platelet concentrates decreased by 50% with a ratio of 1.5-0.7 per patient. Likewise, 20% of transplant patients received no transfusions of blood products compared with 3.5% in the previous period. The incorporation of fibrinogen into the treatment of hemostatic disorders in OLT leads to a reduced use of allogenic blood products. We observed reduced number of patients who received transfusions, while those who underwent transfusion did so to a lesser degree."}
{"id": "20964858", "title": "Design and conduct of Caudwell Xtreme Everest: an observational cohort study of variation in human adaptation to progressive environmental hypoxia.", "content": "Design and conduct of Caudwell Xtreme Everest: an observational cohort study of variation in human adaptation to progressive environmental hypoxia. The physiological responses to hypoxaemia and cellular hypoxia are poorly understood, and inter-individual differences in performance at altitude and outcome in critical illness remain unexplained. We propose a model for exploring adaptation to hypoxia in the critically ill: the study of healthy humans, progressively exposed to environmental hypobaric hypoxia (EHH). The aim of this study was to describe the spectrum of adaptive responses in humans exposed to graded EHH and identify factors (physiological and genetic) associated with inter-individual variation in these responses. Observational cohort study of progressive incremental exposure to EHH. University human physiology laboratory in London, UK (75 m) and 7 field laboratories in Nepal at 1300 m, 3500 m, 4250 m, 5300 m, 6400 m, 7950 m and 8400 m. 198 healthy volunteers and 24 investigators trekking to Everest Base Camp (EBC) (5300 m). A subgroup of 14 investigators studied at altitudes up to 8400 m on Everest. Exercise capacity, exercise efficiency and economy, brain and muscle Near Infrared Spectroscopy, plasma biomarkers (including markers of inflammation), allele frequencies of known or suspected hypoxia responsive genes, spirometry, neurocognitive testing, retinal imaging, pupilometry. In nested subgroups: microcirculatory imaging, muscle biopsies with proteomic and transcriptomic tissue analysis, continuous cardiac output measurement, arterial blood gas measurement, trans-cranial Doppler, gastrointestinal tonometry, thromboelastography and ocular saccadometry. Of 198 healthy volunteers leaving Kathmandu, 190 reached EBC (5300 m). All 24 investigators reached EBC. The completion rate for planned testing was more than 99% in the investigator group and more than 95% in the trekkers. Unique measurements were safely performed at extreme altitude, including the highest (altitude) field measurements of exercise capacity, cerebral blood flow velocity and microvascular blood flow at 7950 m and arterial blood gas measurement at 8400 m. This study demonstrates the feasibility and safety of conducting a large healthy volunteer cohort study of human adaptation to hypoxia in this difficult environment. Systematic measurements of a large set of variables were achieved in 222 subjects and at altitudes up to 8400 m. The resulting dataset is a unique resource for the study of genotype:phenotype interactions in relation to hypoxic adaptation."}
{"id": "20951650", "title": "Goal-directed hemostatic resuscitation for massively bleeding patients: the Copenhagen concept.", "content": "Goal-directed hemostatic resuscitation for massively bleeding patients: the Copenhagen concept. Continued hemorrhage remains a major cause of mortality in massively transfused patients, many of whom develop coagulopathy. A review of transfusion practice for these patients at our hospital revealed that a significant proportion received suboptimal transfusion therapy. Survivors had higher platelets count than non-survivors. For massively transfused patients with hemodynamic instability, we introduced the concept of transfusion packages comprising five units of red blood cells, five units of fresh frozen plasma and two units of platelet concentrates. Thrombelastogram analysis was validated for routine laboratory use and implemented in the blood bank for monitoring coagulopathy and guiding transfusion therapy. Anaesthetists at our hospital were trained in functional haemostasis management based on analysis of thrombelastograms. Intraoperative administration of transfusion packages for patients operated on for a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm was associated with a reduction in mortality from 56% to 34% (p = 0.02). When comparing massively transfused patients treated with hemostatic control resuscitation, i.e., transfusion package therapy during hemodynamic instability and thromboelastogram--monitored and guided transfusion therapy, with controls treated in accordance with existing transfusion guidelines, mortality was reduced from 31% to 20% (p = 0.002). The initiative from the blood bank, i.e., transfusion packages for patients with uncontrollable bleeding and based on the thromboelastogram when hemodynamic control is established, has improved the transfusion practice and survival in massively transfused patients at our hospital."}
{"id": "20951260", "title": "Thromboelastometrically guided transfusion protocol during aortic surgery with circulatory arrest: a prospective, randomized trial.", "content": "Thromboelastometrically guided transfusion protocol during aortic surgery with circulatory arrest: a prospective, randomized trial. Aortic surgical procedures requiring hypothermic circulatory arrest are associated with altered hemostasis and increased bleeding. In a randomized clinical trial, we evaluated effects of thromboelastometrically guided algorithm on transfusion requirements. Fifty-six consecutive patients (25 with acute type A dissection) undergoing aortic surgery with hypothermic circulatory arrest were enrolled in a randomized trial during a 6-month period. Patients were randomly allocated to treatment group (n\u00a0=\u00a027) with thromboelastometrically guided transfusion algorithm or control group (n\u00a0=\u00a029) with routine transfusion practices (clinical judgment-guided transfusion followed by transfusion according to coagulation test results). Primary end point was cumulative allogeneic blood units (red blood cells, fresh-frozen plasma, and platelets) transfused. Transfusion of allogeneic blood was significantly reduced in the thromboelastometry group: median 9.0 units (interquartile range, 2.0-30.0 units) versus. 16.0 units (9.0-23.0 units, P\u00a0=\u00a0.02). Most significant decrease was in the use of fresh-frozen plasma (3.0 units, 0-12.0 units, vs 8.0 units, 4.0-18.0 units, P\u00a0=\u00a0.005). Postoperative blood loss (890 mL/d, 600-1250 mL/d vs 950 mL/d, 650-1400 mL/d, p\u00a0=\u00a00.5) and rate of surgical re-exploration (19% vs 24%, P\u00a0=\u00a0.7) were similar between groups. Thromboelastometrically guided algorithm significantly decreased need for massive perioperative transfusion (odds ratio, 0.45; 95% confidence interval, 0.2-0.9; P\u00a0=\u00a0.03) in multivariable logistic regression analysis. Thromboelastometrically guided transfusion is associated with a decreased use of allogeneic blood units and reduced incidence of massive transfusion in patients undergoing aortic surgery with circulatory arrest."}
{"id": "20943250", "title": "Phytoremediation of ethylene glycol and its derivatives by the burhead plant (Echinodorus cordifolius (L.)): effect of molecular size.", "content": "Phytoremediation of ethylene glycol and its derivatives by the burhead plant (Echinodorus cordifolius (L.)): effect of molecular size. Ethylene glycol (EG) is a group of dihydroxy alcohol that has been utilised in a variety of industrial and residential settings. EG contaminated wastewater has a high chemical oxygen demand (COD), which causes environmental problems. The aim of this research was to investigate the efficiency of the burhead plant (Echinodorus cordifolius (L.)) in the removal of mono-, di- and triethylene glycol (MEG, DEG and TEG), the first three members of the dihydroxy alcohol group, from synthetic wastewaters, to examine the toxic effect of EG on the plant and to identify differences among MEG, DEG, and TEG removal. It was found that the COD of synthetic wastewaters decreased to levels below the standard effluent (COD=120 mg L\u207b\u00b9) on day 18, 21 and 33 for MEG, DEG and TEG, respectively. On day 18 of the experiment, the burhead plant removed approximately 2000, 1950 and 730 mg L\u207b\u00b9 of MEG, DEG and TEG, respectively. The removal rate of MEG was faster than that of DEG and TEG, suggesting that the molecular size of the EG had affected its rate of removal. The concentrations of MEG, DEG, and TEG in plant tissue were measured to show that burhead can take up EG, and the major site of EG accumulation is the leaf. The molar of MEG that was taken up into the plant leaf was higher than that of DEG and TEG. This suggested that EG of smaller molecular sizes can be taken up more rapidly by the plant than EG of larger molecular sizes. EG concentrations in the leaf increased to a peak concentration and then slowly decreased. GC-MS analysis of DEG-treated plant tissue found MEG, 1,4-dioxan-2-one, neophytadiene, and 2-propenamide, that may be DEG-degradation products and/or compounds that are induced when plants are exposed to DEG. The result indicates that burhead can potentially be used for EG removal."}
{"id": "20929576", "title": "Comparison of thromboelastometry with procalcitonin, interleukin 6, and C-reactive protein as diagnostic tests for severe sepsis in critically ill adults.", "content": "Comparison of thromboelastometry with procalcitonin, interleukin 6, and C-reactive protein as diagnostic tests for severe sepsis in critically ill adults. Established biomarkers for the diagnosis of sepsis are procalcitonin, interleukin 6, and C-reactive protein. Although sepsis evokes changes of coagulation and fibrinolysis, it is unknown whether thromboelastometry can detect these alterations. We investigated whether thromboelastometry variables are suitable as biomarkers for severe sepsis in critically ill adults. In the observational cohort study, blood samples were obtained from patients on the day of diagnosis of severe sepsis (n = 56) and from postoperative patients (n = 52), and clotting time, clot formation time, maximum clot firmness, alpha angle, and lysis index were measured with thromboelastometry. In addition, procalcitonin, interleukin 6, and C-reactive protein levels were determined. For comparison of biomarkers, receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curves were used, and the optimal cut-offs and odds ratios were calculated. In comparison with postoperative controls, patients with sepsis showed an increase in lysis index (97% \u00b1 0.3 versus 92 \u00b1 0.5; P < 0.001; mean and SEM) and procalcitonin (2.5 ng/ml \u00b1 0.5 versus 30.6 \u00b1 8.7; P < 0.001). Clot-formation time, alpha angle, maximum clot firmness, as well as interleukin 6 and C-reactive protein concentrations were not different between groups; clotting time was slightly prolonged. ROC analysis demonstrated an area under the curve (AUC) of 0.901 (CI 0.838-0.964) for the lysis index, and 0.756 (CI 0.666-0.846) for procalcitonin. The calculated cut-off for the lysis index was > 96.5%, resulting in a sensitivity of 84.2%, and a specificity of 94.2%, with an odds ratio of 85.3 (CI 21.7-334.5). The thromboelastometry lysis index proved to be a more reliable biomarker of severe sepsis in critically ill adults than were procalcitonin, interleukin 6, and C-reactive protein. The results also demonstrate that early involvement of the hemostatic system is a common event in severe sepsis."}
{"id": "20922848", "title": "[Hemostatic disorders caused by chronic use of valproic acid in neurosurgical patients. Thromboelastographic monitoring].", "content": "[Hemostatic disorders caused by chronic use of valproic acid in neurosurgical patients. Thromboelastographic monitoring]. The paper gives the results of analyzing the hemostatic system in 26 patients with various neurosurgical diseases on the basis of routine laboratory biochemical tests and thromboelastographic indicators. In all the patients, the pattern of the disease contained an epilepsy syndrome that required mono- or combination therapy with valproic acid. Laboratory indicators of clinical hypocoagulation were found to develop during the use of valproic acid, and its monotherapy in particular. Hemorrhagic complications were also analyzed in not only the immediate, but also late postoperative period (for as long as 6 months after surgery). Two cases of severe late complications, such as formation of chronic subdural hematomas requiring surgical intervention, were diagnosed in the valproate monotherapy group. A tactic using a thromboelastographic technique is proposed to prepare these patients for further neurosurgical intervention."}
{"id": "20922735", "title": "Combining independent drug classes into superior, synergistically acting hybrid molecules.", "content": "Combining independent drug classes into superior, synergistically acting hybrid molecules."}
{"id": "20885299", "title": "Arteriovenous differences of hematological and coagulation parameters in patients with sepsis.", "content": "Arteriovenous differences of hematological and coagulation parameters in patients with sepsis. In critically ill patients, either arterial or venous blood is usually available for sampling and measurement of basic coagulation parameters. The aim of this study was to examine whether in these patients the values of coagulation parameters differ significantly with respect to the source of the blood samples. In a group of 44 patients with severe sepsis, we compared the values of coagulation, thromboelastography and selected hematological parameters between the arterial and venous blood. In most of the investigated parameters (international normalized ratio, activated partial thromboplastin time, fibrinogen concentration, erythrocyte count, leukocyte and platelet count, hemoglobin level and thromboelastography parameters), we did not find significant differences (P > 0.1). However, we found a significantly lower antithrombin activity and a significantly higher D-dimer concentration in venous blood compared to arterial blood (P < 0.05). This could be associated with increased consumption of antithrombin and generation of D-dimer as a consequence of microthrombi formation in the capillaries. We therefore conclude that for the purpose of assessment of coagulation status in septic patients, arterial and venous blood cannot be treated as equivalent."}
{"id": "20884636", "title": "Thromboelastometry (ROTEM) in children: age-related reference ranges and correlations with standard coagulation tests.", "content": "Thromboelastometry (ROTEM) in children: age-related reference ranges and correlations with standard coagulation tests. The small sample volume needed and the prompt availability of results make viscoelastic methods like rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) attractive for monitoring coagulation in small children. However, data on reference ranges for ROTEM parameters in children are scarce. Four hundred and seven children (ASA I and II) undergoing elective surgery were recruited for this prospective, two-centre, observational study. Subjects were grouped as follows: 0-3, 4-12, 13-24 months, 2-5, 6-10, and 11-16 yr. Study objectives were to establish age-dependent reference ranges for ROTEM assays, analyse age dependence of parameters, and compare ROTEM data with standard coagulation tests. Data from 359 subjects remained for final analysis. Except for extrinsically activated clot strength and lysis, parameters for ROTEM assays were significantly different among all age groups. The most striking finding was that subjects aged 0-3 months exhibited accelerated initiation (ExTEM coagulation time: median 48 s, Q1-Q3 38-65 s; P=0.001) and propagation of coagulation (\u03b1 angle: median 78(o), Q1-Q3 69-84(o); P<0.001) and maximum clot firmness (median 62 mm, Q1-Q3 54-74 mm), although standard plasma coagulation test results were prolonged (prothrombin time: median 13.2 s, Q1-Q3 12.6-13.6 s; activated partial thromboplastin time: median 42 s, Q1-Q3 40-46 s). Lysis indices of <85% were observed in nearly one-third of all children without increased bleeding tendency. Platelet count and fibrinogen levels correlated significantly with clot strength, and fibrinogen levels correlated with fibrin polymerization. Reference ranges for ROTEM assays were determined for all paediatric age groups. These values will be helpful when monitoring paediatric patients and in studies of perioperative coagulation in children."}
{"id": "20877262", "title": "The use of thromboelastometry in the assessment of hemostasis during orthotopic liver transplantation reduces the demand for blood products.", "content": "The use of thromboelastometry in the assessment of hemostasis during orthotopic liver transplantation reduces the demand for blood products. Bleeding due to fibrinolysis is a serious intraoperative complication during orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). For a number of years aprotinin was used to minimize risk of this complication. This drug was however banned in 2007 and substituted with other antifibrinolytics. The aim of the study was to assess the potential of intraoperative thromboelastometry to evaluate hemostasis and channelize antifibrinolytic therapy. Since ban on aprotinin, 39 patients underwent OLT in our center with no monitoring of fibrinolysis (NMF). Severe disturbances of hemostasis assessed clinically only as a need for blood and blood products transfusion and were treated with transfusion of fresh frozen plasma only. In 2008 we started to use thromboelastometry (ROTEM group, n=39), which allowed for targeted treatment of hyperfibrinolysis with tranexamic acid. The need for blood transfusion in ROTEM group was insignificantly a lower than in NMF group (4.1\u00b14.76 vs 5.53\u00b14.89 units, p=0.2). Patients from ROTEM group required also less plasma transfusions (10.01\u00b17.47 vs 13.15\u00b16.62, p=0.06). Severe fibrinolysis was found in 3 patients from ROTEM group (7.7%) and was treated with tranexamic acid. Thromboelastometry provides an immediate diagnosis of fibrinolysis, justifies implementation of targeted treatment and confirms effectiveness of the therapy. In a larger study group it can also result in significant minimization of blood products transfusion during OLT."}
{"id": "20860791", "title": "Relating underrepresented genomic DNA patterns and tiRNAs: the rule behind the observation and beyond.", "content": "Relating underrepresented genomic DNA patterns and tiRNAs: the rule behind the observation and beyond. One of the central problems of post-genomic biology is the understanding of regulatory network of genes. Traditionally the problem is approached from the protein-DNA interaction perspective. In recent years various types of noncoding RNAs appeared on the scene as new potent players of the game. The exact role of these molecules in gene expression control is mostly unknown at present, while their importance is generally recognized. The Human and Mouse genomes have been screened with a statistical model for sequence patterns underrepresented in these genomes, and a subset of motifs, named spanions, has been identified. The common portion of the motif lists of the two species is 75% indicating evolutionary conservation of this feature. These motifs are arranged in clusters at close proximity of distinct genetic landmarks: 5' ends of genes, exon side of the exon/intron junctions and 5' ends of 3' UTRs. The length of the clusters is typically in the 20 to 25 bases range. The findings are in agreement with the known C/G bias of promoter regions while access much more sequential information than the simple composition based model.In the Human genome the recently reported transcription initiation RNAs (tiRNAs) are typically transcribed from these spanion clusters according to the presented results. The spanion clusters account for 70% of the published tiRNAs. Apparently, the model access the common statistical feature of this new and mostly uncharacterized non-coding RNA class and, in this way, supports the experimental observations with theoretical background. The presented results seem to support the emerging model of the RNA-driven eukaryotic gene expression control. Beyond that, the model detects spanion clusters at genetic positions where no tiRNA counterpart was considered and reported. The GO-term analysis of genes with high concentration of spanion clusters in their promoter proximal region indicates involvement in gene regulatory processes. The results of the analysis suggest that the gene regulatory potential of the small non-coding RNAs is grossly underestimated at present. This article was reviewed by Frank Eisenhaber, Sandor Pongor and Rotem Sorek (nominated by Doron Lancet)."}
{"id": "20840513", "title": "Maize- or potato-derived hydroxyethyl starches: is there any thromboelastometric difference?", "content": "Maize- or potato-derived hydroxyethyl starches: is there any thromboelastometric difference? Hydroxyethyl starches (HES) could differ with regard to the origin, and the influence on the coagulation of the raw material is unknown. This study compared the effects of a new potato-derived HES with a maize-derived HES and two crystalloid solutions. Whole blood from 10 healthy individuals was diluted by 20% and 40% using either non-balanced potato-derived HES 130/0.42/6:1, non-balanced maize-derived HES 130/0.4/9:1, isotonic saline or Ringer's lactate solution. Samples were analysed by thromboelastometry ROTEM(\u00ae) : Coagulation was initiated by acid ellagic [intrinsic thromboelastometry (INTEM)] or tissue factor (extrinsic thromboelastometry) with and without cytochalasin to determine the functional component of fibrinogen [cytochalasin-d-modified thromboelastometry (FIBTEM)]. Platelet count and fibrinogen activity were measured. No effect of raw material was found as no difference was detected among the HES solutions. Whatever the solution, progressive haemodilution impaired haemostasis in a dose-dependant manner: For INTEM, the clot formation time was increased up to 308% and the maximum clot firmness (MCF) was decreased down to 49%. As dilution increased, initiation of coagulation was also impaired. Thromboelastometric alterations were more severe with HES than with crystalloids, especially regarding fibrin polymerization explorations: MCF of FIBTEM was considerably reduced from 12[10-14] to 2[2-3] mm (P<0.05). Fibrinogen activity and platelet count were reduced by dilution in a dose-dependant manner and decreased similarly in all groups. Maize- and potato-derived HES have similar effects on coagulation. Both the starch preparations tested lead to more severe haemostatic defects than crystalloids, and impairment of fibrin polymerization appears to be a leading determinant of this coagulopathy."}
{"id": "20840338", "title": "The effect of prion reduction in solvent/detergent-treated plasma on haemostatic variables.", "content": "The effect of prion reduction in solvent/detergent-treated plasma on haemostatic variables. Octapharma PPGmbH has recently modified its manufacturing process for solvent/detergent-treated plasma to incorporate a prion reduction step, in which a 3 log reduction has been demonstrated. The current study was undertaken to assess the impact of this procedure on haemostatic variables in the new product OctaplasLG in comparison with standard Octaplas. Production batches of standard Octaplas (n=4) and OctaplasLG (n=16) were assessed for levels of coagulation factors, physiological protease inhibitors, markers of activation and procoagulant microparticles. Global haemostasis was assessed by a thrombin generation test (TGT) and rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM). Mean levels of factors: II, V, VII, IX, X, XI, XII and XIII, VWF:Ag, antithrombin, protein C and free protein S were all >75 u/dl. ADAMTS-13 activity levels were normal. Factor VIII and VWF:RCo were >55 u/dl. TGT and ROTEM were similar in both preparations, and microparticles were present at negligible levels. Two units of OctaplasLG had slightly elevated levels of Prothrombin Fragments 1+2, but D-Dimer and thrombin-antithrombin complexes were normal in all batches. These studies indicate that the affinity chromatography procedure used in OctaplasLG does not appear to adversely affect the proven haemostatic quality of Octaplas, while offering a selective reduction in the concentration of pathological prion proteins."}
{"id": "20838747", "title": "Thrombelastographic studies on factor XIII.", "content": "Thrombelastographic studies on factor XIII."}
{"id": "20832550", "title": "Thromboelastography-guided transfusion decreases intraoperative blood transfusion during orthotopic liver transplantation: randomized clinical trial.", "content": "Thromboelastography-guided transfusion decreases intraoperative blood transfusion during orthotopic liver transplantation: randomized clinical trial. To test in a prospective randomized study the hypothesis that use of thromboelastography (TEG) decreases blood transfusion during major surgery. Twenty-eight patients undergoing orthotopic liver transplantation were recruited over 2 years. Patients were randomized into 2 groups: those monitored during surgery using point-of-care TEG analysis, and those monitored using standard laboratory measures of blood coagulation. Specific trigger points for transfusion were established in each group. In patients monitored via TEG, significantly less fresh-frozen plasma was used (mean [SD], 12.8 [7.0] units vs 21.5 [12.7] units). There was a trend toward less blood loss in the TEG-monitored patients; however, the difference was not significant. There were no differences in total fluid administration and 3-year survival. Thromboelastography-guided transfusion decreases transfusion of fresh- frozen plasma in patients undergoing orthotopic liver transplantation, but does not affect 3-year survival."}
{"id": "20813396", "title": "Acute cigarette smoke exposure reduces clot lysis--association between altered fibrin architecture and the response to t-PA.", "content": "Acute cigarette smoke exposure reduces clot lysis--association between altered fibrin architecture and the response to t-PA. Enhanced thrombolysis is a proposed mechanism for reduced mortality in cigarette smokers with STEMI (\"smoker's paradox\"). The mechanisms remain unclear but studies suggest fibrin architecture (FA) may affect thrombolysis. Our group has previously shown that acute cigarette smoke exposure (CSE) alters FA. This study was done to evaluate the association between FA, thrombolysis and CSE. Otherwise healthy smokers (n=22) were studied before and after smoking two cigarettes. Non-smokers (n=22) served as controls. Two ex-vivo models were used to evaluate clot lysis of venous blood and these data were compared to FA as determined by SEM. In the first model, clot lysis in a glass tube at 60minutes after addition of t-PA was measured. The second model quantified lysis utilizing thromboelastography. With the latter, after a clot reached maximum strength, t-PA was added and clot lysis at 60min was noted. SEM studies were performed on platelet poor plasma mixed with thrombin and FA was examined at 20K. Clot lysis was similar in both groups except that post-smoking, TEG showed a significantly lower lysis compared to pre- and non-smoking clots. SEM analysis showed significantly thinner fibers and denser clots post-smoking. Venous clots from smokers failed to show an enhanced lysis when exposed to t-PA. In fact, acute CSE was associated with changes in FA and increased resistance to thrombolysis. These findings in part may explain enhanced thrombogenicity but suggest that mechanisms other than enhanced fibrinolysis are likely to be responsible for \"smoker's paradox.\""}
{"id": "20807172", "title": "Coagulation status in coronary artery disease patients with type II diabetes mellitus compared with non-diabetic coronary artery disease patients using the PFA-100\u00ae and ROTEM\u00ae.", "content": "Coagulation status in coronary artery disease patients with type II diabetes mellitus compared with non-diabetic coronary artery disease patients using the PFA-100\u00ae and ROTEM\u00ae. Previous investigations in patients with coronary artery disease (CAD) revealed differences in thromboelastographic parameters indicating different states of coagulability. The aim of the present study was to investigate the coagulation status of patients with documented CAD and type II diabetes mellitus (DM) and non-diabetic patients with coronary artery disease with the PFA-100\u00ae and the ROTEM\u00ae. No differences were found in platelet function as measured with collagen/epinephrine (263.6 \u00b1 70.6 s vs. 254.6 \u00b1 65.3 s) and collagen/ADP cartridges (105.3 \u00b1 63.2 s vs. 90.6 \u00b1 47.3 s) in CAD patients with DM and CAD patients without DM. Measured with the EXTEM reagent of the ROTEM\u00ae, mean maximum clot elasticity (MCE) in patients with CAD and DM (233.6 \u00b1 86.9) was significantly longer than in CAD patients without DM (186.7 \u00b1 54.5), (p = 0.03). A similar result was seen using the INTEM reagent; patients with CAD and DM (234.4 \u00b1 83.9) showed a higher value for MCE than CAD patients without DM (190.8 \u00b1 57.8) which was of borderline significance (p = 0.053). Moreover, a weak trend for higher maximum clot firmness (MCF) was seen in CAD patients with DM compared with CAD patients without DM with the EXTEM reagent (68.1 \u00b1 7.5 vs. 63.6 \u00b1 8.6, p = 0.08) and the INTEM reagent (68.4 \u00b1 7.2 vs. 64.1 \u00b1 8.2, p = 0.09). The ROTEM\u00ae analysis indicates increased coagulability in patients with coronary artery disease and diabetes mellitus compared to non-diabetic CAD patients. Moreover, the ROTEM\u00ae device seems to be an appropriate and easy-to-use tool to describe the coagulation status in these patients groups."}
{"id": "20798588", "title": "Effects of electrochemical reduction reactions on the biodegradation of recalcitrant organic compounds (ROCs) and bacterial community diversity.", "content": "Effects of electrochemical reduction reactions on the biodegradation of recalcitrant organic compounds (ROCs) and bacterial community diversity. Five bacterial species, capable of degrading the recalcitrant organic compounds (ROCs) diethyleneglycol monomethylether (DGMME), 1-amino-2-propanol (APOL), 1-methyl-2- pyrrolidinone (NMP), diethyleneglycol monoethylether (DGMEE), tetraethyleneglycol (TEG), and tetrahydrothiophene 1,1-dioxide (sulfolane), were isolated from an enrichment culture. Cupriavidus sp. catabolized 93.5+/-1.7 mg/l of TEG, 99.3+/-1.2 mg/l of DGMME, 96.1+/-1.6mg/l of APOL, and 99.5+/-0.5mg/l of NMP in 3 days. Acineobacter sp. catabolized 100 mg/l of DGMME, 99.9+/-0.1 mg/l of NMP, and 100 mg/l of DGMEE in 3 days. Pseudomonas sp.3 catabolized 95.7+/-1.2 mg/l of APOL and 99.8+/-0.3 mg/l of NMP. Paracoccus sp. catabolized 98.3+/-0.6 mg/l of DGMME and 98.3+/-1.0 mg/l of DGMEE in 3 days. A maximum 43+/-2.0 mg/l of sulfolane was catabolized by Paracoccus sp. in 3 days. When a mixed culture composed of the five bacterial species was applied to real wastewater containing DGMME, APOL, NMP, DGMEE, or TEG, 92~99% of each individual ROC was catabolized within 3 days. However, at least 9 days were required for the complete mineralization of sulfolane. Bacterial community diversity, analyzed on the basis of the TGGE pattern of 16S rDNA extracted from viable cells, was found to be significantly reduced in a conventional bioreactor after 6 days of incubation. However, biodiversity was maintained after 12 days of incubation in an electrochemical bioreactor. In conclusion, the electrochemical reduction reaction enhanced the diversity of the bacterial community and actively catabolized sulfolane."}
{"id": "20739876", "title": "Clot formation in canine whole blood as measured by rotational thromboelastometry is influenced by sample handling and coagulation activator.", "content": "Clot formation in canine whole blood as measured by rotational thromboelastometry is influenced by sample handling and coagulation activator. The objective of the present study was to systematically evaluate the impact of methodology on thromboelastometry with canine whole blood. Thromboelastometry was performed on citrated blood using a variety of combinations of clotting activators [ex-tem (tissue factor or TF), in-tem (ellagic acid), diluted TF from Innovin, or Ca (recalcification only)] and storage times. Thromboelastometry was also performed using diluted TF from Innovin on blood collected into a contact inhibitor. Ex-vivo contact activation was compared between canine and human blood. Clotting activator had a marked impact on coagulation time, a minor impact on alpha angle, and no impact on clot formation time or maximum clot firmness. When ex-tem or in-tem was the clotting activator, sample storage up to 30 min did not affect results. With diluted TF from Innovin or Ca, sample storage was associated with the development of increased coagulability (as indicated by shorter coagulation time and clot formation time and higher alpha angle) due to ex-vivo contact activation. Canine blood underwent markedly more ex-vivo contact activation than did human blood. Canine blood undergoes significant ex-vivo contact activation during and after collection, which influences thromboelastometry results when a weak clotting activator (such as low TF or recalcification) is used. Thromboelastometry with a strong activator (such as ex-tem or in-tem) is less influenced by ex-vivo changes, and, therefore, likely to be more reflective of in-vivo hemostatic capabilities and to provide consistently interpretable and comparable results."}
{"id": "20739843", "title": "Primary fibrinolysis is integral in the pathogenesis of the acute coagulopathy of trauma.", "content": "Primary fibrinolysis is integral in the pathogenesis of the acute coagulopathy of trauma. The existence of primary fibrinolysis (PF) and a defined mechanistic link to the \"Acute Coagulopathy of Trauma\" is controversial. Rapid thrombelastography (r-TEG) offers point of care comprehensive assessment of the coagulation system. We hypothesized that postinjury PF occurs early in severe shock, leading to postinjury coagulopathy, and ultimately hemorrhage-related death. Consecutive patients over 14 months at risk for postinjury coagulopathy were stratified by transfusion requirements into massive (MT) >10 units/6 hours (n = 32), moderate (Mod) 5 to 9 units/6 hours (n = 15), and minimal (Min) <5 units/6 hours (n = 14). r-TEG was performed by adding tissue factor to uncitrated whole blood. r-TEG estimated percent lysis was categorized as PF when >15% estimated percent lysis was detected. Coagulopathy was defined as r-TEG clot strength = G < 5.3 dynes/cm. Logistic regression was used to define independent predictors of PF. A total of 34% of injured patients requiring MT had PF, which was associated with lower emergency department systolic blood pressure, core temperature, and greater metabolic acidosis (analysis of variance, P < 0.0001). The risk of death correlated significantly with PF (P = 0.026). PF occurred early (median, 58 minutes; interquartile range, 1.2-95.9 minutes); every 1 unit drop in G increased the risk of PF by 30%, and death by over 10%. Our results confirm the existence of PF in severely injured patients. It occurs early (<1 hour), and is associated with MT requirements, coagulopathy, and hemorrhage-related death. These data warrant renewed emphasis on the early diagnosis and treatment of fibrinolysis in this cohort."}
{"id": "20735145", "title": "Preparation, size control, surface deposition, and catalytic reactivity of hydrophobic corrolazine nanoparticles in an aqueous environment.", "content": "Preparation, size control, surface deposition, and catalytic reactivity of hydrophobic corrolazine nanoparticles in an aqueous environment. Nanoparticles, each consisting of one of the three molecular corrolazine (Cz) compounds, H(3)(TBP(8)Cz), Mn(III)(TBP(8)Cz), and Fe(III)(TBP(8)Cz) (TBP(8)Cz = octakis(4-tert-butylphenyl)corrolazinato), were prepared via a facile mixed-solvent technique. The corrolazine nanoparticles (MCz-NPs) were formed in H(2)O/THF (10:1) in the presence of a small amount of a polyethylene glycol derivative (TEG-ME) added as a stabilizer. This technique allows highly hydrophobic Czs to be \"dissolved\" in an aqueous environment as nanoparticles, which remain in solution for several months without visible precipitation. The MCz-NPs were characterized by UV-visible spectroscopy, dynamic light scattering (DLS), and transmission electron microscopy (TEM) imaging, and shown to be spherical particles from 100-600 nm in diameter with low polydispersity indices (PDI = 0.003-0.261). Particle size is strongly dependent on Cz concentration. The H(3)Cz-NPs were adsorbed on to a modified self-assembled monolayer (SAM) surface and imaged by atomic force microscopy (AFM). Adsorption resulted in disassembly of the larger H(3)Cz-NPs to smaller H(3)Cz-NPs, whereby the resulting particle size can be controlled by the surface energy of the monolayer. The Fe(III)Cz-NPs were shown to be competent catalysts for the oxidation of cyclohexene with either PFIB or H(2)O(2) as external oxidant. The reactivity and product selectivity seen for Fe(III)Cz-NPs differs dramatically from that seen for the molecular species in organic solvents, suggesting that both the nanoparticle structure and the aqueous conditions may contribute to significant changes in the mechanism of action of the Fe(III)Cz catalyst."}
{"id": "20731638", "title": "The effect of low molecular weight heparin (enoxaparin) on enhanced coagulation induced by crystalloid haemodilution.", "content": "The effect of low molecular weight heparin (enoxaparin) on enhanced coagulation induced by crystalloid haemodilution. The purpose of this study was to establish whether a low molecular weight heparin (enoxaparin) attenuated or abolished the enhanced coagulation induced by crystalloid fluid therapy. Twenty young, healthy male volunteers were injected subcutaneously with either enoxaparin 40 mg or saline on two separate occasions one week apart, in a randomised, blinded study. Twelve hours later, a blood sample was taken for thrombelastography analysis and haematocrit. Saline 14 ml.kg\u207b\u00b9 was then infused over thirty minutes and thrombelastography and haematocrit measurements repeated. There was a significant post-dilutional difference in the alpha angle (p = 0.002) and k-time (p = 0.001) between the two groups. There was a trend towards reduced shortening of r-time in the enoxaparin group compared to the saline control (p = 0.18). The findings suggest that enoxaparin diminished acceleration of clot formation due to haemodilution."}
{"id": "20729723", "title": "Use of fibrin-based thromboelastometry for cryoprecipitate transfusion in cardiac surgery involving deep hypothermic circulatory arrest during cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Use of fibrin-based thromboelastometry for cryoprecipitate transfusion in cardiac surgery involving deep hypothermic circulatory arrest during cardiopulmonary bypass. We aimed to assess the predictive value of fibrin-based thromboelastometry performed before weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) for cryoprecipitate administered to correct the bleeding diathesis after CPB involving deep hypothermic circulatory arrest. Eleven patients undergoing aortic surgery were enrolled. The arterial blood was withdrawn before skin incision, 30 min before CPB weaning (Cweaning), 5 min after protamine reversal (Preversal) and at closure of the sternum to run intrinsically activated INTEM, heparinase-treated HEPTEM, extrinsically activated EXTEM and platelet-inhibited FIBTEM analysis, platelet count, fibrinogen, prothrombin time (international normalized ratio) and activated partial thromboplastin time. The predicted value of FIBTEM A10 obtained during CPB for cryoprecipitate transfusion at Preversal was calculated. The cut-off points for FIBTEM A10 to reflect fibrinogen of 200 mg/dl at Preversal were 5 mm (P = 0.15). FIBTEM A10 at Preversal and Cweaning showed correlations as follows: FIBTEM A10 at Preversal = 0.02 + 1.42 \u00d7 FIBTEM A10 at Cweaning (r\u00b2 = 0.80). The cut-off value for FIBTEM A10 at Cweaning to determine whether to prepare cryoprecipitate in advance during CPB was calculated to be 3 mm, and the positive and negative predictability for FIBTEM A10 of 3 or less versus more than 3 at Cweaning for the necessity of cryoprecipitate transfusion at Preversal (A10 \u2264 5 versus > 5) were 100 and 80%, respectively. This study showed that fibrinogen reflected in FIBTEM during pump can be used to estimate FIBTEM after Preversal and the amount of cryoprecipitate needed for replacing mainly the fibrinogen could be predicted with high sensitivity and specificity."}
{"id": "20719351", "title": "Progressive postinjury thrombocytosis is associated with thromboembolic complications.", "content": "Progressive postinjury thrombocytosis is associated with thromboembolic complications. Our previous investigation demonstrated that despite routine chemoprophylaxis, thrombelastography, which is a comprehensive test measuring the viscoelastic properties of blood, identified a hypercoagulable state in a cohort of critically ill surgical patients that was associated with thromboemobolic events. Furthermore, because thrombelastography allows for the comprehensive assessment of coagulation status, this work suggested that platelet hyperactivity is a component of the hypercoagulable state. We hypothesized that progressive postinjury thrombocytosis contributes to a hypercoagulable state that is associated with thrombelastography. One thousand four hundred and forty severely injured patients surviving >48 h were entered into a database prospectively over 12 years. The variables that were evaluated in associated with thrombocytosis (platelet count >450,000) included age, Injury Severity Score, packed red blood cell transfusions in 12 h, and thromboemobolic complications (TE) (deep venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolus, mesenteric thrombosis, stroke, and arterial thrombosis). The time frame for the development of thrombocytosis was assessed at greater or less than 7 days postinjury. Logistic regression was used to identify the independent variables predictive of thrombocytosis and to adjust the association of thrombocytosis with TE for other risk factors. C-statistic was used to assess the discriminative power of thrombocytosis for prediction of TE. The mean age was 37.4 \u00b1 0.4 years. The Injury Severity Score was 29.3 \u00b1 0.3, and mean red blood cell transfusions in 12 h was 4.4 \u00b1 0.2 units. Injury via blunt force occurred in 76% of patients, and 72% of patients were male. Thrombocytosis was identified in 447 (31%) patients and was noted almost exclusively >7 days postinjury (98%). TE developed in 35 (8%) of the 447 patients with thrombocytosis, compared with 45 (4.5%) of the remaining 993 patients who did not develop thrombocytosis. Persistent thrombocytosis >7 days was associated with TE (P > .0001). Logistic regression analysis indicated that when adjusted for intensive care unit duration of stay, transfusions, age, and Injury Severity Score, patients with sustained thrombocytosis more than 3 days were noted to have a 1.4 \u00d7 increased risk of TE (odds ratio, 1.12; 95% confidence interval, 1.04-1.2; P = .002; C-statistic = 0.82). Persistent thrombocytosis in critically injured patients receiving routine chemoprophylaxis is associated with thrombotic complications. Subsequent investigation is warranted to differentiate enzymatic from platelet hypercoagulability to ascertain the role of antiplatelet therapy for prevention of TE."}
{"id": "20708846", "title": "Acute coagulopathy of trauma: balancing progressive catecholamine induced endothelial activation and damage by fluid phase anticoagulation.", "content": "Acute coagulopathy of trauma: balancing progressive catecholamine induced endothelial activation and damage by fluid phase anticoagulation. Acute coagulopathy of trauma predicts a poor clinical outcome. Tissue trauma activates the sympathoadrenal system resulting in high circulating levels of catecholamines that influence hemostasis dose-dependently through immediate effects on the two major compartments of hemostasis, i.e., the circulating blood and the vascular endothelium. There appears to be a dose-dependency with regards to injury severity and the hemostatic response to trauma evaluated in whole blood by viscoelastic assays like thrombelastography (TEG), changing from normal to hypercoagulable, to hypocoagulable and finally hyperfibrinolytic in severely injured patients. Since high catecholamine levels may directly damage the endothelium and thereby promote systemic coagulation activation, we hypothesize that the progressive hypocoagulability and ultimate hyperfibrinolysis observed in whole blood with increasing injury severity, is an evolutionary developed response that counterbalances the injury and catecholamine induced endothelial activation and damage. Given this, the rise in circulating catecholamines in trauma patients may favor a switch from hyper- to hypocoagulability in the blood to keep the progressively more procoagulant microvasculature open. The hypothesis delineated in the present paper thus infers that the state of the fluid phase, including its cellular elements, is a consequence of the degree of the tissue injury and importantly, critically related to the degree of endothelial damage, with a progressively more procoagulant endothelium inducing a gradient of increasing anticoagulation towards the fluid phase. The implications of this hypothesis may include targeted treatment strategies according to the degree of sympathoadrenal response as evaluated by whole blood viscoelastical hemostatic assays in trauma patients."}
{"id": "20707315", "title": "Enhanced uptake of porous silica microparticles by bifunctional surface modification with a targeting antibody and a biocompatible polymer.", "content": "Enhanced uptake of porous silica microparticles by bifunctional surface modification with a targeting antibody and a biocompatible polymer. Strategies were developed by which mesoporous microparticles were modified on their external surfaces with tetraethylene glycol (TEG), a protein, or both, leaving the pore surfaces available for modification with a separate moiety, such as a dye. Only particles bifunctionally modified with both TEG and a cell-specific antibody were taken up specifically by a targeted cancer cell line. In contrast to similarly functionalized nanoparticles, endocytosed microparticles were not contained within a lysosome."}
{"id": "20705332", "title": "Reference values for thromboelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae) in cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis).", "content": "Reference values for thromboelastometry (ROTEM\u00ae) in cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). The imbalance in clotting homeostasis, tending towards hypercoagulation, is recognized as the real barrier to the long-term survival of porcine xenografts in pig-to-primate xenotransplatation. The present study aimed to validate in primate blood the applicability of whole blood rotation thromboelastometry, performed by ROTEM\u00ae, which evaluates the characteristics of clot formation by dynamic monitoring. ROTEM\u00ae (Pentapharm GmbH, Munich, Germany) was used to investigate native coagulation (NATEM\u00ae), the intrinsic (INTEM\u00ae) and extrinsic (EXTEM\u00ae) pathways, the function of fibrinogen (FIBTEM\u00ae), and the presence of fibrinolysis in 40 na\u00efve cynomolgus monkeys. Using classic validation approaches, the normal thromboelastographic profile was defined and the influence of haematocrit (Hct,%), platelet count (x10(9)/L), fibrinogen (mg/dl), and factor VIII (FVIII,%) was evaluated. In all four (NATEM\u00ae, INTEM\u00ae, EXTEM\u00ae, FIBTEM\u00ae) assays considered, Clotting Time (CT, sec) and Clot Formation Time (CFT, sec) were shorter in primates than humans. Moreover, \u03b1-angle (\u00b0), Maximum Clot Firmness (MCF, mm), and MaxVel (mm/min) were also higher in primates than humans. No substantial difference was observed for Hct and platelet count between the two species. On the contrary, FVIII was higher in primates than in humans whereas, interestingly enough, fibrinogen levels were lower in monkeys than in humans. ROTEM\u00ae depicts a hypercoagulable profile in primates as compared to humans. Taken together these data suggest that, with regard to coagulation, xenotransplantation in cynos may represent a much more difficult situation than xenotransplantation in humans."}
{"id": "20693180", "title": "Expressiveness of global coagulation parameters in dilutional coagulopathy.", "content": "Expressiveness of global coagulation parameters in dilutional coagulopathy. Plasma-free volume replacement in haemorrhage often results in dilutional coagulopathy. Prothrombin time index (PTI) and activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) are used for monitoring haemostasis but have not yet been clinically evaluated. Our aim was to investigate the effects of haemodilution on the course of global coagulation tests and clotting factors (CFs). Blood samples from each of 10 volunteers were diluted with sodium chloride 0.9% (saline) or 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 (HAES) by 30-80%. PTI, aPTT, CF, and the thrombelastometric parameters (ROTEM(\u00ae)) coagulation time (CT) and maximum clot firmness (MCF) were determined. Dilution-dependent CF decreased in an almost linear manner and was not influenced by the diluent. Critically low activities for CF of \u223c30% and a fibrinogen concentration <100 mg dl(-1) were measured at dilutions of between 60% and 75%. Critically low CF activities of about 30% were indicated by a PTI of 35-40%. PTI and MCF decreased continuously, demonstrating a good correlation with CF activities and fibrinogen. aPTT and CT showed a linear course up to a dilution of 65-75% corresponding to CF activities of 30-40%. Thereafter, values became pathological. PTI and aPTT were not influenced by the type of diluent, whereas the diluents had profound differences on results of thromboelastometry. PTI and MCF are useful for monitoring dilution and intervention points. aPTT and CT reflect intervention points when showing pathological values. The type of diluents does not seem to interfere with PTI and aPTT, but HAES impairs haemostasis in ROTEM(\u00ae) more profoundly than saline."}
{"id": "20691842", "title": "Adenosine diphosphate-induced platelet-fibrin clot strength: a new thrombelastographic indicator of long-term poststenting ischemic events.", "content": "Adenosine diphosphate-induced platelet-fibrin clot strength: a new thrombelastographic indicator of long-term poststenting ischemic events. Poststenting ischemic events occur despite dual-antiplatelet therapy, suggesting that a \"one size fits all\" antithrombotic strategy has significant limitations. Ex vivo platelet function measurements may facilitate risk stratification and personalized antiplatelet therapy. We investigated the prognostic utility of the strength of adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-induced (MA(ADP)) and thrombin-induced (MA(THROMBIN)) platelet-fibrin clots measured by thrombelastography and ADP-induced light transmittance aggregation (LTA(ADP)) in 225 serial patients after elective stenting treated with aspirin and clopidogrel. Ischemic and bleeding events were assessed over 3 years. Overall, 59 (26%) first ischemic events occurred. Patients with ischemic events had higher MA(ADP), MA(THROMBIN), and LTA(ADP) (P < .0001 for all comparisons). By receiver operating characteristic curve analysis, MA(ADP) >47 mm had the best predictive value of long-term ischemic events compared with other measurements (P < .0001), with an area under the curve = 0.84 (95% CI 0.78-0.89, P < .0001). The univariate Cox proportional hazards model identified MA(ADP) >47 mm, MA(THROMBIN) >69 mm, and LTA(ADP) >34% as significant independent predictors of first ischemic events at the 3-year time point, with hazard ratios of 10.3 (P < .0001), 3.8 (P < .0001), and 4.8 (P < .0001), respectively. Fifteen bleeding events occurred. Receiver operating characteristic curve and quartile analysis suggests MA(ADP) <or=31 as a predictive value for bleeding. This study is the first demonstration of the prognostic utility of MA(ADP) in predicting long-term event occurrence after stenting. The quantitative assessment of ADP-stimulated platelet-fibrin clot strength measured by thrombelastography can serve as a future tool in investigations of personalized antiplatelet treatment designed to reduce ischemic events and bleeding."}
{"id": "20689697", "title": "Evidence supporting the use of recombinant activated factor VII in congenital bleeding disorders.", "content": "Evidence supporting the use of recombinant activated factor VII in congenital bleeding disorders. Recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa, NovoSeven) was introduced in 1996 for the treatment of hemophilic patients with antibodies against coagulation factor VIII or IX. To review the evidence supporting the use of rFVIIa for the treatment of patients with congenital bleeding disorders. English-language databases were searched in September 2009 for reports of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating the ability of rFVIIa to restore hemostasis in patients with congenital bleeding disorders. Eight RCTs involving 256 hemophilic patients with antibodies against coagulation factors, also known as inhibitors, were identified. The evidence supporting the use of rFVIIa in these patients was weak with regard to dose, clinical setting, mode of administration, efficacy, and adverse events, given the limited sample size of each RCT and the heterogeneity of the studies. The authors suggest that rFVIIa therapy in hemophilic patients with inhibitors should be based on the individual's ability to generate thrombin and form a clot, and not on the patient's weight alone. Therefore, assays for thrombin generation, such as whole-blood thromboelastography, have the potential to significantly improve the treatment of these patients."}
{"id": "20686004", "title": "The anticoagulant effect of protamine sulfate is attenuated in the presence of platelets or elevated factor VIII concentrations.", "content": "The anticoagulant effect of protamine sulfate is attenuated in the presence of platelets or elevated factor VIII concentrations. Protamine sulfate is the antidote for heparin, but in excess it exerts weak anticoagulation. We evaluated the effects of increasing protamine concentrations (0 to 24 microg/mL) on prothrombin time and diluted Russell's viper venom time measurements on thrombin generation in platelet-poor and platelet-rich plasma after activation by tissue factor or actin, and on thromboelastometry in platelet-poor plasma and whole blood from 6 healthy volunteers. The reversibility of excess protamine (24 microg/mL) by recombinant factor VIIa or factor VIII/von Willebrand factor concentrate was also tested. Protamine prolonged prothrombin time and Russell's viper venom time, concentration dependently. Protamine also increased lag time and decreased peak of thrombin generation in platelet-poor plasma after tissue factor and actin activation. In platelet-rich plasma with platelets at 50 to 200 x 10(3)/microL, protamine (24 microg/mL) prolonged the lag time, but had no effect on peak thrombin generation. The addition of factor VIII/von Willebrand factor (1.5-3.0 U/mL) to platelet-poor plasma with protamine (24 microg/mL) decreased lag time and increased peak thrombin generation with actin activation. A therapeutic concentration of recombinant factor VIIa (60 nM) only affected the lag time of thrombin generation triggered with actin. In agreement, protamine increased coagulation time evaluated by thromboelastometry significantly more in platelet-poor plasma than in whole blood. We demonstrated that protamine affects the propagation of thrombin generation, which is partially reversed by platelets or increased factor VIII/von Willebrand factor concentrations. The present data suggest that excess protamine might potentially increase bleeding in the case of severe thrombocytopenia or low factor VIII."}
{"id": "20683324", "title": "The antifibrinolytic effects of carbon monoxide-releasing molecule-2 are fibrin and alpha2-antiplasmin dependent.", "content": "The antifibrinolytic effects of carbon monoxide-releasing molecule-2 are fibrin and alpha2-antiplasmin dependent. Carbon monoxide derived from a carbon monoxide-releasing molecule [tricarbonyldichlororuthenium (II) dimer; CORM-2] has been recently demonstrated to diminish tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA)-mediated fibrinolysis of plasma thrombi via enhancement of alpha2-antiplasmin-plasmin interactions. The goal of this study was to confirm this mechanism by comparing tPA-mediated fibrinolysis with fibrin-independent, alpha2-antiplasmin-resistant streptokinase-mediated fibrinolysis in CORM-2 exposed plasma. Normal plasma was exposed to 0 or 100 micromol/l CORM-2, with coagulation activated with tissue factor and fibrinolysis initiated with 100 U/ml tPA or 50 U/ml streptokinase. Thrombus growth/disintegration kinetics were monitored with thrombelastography until clot lysis time occurred. Unlike tPA-lysed clots, streptokinase-exposed thrombi demonstrated no significant CORM-2-mediated prolongation of clot growth time or clot lysis time. In contrast, streptokinase-mediated lysis did not significantly change the CORM-2-mediated percentage increase in the maximum rate of clot growth or maximum rate of clot lysis compared with tPA-exposed thrombi. CORM-2 likely attenuates fibrinolysis by a fibrin-dependent/alpha2-antiplasmin-dependent mechanism. Additional molecular investigation (e.g., mass spectroscopy) is planned to further elucidate how CORM-2 modifies fibrinogen/fibrin."}
{"id": "20673744", "title": "Modify washing solutions in the process of deglycerolization in ACP 215 and storage at 4\u00b0C in 0.9% sodium chloride in 24h.", "content": "Modify washing solutions in the process of deglycerolization in ACP 215 and storage at 4\u00b0C in 0.9% sodium chloride in 24h. The ACP 215 was a functional closed system for preparing glycerolized and deglycerolized RBCs, CSBT had approved the technique of long term storage glycerolized rare blood lower than -65\u00b0C, and then deglycerolized by this machine. From the manual method to use ACP 215, Chinese blood banks chose 9% sodium chloride and 0.9% sodium chloride in deglycerolization process, while the AABB guideline prescribed that 12% sodium chloride and 0.9% sodium chloride-0.2% glucose were acceptable in washing step of ACP 215. In addition, 0.9% sodium chloride was the only solution which was permitted by CSBT to be added into postwash RBCs, while in America many kinds of additive solutions like AS-3 could be added into postwash RBCs and stored at 4\u00b0C for 14 days. Changes of washing solutions and preservation solution were much different from the original procedure of ACP 215 approved by the FDA. It was necessary to assess the quality of deglyceroled and postwash RBCs by this modified process in ACP 215 in China. Two-unit whole bloods were collected from each volunteer and preserved in CP2D for anticoagulant. It was then centrifuged to separate the plasma, and suspending RBCs were stored at 4\u00b0C in MAP for 6 days. Each unit of RBC was transferred to a 1000-ml PVC plastic bag, an improved procedure including the single-disposable glycerolization set in an automated, functionally closed system (ACP 215, Haemonetics) was used to glycerolize RBC with 40% (wt/vol) glycerol, then frozen at -80\u00b0C. Two modified washing solutions of 9% sodium chloride and 0.9% sodium chloride were used to deglycerolize the same RBCs with single disposable deglycerolization set in ACP 215. The deglycerolized RBCs were stored at 4\u00b0C in 0.9% sodium chloride for 24h. The freeze-thaw recovery value was 95.3\u00b11.8% (mean\u00b1SD); the freeze-thaw-wash recovery value was 82.3\u00b15.94% (mean\u00b1SD); the residure glycerol was 6.1\u00b11.66 mg/dl (mean\u00b1SD), storage at 4\u00b0C in 0.9% sodium chloride within 24h after deglycerolization the supernatant Hb was 43\u00b112 mg/dl (mean\u00b1SD); the hemolysis rate was 0.2\u00b10.1% (mean\u00b1SD); the supernatant potassium level was 4.03\u00b10.81 mM (mean\u00b1SD); and the postwash units were negative for both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. The postwash of deglycerolized RBC had an acceptable FTW recovery value, and stored in 0.9% sodium chloride for 24h at 4\u00b0C, had an acceptable hemolysis. Modified washing solutions of 9% sodium chloride and 0.9% sodium chloride and without any of preservation had not affected the quality of frozen RBCs prepared in ACP 215 and postwash stored at 4\u00b0C in 0.9% sodium chloride within 24h."}
{"id": "20670312", "title": "Thrombelastometry-guided thrombolytic therapy in massive pulmonary artery embolism.", "content": "Thrombelastometry-guided thrombolytic therapy in massive pulmonary artery embolism. We report a case of a patient who suffered a massive pulmonary embolism with cardiac arrest on post-operative day 4 after a Whipple operation. Despite thrombolytic therapy with the recommended maximal bolus of 50 mg recombinant tissue type plasminogen activator (rt-PA), thrombelastometry showed no signs of fibrinolysis and cardiogenic shock persisted, after only a transient hemodynamic improvement. Not until a repeat bolus of 25 mg rt-PA and an infusion of 50 mg/h did thrombelastometry demonstrate complete fibrinolysis. Although only residual emboli were seen on computed tomography, the patient died secondary to refractory right heart failure. This demonstrates that the standard dosing of thrombolytics may fail in a subgroup of patients, and suggests that thrombelastometry may be useful for early dose adjustment when standard dosing regimens fail."}
{"id": "20667439", "title": "Postoperative autotransfusion of mediastinal shed blood does not influence haemostasis after elective coronary artery bypass grafting.", "content": "Postoperative autotransfusion of mediastinal shed blood does not influence haemostasis after elective coronary artery bypass grafting. The rationale of using autotransfusion of mediastinal shed blood after cardiac surgery is to preserve haemoglobin levels and reduce the need for allogenic blood transfusions. However, the method is controversial and its clinical value has been questioned. We hypothesised that re-transfusion of mediastinal shed blood instead impairs haemostasis after routine coronary artery bypass grafting and thus increases postoperative bleeding. Seventy-seven consecutive elective coronary artery bypass surgery patients (mean age 67\u00b19 years, 77% men) were included in a prospective, randomised controlled study. The patients were randomised to postoperative re-transfusion of mediastinal shed blood (n=39) or to a group where mediastinal shed blood was discarded (n=38). Primary end point was bleeding during the first 12 postoperative hours. Secondary end points were postoperative transfusion requirements, haemoglobin levels, thrombo-elastometric variables and plasma concentrations of interleukin-6, thrombin-anti-thrombin complex and D-dimer. Mean re-transfused volume in the autotransfusion group was 282\u00b1210 ml. There was no difference in postoperative bleeding (median 394 ml (interquartile range 270-480) vs 385 (255-430) ml, p=0.69), proportion of patients receiving transfusions of blood products (11/39 vs 11/38, p=0.95), haemoglobin levels 24h after surgery (116\u00b113 vs 116\u00b114 g l(-1), p=0.87), thrombo-elastometric variables, interleukin-6 (219\u00b1144 vs 201\u00b1144 pg ml(-1), p=0.59), thrombin-anti-thrombin complex (11.0\u00b19.1 vs 14.8\u00b115, p=0.19) or D-dimer (0.56\u00b10.49 vs 0.54\u00b10.44, p=0.79) between the autotransfusion group and the no-autotransfusion group. Autotransfusion of small-to-moderate amounts of mediastinal shed blood does not influence haemostasis after elective coronary artery bypass grafting."}
{"id": "20666954", "title": "Levonorgestrel-intrauterine system effects on hemostasis and menstrual blood loss in women seeking contraception.", "content": "Levonorgestrel-intrauterine system effects on hemostasis and menstrual blood loss in women seeking contraception. The purpose of the study is to determine the effects of levonorgestrel use on hemostasis, and menstrual blood loss over 24 months in a cohort of women seeking contraception. Data from 30 women (median age 36 years) were analyzed. Samplings at pre-insertion, 1 and 3 months for blood and additional endometrial aspirates at 2 and 6 months were performed. Systemic determination for hemoglobin, hematocrit, computerized thromboelastography, tissue-type plasminogen activator, urokinase-like plasminogen activator and receptor, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1/2, D-dimer and von Willebrand Factor was performed. In endometrial extracts, tissue-type plasminogen activator, urokinase-like plasminogen activator and receptor and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1/2 were assayed. The Menstrual Blood Loss Pictorial Chart Score for measurement of menstrual blood loss was carried out for 24 months. There were no significant changes in systemic hemostasis within 3 months of device use. In the endometrium, there was a significant increase in tissue-type plasminogen activator antigen, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1/2 and urokinase-like plasminogen activator receptor levels from pre-insertion state, with the highest level seen by 6 months. Amenorrhea was seen in 20% of women by 6 months and 50% by 24 months. Enhanced expression of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1/2 in the presence of increased urokinase-like plasminogen activator receptor and tissue-type plasminogen activator antigen was seen in the endometrium. The effects on hemostasis appear to be localized in the endometrium. Systemic hemostasis was not duly affected and menstrual blood loss was reduced. No women in the study had a pregnancy or expulsion of the levonorgestrel-intrauterine system device in the 24 months of the study period."}
{"id": "20664906", "title": "Differential sensitivity and kinetics of response of different ex vivo tests monitoring functional variability of platelet response to clopidogrel.", "content": "Differential sensitivity and kinetics of response of different ex vivo tests monitoring functional variability of platelet response to clopidogrel. We previously showed that variability of response to clopidogrel is linked to occupancy of the P2Y12 receptor by clopidogrel active-metabolite, and that maximal platelet aggregation intensity (MAI) measured by light transmission aggregometry (LTA) correlates with occupancy. The present study compared a range of ex vivo platelet tests at various levels of P2Y12 occupancy. After screening with clopidogrel 75 mg/day for seven days, subjects were selected to obtain 'low', 'average' and 'high' responders and randomised to clopidogrel (75 mg/day days 1-10; 300 mg day 11), or placebo. Assays were LTA in platelet-rich plasma using 2, 5 and 20 mM ADP, VerifyNow P2Y12, flow cytometric analysis of platelet activation markers and vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP) index, and a thromboelastographic test that is sensitive to clopidogrel. The reference test was P2Y12 receptor occupancy, measured by binding of 33P-2MeS-ADP to platelets. MAI showed the best correlation with P2Y12 occupancy. Similar results were seen with different ADP concentrations and when LTA data were expressed as inhibition of platelet aggregation. A plot of free receptors/cell versus VASP index was biphasic, with poor correlation for low-level P2Y12 occupancy. Sensitivity of the VerifyNow P2Y12 assay decreased at higher clopidogrel responses. Thromboelastography and P-selectin expression had poor correlation with receptor occupancy. In conclusion, LTA data correlate best with P2Y12 occupancy, the gold standard for detecting clopidogrel's effect at the receptor level. Our results highlight a limitation of the VASP index, which appears unable to distinguish low, average and high responders early after clopidogrel initiation when P2Y12 occupancy is still low."}
{"id": "20661198", "title": "Comparing the effects of 5% albumin and 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 on coagulation and inflammatory response when used as priming solutions for cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Comparing the effects of 5% albumin and 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 on coagulation and inflammatory response when used as priming solutions for cardiopulmonary bypass. This prospective, randomized and controlled trial compares the use of human albumin (HA) and hydroxyethyl starch (HES) 130/0.4 in the priming solution for a non-biocompatible cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) circuit. The effects of each substance on coagulation, postoperative blood loss and pro-inflammatory activities were examined. Thirty-six adult patients undergoing mitral valvular heart surgery were randomly assigned to either the HA or HES group; 500 mL of 5% HA or 6% HES 130/0.4 were added to the priming solution of the CPB circuit for each group, respectively. Coagulation variables were measured perioperatively; these variables included thromboelastographic (TEG) parameters and pro-inflammatory markers such as interleukin (IL)-6, IL-8 and tumor necrotic factor (TNF)-a. Postoperative blood loss and transfusion requirements were also assessed. There were no significant intergroup differences in the coagulation variables (including TEG parameters), serum concentrations of IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-a, and blood loss or transfusion requirements. TEG parameters, which indicate the speed of solid clot formation and the strength of the fibrin clot, decreased up to 4 hours after CPB in both groups. Serum concentrations of IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-a were higher up to 12 hours after surgery compared to baseline values in both groups. Hemoglobin levels and platelet counts were lower up to 12 hours after surgery compared to baseline values in both groups. HES 130/0.4 was comparable to albumin as a component of the priming solution for a non-biocompatible CPB circuit. The two substances showed similar effects on coagulation variables, blood loss and pro-inflammatory activities in adult patients undergoing mitral valvular heart surgery."}
{"id": "20659913", "title": "Effects on coagulation of balanced (130/0.42) and non-balanced (130/0.4) hydroxyethyl starch or gelatin compared with balanced Ringer's solution: an in vitro study using two different viscoelastic coagulation tests ROTEMTM and SONOCLOTTM.", "content": "Effects on coagulation of balanced (130/0.42) and non-balanced (130/0.4) hydroxyethyl starch or gelatin compared with balanced Ringer's solution: an in vitro study using two different viscoelastic coagulation tests ROTEMTM and SONOCLOTTM. Hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solutions compromise blood coagulation. Low molecular weight, low-substituted HES products, and electrolyte-balanced solutions might reduce this effect. We compared the effects of in vitro haemodilution on blood coagulation with a balanced 6% HES 130/0.42 solution (HES(BAL)), a saline-based 6% HES 130/0.4 solution (HES(SAL)), a balanced lactated Ringer's solution (RL) and a saline-based 4% gelatin solution (GEL). Blood was obtained from 10 healthy male volunteers and diluted with the test solutions by 33% and 66%. Quality of clot formation was measured using two viscoelastic coagulation tests: SONOCLOT and activated rotation thromboelastometry ROTEM. Of 16 parameters measured by the viscoelastic devices, we found three statistically significant differences compared with baseline for RL, but 11 for GEL, 10 for HES(SAL), and 11 for HES(BAL) in the 33% haemodilution group (P=0.01). Comparing the different solutions, we observed a significant difference between crystalloids and colloids but none between GEL and HES. In the 66% dilution group, effects on blood coagulation were increased when compared with the 33% dilution group. We found no differences in coagulation impairment between balanced and non-balanced HES products and no differences in the detection of impaired blood coagulation due to haemodilution between the two viscoelastic coagulation tests. Both ROTEM and SONOCLOT are sensitive tests for the detection of impaired blood coagulation due to haemodilution. There are fewer effects on blood coagulation using crystalloids compared with colloids. The effects of GEL and HES are similar. There is no difference between balanced HES 130/0.42 and non-balanced HES 130/0.4."}
{"id": "20657517", "title": "Thoracic epidural analgesia in anaesthesia for liver transplantation: the 10-year experience of a single centre.", "content": "Thoracic epidural analgesia in anaesthesia for liver transplantation: the 10-year experience of a single centre. Improvements in operating techniques, methods of anaesthesia and postoperative care in liver transplantation (LT) contribute to better outcomes. In order to restrict postoperative mechanical ventilation, a thoracic epidural analgesia (TEA) has been performed in our centre since 2000. In this report we present our 10-year experience of using TEA as a component of LT anaesthesia. TEA was performed, by anaesthetists experienced in this method, on patients qualified for LT, who consented and met inclusion criteria: INR<1.5, APTT<45s and platelets >70 G/L. Since 2008 the decision to insert an epidural catheter has been additionally supported by thromboelastometry. We assessed extubation time, frequency of complications of TEA and undesired accidents. From 279 patients undergoing LT, TEA was performed on 67 (24%), and from these 56 (84%) were extubated in the operating theatre. There were 5 cases of unsatisfactory thoracic epidural analgesia. Only 1 epidural catheter was removed accidentally, on the 2nd postoperative day. None of the complications of TEA were observed in the TEA group. Based on our observations, it can be assumed that TEA done by experienced an anaesthetist is a safe component of anaesthesia in selected groups of patients undergoing LT, and allows for early extubation."}
{"id": "20649930", "title": "Heparinase-modified thromboelastography can result in a fibrinolytic pattern.", "content": "Heparinase-modified thromboelastography can result in a fibrinolytic pattern."}
{"id": "20642175", "title": "Thromboelastography during adult donor care.", "content": "Thromboelastography during adult donor care. Thromboelastography is a test of blood coagulation used to evaluate all components of clot formation and possible abnormal clot dissolution. It supplements traditional laboratory testing by demonstrating the integration of coagulation factors, platelets (number and function), and other factors during coagulation. Analysis of abnormalities demonstrated by thromboelastography can guide organ procurement coordinators in titrating appropriate quantities of fresh frozen plasma, cryoprecipitate, or platelet transfusions during treatment of coagulation in adult donors."}
{"id": "20641167", "title": "The induction of thrombus generation on nanostructured neutral polymer brush surfaces.", "content": "The induction of thrombus generation on nanostructured neutral polymer brush surfaces. Surface induced thrombus generation is a major clinical concern associated with vascular medical devices and implants. Here, we show that high graft density hydrophilic non-charged poly (N,N-dimethylacrylamide) (PDMA) brushes prevent the initiation of blood coagulation on synthetic surfaces. Using a multi-faceted analysis approach, we have identified that PDMA brushes greater than 0.27 chains/nm2 graft density showed this highly desired property. Non-specific protein adsorption is greatly reduced on high density brushes compared to bare surface as evident from isothermal titration calorimetry, gel electrophoresis, and proteomic analyses. We have identified approximately 129 proteins of various types on bare and PDMA brush coated surfaces at a range of surface concentrations. Thromboelastography, platelet activation, and aggregation analyses show that only high graft density brushes are neutral to blood coagulation. Since the polymer brush synthesis can be adapted to most currently used biomedical materials, these results have significant impact in the design of highly hemocompatible surfaces."}
{"id": "20637496", "title": "Purified thromboplastin causes haemostatic abnormalities but not overt DIC in an experimental rabbit model.", "content": "Purified thromboplastin causes haemostatic abnormalities but not overt DIC in an experimental rabbit model. Validation of animal models of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) to human DIC is crucial in order to translate findings in research models to treatment modalities for DIC in humans. ISTH classifications of overt and non-overt human DIC have proven to have a high diagnostic accuracy, and we have previously established a rabbit model of non-overt DIC based on the ISTH classification of non-overt DIC. In this rabbit model, we used purified rabbit brain thromboplastin to induce DIC and test applicability of ISTH classifications of overt human DIC. Cardiovascular and haematological parameters from rabbits, either saline-injected or administered a 2.5 mg thromboplastin/kg bolus and a 15 minutes 1.25 mg thromboplastin/kg infusion, were determined at four time points over a 90 minute period. All groups of rabbits were scored at each time point according to the ISTH classifications of overt DIC. Despite the fact that injection of purified thromboplastin resulted in decreased platelet count, increased prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, level of thrombin-antithrombin complexes and fibrin degradation products, and pulmonary micro-thrombosis, none of the rabbits were diagnosed as having overt DIC according to ISTH classification. We conclude that purified thromboplastin causes haemostatic abnormalities in the rabbit but this experimental model was not diagnosed as overt DIC."}
{"id": "20634491", "title": "Heparanase enhances the generation of activated factor X in the presence of tissue factor and activated factor VII.", "content": "Heparanase enhances the generation of activated factor X in the presence of tissue factor and activated factor VII. Heparanase is an endo-\u03b2-D-glucuronidase dominantly involved in tumor metastasis and angiogenesis. Recently, we demonstrated that heparanase is involved in the regulation of the hemostatic system. Our hypothesis was that heparanase is directly involved in activation of the coagulation cascade. Activated factor X and thrombin were studied using chromogenic assays, immunoblotting and thromboelastography. Heparanase levels were measured by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. A potential direct interaction between tissue factor and heparanase was studied by co-immunoprecipitation and far-western assays. Interestingly, addition of heparanase to tissue factor and activated factor VII resulted in a 3- to 4-fold increase in activation of the coagulation cascade as shown by increased activated factor X and thrombin production. Culture medium of human embryonic kidney 293 cells over-expressing heparanase and its derivatives increased activated factor X levels in a non-enzymatic manner. When heparanase was added to pooled normal plasma, a 7- to 8-fold increase in activated factor X level was observed. Subsequently, we searched for clinical data supporting this newly identified role of heparanase. Plasma samples from 35 patients with acute leukemia at presentation and 20 healthy donors were studied for heparanase and activated factor X levels. A strong positive correlation was found between plasma heparanase and activated factor X levels (r=0.735, P=0.001). Unfractionated heparin and an inhibitor of activated factor X abolished the effect of heparanase, while tissue factor pathway inhibitor and tissue factor pathway inhibitor-2 only attenuated the procoagulant effect. Using co-immunoprecipitation and far-western analyses it was shown that heparanase interacts directly with tissue factor. Overall, our results support the notion that heparanase is a potential modulator of blood hemostasis, and suggest a novel mechanism by which heparanase increases the generation of activated factor X in the presence of tissue factor and activated factor VII."}
{"id": "20626354", "title": "Management of major blood loss: an update.", "content": "Management of major blood loss: an update. Haemorrhage remains a major cause of potentially preventable deaths. Trauma and massive transfusion are associated with coagulopathy secondary to tissue injury, hypoperfusion, dilution and consumption of clotting factors and platelets. Concepts of damage control surgery have evolved, prioritizing the early control of the cause of bleeding by non-definitive means, while haemostatic control resuscitation seeks early control of coagulopathy. Haemostatic resuscitation provides transfusions with plasma and platelets in addition to red blood cells (RBCs) in an immediate and sustained manner as part of the transfusion protocol for massively bleeding patients. Transfusion of RBCs, plasma and platelets in a similar proportion as in whole blood prevents both hypovolaemia and coagulopathy. Although an early and effective reversal of coagulopathy is documented, the most effective means of preventing coagulopathy of massive transfusion remains debated and randomized controlled studies are lacking. Results from recent before-and-after studies in massively bleeding patients indicate that trauma exsanguination protocols involving the early administration of plasma and platelets are associated with improved survival. Furthermore, viscoelastic whole blood assays, such as thrombelastography (TEG)/rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM), appear advantageous for identifying coagulopathy in patients with severe haemorrhage, as opposed to conventional coagulation assays. In our view, patients with uncontrolled bleeding, regardless of its cause, should be treated with goal-directed haemostatic control resuscitation involving the early administration of plasma and platelets and based on the results of the TEG/ROTEM analysis. The aim of the goal-directed therapy should be to maintain a normal haemostatic competence until surgical haemostasis is achieved, as this appears to be associated with reduced mortality."}
{"id": "20625277", "title": "Plasmin-induced procoagulant effects in the blood coagulation: a crucial role of coagulation factors V and VIII.", "content": "Plasmin-induced procoagulant effects in the blood coagulation: a crucial role of coagulation factors V and VIII. Plasminogen activators provide effective treatment for patients with acute myocardial infarction. However, paradoxical elevation of thrombin activity associated with failure of clot lysis and recurrent thrombosis has been reported. Generation of thrombin in these circumstances appears to be owing to plasmin (Plm)-induced activation of factor (F) XII. Plm catalyzes proteolysis of several coagulant factors, but the roles of these factors on Plm-mediated procoagulant activity remain to be determined. Recently developed global coagulation assays were used in this investigation. Rotational thromboelastometry using whole blood, clot waveform analysis and thrombin generation tests using plasma, showed that Plm (> or =125 nmol/l) shortened the clotting times in similar dose-dependent manners. In particular, the thrombin generation test, which was unaffected by products of fibrinolysis, revealed the enhanced coagulation with an approximately two-fold increase of peak level of thrombin generation. Studies using alpha2-antiplasmin-deficient plasma revealed that much lower dose of Plm (> or =16 nmol/l) actually contributed to enhancing thrombin generation. The shortening of clotting time could be observed even in the presence of corn trypsin inhibitor, supporting that Plm exerted the procoagulant activity independently of FXII. In addition, using specific coagulation-deficient plasmas, the clot waveform analysis showed that Plm did not shorten the clotting time in only FV-deficient or FVIII-deficient plasma in prothrombin time-based or activated partial thromboplastin time-based assay, respectively. Our results indicated that Plm did possess procoagulant activity in the blood coagulation, and this effect was likely attributed by multicoagulation factors, dependent on FV and/or FVIII."}
{"id": "20624109", "title": "High-dose fibrinogen concentrate for haemostatic therapy of a major trauma patient with recent clopidogrel and aspirin intake.", "content": "High-dose fibrinogen concentrate for haemostatic therapy of a major trauma patient with recent clopidogrel and aspirin intake. We report on a severely injured trauma patient who suffered a high velocity motorcycle accident. The patient was receiving dual antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel. Thromboelastometry (ROTEM(\u00ae)) on admission revealed low maximum clot firmness (MCF) in the FIBTEM assay, strongly indicating impaired fibrin polymerization. Inhibition of platelet activity also was confirmed. Massive intra-abdominal bleeding caused by a liver rupture required immediate laparotomy. Haemostasis during emergency surgery was achieved through topical surgical measures and intravenous fibrinogen concentrate administration (three doses of 4 g), guided by ROTEM test results only. As platelet count decreased to 28 \u00d7 10(9) L(-1), 6 h after admission to the intensive care unit, the patient received two units of platelet concentrate. No further haemostatic therapy was necessary during the next 48 h. This case shows the potential effectiveness of fibrinogen concentrate in improving haemostasis in trauma patients receiving antiplatelet therapy."}
{"id": "20622618", "title": "Feasibility of using rotational thromboelastometry to assess coagulation status of combat casualties in a deployed setting.", "content": "Feasibility of using rotational thromboelastometry to assess coagulation status of combat casualties in a deployed setting. Coagulopathy in trauma patients is currently defined by the results of standard laboratory tests (prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time). These results offer little in the hemostatic resuscitation that occurs in the treatment of battlefield patients who receive massive transfusions. Thromboelastometry (TEM) is a technique that can offer rapid, near-patient testing of coagulation status. A prospective observational field study was performed in a deployed military setting to determine the feasibility of using TEM to assess the coagulation status of patients admitted to the emergency department and who subsequently received a massive transfusion. TEM was performed on 31 patients, 25 were direct admissions to the emergency department, 19 of whom were enrolled into the massive transfusion protocol, and 60% were involved in a blast incident. Standard laboratory testing showed that 10% of all patients were coagulopathic on admission compared with 64% with an abnormal TEM trace (p = 0.0005). All patients had abnormal maximum clot firmness. The TEM amplitude at 10 minutes is associated with the subsequent development of abnormal maximum clot firmness. Two exemplar cases are discussed, which illustrate the potential benefit of using TEM to monitor and guide and individualize therapy during a massive transfusion. It is feasible to use TEM in a deployed military setting. We have shown that rotational thromboelastometry significantly detects more abnormalities in the coagulation status than the standard laboratory tests (prothrombin time, and activated partial thromboplastin time)."}
{"id": "20618862", "title": "Intravenous inoculation of Staphylococcus aureus in pigs induces severe sepsis as indicated by increased hypercoagulability and hepatic dysfunction.", "content": "Intravenous inoculation of Staphylococcus aureus in pigs induces severe sepsis as indicated by increased hypercoagulability and hepatic dysfunction. Nine pigs were inoculated intravenously once or twice with 10(8) Staphylococcus aureus per kilogram body weight and sacrificed 12, 24 and 48 h after inoculation. Three sham-infected pigs served as controls. Blood samples were taken for bacteriology, haematology and clinical chemistry. A necropsy was carried out and tissue samples were collected for bacteriology and histology. The onset of clinical disease was seen at 7-8 h after inoculation. The blood bacterial counts remained low throughout the study. All infected pigs developed sepsis characterized by fever, neutrophilia, increased levels of C-reactive protein (CRP) and IL-6, and decreased levels of serum iron. The CRP and IL-6 levels peaked at 36 h, whereas IL-1beta and tumour necrosis factor-alpha showed no obvious changes. Thromboelastography showed increasing hypercoagulability from 12 h and onwards, whereas the platelet numbers declined slightly throughout the experiment. The levels of serum aspartate aminotransferase and bilirubin were elevated at 24 and 36 h. In conclusion, sepsis and severe sepsis were induced as evidenced by dysfunction of the blood clotting system and the liver."}
{"id": "20618331", "title": "Point-of-care testing in haemostasis.", "content": "Point-of-care testing in haemostasis. Point-of-care testing (POCT) in haematology has seen a significant increase in both the spectrum of tests available and the number of tests performed annually. POCT is frequently undertaken with the belief that this will reduce the turnaround time for results and so improve patient care. The most obvious example of POCT in haemostasis is the out-of-hospital monitoring of the International Normalized Ratio in patients receiving a vitamin K antagonist, such as warfarin. Other areas include the use of the Activated Clotting Time to monitor anticoagulation for patients on cardio-pulmonary bypass, platelet function testing to identify patients with apparent aspirin or clopidogrel resistance and thrombelastography to guide blood product replacement during cardiac and hepatic surgery. In contrast to laboratory testing, POCT is frequently undertaken by untrained or semi-trained individuals and in many cases is not subject to the same strict quality control programmes that exist in the central laboratory. Although external quality assessment programmes do exist for some POCT assays these are still relatively few. The use of POCT in haematology, particularly in the field of haemostasis, is likely to expand and it is important that systems are in place to ensure that the generated results are accurate and precise."}
{"id": "20618163", "title": "Impact of platelet adhesion on thromboelastometry in dilutional consumption coagulopathy with either HES or gelatin.", "content": "Impact of platelet adhesion on thromboelastometry in dilutional consumption coagulopathy with either HES or gelatin."}
{"id": "20617413", "title": "In vitro methods of evaluating antithrombotics and thrombolytics.", "content": "In vitro methods of evaluating antithrombotics and thrombolytics. Platelets play a crucial role in primary hemostasis by forming hemostatic plugs at sites of vascular injury. There is abundant evidence that platelets also play a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of arterial thrombotic disorders, including unstable angina (UA), myocardial infarction (MI), and stroke. The underlying pathophysiological mechanism of these processes has been recognized as the disruption or erosion of a vulnerable atherosclerotic plaque, leading to local platelet adhesion and subsequent formation of partially or completely occlusive platelet thrombi. A variety of methods have been used to assess platelet aggregation, blood coagulation, and the ex vivo and/or in vitro efficacy of platelet antagonists, anticoagulants, and thrombolytics."}
{"id": "20614571", "title": "The effects of preloading infusion with hydroxyethyl starch 200/0.5 or 130/0.4 solution on hypercoagulability and excessive platelet activation of patients with colon cancer.", "content": "The effects of preloading infusion with hydroxyethyl starch 200/0.5 or 130/0.4 solution on hypercoagulability and excessive platelet activation of patients with colon cancer. Hypercoagulability and excessive platelet activation account for a significant percentage of mortality and morbidity in cancer patients. In order to test the hypothesis that preloading infusion (PLI) with 6% hydroxyethyl starch 200/0.5 (HES 200), or 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 (HES 130) solution can attenuate the hypercoagulable state and inhibit excessive platelet activation of patients with colon cancer, we selected 35 colon cancer patients undergoing laparoscopic-assisted radical colectomy. They were received randomly a test of 15 ml/kg of either HES 200 (n=17), or HES 130 (n=18) over a 30-min period preoperatively. In addition, fifteen healthy volunteers were selected as normal control group. Coagulation function was assessed by thrombelastography (TEG), platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa and CD62P was analyzed by flow cytometry before PLI, the end of PLI, 1 h after PLI, and 1 h after the end of surgery. Results demonstrated that hypercoagulable state indicated by TEG and excessive platelet activation was found in patients with colon cancer. We found that preloading infusion with HES 200/0.5 can inhibit platelet activation, and the two solutions, especially HES 200/0.5, compromised TEG parameters that indicated hypercoagulability of patients with colon cancer during perioperative period."}
{"id": "20610554", "title": "The incremental value of thrombelastography for prediction of excessive blood loss after cardiac surgery: an observational study.", "content": "The incremental value of thrombelastography for prediction of excessive blood loss after cardiac surgery: an observational study. Accurate risk stratification may help reduce the burden of excessive blood loss after cardiac surgery. We measured the incremental value of thrombelastography to an existing risk prediction model for excessive blood loss in cardiac surgery. This observational study included 434 patients who underwent cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and had thrombelastographic measures before and during CPB, their risk of excessive blood loss could be calculated with an existing risk prediction model and they had not received clopidogrel or warfarin within 5 days of surgery. Excessive blood loss was defined as transfusion of > or = 5 U of red blood cells from termination of CPB to 1 day after surgery. Logistic regression models including an existing risk prediction model without and with thrombelastographic measures were constructed. Improvement in risk prediction was measured by the area under the curve and net reclassification improvement. Excessive blood loss occurred in 59 of 434 patients (13.6%). The only thrombelastographic measure that improved risk stratification was maximum amplitude during CPB, which reflects maximum clot strength. Although the addition of this variable to the existing prediction model did not have a material effect on the area under the curve (increased from 0.780 to 0.784; P = 0.8), it did improve the net reclassification improvement by 12% (P = 0.05), primarily by improving the detection of high-risk cases. Risk stratification for excessive blood loss after cardiac surgery is improved when on-CPB thrombelastography is added to an existing risk prediction model that incorporates readily available patient- and surgery-related variables, but large, multicenter trials are needed to verify this finding and create a new risk prediction model."}
{"id": "20605586", "title": "Differentiation of enzymatic from platelet hypercoagulability using the novel thrombelastography parameter delta (delta).", "content": "Differentiation of enzymatic from platelet hypercoagulability using the novel thrombelastography parameter delta (delta). Thrombelastography (TEG) allows for rapid global assessment of coagulation function. Our previous work demonstrated that a hypercoagulable state identified by TEG's G value was associated with thromboembolic events in a cohort of critically ill surgical patients despite routine chemoprophylaxis. We hypothesized that a hypercoagulable state could be differentiated into enzymatic or platelet etiology through the use of thrombus velocity curves; specifically the time to maximum rate of thrombus generation (TMRTG) and the novel TEG parameter, delta. (Delta) We retrospectively studied 10 critically ill surgical patients receiving thromboprophylaxis for at least 72 h by TEG, using kaolin activated citrated samples. Thrombus velocity curves were plotted for each patient, and delta was calculated as the difference between the TEG parameters R and SP, corresponding to the time to maximum rate of thrombus generation (TMRTG), which reflects the enzymatic contribution to clot formation. The TEG parameter G, (G = 5000 x A/100-A) also was determined for each patient. As G is derived from amplitude (A), it reflects overall net clot strength. A hypercoagulable state was defined as delta < 0.6 min and/or G > 11 dynes/cm(2). A hypercoagulable state was identified via delta in 6 patients (60%); all of whom remained hypercoagulable following heparinase addition, suggesting chemoprophylaxis was ineffective. Of six patients with a hypercoagulable G value, 50% had a normal delta suggesting the presence of platelet hypercoagulability. Delta closely correlated with TMRTG (r = 0.94). However, the varying contribution of platelets to hypercoagulability, was shown by a nonlinear, weak correlation of delta and TMRTG with G (r = 0.11 and r = 0.14, respectively). Delta reflects changes in thrombin generation as measured by TMRTG, allowing for differentiation of enzymatic from platelet hypercoagulability. Future studies will be required to validate these findings."}
{"id": "20596697", "title": "Aptamer sandwich assays: human \u03b1-thrombin detection using liposome enhancement.", "content": "Aptamer sandwich assays: human \u03b1-thrombin detection using liposome enhancement. Fluorescent dye-encapsulating liposomes tagged with aptamers were developed and used as reporting signals in an aptamer-based sandwich assay. \u03b1-Thrombin was utilized as a prototypical analyte as two well-studied aptamers binding distinct epitopes are available to form a sandwich complex. Cholesteryl-TEG-modified aptamers were embedded into the liposomal lipid bilayer while the interior cavity of the liposomes encapsulated fluorescent sulforhodamine B dye. Such liposomes successfully formed a sandwich complex with \u03b1-thrombin and a microtiter plate immobilized aptamer, proving that aptamers retain their ability to fold when anchored to the liposome surface. Parameters studied included liposomal aptamer coverage, sandwich aptamer orientation, aptamer label orientation, aptamer spacer length and type, incubation buffer, and aptamer concentration. The optimized conditions found here in the fluorescence assay led to a limit of detection of 64 pM or 2.35 ng/mL, corresponding to 6.4 fmol or 235 pg, respectively, in a 100 \u03bcL volume. This is an order of magnitude lower than previous sandwich aptamer assays using the same sequences with lowest reported limits of detection of 0.45 nM. In addition, the assay was applied successfully to the detection of \u03b1-thrombin in human plasma. The success of this method in a standard microtiter plate format and the relatively facile functionalization of liposomes with aptamers suggest that this approach provides a versatile option for routine analytical applications."}
{"id": "20594086", "title": "Pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic evaluation of clopidogrel and the carboxylic acid metabolite SR 26334 in healthy dogs.", "content": "Pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic evaluation of clopidogrel and the carboxylic acid metabolite SR 26334 in healthy dogs. To determine pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties of clopidogrel and the metabolite SR 26334 in dogs. 9 mixed-breed dogs. 8 dogs received clopidogrel (mean +/- SD 1.13 +/- 0.17 mg/kg, PO, q 24 h) for 3 days; 5 of these dogs subsequently received a lower dose of clopidogrel (0.5 +/- 0.18 mg/kg, PO, q 24 h) for 3 days. Later, 5 dogs received clopidogrel (1.09 +/- 0.12 mg/kg, PO, q 24 h) for 5 days. Blood samples were collected for optical platelet aggregometry, citrated native and platelet mapping thrombelastography (TEG), and measurement of plasma drug concentrations. Impedance aggregometry was performed on samples from 3 dogs in each 3-day treatment group. ADP-induced platelet aggregation decreased (mean +/- SD 93 +/- 6% and 80 +/- 22% of baseline values, respectively) after 72 hours in dogs in both 3-day treatment groups; duration of effect ranged from > 3 to > 7 days. Platelet mapping TEG and impedance aggregometry yielded similar results. Citrated native TEG was not different among groups. Clopidogrel was not detected in any samples; in dogs given 1.13 +/- 0.17 mg/kg, maximum concentration of SR 26334 (mean +/- SD, 0.206 +/- 0.2 microg/mL) was detected 1 hour after administration. Clopidogrel inhibited ADP-induced platelet aggregation in healthy dogs and may be a viable antiplatelet agent for use in dogs. Impact for Human Medicine-Pharmacodynamic effects of clopidogrel in dogs were similar to effects reported in humans; clopidogrel may be useful in studies involving dogs used to investigate human disease."}
{"id": "20590862", "title": "Tests of global haemostasis and their applications in bleeding disorders.", "content": "Tests of global haemostasis and their applications in bleeding disorders. There is a potential for significant paradigm shift in the assessment of haemostasis from the conventional plasma recalcification times, such as prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), which correspond to artificially created compartments of haemostasis to tests that assess the entire process in a more physiological and holistic manner. These include the thrombin generation test, thromboelastogram and the clot wave form analysis. While these tests have been described many years ago, there is renewed interest in their use with modified technology for assessing normal haemostasis and its disorders. Although early data suggest that they can provide much greater information regarding the overall haemostasis process and its disorders, many challenges remain. Some of them are possible only on instruments that are proprietary technology, expensive and are not widely available. Furthermore, these tests need to be standardized with regard to their reagents, methodology and interpretation, and finally, much more data need to be collected regarding clinical correlations with the parameters measured."}
{"id": "20586076", "title": "Thromboelastographic study of biomaterials.", "content": "Thromboelastographic study of biomaterials. Thromboelastography (TEG) is drawing more attention for clinical and in vitro studies of blood coagulation. It can be applied to evaluate the effects of both blood-soluble and insoluble biomaterials on whole blood coagulation from the beginning of coagulation through clot formation to the ending with fibrinolysis. TEG may also identify the relative contributions of various clotting factors, such as fibrinogen and platelets, to the overall coagulation process based on profiles of its variables using whole and partial blood components. A comprehensive review has been conducted on its applications for the assessment of a wide range of blood-contacting biomaterials ranging from polymers to ceramics and biomedical devices involved in many applications. The methodology is different in terms of instrumentation, the methods to activate blood coagulation, the type of blood (citrated versus fresh blood), and study settings (in vitro, in vivo, and clinical trials). The author's own work and future directions are discussed as well. TEG should be considered as one of the most useful tools for evaluating in vitro and in vivo blood-biomaterial interactions for different applications."}
{"id": "20584738", "title": "Fibrinolysis during anaphylaxis, and its spontaneous resolution, as demonstrated by thromboelastography.", "content": "Fibrinolysis during anaphylaxis, and its spontaneous resolution, as demonstrated by thromboelastography. A large and ever-growing number of agents used in anaesthesia can precipitate acute anaphylactic reactions after their administration. Anaphylaxis is a sudden onset (or rapidly progressive), severe systemic allergic reaction, affecting multiple organ systems. The number of people who suffer severe systemic allergic reactions is increasing. The incidence is about 1-3 reactions per 10 000 population per annum, although anaphylaxis is not always recognized; therefore, certain UK studies may underestimate the incidence. In this case report, we present an episode of acute fibrinolysis associated with life-threatening anaphylaxis, demonstrated by thromboelastography (TEG) and resolving spontaneously. This is despite an added fibrinolytic insult in the form of cardiopulmonary bypass. There is a paucity of literature detailing fibrinolysis occurring during anaphylaxis, most likely due to the limited availability of TEG in the acute setting and the primary clinical focus of delivering life-saving interventions."}
{"id": "20583088", "title": "Thrombelastograph platelet mapping in a patient receiving antiplatelet therapy.", "content": "Thrombelastograph platelet mapping in a patient receiving antiplatelet therapy."}
{"id": "20581663", "title": "Factor VIIa analog has marked effects on platelet function and clot kinetics in blood from patients with hemophilia A.", "content": "Factor VIIa analog has marked effects on platelet function and clot kinetics in blood from patients with hemophilia A. To evaluate the hemostatic effects of NN1731 and rFVIIa, an ex-vivo study in hemophilia patients used the Hemodyne Hemostasis Analysis System (HAS) to measure platelet contractile force (PCF), clot elastic modulus (CEM), and force onset time (FOT), and the Haemoscope Thrombelastograph (TEG) to measure reaction time (R), kinetics time (K), and maximum amplitude (MA). Blood samples from 10 healthy volunteers and 10 Factor VIII-deficient patients of varying severity (mild, moderate, severe), were spiked with rFVIIa and NN1731 (both 0.64 and 1.28 microg/ml, respectively) and analyzed to characterize platelet function and clot kinetics. There was wide variability in the rFVIIa response. NN1731 had greater and more consistent effects on PCF, CEM, FOT, R, and K relative to rFVIIa, in all hemophilia groups. The lowest NN1731 concentration (0.64 microg/ml) shortened R and FOT, and increased CEM and PCF more than rFVIIa 1.28 microg/ml. NN1731 normalized clotting parameters equivalent to values obtained in healthy volunteers. FOT and R were highly correlated (r = 0.96). No correlation was observed between CEM and MA. NN1731 produced less variable, more pronounced and predictable ex-vivo hemostatic effects on PCF, CEM, FOT, R and K than rFVIIa in all hemophilia groups. HAS and TEG assays provided similar estimates of FOT and R, however CEM appeared to be more sensitive than MA to changes in clot firmness."}
{"id": "20576008", "title": "Fibrinogen estimates are influenced by methods of measurement and hemodilution with colloid plasma expanders.", "content": "Fibrinogen estimates are influenced by methods of measurement and hemodilution with colloid plasma expanders. Measurement of plasma fibrinogen is often required in critically ill patients or massively bleeding patients being resuscitated with colloid plasma expander. This study aimed at evaluating different assays of plasma fibrinogen after in vitro dilution with commonly used plasma expanders and challenged the hypothesis that levels of fibrinogen are estimated significantly higher in plasma diluted with colloid plasma expander compared with isotonic saline. Fibrinogen measurements were established in plasma samples each diluted in vitro to 30 or 50% with isotonic saline, hydroxyethyl starch (HES) 130/0.4, and human albumin. Fibrinogen levels were assessed using an antigen determination, three photo-optical Clauss methods, one mechanical Clauss method, a prothrombin-derived method, and viscoelastic measurement through thromboelastometry. Measurement of fibrinogen levels was significantly different when performed on alternate analytical platforms. By 30 and 50% dilution with HES 130/0.4 coagulation analyzers using the photo-optical Clauss methods significantly overestimated levels of fibrinogen. Dilution with human albumin did not affect fibrinogen levels except from one analyzer by 50% dilution level. Viscoelastic measurement of fibrin polymerization was reduced at both dilution levels and appeared to reflect the impairment of fibrin polymerization induced by HES 130/0.4 and to a lesser extent human albumin. This study demonstrated that different automated coagulation analyzers revealed significantly different levels of fibrinogen. The presence of colloid plasma expander gave rise to erroneous high levels of fibrinogen returned from some coagulation analyzers employing the method of Clauss."}
{"id": "20566899", "title": "Gel point and fractal microstructure of incipient blood clots are significant new markers of hemostasis for healthy and anticoagulated blood.", "content": "Gel point and fractal microstructure of incipient blood clots are significant new markers of hemostasis for healthy and anticoagulated blood. Here we report the first application of a fractal analysis of the viscoelastic properties of incipient blood clots. We sought to ascertain whether the incipient clot's fractal dimension, D(f,) could be used as a functional biomarker of hemostasis. The incipient clot is formed at the gel point (GP) of coagulating blood, the GP demarcating a functional change from viscoelastic liquid to a viscoelastic solid. Incipient clots formed in whole healthy blood show a clearly defined value of D(f) within a narrow range that represents an index of clotting in health, where D(f) = 1.74 (\u00b1 0.07). A significant relationship is found between the incipient clot formation time, T(GP), and the activated partial thromboplastin time, whereas the association of D(f) with the microstructural characteristics of the incipient clot is supported by its significant correlation with fibrinogen. Our study reveals that unfractionated heparin not only prolongs the onset of clot formation but has a significant effect on its fractal microstructure. A progressive increase in unfractionated heparin concentration results in a linear decrease in D(f) and a corresponding prolongation in T(GP). The results represent a new, quantitative measure of clot quality derived from measurements on whole blood samples."}
{"id": "20551273", "title": "A novel thromboelastographic score to identify overt disseminated intravascular coagulation resulting in a hypocoagulable state.", "content": "A novel thromboelastographic score to identify overt disseminated intravascular coagulation resulting in a hypocoagulable state. Thromboelastography (TEM) yields a multitude of data that are complicated to analyze. We evaluated its value in identification of global coagulopathy in overt disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). We studied 21 patients, each with International Society for Haemostasis and Thrombosis scores of 5 or more (compatible with overt DIC) and less than 5 (suggestive of nonovert DIC), who underwent whole blood nonadditive TEM. A TEM score based on the reaction and kappa times, alpha angle, and maximum amplitude was defined as the total number of TEM parameters deranged in the direction of hypocoagulability. The TEM score at a cutoff of 2 or more achieved sensitivity of 95.2%, specificity of 81.0%, and the highest receiver operating characteristic area under the curve of all parameters of 0.957 for identifying overt DIC. Individual TEM parameters correlated variably with conventional tests. Their combination into a cohesive TEM score possibly better captured the multiple hemostatic derangements occurring in DIC. The TEM score may bring objectivity to the analysis of TEM data."}
{"id": "20550726", "title": "Traditional transfusion practices are changing.", "content": "Traditional transfusion practices are changing. Schochl and co-authors have described a 5-year retrospective study that outlines a novel, important and controversial transfusion concept in seriously injured trauma patients. Traditionally, clinicians have been taught to use a serial approach, resuscitating hypovolemic trauma patients with a form of crystalloid or colloid, followed by red blood cells (RBCs), then fresh frozen plasma (FFP), and lastly platelets. The data supporting this widely accepted approach are remarkably weak. Conversely, Schochl and colleagues, in an innovative, retrospective study, describe the use of fibrinogen concentrate, plasma complex concentrate, RBCs, FFP, and platelets driven by a thromboelastometry-based algorithm. Finally, it appears that transfusion therapy is becoming driven by physiology."}
{"id": "20548824", "title": "Coronary artery bypass grafting in idiopathic thrombocytopenia: use of thromboelastometry without platelet transfusion.", "content": "Coronary artery bypass grafting in idiopathic thrombocytopenia: use of thromboelastometry without platelet transfusion. Patients with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura have safely undergone cardiac surgical procedures; however, platelets were transfused in 20 of 24 reported instances, and no point-of-care testing of coagulation status was performed. Herein, we report the case of a patient with idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura who required urgent coronary artery bypass grafting and intra-aortic balloon pump support. Rotational thromboelastometry was used as a point-of-care test of the patient's coagulation status. No preoperative prophylactic transfusion of allogeneic platelets was necessary, and in fact the patient required no allogeneic blood products during his hospitalization. We believe that point-of-care coagulation tests such as thromboelastometry warrant further evaluation regarding their usefulness in the clinical decision of whether to transfuse platelets and other blood products."}
{"id": "20546206", "title": "Function and activation state of platelets in vitro depend on apheresis modality.", "content": "Function and activation state of platelets in vitro depend on apheresis modality. In multicomponent collection, various blood components are prepared during one apheresis process. The aim of this prospective crossover study was to compare the function, metabolic parameters and activation state of fresh and stored platelets (PLTs) collected by two different cell separators. Twenty-four donors underwent apheresis on each of two cell separators (Fenwal Amicus(\u00ae) and CaridianBCT Trima Accel(\u00ae)) with an interval of at least 2 months between donations. Per donation, one double dose of PLT concentrate (PC) and one unit of packed red-blood-cells were collected. In total, 48 single unit PCs were tested for pH, glucose, bicarbonate, lactate, potassium and LDH concentration during 7 days of storage. PLT function was analysed by aggregometry, rotation thrombelastometry and hypotonic shock response. The PLT surface expression of P-selectin (CD62P) and LAMP-3 (CD63) was estimated by flow cytometry. During storage, metabolic parameters were well maintained in both groups, but levels of glucose and pH were significantly lower, while lactate and LDH were significantly higher in Amicus(\u00ae)-PCs. Amicus(\u00ae)-derived PLTs were significantly more activated as evidenced by higher CD62P and CD63 expression. In parallel, the in vitro function of Amicus(\u00ae)-PLTs was significantly reduced compared to Trima(\u00ae)-PLTs. In multicomponent apheresis, standardized PLT collection is effective and well tolerated. The higher activation of Amicus(\u00ae)-derived PLTs may be because of the divergent centrifugation modalities during collection. Possible consequences for the clinical outcome of thrombocytopenic patients will be evaluated in further trials."}
{"id": "20546031", "title": "Functional characteristics of N8, a new recombinant FVIII.", "content": "Functional characteristics of N8, a new recombinant FVIII. \u2002 The aim of this study was to evaluate the in vitro function of the new recombinant factor VIII (FVIII) compound, N8. The specific activity of N8 as measured in a FVIII:C one-stage clot assay was 9300\u00b1400 IU mg(-1) based on the analysis of seven individual batches. The ratio between the FVIII:C activity measured in clot and chromogenic assays was 1.00 (95% confidence interval 0.97-1.03). N8 bound to von Willebrand factor with Kd values of 0.2 nm when measured by ELISA and by surface plasmon resonance. FVIIIa cofactor activity was determined from the kinetic parameters of factor IXa-catalysed factor X (FX) activation. The rate of activation of N8 by thrombin as well as Km and kcat for FX activation was in the same range as those observed for Advate\u00ae. The rate of activated protein C (APC)-catalysed inactivation was similar for activated N8 and Advate\u00ae. N8 improved thrombin generation in a dose-dependent manner and induced similar rates of thrombin generation as Advate\u00ae and the plasma-derived FVIII product Haemate\u00ae. Using thromboelastography (TEG\u00ae), N8 was shown to improve the clot formation and clot stability in whole blood from haemophilia A patients. Comparable potency and efficacy of N8 and Advate\u00ae was found based on TEG\u00ae parameters. Finally, similar binding profiles to immobilized lipoprotein receptor-related protein (LRP) of N8 and Advate\u00ae were observed. The study demonstrated that N8 is fully functional in a variety of assays measuring FVIII activity. No functional differences were found between N8 and comparator compounds."}
{"id": "20542542", "title": "Optimizing thrombelastography (TEG) assay conditions to monitor rFVIIa (NovoSeven) therapy in haemophilia A patients.", "content": "Optimizing thrombelastography (TEG) assay conditions to monitor rFVIIa (NovoSeven) therapy in haemophilia A patients. There is no established laboratory method that can predict the most optimal dose of bypassing agents for treatment of haemophilia A. The objectives of the study was to develop an assay that can a) differentiate between the haemostatic capacity in blood from healthy individuals and severe and moderate haemophilia patients; b) show a dose-response correlation to rFVIIa addition; and c) show dose response differences of rFVIIa addition to plasma samples from non-inhibitor patients of different severity. Citrated whole blood from 25 haemophilia A patients was used in four thrombelastography (TEG) assays initiated with: 1) kaolin, 2) Tissue Factor (TF, Innovin 1:42,500), 3) TF 1:42,500+1.2 nM tPA (tissue plasminogen activator) or 4) TF 1:200,000. rFVIIa was added to give a final concentration in the range of 0.02-4.8 microg/ml. The TEG assays showed large differences in clot formation demonstrated by prolonged clotting time (R-time), decreased maximum thrombus generation (MTG) between severe and moderate haemophilia A patients and between haemophilia patients and healthy males. The maximal amplitudes (MA) of the clot and resistance against fibrinolysis were only compromised when TF with tPA was added. In vitro addition of rFVIIa improved all TEG profiles significantly in a dose-dependent manner; but only the TEG assay containing kaolin could differentiate between the rFVIIa doses, showing that blood from severe patients need higher doses of rFVIIa to normalize the clot formation profile compared to blood from moderate patients. Kaolin seems to be the most useful TEG assay for monitoring rFVIIa treatment."}
{"id": "20539913", "title": "FIX-Triple, a gain-of-function factor IX variant, improves haemostasis in mouse models without increased risk of thrombosis.", "content": "FIX-Triple, a gain-of-function factor IX variant, improves haemostasis in mouse models without increased risk of thrombosis. Engineered recombinant factor IX (FIX) with augmented clotting activity may prove useful for replacement therapy, but it has not been studied for risk of thrombosis. We used three mouse models to evaluate thrombosis risk associated with the FIX variant FIX-Triple, which has a 13-fold higher specific activity than wild-type FIX (FIX-WT). Protein infusion of FIX-Triple into haemophilia B mice was not thrombogenic, even at a dose of 13-fold higher than FIX-WT. Gene knock-in to generate mice that constitutively produce FIX-WT or FIX-Triple protein revealed that all mice expressed equal antigen levels. FIX-Triple knock-in mice that exhibited 10-fold higher FIX clotting activity did not show hypercoagulation. Adeno-associated viral (AAV) delivery of the FIX gene into mice was used to mimic gene therapy. Haemophilia B and inbred C57Bl/6 mice injected with different doses of virus particles carrying FIX-WT or FIX-Triple and expressing up to a nearly 13-fold excess (1289% of normal) of FIX clotting activity did not show increased risk of thrombosis compared with untreated wild-type mice in a normal haemostatic state. When challenged with ferric chloride (FeCl3), the mesenteric venules of AAV-treated C57Bl/6 mice that gave a nearly five-fold excess (474%) of FIX clotting activity were not thrombotic; however, thrombosis became obvious in FeCl3-challenged mice expressing extremely high FIX clotting activities (976-1289%) achieved by AAV delivery of FIX-Triple. These studies suggest that FIX-Triple is not thrombogenic at therapeutic levels and is a potential therapeutic substitute for FIX-WT."}
{"id": "20530518", "title": "Monitoring of low molecular weight heparin anticoagulation during haemodialysis with a Sonoclot Analyzer.", "content": "Monitoring of low molecular weight heparin anticoagulation during haemodialysis with a Sonoclot Analyzer. Sonoclot was used in this study to monitor low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) during haemodialysis. Two different intravenous doses (standard / half-dose) of dalteparin were studied in eight patients. Blood was sampled for coagulation analyses with Sonoclot, thrombin-antithrombin (TAT) and anti-Xa. A visual fibrin deposition score (VFS) in the venous drip chamber was also evaluated. All patients completed their dialysis. There was a progressive increase in TAT levels, which correlated to the dalteparin dose. Significant differences (p<0.05) were found for TAT, VFS and Sonoclot celite-activated clotting time (SonACT) between the different LMWH dosages. TAT and Sonoclot correlated to each other, but not to the VFS. SonACT was significantly increased at two hours, with the high dalteparin dose compared to the lower dose. Both Sonoclot and TAT failed to predict the VFS. No patient had any clinical clotting events and all dialyses were completed successfully."}
{"id": "20529981", "title": "An assessment of clinical interchangeability of TEG and RoTEM thromboelastographic variables in cardiac surgical patients.", "content": "An assessment of clinical interchangeability of TEG and RoTEM thromboelastographic variables in cardiac surgical patients. Bedside thromboelastography is increasingly used, but an assessment of the clinical interchangeability of the 2 major systems, TEG (Hemoscope) and RoTEM (Pentapharm), has not been performed. We measured blood samples from 46 cardiac surgical patients after induction of anesthesia with kaolin TEG(R) (kaoTEG), native TEG(R) (natTEG), intrinsic RoTEM (inTEM), and extrinsic RoTEM (exTEM). Each measurement consisted of reaction time (R), coagulation time (K), maximum amplitude (MA), and angle (alpha). Bland-Altman plots and mixed-model analysis were used. To assess repeatability, we made 7 replicated measurements in rapid succession in 2 volunteers. One hundred sixty-six measurements were available for analysis. The R time of the kaoTEG (345 + or - 102 seconds, mean + or - sd) was longer than that of the inTEM (179 + or - 74 seconds, P < 0.001) and the exTEM (55 + or - 28 seconds, P < 0.001). The K time of the kaoTEG (78 + or - 18s) was not different from that of the inTEM (75 + or - 52 seconds, P = 0.60) but was longer than the K time of the exTEM (61 + or - 24 seconds, P < 0.003). The MA of the kaoTEG (71 + or - 6.5 mm) was larger than the MA of the inTEM (67 + or - 5.2 mm, P < 0.02) and almost similar to that of the exTEM (69 + or - 6.3 mm). The alpha of the kaoTEG (72 degrees + or - 4.1 degrees ) was not significantly different from that of both the inTEM (76 degrees + or - 7 degrees ) and the exTEM (79 degrees + or - 4.5 degrees ). The variability for MA and alpha was <10%. The repeatability of the R and K times was poor in both devices, whereas the repeatability of the MA and alpha was sufficient for clinical purposes. The TEG and RoTEM measurements demonstrated a close correlation for the MA, but the alpha did not for the R and K variables. The kaoTEG had the best agreement with the exTEM measurement. Therefore TEG and RoTEM measurements are not completely interchangeable, and the clinical interpretation of thromboelastograhic data should be used with caution."}
{"id": "20529334", "title": "Thromboelastography results on citrated whole blood from clinically healthy cats depend on modes of activation.", "content": "Thromboelastography results on citrated whole blood from clinically healthy cats depend on modes of activation. During the last decade, thromboelastography (TEG) has gained increasing acceptance as a diagnostic test in veterinary medicine for evaluation of haemostasis in dogs, however the use of TEG in cats has to date only been described in one previous study and a few abstracts. The objective of the present study was to evaluate and compare three different TEG assays in healthy cats, in order to establish which assay may be best suited for TEG analyses in cats. 90 TEG analyses were performed on citrated whole blood samples from 15 clinically healthy cats using assays without activator (native) or with human recombinant tissue factor (TF) or kaolin as activators. Results for reaction time (R), clotting time (K), angle (alpha), maximum amplitude (MA) and clot lysis (LY30; LY60) were recorded. Coefficients of variation (CVs) were highest in the native assay and comparable in TF and kaolin activated assays. Significant differences were observed between native and kaolin assays for all measured parameters, between kaolin and TF for all measured parameters except LY60 and between native and TF assays for R and K. The results indicate that TEG is a reproducible method for evaluation of haemostasis in clinically healthy cats. However, the three assays cannot be used interchangeably and the kaolin- and TF-activated assays have the lowest analytical variation indicating that using an activator may be superior for performing TEG in cats."}
{"id": "20528259", "title": "Single dose granulocyte colony-stimulating factor markedly enhances shear-dependent platelet function in humans.", "content": "Single dose granulocyte colony-stimulating factor markedly enhances shear-dependent platelet function in humans. Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) has been associated with the induction of a hypercoagulable state in patients as well as peripheral blood stem donors. Interestingly, sparse data exist on the kinetics of platelet and coagulation activation in response to G-CSF and it is unknown if G-CSF augments shear-dependent platelet function. These two issues are addressed in the current trial. Thirty-six healthy volunteers were enrolled into this study. All subjects received a single-dose of 5 microg/kg filgrastim intravenously. The effects of recombinant G-CSF on platelet and coagulation function were assessed by the platelet function analyzer PFA-100 (collagen/epinephrine (CEPI-CT), collagen/ADP (CADP-CT) closure times), von Willebrand factor activity (vWF : RiCO) ELISA, tissue factor (TF)-mRNA expression on circulating leukocytes and rotation thrombelastography (ROTEM). G-CSF time-dependently enhanced shear dependent platelet function measured by the PFA-100: CEPI-CT declined by 48% and CADP-CT by 31% with nadir values after 24 h (p < 0.001 as compared to baseline) and returned to near-baseline values after 72 hours. In accordance, VWF : RiCO increased by 59% after 24 h (p < 0.001) and returned to baseline 48 h later. TF-mRNA peaked after 4 hours (>6 fold increase p < 0.001) and reached near-baseline values after 24 hours. Nadir closure times were seen after 24 hours (-15%; p < 0.001). Single-dose administration of 5 microg/kg G-CSF significantly enhances shear-dependent platelet function and strongly induces leukocyte TF-mRNA, which translates into shortened clotting times ex vivo."}
{"id": "20519417", "title": "The effective concentration of epsilon-aminocaproic Acid for inhibition of fibrinolysis in neonatal plasma in vitro.", "content": "The effective concentration of epsilon-aminocaproic Acid for inhibition of fibrinolysis in neonatal plasma in vitro. Pediatric patients, particularly neonates, are at high risk for bleeding complications after cardiovascular surgery because of their immature hemostatic system, small size, and the complex operations they require. Activation of intravascular fibrinolysis is one of the principle effects of cardiopulmonary bypass that causes poor postoperative hemostasis. This complication has long been recognized and treated with antifibrinolytic medications, including the lysine analog epsilon aminocaproic acid (EACA). The therapeutic plasma concentration of EACA has been scientifically determined for the adult population, but the current recommended dosage for neonates has been empirically derived from adult studies. Therefore, we investigated the appropriate concentration of EACA for neonates undergoing bypass. We conducted an in vitro study using neonatal plasma derived from the placenta/cord units from 20 term, elective cesarean deliveries. Graded concentrations of EACA were added to aliquots of the plasma pool before activating fibrinolysis with tissue-type plasminogen activator. Standard kaolin-activated thromboelastograms were then run with the primary outcome variable being estimated percent lysis. These procedures were repeated on samples of commercially available pooled adult normal plasma for comparison. We found that neonatal plasma required significantly lower concentrations of EACA to completely prevent fibrinolysis than did adult plasma (44.2 microg/mL and 47.8 microg/mL for neonatal plasma and 94.4 and 131.4 microg/mL in adult plasma for 400 and 1000 U/mL of plasminogen activator, respectively, P < 0.001). Our data establish the minimal effective concentration of EACA necessary to completely prevent fibrinolysis in neonatal blood in vitro. This concentration is significantly less than that targeted by current dosing schemes, indicating that neonates are possibly being exposed to greater levels of EACA than is clinically necessary."}
{"id": "20514421", "title": "Theaflavin digallate inactivates plasminogen activator inhibitor: could tea help in Alzheimer's disease and obesity?", "content": "Theaflavin digallate inactivates plasminogen activator inhibitor: could tea help in Alzheimer's disease and obesity? Proteolysis in general and particularly the serine proteases are causally involved in many physiological processes and different diseases. Recently it was reported that plasminogen activator inhibitor type one (PAI-1) inactivation can alleviate the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease and reduce the body weight of obese individuals. In our broad search for natural compounds and their derivatives that can inhibit PAI-1, we include the polyphenols of teas since teas (green and black) or their components have been reported to alleviate the symptoms of both obesity and Alzheimer's disease. Inactivation of PAI-1 was measured in human plasma using thromboelastography. We used known PAI-1 inhibitor PAI039 [{1-benzyl-5-[4-(trifluoromethoxy) phenyl]-1H-indol-3-yl}(oxo)acetic acid] as a positive control and (-)-epigallo-catechin-3-gallate (EGCG), its prodrug octaacetate EGCG (OcAc EGCG) and theaflavin digallate [TH(2)] as potential PAI-1 inhibitors. We found that inactivation of PAI-1 in plasma by EGCG and OcAc EGCG was low or very low. However, TH(2) inactivated PAI-1 in a concentration-dependent manner with an IC50 of 18 microM which is equal to or better than the IC50 reported for known PAI-1 inhibitor PAI039. Clearly TH(2) inhibits PAI-1 and might play a role in slowing down the progression of Alzheimer's disease or obesity by a PAI-1-dependent pathway. While the clinical value of TH(2) has not been proven, long-term prospective studies assessing its efficacy are warranted due to the benign nature of the substance."}
{"id": "20510247", "title": "Volume replacement with a balanced hydroxyethyl starch (HES) preparation in cardiac surgery patients.", "content": "Volume replacement with a balanced hydroxyethyl starch (HES) preparation in cardiac surgery patients. Balanced fluids appear to be have advantages over unbalanced fluids for correcting hypovolemia. The effects of a new balanced hydroxyethyl starch (HES) were studied in cardiac surgery patients. Prospective, randomized, unblinded study. Clinical study in a single cardiac surgery institution. Sixty patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass. Patients received either a balanced 6% HES 130/0.4 plus a balanced crystalloid (n = 30) or an unbalanced HES-in-saline plus saline (n = 30) to keep cardiac index >2.5 L/min/m(2). Base excess (BE), kidney function, inflammatory response (interleukins-6, -10), endothelial activation (intercellular adhesion molecule-1 [ICAM]), and coagulation (thromboelastometry, whole blood aggregation) were measured after induction of anesthesia, after surgery and 5 hours later, and at the 1st and 2nd postoperative days; 2,950 +/- 530 mL of balanced and 3,050 +/- 560 mL of unbalanced HES were given. BE was reduced significantly in the unbalanced group (from 1.11 +/- 0.71 mmol/L to -5.11 +/- 0.48 mmol/L after surgery) and remained unchanged in the balanced group. Balanced volume replacement resulted in significantly lower IL-6, IL-10, and ICAM plasma concentrations and lower urine concentrations of kidney-specific proteins than in the unbalanced group. After surgery, thromboelastometry data and platelet function were changed significantly in both groups; 5 hours thereafter they were significantly changed only in the unbalanced group. A plasma-adapted HES preparation in addition to a balanced crystalloid resulted in significantly less decline in BE, less increase in concentrations of kidney-specific proteins, less inflammatory response and endothelial damage, and fewer changes in hemostasis compared with an unbalanced fluid strategy."}
{"id": "20491957", "title": "Safety, pharmacokinetics and efficacy of factor VIIa formulated with PEGylated liposomes in haemophilia A patients with inhibitors to factor VIII--an open label, exploratory, cross-over, phase I/II study.", "content": "Safety, pharmacokinetics and efficacy of factor VIIa formulated with PEGylated liposomes in haemophilia A patients with inhibitors to factor VIII--an open label, exploratory, cross-over, phase I/II study. \u2002 Recombinant activated factor VIIa (FVIIa) is a bypassing agent used to treat bleeding episodes in haemophilia patients with inhibitors to factor VIII (FVIII) and factor IX. The pharmacological effect of FVIIa is short-lived and therefore with the recommended dose of 90 \u03bcg kg(-1), a bleeding episode is treated with multiple injections. A long-acting form of FVIIa that can ensure adequate haemostasis with a single infusion, without increasing the thrombotic risk, would therefore be beneficial. PEGylated liposomes (PEGLip) have been shown to bind FVIIa and to improve haemostatic efficacy in preclinical experiments. In the present phase I/II clinical trial, we assessed the safety and efficacy of PEGLip-formulated FVIIa in severe haemophilia A patients (FVIII\u22641%) with inhibitors to FVIII. Each patient received one prophylactic infusion of standard FVIIa and one prophylactic infusion of PEGLip-formulated FVIIa. The order of the infusions was randomized and the two infusions were separated by a ten-day washout period. Efficacy assessed by thromboelastography revealed that PEGLip-FVIIa induced significantly shorter clotting times and produced higher clot firmnesses than standard FVIIa. Thrombin generation assays showed that PEGLip-FVIIa induced faster thrombin generation and higher peak levels of thrombin than standard FVIIa. These effects lasted up to 5 h postinfusion. Measurements of D-dimer, prothrombin fragment 1+2 and fibrinogen showed no significant differences between the PEGLip-FVIIa and standard FVIIa treatments. PEGLip-FVIIa therefore showed improved haemostatic efficacy without increased risk of thrombosis and may be further developed for the treatment for bleeding episodes in haemophilia patients with inhibitors."}
{"id": "20485179", "title": "The effects of protamine overdose on coagulation parameters as measured by the thrombelastograph.", "content": "The effects of protamine overdose on coagulation parameters as measured by the thrombelastograph. Protamine is routinely administered following cardiopulmonary bypass in order to neutralize the effects of heparin. An excess of protamine can contribute to coagulopathy, hence predisposing to bleeding with associated morbidity and mortality. Thromboelastography (TEG) is recognized as an invaluable bedside tool to detect coagulation parameters; however, the effects of protamine overdose on TEG parameters have not been fully established. Forty-six patients undergoing cardiac surgery using cardiopulmonary bypass were recruited in the study. Following heparinization, the patient's blood heparin level was measured using Hepcon HMS. Incremental doses of protamine [at a protamine-to-Hepcon-derived heparin ratio (PHR) of 1:1, 2:1 and 3:1] were added to patients' blood samples in vitro and four TEG coagulation parameters, including R (time to clot initiation), K (clot kinetics), alpha (clot kinetics) and maximum amplitude (ultimate clot strength), were monitored. Statistical analysis was performed using NCSS software. Protamine caused dose-dependent worsening of coagulation parameters on TEG; K was significantly elevated, whereas alpha and maximum amplitude showed significant reduction (P < 0.001) compared with baseline at a PHR of 2:1 and 3:1, respectively. R was significantly prolonged compared with baseline (P < 0.001) at a PHR of 3:1. Protamine adversely affects clot initiation time, clot kinetics and platelet function in a dose-dependent manner, which can predispose to bleeding."}
{"id": "20480163", "title": "Evaluation of coagulation kinetics using thromboelastometry-methodologic influence of activator and test medium.", "content": "Evaluation of coagulation kinetics using thromboelastometry-methodologic influence of activator and test medium. Renewed interest has arisen in the use of thromboelastography/thromboelastometry in evaluating coagulation kinetics. The test medium, type of activator, and its concentration may influence the interpretation of coagulation kinetics. This study aimed to investigate methodologic influences of activator and test medium on thromboelastometric parameters of coagulation kinetics. Dynamic clot formation was evaluated by thromboelastometry using whole blood (WB), platelet-rich plasma, or platelet-poor plasma employing different concentrations of extrinsic (tissue factor) and contact activator (synthasil) and with variable concentrations of phospholipids. Plasma samples displayed prolonged clot initiation and enhanced clot propagation compared with WB. Clot firmness was markedly reduced in platelet-poor plasma as compared with platelet-rich plasma and WB. Increasing concentration of activator shortened the clot initiation and increased the velocity of clot propagation, whereas terminal clot firmness remained unaffected. Platelets accelerated clot propagation and raised clot firmness. Phospholipids shortened the time of clot initiation and increased velocity of propagation, while clot firmness remained unchanged. Our results demonstrate that evaluation of coagulation kinetics using thromboelastometry varies according to the composition of the test medium, type, and concentration of activator, as well as the presence and concentration of phospholipids in the test reagent."}
{"id": "20466110", "title": "Splenectomy leads to a persistent hypercoagulable state after trauma.", "content": "Splenectomy leads to a persistent hypercoagulable state after trauma. It was hypothesized that splenectomy following trauma results in hypercoagulability. A prospective, nonrandomized, single-center study was performed to evaluate coagulation parameters in trauma patients with splenic injury. Patients with splenectomy (n = 30) and nonoperative management (n = 50) were enrolled. Splenectomy patients were older, had higher Injury Severity Scores, and had longer intensive care unit and hospital stays (P < .05). Splenectomy patients had significantly increased white blood cell counts and platelet counts at baseline and follow-up (P < .01). Fibrinogen was initially elevated in both groups and remained elevated in the splenectomy group (P < .05). Tissue plasminogen activator, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, and activated partial thromboplastin time were higher in splenectomy patients only at baseline (P < .05). Baseline thromboelastography showed faster fibrin cross-linking and enhanced fibrinolysis following splenectomy (P < .05). Only clot strength was greater at follow-up in the splenectomy group (P < .01). Deep venous thrombosis developed in 7% of splenectomy patients and no control patients (P = .03). A significant difference in deep venous thrombosis formation was noted, and coagulation assays indicated persistent hypercoagulability following splenectomy for trauma."}
{"id": "20465281", "title": "Design of luminescent biotinylation reagents derived from cyclometalated iridium(III) and rhodium(III) bis(pyridylbenzaldehyde) complexes.", "content": "Design of luminescent biotinylation reagents derived from cyclometalated iridium(III) and rhodium(III) bis(pyridylbenzaldehyde) complexes. A new class of luminescent biotinylation reagents derived from cyclometalated iridium(III) and rhodium(III) bis(pyridylbenzaldehyde) biotin complexes, [Ir(pba)(2)(bpy-C6-biotin)](PF(6)) (1), [Ir(pba)(2)(bpy-TEG-biotin)](PF(6)) (2), and [Rh(pba)(2)(bpy-C6-biotin)](PF(6)) (3), together with their biotin-free counterparts [Ir(pba)(2)(bpy-Et)](PF(6)) (4) and [Rh(pba)(2)(bpy-Et)](PF(6)) (5) [Hpba = 4-(2-pyridyl)benzaldehyde, bpy-C6-biotin = 4-[(6-biotinamido)hexylaminocarbonyl]-4'-methyl-2,2'-bipyridine, bpy-TEG-biotin = 4-[(13-biotinamido-4,7,10-trioxa)tridecylaminocarbonyl]-4'-methyl-2,2'-bipyridine, bpy-Et = 4-(ethylaminocarbonyl)-4'-methyl-2,2'-bipyridine], have been synthesized and characterized and their photophysical and electrochemical properties studied. Upon photoexcitation, the iridium(III) complexes 1, 2, and 4 exhibited intense and long-lived orange-yellow luminescence in fluid solutions at 298 K and in rigid glass at 77 K. The rhodium(III) complexes 3 and 5 were weakly emissive in fluid solutions at 298 K but showed intense luminescence in low-temperature glass. In view of the structured emission profiles and the long lifetimes, the emission of all of the complexes has been assigned to a triplet intraligand ((3)IL) (pi --> pi*) (pba) excited state, which was probably mixed with some triplet metal-to-ligand charge-transfer ((3)MLCT) [dpi(Ir or Rh) --> pi*(pba)] character. To investigate the reactivity of the aldehyde groups, complex 2 was reacted with n-butylamine, resulting in the formation of the complex [Ir(ppy-CH(2)NHC(4)H(9))(2)(bpy-TEG-biotin)](PF(6)) (2a) [Hppy-CH(2)NHC(4)H(9) = 2-[4-[N-(n-butyl)aminomethyl]phenyl]pyridine]. All of the aldehyde complexes have been used to biotinylate bovine serum albumin (BSA) to form bioconjugates 1-BSA-5-BSA. The bioconjugates have been isolated, purified, and characterized and their photophysical properties studied. Upon photoexcitation, all of the bioconjugates were luminescent and the emission has been attributed to a (3)MLCT [dpi(Ir) --> pi*(N(wedge)N)] state for the iridium(III) conjugates and a mixed (3)IL (pi --> pi*) (N(wedge)N and N(wedge)C)/(3)MLCT [dpi(Rh) --> pi*(N(wedge)N)] state for the rhodium(III) conjugates. The avidin-binding properties of complexes 1, 2, 2a, and 3 and bioconjugates 1-BSA-3-BSA have been investigated using the 4'-hydroxyazobenzene-2-carboxylic acid assay. Emission titrations showed that complex 2a displayed a significant change of the emission profile upon binding to avidin. Additionally, the cytotoxicity of all of the iridium(III) and rhodium(III) complexes toward the human cervix epithelioid carcinoma cells has been examined by the 3-(4,5-dimethyl-2-thiazolyl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide assay. Furthermore, the cellular uptake properties of the complexes and bioconjugate 2-BSA have been investigated by laser-scanning confocal microscopy."}
{"id": "20456723", "title": "Transfused stored platelets have the same haemostatic function as circulating native platelets.", "content": "Transfused stored platelets have the same haemostatic function as circulating native platelets. As thrombelastography (TEG) measures haemostasis in whole blood, we used this instrument to study whether transfused platelets (PLTs) have the same haemostatic function compared to native circulating PLTs. Further, we studied the effect of storage time on the haemostatic potential of platelet concentrates (PCs). During the decrease in PLT count after chemotherapy, TEG parameters were measured serially until the transfusion trigger was reached in 92 patients. TEG parameters for different ranges of native circulating PLTs could be assessed, which were compared to ranges obtained in the thrombocytopenic period in which the patient received PLT transfusions. Finally, we compared the haemostatic potential of fresh PCs (1-3 days) with PCs with longer storage time (4-5 days). No differences could be found in haemostatic potential between native PLTs and transfused stored PLTs (all P-values > or = 0.1). The transfusion of fresh PLTs demonstrated better haemostatic effects than longer stored PLTs, measured 1 h after transfusion. Both the time until a fixed level of clot firmness was reached (K-time) and the rate of clot growth (alpha angle) were superior for fresh PCs. TEG is able to monitor the haemostatic effects of PLT transfusion, with comparable haemostatic properties of native circulating and transfused stored-PLTs. Further, our data suggest that limited storage time is associated with a better haemostatic capacity. However, before TEG can be applied as a qualitative test in PLT transfusion, further research is needed with focus on clinical outcomes like bleeding episodes."}
{"id": "20456686", "title": "Double red cell concentrates -in vitro quality after delayed refrigeration.", "content": "Double red cell concentrates -in vitro quality after delayed refrigeration. Automated collection of red cell concentrates (RCC) presents a number of potential advantages to donors, blood services and recipients, and allows the collection of finished components from sites that are remote from a blood centre. However, data are lacking on how long the collected RCC may be stored at ambient temperature prior to their final storage at 4 \u00b0C. In this study, the Haemonetics Cymbal device was used to collect RCC using citrate, phosphate and dextrose (CPD-50) anticoagulant. A total of 10 procedures each yielded two leucodepleted RCC in saline, adenine, glucose and mannitol (SAGM) additive solution. One of each pair of RCC was kept warm in an insulated transport bag for 8 h and the other for 6 h. In vitro assessments of the quality of the RCC were made during subsequent 42-day storage of the RCC at 2-6 \u00b0C, and compared with reference data. All collected RCC were within UK and European limits for volume, haematocrit and haemoglobin content. Haemolysis was within specification at Day 42 and was no different in RCC held warm for 6 or 8 hours, but tended to be higher than reference data from whole blood derived RCC. ATP, 2,3 DPG and supernatant potassium levels were all similar in RCC held warm for 6 or 8 hours and reference data. We conclude that the Cymbal device may be used to collect two RCC in SAGM, and the in vitro assessment indicates that RCC may be stored without refrigeration for up to 8 h following collection, prior to final storage at 4 \u00b0C."}
{"id": "20455183", "title": "[Perioperative coagulation monitoring - medical and economic aspects].", "content": "[Perioperative coagulation monitoring - medical and economic aspects]. For preoperative haemostatic assessment a structured questionnaire for the bleeding history of the patient should be primarily used. Only in case of abnormalities an additional laboratory coagulation testing is recommended. Such a test set must include functional testing of platelets as defects of the primary haemostasis are frequent. In the event of acute acquired perioperative coagulopathy laboratory coagulation testing is a prerequisite for sophisticated and precise diagnosis and therapy. Points of care techniques like thrombelastography are capable to provide fast and extensive information."}
{"id": "20454754", "title": "[Thromboelastography/-metry and external quality control. Results of a pilot study].", "content": "[Thromboelastography/-metry and external quality control. Results of a pilot study]. Thromboelastography/thromboelastometry (TEG/ROTEM) is widely used in near-patient setting, especially in perioperative and intensive care medicine for the management of acute bleeding. Until now a comprehensive quality management especially an external quality control of TEG/ROTEM results is not established. Here we report about our results of a pilot survey performed in 2008 and 2009 integrated in the External Quality Assessment Schemes (EQAS) performed by INSTAND. According to this first EQAS data ROTEM results can be controlled in external quality schemes using lyophilized plasma samples. The clot firmness (A20) and clot formation kinetics characterized by the alpha-angle showed very good reproducibility both between the participants and between different surveys. Variations for CT and CFT were considerably higher especially in the plasma sample with reduced fibrinogen level. Regular participation in an external quality assurance will help to confirm this beneficial technology in emergency settings."}
{"id": "20453765", "title": "Effects of ethanol intoxication and gender on blood coagulation.", "content": "Effects of ethanol intoxication and gender on blood coagulation. Ethanol intoxication is a common contributor to traumatic injury. It is unknown whether ethanol consumption contributes to the coagulation differences seen between men and women after trauma. Our aim was to examine the combined effect of ethanol intoxication and gender on coagulation. Fifty-eight healthy subjects participated and chose to enter into a control group (CG; n = 20; 10 men and 10 women) or drinking group (DG; n = 38; 20 men and 18 women). Venous blood samples for thrombelastography, plasminogen activator inhibitor, thrombin-antithrombin complex, and tissue plasminogen activator were drawn at the beginning of the study. Subjects then interacted in a social atmosphere for at least 2 hours, eating and consuming alcoholic (DG) or nonalcoholic (CG) beverages. After 2 hours, blood alcohol level was determined and blood was drawn for a second set of coagulation studies. Demographics were similar between groups except for age (36.7 years CG vs. 29.9 years DG; p = 0.009). All baseline thrombelastography measurements were similar between the CG and DG. Blood alcohol levels in the DG were similar between genders at the end of study. At the end of study, a decreased rate of fibrin formation, decreased clot strength, and a decreased rate of fibrin cross-linking was seen in men but not in women. Fibrinolysis was inhibited in drinkers compared with controls. Consumption of commonly ingested quantities of alcohol correlated with the development of a hypocoagulable state in men but had no effect on coagulation status in women. This phenomenon may contribute to differences in post-trauma coagulation status previously noted between genders."}
{"id": "20452885", "title": "Whole blood coagulation and platelet activation in the athlete: a comparison of marathon, triathlon and long distance cycling.", "content": "Whole blood coagulation and platelet activation in the athlete: a comparison of marathon, triathlon and long distance cycling. Serious thrombembolic events occur in otherwise healthy marathon athletes during competition. We tested the hypothesis that during heavy endurance sports coagulation and platelets are activated depending on the type of endurance sport with respect to its running fraction. 68 healthy athletes participating in marathon (MAR, running 42 km, n = 24), triathlon (TRI, swimming 2.5 km + cycling 90 km + running 21 km, n = 22), and long distance cycling (CYC, 151 km, n = 22) were included in the study. Blood samples were taken before and immediately after completion of competition to perform rotational thrombelastometry. We assessed coagulation time (CT), maximum clot firmness (MCF) after intrinsically activation and fibrin polymerization (FIBTEM). Furthermore, platelet aggregation was tested after activation with ADP and thrombin activating peptide 6 (TRAP) by using multiple platelet function analyzer. Complete data sets were obtained in 58 athletes (MAR: n = 20, TRI: n = 19, CYC: n = 19). CT significantly decreased in all groups (MAR -9.9%, TRI -8.3%, CYC -7.4%) without differences between groups. In parallel, MCF (MAR +7.4%, TRI +6.1%, CYC +8.3%) and fibrin polymerization (MAR +14.7%, TRI +6.1%, CYC +8.3%) were significantly increased in all groups. However, platelets were only activated during MAR and TRI as indicated by increased AUC during TRAP-activation (MAR +15.8%) and increased AUC during ADP-activation in MAR (+50.3%) and TRI (+57.5%). While coagulation is activated during physical activity irrespective of type we observed significant platelet activation only during marathon and to a lesser extent during triathlon. We speculate that prolonged running may increase platelet activity, possibly, due to mechanical alteration. Thus, particularly prolonged running may increase the risk of thrombembolic incidents in running athletes."}
{"id": "20449889", "title": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 increases fibrinogen-dependent coagulation kinetics but does not enhance prothrombin activity.", "content": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 increases fibrinogen-dependent coagulation kinetics but does not enhance prothrombin activity. We have previously determined that tricarbonyldichlororuthenium (II) dimer (CORM-2) increases plasma clot velocity of formation and strength by enhancing thrombin-fibrinogen interactions as determined by thrombelastography. The purpose of the present investigation was to further define the nature of CORM-2 interaction with prothrombin and fibrinogen by exposing purified proteins to CORM-2 or generating protein concentration-response curves in the absence or presence of CORM-2. Purified prothrombin was exposed to 0 or 100 micromol/l CORM-2 prior to being added to prothrombin-deficient plasma (n=7-8 per condition). Fibrinogen-deficient plasma had fibrinogen added for a final concentration of 100-800 mg/dl and was exposed to 0 or 100 micromol/l CORM-2 (n=4 per condition). Following tissue factor activation, thrombelastographic data were collected until clot strength stabilized. Exposure of prothrombin to CORM-2 did not significantly enhance coagulation kinetics. In sharp contrast, CORM-2 exposure enhanced fibrinogen coagulation kinetics in a concentration-dependent fashion, with peak effect seen at a fibrinogen concentration of 300 mg/dl that then progressively decreased throughout the range tested. Our data demonstrate that CORM-2 does not enhance plasma coagulation kinetics by modifying prothrombin; instead, the concept that CORM-2 modifies fibrinogen is the most likely explanation for the enhanced thrombin-fibrinogen interactions observed."}
{"id": "20435346", "title": "The influence of poly-N-[(2,2-dimethyl-1,3-dioxolane)methyl]acrylamide on fibrin polymerization, cross-linking and clot structure.", "content": "The influence of poly-N-[(2,2-dimethyl-1,3-dioxolane)methyl]acrylamide on fibrin polymerization, cross-linking and clot structure. Poly-N-[(2,2-dimethyl-1,3-dioxolane)methyl]acrylamide (PDMDOMA) is a neutral synthetic water-soluble polymer. In this report, we evaluated the influence of PDMDOMA on blood hemostasis by studying the fibrin polymerization process, the three-dimensional clot structure, and the mechanical properties and fibrinolysis. PDMDOMA altered the normal fibrin polymerization by changing the rate of protofibril aggregation and resulting in a 5-fold increase in the overall turbidity. Fibrin clots formed in presence of PDMDOMA exhibited thinner fibers with less branching which resulted in a more porous and heterogeneous clot structure in scanning electron micrographs. The overall strength and rigidity of the whole blood clot also decreased up to 10-fold. When a combination of plasminogen and tissue-plasminogen activators were included in clotting reactions, fibrin clots formed in the presence of PDMDOMA exhibited highly shortened clot lysis times and was supported by the enhanced clot lysis measured by thromboelastography in whole blood. Further evidence of the altered clot structure and clot cross-linking was obtained from the significant decrease in d-dimer levels measured from degraded plasma clot. Thus, PDMDOMA may play an important role as an antithrombotic agent useful in prophylactic treatments for thrombosis by modulating fibrin clot structure to enhance fibrinolysis."}
{"id": "20431856", "title": "In vitro factor XIII supplementation increases clot firmness in Rotation Thromboelastometry (ROTEM).", "content": "In vitro factor XIII supplementation increases clot firmness in Rotation Thromboelastometry (ROTEM). Factor XIII (F XIII) is an essential parameter for final clot stability. The purpose of this study was to determine the impact of the addition of factor (F)XIII on clot stability as assessed by Rotation Thromboelastometry (ROTEM). In 90 intensive care patients ROTEM measurements were performed after in vitro addition of F XIII 0.32 IU, 0.63 IU, 1.25 IU and compared to diluent controls (DC; aqua injectabile) resulting in approximate F XIII concentrations of 150, 300 and 600%. Baseline measurements without any additions were also performed. The following ROTEM parameters were measured in FIBTEM and EXTEM tests: clotting time (CT), clot formation time (CFT), maximum clot firmness (MCF), maximum lysis (ML), maximum clot elasticity (MCE) and alpha-angle (alphaA). Additionally, laboratory values for FXIII, fibrinogen (FBG), platelets and haematocrit were contemporaneously determined. In the perioperative patient population mean FBG concentration was elevated at 5.2 g/l and mean FXIII concentration was low at 62%. The addition of FXIII led to a FBG concentration-dependent increase in MCF both in FIBTEM and EXTEM. Mean increases in MCF (FXIII vs. DC) of approximately 7 mm and 6 mm were observed in FIBTEM and EXTEM, respectively. F XIII addition also led to decreased CFT, increased alphaA, and reduced ML in FIBTEM and EXTEM. In vitro supplementation of FXIII to supraphysiologic levels increases maximum clot firmness, accelerates clot formation and increases clot stability in EXTEM and FIBTEM as assayed by ROTEM in perioperative patients with high fibrinogen and low FXIII levels."}
{"id": "20413127", "title": "Synthesis and characterization of calcite and aragonite in polyol liquids: control over structure and morphology.", "content": "Synthesis and characterization of calcite and aragonite in polyol liquids: control over structure and morphology. An innovative precipitation process, achieved through the thermal decomposition of urea in polyols containing hydrated calcium salts, was used to prepare calcite and aragonite at elevated temperatures (120-180 degrees C). The effect of various experimental conditions, such as the media of different polyols (ethylene glycol, EG; diethylene glycol, DEG; and tetraethylene glycol, TEG), the temperature, the reaction time, and the addition of magnesium salts, on the structure, size, and morphology of the obtained solids is described. It was found that the formation of calcium carbonate polymorphs, i.e., calcite or aragonite, their morphology and their size was predominantly influenced by the type of polyols used, and by the diverse growing mechanisms occurring in the different polyol systems. Structurally and morphologically different calcite precipitates were formed in the DEG and TEG solvents via classical crystallization processes, while colloidal and nanostructured aragonite particles were assembled in the EG through a recently reaffirmed mechanism based on the role of nanoscale aggregation processes in the formation of carbonate solids. This study highlights the importance of the presence and concentration of magnesium ions in the inhibition of the crystal growth of nanosized aragonite, and in the stabilization of amorphous calcium carbonate (ACC) precipitates in polyol solutions."}
{"id": "20410815", "title": "Thrombocytopenia affects plasmatic coagulation as measured by thrombelastography.", "content": "Thrombocytopenia affects plasmatic coagulation as measured by thrombelastography. Thrombelastography (TEG) is used as a point-of-care test of hemostasis. Different components of the test tracing are considered to reflect various parts of the hemostatic system and to distinguish low platelet count, platelet dysfunction or both from lack of plasmatic coagulation factors. To analyze the influence of one single element of the coagulation system, namely the platelet count, we used TEG serially in patients with well documented transient thrombocytopenia. A total of 189 TEG analyses were performed from 16 patients with a hematological malignancy in remission, receiving consolidation courses of chemotherapy. TEG outcomes using unmanipulated and citrated blood samples at a median of 11 times (range 1-17) in the same patients during the decrease of platelet count in response to chemotherapy were compared with outcomes in 120 healthy adults from various age categories. We found a correlation (r = 0.7, P < 0.001) between TEG clot strength (maximum amplitude) and platelet count. Moreover, platelet count was correlated respectively with the initial rate of clot formation (reaction time and clotting time), the rate of clot growth (alpha angle), and also with maximum thrombus generation, time to maximum thrombus generation and total thrombus generation. We conclude that platelet count not only affects the strength of clot formation, as was expected, but also all other phases of plasmatic coagulation. Citration of the blood sample, aiming at easy storage of the material, masked some of the important biological parameters of coagulation."}
{"id": "20406708", "title": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 enhances coagulation and diminishes fibrinolytic vulnerability in subjects exposed to warfarin.", "content": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 enhances coagulation and diminishes fibrinolytic vulnerability in subjects exposed to warfarin. It has been recently demonstrated that a carbon monoxide releasing molecule (tricarbonyldichlororuthenium (II) dimer; CORM-2) enhances coagulation and attenuates vulnerability to fibrinolysis in normal and hemophiliac human plasma. We tested the hypothesis that plasma obtained from warfarin-treated subjects would demonstrate improved coagulation and decreased fibrinolytic vulnerability following exposure to CORM-2. Anonymous donor plasma samples with international normalized ratios (INR) values ranging from 1.5-5.4 were exposed to 0 or 100 microM CORM-2 and activated with tissue factor (12 samples). Additional samples within the same INR range were exposed to 0 or 100 microM CORM-2 and 0 or 100 U/ml tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA) to assess fibrinolytic vulnerability (8 samples). Thrombelastographic data were collected until either clot strength stabilized or clot lysis occurred as appropriate. In the absence of tPA, all but one sample (INR=1.5) demonstrated a marked increase in the velocity of clot formation (40-577%) and strength (42-180%) following CORM-2 exposure. Of interest, in the presence of tPA, all samples (including the previously unresponsive sample) were noted to have an increase in the velocity of clot formation and strength, coupled with a prolonged onset to maximal rate of clot lysis (60-242%) and increased clot lysis time (74-149%). As with normal and hemophilic plasma, both enhancement of coagulation and attenuation of fibrinolysis occur following CORM-2 exposure in plasma from warfarin-treated subjects. Future investigation must determine if carbon monoxide releasing molecules could be used therapeutically to control bleeding in warfarin-treated patients."}
{"id": "20406238", "title": "Individualised assessment of response to clopidogrel in patients presenting with acute coronary syndromes: a role for short thrombelastography?", "content": "Individualised assessment of response to clopidogrel in patients presenting with acute coronary syndromes: a role for short thrombelastography? There is considerable interindividual variation in response to the antiplatelet agent clopidogrel. Hyporesponse predicts negative outcomes in patients presenting with a variety of ischemic cardiac conditions and following intracoronary stent placement. Many tests of clopidogrel activity are time consuming and complex. Short thromboelastography (s-TEG) allows rapid measurement of platelet clopidogrel response. We initiated this study to investigate the utility of s-TEG in assessing the response to clopidogrel in patients presenting with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) and to compare these results with established clopidogrel monitoring techniques. Patients admitted with unstable angina (UA) or Non ST elevation myocardial infarction (NSTEMI) undergoing coronary angiography were recruited. After routine loading with clopidogrel, all patients were tested with s-TEG and Accumetrics Verify-Now rapid platelet function analyzer (VN-RPFA). We used the modified TEG technique of measuring area under the curve at 15 min (AUC15), which allows a rapid estimation of antiplatelet response. Vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein phosphorylation (VASP) was also tested in a subgroup of patients. Clinical follow-up was obtained at 1 year. s-TEG results were correlated with VN-RPFA and VASP findings. A total of 49 patients (33 male, mean age 63) were recruited and tested with s-TEG and VN-RPFA and a total of 39 patients were also assessed with VASP. s-TEG readings correlated well with VN-RPFA (r(2)= 0.54, P < 0.0001) and VASP (r(2)= 0.26, P= 0.001). s-TEG provides timely results which compare to current tests of clopidogrel activity. This technique can also be used to measure a variety of other clotting parameters and as such could develop into a valuable near patient test for the interventional cardiologist."}
{"id": "20402168", "title": "Perioperative coagulation monitoring.", "content": "Perioperative coagulation monitoring. Perioperative coagulation monitoring is the rational diagnostic basis for pro- and anti-thrombotic interventions in patients undergoing emergency and elective surgery. The main goal of perioperative monitoring of haemostasis is to increase safety of patients undergoing surgical procedures. Currently, there is a change in paradigm with (1) increasing implementation of evidence-based approach to preoperative patient evaluation with laboratory coagulation testing secondary to the results of the standardised bleeding history and (2) awareness of the limitations of routine coagulation tests to guide coagulation management in massive bleeding. Alternatively, visco-elastic point-of-care monitoring is increasingly used worldwide. This innovative methodology triggers a trend towards an 'early goal-directed coagulation management' focussing on potent coagulation factor concentrates. Practicability, cost-effectiveness, safety and--above all--growing scientific evidence support this concept, and lively discussions among anaesthesiologists and various medical disciplines may help to refine it. The present review focusses on the following key issues of perioperative coagulation monitoring: standardised bleeding history, routine coagulation testing, visco-elastic point-of-care coagulation testing, heparin monitoring, and platelet function testing."}
{"id": "20401285", "title": "Antithrombotic therapy for the CardioWest temporary total artificial heart.", "content": "Antithrombotic therapy for the CardioWest temporary total artificial heart. The CardioWest temporary total artificial heart serves as a viable bridge to orthotopic heart transplantation in patients who are experiencing end-stage refractory biventricular heart failure. This device is associated with a low, albeit still substantial, risk of thrombosis. Platelet interactions with artificial surfaces are complex and result in continuous activation of contact proteins despite therapeutic anticoagulation. We searched the medical literature (publication dates, January 1962-October 2009) in order to evaluate means of mitigating adverse events that have occurred after implantation of the CardioWest temporary total artificial heart.We conclude that the use of a multitargeted antithrombotic approach, involving anticoagulation (bivalirudin and warfarin) and antiplatelet therapy (dipyridamole and aspirin), can mitigate the procoagulative effects of mechanical circulatory assist devices, particularly those that are associated with the CardioWest temporary total artificial heart. Careful monitoring with use of a variant multisystem approach, involving efficacy tests (thrombelastography and light transmittance aggregometry), safety tests (laboratory analyses), and warfarin genomics, may maximize the therapeutic actions and minimize the bleeding risks that are associated with the multitargeted antithrombotic approach. The development and monitoring of individualized antithrombotic regimens require that informed health professionals appreciate the complexities and grasp the hazards that are associated with these therapies."}
{"id": "20400895", "title": "Tissue plasminogen activator induced fibrinolysis: standardization of method using thromboelastography.", "content": "Tissue plasminogen activator induced fibrinolysis: standardization of method using thromboelastography. Fibrinolysis is a complex physiological process that involves the interaction of several anticoagulant proteins. Defects of the fibrinolytic system are extremely difficult to diagnose and study because there are no standardized tests available. Thromboelastography is a novel method that allows the study of both coagulation and fibrinolysis using one sample of whole blood, thereby allowing a more physiologic assessment of the coagulation process. Several in-vitro studies have been attempted to determine whether thromboelastography would be a useful assay for the study of fibrinolysis but have reported problems with reproducibility and reliability. Here we report the process involved in developing a thromboelastographic assay in which tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) is used to induce fibrinolysis. The assay was standardized to ensure that the concentration of the coagulation inducer (tissue factor) and fibrinolytic agent (t-PA) was adequate to induce a clot with lysis parameters that were reproducible and reliable. This method can be used to rapidly assess the intrinsic fibrinolytic potential of whole blood. Our assay showed that it could rapidly predict high levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor, and this information would be beneficial in patients with acute stroke or myocardial infarction."}
{"id": "20400026", "title": "The acute coagulopathy of trauma shock: clinical relevance.", "content": "The acute coagulopathy of trauma shock: clinical relevance. Recent observational studies have identified an acute coagulopathy in trauma victims that is present on arrival in the emergency room. It has been associated with a four-fold increase in mortality and increased incidence of organ failure. Conventional trauma resuscitation and transfusion protocols are designed for dilutional coagulopathy and appear inadequate in the management of acute traumatic coagulopathy and massive transfusion. Acute Coagulopathy of Trauma Shock (ACoTS) is caused by a combination of tissue injury and shock, and may occur without significant fluid administration, clotting factor depletion or hypothermia. The mechanism through which acute coagulopathy develops is unclear but activation of the protein C pathway has been implicated. Standard coagulation tests do not identify cases in a timely fashion and ACoTS should be suspected in any trauma patient with a significant magnitude of injury and shock, as evidenced by an abnormal admission base deficit on blood gas. Development of point of care coagulometers and whole blood coagulation analysers, such as rotational thromboelastometry, may enable earlier laboratory identification of this group. Retrospective studies performed by the American military indicate that resuscitation of severely injured patients with higher ratios of plasma given early may improve outcome and reduce overall blood product use. The place of adjunctive pharmaceutical agents within this strategy remains unclear. There is an acute coagulopathy associated with trauma and shock that is an independent predictor of outcomes. Delineation of this entity, with directed management protocols should lead to a reduction in avoidable deaths from haemorrhage after trauma."}
{"id": "20389262", "title": "Thromboelastographic changes in liver and pancreatic cancer surgery: hypercoagulability, hypocoagulability or normocoagulability?", "content": "Thromboelastographic changes in liver and pancreatic cancer surgery: hypercoagulability, hypocoagulability or normocoagulability? Despite clinical and laboratory evidence of perioperative hypercoagulability, alterations in haemostasis after potentially haemorrhagic oncologic surgery are difficult to predict. This study aims to evaluate the entity, the extent and the duration of perioperative coagulative alterations following pancreas and liver oncologic surgery, by the use of both routine tests and thromboelastogram (TEG). Fifty-six patients undergoing liver (n = 38) and pancreatic (n = 18) surgery were studied. The coagulation profile was evaluated by platelet count, prothrombin time-international normalized ratio, activated partial thromboplastin time, antithrombin III and TEG at the beginning, at the end of the operation and on postoperative days 1, 3, 5 and 10. All preoperative coagulative screening and TEG traces were normal before incision. In the postoperative period of the liver and pancreas groups, despite an increase in prothrombin time-international normalized ratio, a reduction in antithrombin III and platelet count and normal activated partial thromboplastin time and fibrinogen, TEG evidenced a normocoagulability in the liver group, with a major tendency towards hypocoagulability in the pancreas group, as evidenced by a transient increase in R-time and K-time between postoperative days 1 and 3. During the study period, four cases of pulmonary embolism, resolved with heparin infusion, were recorded, in the absence of laboratory and thromboelastographic evidence of hypercoagulability. Despite laboratory tests evidencing hypocoagulability in both groups, TEG traces showed a normocoagulability in liver resections, whereas a transient thromboelastographic hypocoagulability was evident in patients undergoing pancreas surgery. The discrepancy between laboratory values and thromboelastographic variables was even more evident in patients undergoing major liver resections compared with minor ones. Our study supports the role of thromboelastography, despite its limitations, as a valuable tool for the evaluation of the perioperative whole coagulation process and hypercoagulability changes and to increase patient safety through better management of antithrombotic therapy."}
{"id": "20389236", "title": "Do different substitution patterns or plant origin in hydroxyethyl starches affect blood coagulation in vitro?", "content": "Do different substitution patterns or plant origin in hydroxyethyl starches affect blood coagulation in vitro? The effect of hydroxyethyl starches (HES) on blood coagulation is affected by their molecular weight, their molar substitution and the C2/C6 ratio. The solutions of 6% HES 130/0.4 and 6% HES 130/0.42 have similar molecular weight and molar substitution but different C2/C6 ratio and plant origin. In the present study, the comparative effect of 6% HES 130/0.4 versus 6% HES 130/0.42 on blood coagulation was investigated in vitro. Thirty milliliter of blood was obtained from 10 healthy volunteers and was diluted by 10, 30 and 50% using either 6% HES 130/0.4 or HES 130/0.42, respectively. Blood coagulation was assessed using thrombelastography measurements (clotting time, clot formation time, maximal clot firmness and alpha-angle). The assessment of platelet function was performed with whole blood aggregometry after adding thrombin-receptor-activating protein. No differences were noted between respective dilutions of the two HES. Both colloids produced significant reductions below the reference values range in clotting time at 10, 30 and 50% dilutions. The 50% dilution of both colloids resulted in significant reduction of maximal clot firmness, alpha-angle and platelet aggregation. The present study showed that the corn-derived 6% HES 130/0.4 and the potato-derived 6% HES 130/0.42 have the same effect on blood coagulation in vitro."}
{"id": "20388624", "title": "Hydroxyethylstarch and gelatin solutions impair blood coagulation after cardiac surgery: a prospective randomized trial.", "content": "Hydroxyethylstarch and gelatin solutions impair blood coagulation after cardiac surgery: a prospective randomized trial. Colloids are often used after cardiac surgery as intravascular volume replacement therapy. Cardiac surgical patients have an increased risk of bleeding. Both hydroxyethylstarch (HES) and gelatin solutions impair haemostasis. We examined the impact and dose effect on coagulation of HES 130/0.4, gelatin, or Ringer's acetate solutions after cardiac surgery. Forty-five patients received three boluses (each 7 ml kg(-1)) of either 6% HES 130/0.4, 4% gelatin, or Ringer's acetate solution after elective cardiac surgery. The infusion of study solution was continued in the dose 7 ml kg(-1) over the following 12 h. The total dose of study solution was 28 ml kg(-1). Hypovolaemia was treated with Ringer's acetate. Modified thromboelastometry was performed to detect coagulation disorders. Clot formation time was prolonged and clot strength decreased after infusion of 7, 14, and 21 ml kg(-1) of either colloid compared with the Ringer's acetate group. After infusion of 14 and 21 ml kg(-1) of Ringer's acetate, clot strength was slightly, but significantly, increased. On the first postoperative morning, clot strength was still decreased in the gelatin group in comparison with the Ringer's acetate group. Neither HES nor gelatin induced fibrinolysis. Chest tube drainage was comparable between all groups. Even a small dose of HES 130/0.4 or gelatin impaired clot strength after cardiac surgery in a dose-dependent fashion, but neither colloid increased blood loss."}
{"id": "20385794", "title": "Exploratory study on the reversal of warfarin with rFVIIa in healthy subjects.", "content": "Exploratory study on the reversal of warfarin with rFVIIa in healthy subjects. The use of warfarin has a well-known bleeding risk. Recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) is a non-plasma-derived, rapid-acting, and rapidly infused potential treatment. This randomized, single-center, placebo-controlled, double-blinded, dose-escalation, exploratory phase 1 trial assessed safety and effects of rFVIIa in reversing warfarin-induced changes in bleeding and coagulation parameters, using a punch biopsy-induced bleeding model in healthy subjects. The effects of warfarin (experiment 1) and rFVIIa (5-80 microg/kg; experiment 2) were evaluated. Outcomes were bleeding duration, blood loss, coagulation parameters, and safety. Warfarin treatment significantly increased bleeding duration and blood loss from pretreatment (experiment 1, 12 subjects). However, these parameters after rFVIIa treatment were not significantly different from placebo (experiment 2, 85 subjects). Mean activated partial thromboplastin time, prothrombin time, and international normalized ratio were reduced from warfarin-elevated levels. rFVIIa (80 microg/kg) significantly reversed warfarin effects on all thromboelastography parameters, compared with placebo (P < .05), and returned the thrombin generation speed to baseline. There were no thromboembolic or serious adverse events. In this exploratory trial, the reversal of warfarin effects was observed in the thromboelastography, thrombin generation, and clotting assays. However, this reversal did not translate to improvements in the bleeding model parameters evaluated in the punch biopsy model. Trial registration is exempt (phase 1)."}
{"id": "20377327", "title": "Hypercoagulability, platelet function, inflammation and coronary artery disease acuity: results of the Thrombotic RIsk Progression (TRIP) study.", "content": "Hypercoagulability, platelet function, inflammation and coronary artery disease acuity: results of the Thrombotic RIsk Progression (TRIP) study. The objective of the study was to determine the relation of platelet reactivity, hypercoagulability and inflammation in various stages of coronary artery disease acuity (CAD). Thrombin-induced platelet-fibrin clot strength (MA), time to initial platelet-fibrin clot formation (R), C-reactive protein (CRP), prothrombotic factors, activated GPIIb/IIIa receptor expression and other biomarkers were studied in patients with asymptomatic stable CAD (AS), in patients undergoing PCI for stable (SA) and unstable angina (UA). MA and R were measured by thrombelastography, GPIIb/IIIa expression by flow cytometry and all other markers by fluorokine multianalyte profiling assays. An overall increase in all measurements from a clinically stable to an unstable disease state was observed. There was a distinct stepwise increment in MA [AS vs. SA (p = 0.02), SA vs. UA (p = 0.02) and AS vs. UA (p < 0.001)]. MA exhibited the strongest correlation with other prothrombotic markers (p < or = 0.02), with CRP (p < 0.001) at all levels of CAD acuity. A distinct pathophysiological state of heightened platelet function, hypercoagulability and inflammation marks the presence of unstable cardiovascular disease requiring intervention. Further studies are required to investigate the primary mechanisms linking the above processes associated with a prothrombotic state resulting in clinical destabilization of the disease."}
{"id": "20374650", "title": "Goal-directed coagulation management of major trauma patients using thromboelastometry (ROTEM)-guided administration of fibrinogen concentrate and prothrombin complex concentrate.", "content": "Goal-directed coagulation management of major trauma patients using thromboelastometry (ROTEM)-guided administration of fibrinogen concentrate and prothrombin complex concentrate. The appropriate strategy for trauma-induced coagulopathy management is under debate. We report the treatment of major trauma using mainly coagulation factor concentrates. This retrospective analysis included trauma patients who received >or= 5 units of red blood cell concentrate within 24 hours. Coagulation management was guided by thromboelastometry (ROTEM). Fibrinogen concentrate was given as first-line haemostatic therapy when maximum clot firmness (MCF) measured by FibTEM (fibrin-based test) was <10 mm. Prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC) was given in case of recent coumarin intake or clotting time measured by extrinsic activation test (EXTEM) >1.5 times normal. Lack of improvement in EXTEM MCF after fibrinogen concentrate administration was an indication for platelet concentrate. The observed mortality was compared with the mortality predicted by the trauma injury severity score (TRISS) and by the revised injury severity classification (RISC) score. Of 131 patients included, 128 received fibrinogen concentrate as first-line therapy, 98 additionally received PCC, while 3 patients with recent coumarin intake received only PCC. Twelve patients received FFP and 29 received platelet concentrate. The observed mortality was 24.4%, lower than the TRISS mortality of 33.7% (P = 0.032) and the RISC mortality of 28.7% (P > 0.05). After excluding 17 patients with traumatic brain injury, the difference in mortality was 14% observed versus 27.8% predicted by TRISS (P = 0.0018) and 24.3% predicted by RISC (P = 0.014). ROTEM-guided haemostatic therapy, with fibrinogen concentrate as first-line haemostatic therapy and additional PCC, was goal-directed and fast. A favourable survival rate was observed. Prospective, randomized trials to investigate this therapeutic alternative further appear warranted."}
{"id": "20361791", "title": "Crystal structures of the glycopeptide sulfotransferase Teg12 in a complex with the teicoplanin aglycone.", "content": "Crystal structures of the glycopeptide sulfotransferase Teg12 in a complex with the teicoplanin aglycone. The TEG gene cluster, a glycopeptide biosynthetic gene cluster that is predicted to encode the biosynthesis of a polysulfated glycopeptide congener, was recently cloned from DNA extracted directly from desert soil. This predicted glycopeptide gene cluster contains three closely related sulfotransferases (Teg12, -13, and -14) that sulfate teicoplanin-like glycopeptides at three unique sites. Here we report a series of structures: an apo structure of Teg12, Teg12 bound to the desulfated cosubstrate 3'-phosphoadenosine 5'-phosphate, and Teg12 bound to the teicoplanin aglycone. Teg12 appears to undergo a series of significant conformational rearrangements during glycopeptide recruitment, binding, and catalysis. Loop regions that exhibit the most conformational flexibility show the least sequence conservation between TEG sulfotransferases. Site-directed mutagenesis guided by our structural studies confirmed the importance of key catalytic residues as well as the importance of residues found throughout the conformationally flexible loop regions."}
{"id": "20357143", "title": "In normal controls, both age and gender affect coagulability as measured by thrombelastography.", "content": "In normal controls, both age and gender affect coagulability as measured by thrombelastography. Our objective was to analyze the effects of age, gender, and the use of oral contraceptives (OCs) on coagulation using thrombelastography (TEG), a single test to analyze both plasma coagulation factors and cellular elements in whole blood. TEG variables were measured in native whole blood and in recalcified citrated blood from 120 healthy adults (60 men and 60 women) with various ages and in an additional 29 healthy women using OCs. We observed hypercoagulability in women compared with men and in women using OCs compared with age-matched nonusers. Moreover, we found hypercoagulability with aging. Using the method of Bland and Altman (Lancet 1986;1:307-10), we demonstrated no correlation between TEG measurements in native and recalcified citrated blood. Aging, female gender, use of OCs, and low-normal hematocrit levels have significant procoagulant effects. TEG measurements in native and recalcified citrated blood are not interchangeable, as indicated by differences between the 2 measurements ranging from 20% in maximal amplitude to 246% in clotting time. Furthermore, the limits of agreement strongly exceeded clinical acceptability to conclude interchangeability."}
{"id": "20345422", "title": "Spinal anaesthesia and caesarean section in a patient with hypofibrinogenaemia and factor XIII deficiency.", "content": "Spinal anaesthesia and caesarean section in a patient with hypofibrinogenaemia and factor XIII deficiency. We report the peri-operative management of a 32-year-old patient suffering from symptomatic hypofibrinogenaemia and factor XIII deficiency scheduled for caesarean section. Starting with an impaired fibrinogen (1.04 g x l(-1)) and factor XIII level (48%), fibrinogen and factor XIII administration was guided by point-of-care rotational thrombelastometry (ROTEM) to achieve normal whole blood coagulation, which allowed uncomplicated spinal anaesthesia and an uneventful surgical procedure. We conclude that rotational thrombelastometry may be suitable to guide administration of coagulation factors in patients with hereditary bleeding disorders and allow otherwise contraindicated neuraxial anaesthesia and surgery to proceed without increased risk of blood loss."}
{"id": "20331467", "title": "Artificial contact pathway activation masks the haemostatic potential of rFVIIa and NN1731 in thrombocytopenic whole blood.", "content": "Artificial contact pathway activation masks the haemostatic potential of rFVIIa and NN1731 in thrombocytopenic whole blood."}
{"id": "20305541", "title": "Fibrinolytic parameters in children with noncatheter thrombosis: a pilot study.", "content": "Fibrinolytic parameters in children with noncatheter thrombosis: a pilot study. Although the incidence of pediatric thrombosis has increased over the last decade, noncatheter-related deep venous thrombosis (nCDVT) is rare in children. Congenital and acquired hypercoagulable states may play an important role in the pathogenesis of nCDVT. In this study, we evaluated fibrinolytic parameters by measuring individual concentrations of fibrinolytic proteins and by tissue factor initiated whole blood thromboelastography (TEG), in which a fibrin clot was lyzed by exogenously added tissue plasminogen activator (tPA). Children with nCDVT were compared with age and sex-matched controls. TAFI concentrations were significantly higher in the patient group but there was no difference in the PAI-1, tPA and lipoprotein (a) concentrations. Significantly decreased fibrinolysis was found on TEG in the patient group suggesting that hypofibrinolysis may play an important role in the pathogenesis of nCDVT in children. To our knowledge, this is the first pediatric study that has systematically evaluated the role of fibrinolysis in the pathogenesis of DVT. Given our results, the role of fibrinolysis in the pathogenesis of nCDVT in children should be further evaluated in larger studies."}
{"id": "20230412", "title": "Monitoring heparin anticoagulation in the acute phase response.", "content": "Monitoring heparin anticoagulation in the acute phase response. The anticoagulant effect of unfractionated heparin (UFH) is monitored using the activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT). An APTT of 1.5-2.5 times the control is usually taken as the therapeutic range and assumed to reflect an anti-activated factor X (anti-Xa) level of 0.35-0.7 u/ml. However, in some cases, despite administration of sufficient heparin to achieve a therapeutic anti-Xa assay level, the APTT remains sub-therapeutic. This 'apparent heparin resistance' is commonly due to high levels of factor VIII (FVIII). In these situations, the anti-Xa is usually preferred for monitoring in order to avoid, what might be, dangerously high levels of heparin. We hypothesized that at high FVIII levels, the heparin resistance encountered may be genuine rather than apparent and that higher doses of heparin may indeed be needed for an equivalent anticoagulant effect. The relationship between heparin level, APTT and anticoagulant effect at different FVIII concentrations was determined using thrombelastography and the thrombin generation assay. Thromboelastographic and thrombin generation parameters concurred with APTT, demonstrating a genuine heparin resistance in the presence of high FVIII levels. This suggests that APTT may be a more accurate measure of anticoagulant effect in vivo than anti-Xa."}
{"id": "20229685", "title": "Platelet function tests and resistance to antiplatelet therapy.", "content": "Platelet function tests and resistance to antiplatelet therapy. The clinical efficacy of antiplatelet therapy (aspirin, P2Y12 and glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists) to prevent occlusive arterial events in patients with atherothrombotic disease is well established. Despite the proven benefits of antiplatelet therapy, many patients continue to experience arterial events. Many factors may influence the response of platelets to antiplatelet therapy and some patients with adequate compliance to the treatment may exhibit failure of platelet inhibition as determined by ex vivo laboratory tests, a phenomenon termed \"resistance\" to antiplatelet therapy. Platelet function can be measured by numerous platelet function tests, with which various parameters of platelet activation, secretion, adhesion and aggregation can be determined. These tests include light transmission (optical) and whole blood aggregometry, point-of-care devices, such as platelet function analyzers PFA-100, and VerifyNow, flow cytometry, serum thromboxane B2 and urinary levels of the thromboxane B2 metabolite 11-dehyro-thromboxane B2. Other tests, such as whole blood platelet aggregation measured by platelet counting, thrombelastography and devices such as the cone and plate(let) analyzer, Plateletworks and thrombotic status analyzer have also been used to determine platelet inhibition by antiplatelet drugs, but their use is not widespread and therefore experience is limited. Further studies need to be carried out to answer basic questions on the clinical utility and cost-effectiveness of laboratory monitoring of antiplatelet therapy before it can be recommended in clinical practice."}
{"id": "20229682", "title": "The role of rotational thromboelastometry in real time assessment of haemostasis in surgical settings.", "content": "The role of rotational thromboelastometry in real time assessment of haemostasis in surgical settings. In the settings of trauma, liver transplantation and major surgery multifactorial coagulopathies are frequently encountered. The treatment of acutely bleeding patients is critically compromised by monitoring with standard available routine coagulation tests. In contrast to conventional tests, rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) provides an automated measurement of interactive dynamic haemostatic processes in whole blood starting with initial haemostasis up to and including fibrinolysis at a given time point. Especially fibrinogen, platelet dysfunction and hyperfibrinolysis pose diagnostic gaps. The aim of this report was to highlight the usefulness of ROTEM in making the correct diagnosis and adoption of therapeutic approaches in a timely manner in liver transplantation and trauma. We describe the value of ROTEM in two haemostatically compromised patients. In the first case, we present the ROTEM-based dynamic assessment and goal-directed treatment of acute haemorrhage in a liver transplant recipient. In the second case, after operation a multitraumatised patient developed uncontrolled massive bleeding unresponsive to conventional treatment and recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) administration. The cessation of bleeding was achieved after guided therapy according to ROTEM results. In orthotopic liver transplantation and severely injured trauma patients ROTEM enables rapid and accurate detection and the differential diagnosis of multifactorial coagulopathies. Also, it provides the basis of rational approach to the use of blood component therapy and pharmacological interventions."}
{"id": "20224372", "title": "Postinjury coagulopathy management: goal directed resuscitation via POC thrombelastography.", "content": "Postinjury coagulopathy management: goal directed resuscitation via POC thrombelastography. Progressive postinjury coagulopathy remains the fundamental rationale for damage control surgery, but the decision to abort operative intervention must occur before laboratory confirmation of coagulopathy. Current massive transfusion protocols have embraced pre-emptive resuscitation strategies emphasizing administration of packed red blood cells, fresh frozen plasma, and platelets in ratios approximating 1:1:1 during the first 24 hours postinjury, based on US military retrospective experience and recent noncontrolled civilian data. This policy, termed \"damage control resuscitation\" assumes that patients presenting with life threatening hemorrhage at risk for postinjury coagulopathy should receive component therapy in rations approximating those found in whole blood during the first 24 hours. While we concur with the concept of pre-emptive coagulation factor replacement, and initially suggested this in 1982, we remain concerned for the continued unbridled administration of fresh frozen plasma and platelets without objective evidence of their specific requirement. A major limitation of current massive transfusion protocols is the lack of real time assessment of coagulation function to guide evolving blood component requirements. Existing laboratory coagulation testing was originally designed for evaluation of hemophilia and subsequently used for monitoring anticoagulation therapy. Consequently, the applicability of these tests in the trauma setting has never been proven and the time required to conduct these assays is incompatible with prompt correction of the coagulopathy in the trauma setting. This review examines the current approach to postinjury coagulopathy, including identification of patients at risk, resuscitation strategies, design and implementation of institutional massive transfusion protocols, and the potential benefits of goal-directed therapy by real time assessment of coagulation function via point of care rapid thromboelastography."}
{"id": "20224050", "title": "Long-term aspirin and clopidogrel response evaluated by light transmission aggregometry, VerifyNow, and thrombelastography in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention.", "content": "Long-term aspirin and clopidogrel response evaluated by light transmission aggregometry, VerifyNow, and thrombelastography in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. A reduced response to aspirin and clopidogrel predicts ischemic events, but reliable tests are needed to identify low responders. We compared 3 platelet-function tests during long-term dual treatment with aspirin and clopidogrel. Patients who underwent a percutaneous coronary intervention and were receiving a combination of 325 mg/day aspirin and 75 mg/day clopidogrel were followed for 1 year. Blood was sampled 5 times during this period for 3 tests: light transmission aggregometry (LTA) assay, with 5.0 micromol/L ADP or 1.0 mmol/L arachidonic acid (AA) used as an agonist; VerifyNow assay, with the P2Y(12) or aspirin cartridge (Accumetrics); and thrombelastography (TEG), stimulated by 2.0 micromol/L ADP or 1.0 mmol/L AA. Twenty-six of 33 patients completed all scheduled visits. A low response to clopidogrel was found in a few patients at variable frequencies and at different visits, depending on the method and criteria used. We found a moderate correlation between the LTA (ADP) and VerifyNow (P2Y(12) cartridge) results, but the TEG (ADP) results correlated poorly with the LTA and VerifyNow results. A low response to aspirin was found with the VerifyNow (aspirin cartridge) and TEG (AA) methods on 6 and 2 occasions, respectively, but not with the LTA (AA) method, except for 1 occasion caused by probable noncompliance. Detecting a low response to clopidogrel depends largely on the method used. Which method best predicts ischemic events remains uncertain. A low response to aspirin is rare with AA-dependent methods used at the chosen cutoffs. In some patients, the response to clopidogrel or aspirin may be classified differently at different times, even with the same method."}
{"id": "20222835", "title": "Role of thrombelastograph haemostasis analyser in detection of hypercoagulability following surgery with and without use of intermittent pneumatic compression.", "content": "Role of thrombelastograph haemostasis analyser in detection of hypercoagulability following surgery with and without use of intermittent pneumatic compression. The effect of using intermittent pneumatic compression on incidence of postoperative thromboembolic events was studied, and hypercoagulability following various kinds of surgery with or without use of intermittent pneumatic compression was evaluated with the use of a thrombelastograph. The study included 317 male patients undergoing various surgical procedures; 193 patients used intermittent pneumatic compression after surgery and 124 did not use intermittent pneumatic compression. Their ages ranged between 52 and 75 years. Thrombelastograph was used to detect hypercoagulability. Results showed that in patients using intermittent pneumatic compression, 67% of the hip surgery patients had hypercoagulability one to three days postoperatively, as did 34% having major thoracic or abdominal procedures and 18% in the remaining general surgery. Of 18 hip surgery patients who did not use intermittent pneumatic compression, 10 sustained thromboembolic complications following operation. Three deaths resulted from pulmonary embolism. For the remaining 106 patients who did not use intermittent pneumatic compression, seven patients manifested Deep venous thrombosis (DVT) and pulmonary embolism, and three deaths resulted from pulmonary embolism. There was no incident of thromboembolic complications for the 24 patients with hip surgery who used the intermittent pneumatic compression. There were no complications following various surgical procedures in the 169 patients who used intermittent pneumatic compression. It might be concluded that the thrombelastograph is useful to detect hypercoagulability postoperatively, and intermittent pneumatic compression is useful for thromboembolic prophylaxis."}
{"id": "20214450", "title": "Beyond cell capture: antibody conjugation improves hemocompatibility for vascular tissue engineering applications.", "content": "Beyond cell capture: antibody conjugation improves hemocompatibility for vascular tissue engineering applications. Antibody-conjugated surfaces are being studied for cardiovascular implant applications to capture endothelial progenitor cells and promote endothelialization. However, despite the large amount of literature on endothelial progenitor cell capture efficiency, little effort has been made to understand acute blood responses to the modified surfaces. We hypothesize that CD34 antibody conjugation passivates surfaces against procoagulatory events, and thus improves hemocompatibility. To test this hypothesis, we subjected the modified films to hemocompatibility tests to evaluate contact activation, platelet adhesion and activation, as well as whole blood clotting response to the films. Here, we demonstrate the alteration of blood responses due to polyacrylic acid (PAAc) engraftment and subsequent antibody conjugation on biaxially stretched polycaprolactone (PCL) films. Compared to PCL, PAAc-engrafted PCL (PCL-PAAc) and CD34-antibody-conjugated films (PCL-PAAC-CD34) resulted in a four- to ninefold (p < 0.001) reduced platelet activation. PCL-PAAc, however, resulted in an increased contact activation on thromboelastography, and a poorer blood compatibility index assay (43.4% +/- 2.3% vs. 60.9% +/- 2.5%, p < 0.05). PCL-PAAC-CD34, on the other hand, resulted in delayed clot formation (r = 19.3 +/- 1.5, k = 6.8 +/- 0.6 min) and reduced platelet adhesion and activation, and yielded the highest blood compatibility index score, indicating least thrombogenicity (69.3% +/- 3.2%). Our results suggest that CD34 antibody conjugation significantly improved the hemocompatibility of PAAc-conjugated PCL."}
{"id": "20209597", "title": "Perioperative coagulation profile in living liver donors as assessed by rotational thromboelastometry.", "content": "Perioperative coagulation profile in living liver donors as assessed by rotational thromboelastometry. Transient postoperative coagulation abnormalities frequently occur in living liver donors, particularly after right liver resection. Usually, this coagulopathy is diagnosed by alterations in conventional coagulation tests (CCTs) such as the international normalized ratio (INR) of the prothrombin time. However, recent studies using other methods of coagulation monitoring have suggested that postoperative hypercoagulability may also occur in living donors. The rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) system is a coagulation monitor based on the viscoelastic properties of blood. The use of ROTEM for perioperative coagulation monitoring in the setting of living liver donors has not been reported. We evaluated the perioperative coagulation profile as assessed by ROTEM in 16 consecutive donors who underwent either right or left liver resection at our institution. ROTEM analysis and CCTs were performed at the baseline (before skin incision) and on postoperative days 1 and 3. According to the CCTs, hypocoagulability was revealed in all but 1 (left liver) donor. The INR was highest on postoperative day 1 [median = 1.67 (interquartile range = 1.37-1.8)]. In contrast, all donors had a normal coagulation profile as assessed by the ROTEM system throughout the study period. In conclusion, this study showed the disagreement between the CCTs and the ROTEM system, as no significant coagulation abnormalities could be revealed with the latter method during the study period. Further studies are needed to confirm the role of the ROTEM system as a perioperative coagulation monitor in this setting and ultimately its influence on the outcome of living donors."}
{"id": "20201376", "title": "[Interpretation of thromboelastography data in cardiosurgical patients].", "content": "[Interpretation of thromboelastography data in cardiosurgical patients]."}
{"id": "20196517", "title": "[Survey of perioperative hemostasis and transfusion management in cardiac surgery: how do anesthesiologists practice?].", "content": "[Survey of perioperative hemostasis and transfusion management in cardiac surgery: how do anesthesiologists practice?]. To determine practices related to control of perioperative hemostasis and transfusion in patients undergoing cardiac surgery in Spain, including the extent to which protocols are being used. A questionnaire was created to collect information from physicians in anesthesiology and postoperative recovery care between July 1 and September 20, 2007. The physicians were asked about practice in the 12 months prior to the survey. Thirty-four hospitals responded. Seventy percent reported that they did not have protocols or guidelines for the control of hemostasis during cardiac surgery. Forty-four percent did not have information on the proportion of patients who received transfusions; 47% gave transfusions to 75% of patients. The standard preoperative tests were platelet counts, activated partial thromboplastin time, and prothrombin time. Acetylsalicylic acid and clopidogrel were suspended before surgery at 15 (44%) and 25 (73%) hospitals, respectively. In cases of resistance to heparin, additional doses of the drug were injected, in combination with plasma or antithrombin in 29% and 12% of the hospitals, respectively. In the intensive postoperative recovery care unit, only 1 hospital used thromboelastography. Only 1 other hospital used a platelet function analyzer. Hemostasis, perioperative coagulation, and criteria for transfusion vary widely among the hospitals surveyed. Few guidelines are available and they are not often being followed. A high percentage of patients receive transfusions, although not all hospitals can cite a figure. New technology has not been widely applied."}
{"id": "20185519", "title": "Rotation thromboelastometry detects thrombocytopenia and hypofibrinogenaemia during orthotopic liver transplantation.", "content": "Rotation thromboelastometry detects thrombocytopenia and hypofibrinogenaemia during orthotopic liver transplantation. Orthotopic liver transplantation can be associated with haemorrhage, particularly in patients with severe liver dysfunction. We assessed the value of rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM) to monitor coagulation in the operating theatre, its correlation with routine laboratory findings, and its ability to guide platelet (Plt) and fibrinogen (Fg) transfusion. Twenty-three patients were included in this prospective observational study. Laboratory tests and ROTEM tests (EXTEM, INTEM, FIBTEM, and APTEM) were performed six times during the procedure. Correlations between laboratory findings and ROTEM parameters were sought. Thresholds for ROTEM parameters were determined with receiver-operating characteristic (ROC) curve analysis according to Plt count and Fg levels. Clot amplitude at 10 min (A10) of EXTEM was well correlated with Plt count and Fg levels (R(2)=0.46 and 0.52, respectively, P<0.0001). FIBTEM A10 was correlated with Fg (R(2)=0.55, P<0.0001). ROC analysis showed that EXTEM A10 with a threshold of 29 mm predicted thrombocytopenia with a sensitivity of 79% and a specificity of 60%, and a threshold of 26 mm predicted hypofibrinogenaemia with a sensitivity of 83% and a specificity of 75%. ROTEM is useful for the global assessment of coagulation in the operating theatre. EXTEM was the most informative for assessing the whole coagulation process and A10 showed value in guiding Plt and Fg transfusion."}
{"id": "20184500", "title": "Large-scale Ficoll gradient separations using a commercially available, effectively closed, system.", "content": "Large-scale Ficoll gradient separations using a commercially available, effectively closed, system. Multiple cell-therapy products require density separation as a part of manufacturing. The traditional method for Ficoll separation, layering cell suspensions over Ficoll in tubes, followed by centrifugation and collection of cells from the interface, is too cumbersome and poses too high a risk of contamination for clinical-scale use. Recently, a system for clinical-scale Ficoll gradient applications has been introduced (Sepax) but this system has limited availability and is costly. For preparations of mononuclear cells (MNC) for dendritic cell (DC) production, we developed a Ficoll separation protocol that employs the Haemonetics Cell Saver5 surgical blood salvage and wash instrument. This system uses standard blood bags and tubing, has single-use components, and is effectively closed. We analyzed 37 recent separation processes using this instrument and protocol. We measured depletion of red blood cells (RBC) and polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN), and recovery of CD14+ monocytes and MNC. Starting cell counts were 14.6 +/- 8.0 (x10(9)). Total cell recovery was 49.2 +/- 15.2%, RBC depletion was 88.4 +/- 2.8%, PMN depletion was 86.9 +/- 6.1%, MNC recovery was 63.6 +/- 5.0% and CD14+ monocyte recovery was 75.3 +/- 9.9%. The Cell Saver5 is relatively inexpensive to purchase and use. The instrument and its disposables are licensed by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for intra-operative blood salvage, and we have obtained approval for investigational use. Our method with this instrument has proven to be simple and efficient for clinical-scale Ficoll separations."}
{"id": "20181490", "title": "Modified thromboelastography evaluation of platelet dysfunction in patients undergoing coronary artery surgery.", "content": "Modified thromboelastography evaluation of platelet dysfunction in patients undergoing coronary artery surgery. Anti-platelet therapy is associated with increased perioperative bleeding. Although current guidelines call for its caessation 5-10 days prior to cardiac surgery, this could constitute an increased risk of preoperative myocardial infarction. The optimal safe period from discontinuation of anti-platelet therapy to surgery is as yet unknown for the individual patient. We investigated whether preoperative thromboelastography (TEG) with platelet mapping could predict bleeding tendency in patients (on recent anti-platelet therapy) undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). We prospectively evaluated 59 patients on aspirin and clopidogrel therapy who underwent CABG. Of them, 25 patients received aspirin alone. TEG with platelet mapping was performed immediately prior to surgery in all 59 patients. During the first 24h post-surgery, 9/59 patients bled excessively (1216 + or - 310 ml in excessive bleeding vs 576 + or - 155 ml in non-bleeding patients). Of the patients bled excessively, eight received clopidogrel treatment prior to surgery. However, 26 of the remaining 34 patients receiving clopidogrel did not bleed significantly. Clopidogrel-induced platelet dysfunction diagnosed by platelet mapping discerned between patients who demonstrated excessive bleeding and those who did not (78% - sensitivity, 84% - specificity, p=0.004). Aspirin-induced platelet dysfunction did not reflect a bleeding tendency. Of all patients, 85% did not respond to a standard dose of clopidogrel, whereas 44% did not respond to aspirin. TEG with platelet mapping is able to predict excessive postoperative blood loss among patients who underwent CABG and recent anti-platelet therapy. The prevalence of non-responsiveness to anti-platelet therapy, including clopidogrel, is higher in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting than in the general population. In this study, aspirin-induced platelet dysfunction did not influence postoperative blood loss."}
{"id": "20174751", "title": "Facts and artefacts of coagulation assays for factor Xa inhibitors.", "content": "Facts and artefacts of coagulation assays for factor Xa inhibitors."}
{"id": "20158685", "title": "Effects of red blood cells on hemostasis.", "content": "Effects of red blood cells on hemostasis. Currently there is no sensitive laboratory test to establish the influence of red blood cells (RBCs) on hemostasis. As thromboelastography (TEG) measures hemostasis in whole blood, taking into account the interactions of all cellular elements, we used this instrument to investigate the role that RBCs play in hemostasis. In 29 patients with chemotherapy-induced anemia we studied the effect of progressive anemia on the coagulation profile. In 24 patients with chronic anemia we studied the effect of transfusion of RBCs on coagulation. Finally, in 18 patients we evaluated whether storage time of RBCs has additional effects on hemostasis. We observed a significant negative correlation between hemoglobin and TEG variables related to both clot strength and elasticity (p < 0.05). Moreover, anemia was associated with a delay in the initiation of the coagulation cascade. Correction of anemia by RBC transfusion resulted in significant shortening of this initiation phase with now the opposite effect on clot strength and elasticity. The negative effects on clot quality were significantly worse when fresh RBCs were transfused compared to longer-stored RBCs. Furthermore, in contrast to the longer-stored RBCs, fresh RBCs did not enhance initial fibrin formation. In this study we found that anemia was associated with a delay in the initiation of the coagulation cascade with a finally formed clot with superior strength and viscoelastic properties. Transfusion of RBCs was associated with impaired clot quality, with even worse effects on the initial fibrin build-up and clot quality by fresh RBCs."}
{"id": "20154572", "title": "Thrombelastography in trauma, the closer the better.", "content": "Thrombelastography in trauma, the closer the better."}
{"id": "20153216", "title": "Randomised high- and low-dose heparin prophylaxis in patients undergoing thoracotomy for benign and malignant disease: effect on thrombo-elastography.", "content": "Randomised high- and low-dose heparin prophylaxis in patients undergoing thoracotomy for benign and malignant disease: effect on thrombo-elastography. Both cancer patients and patients undergoing surgery are thought to be at an increased risk of thrombo-embolic events. Consequently, low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) is administered to all such patients perioperatively. There is a lack of consensus in guidelines regarding the timing of administration and the dosage of thromboprophylactic agents. Studies have shown that thrombo-elastography (TEG) is a useful test in assessing global haemostatic function, and has been validated in monitoring the dosage of LMWH. In this study, we assess the coagulation status of patients undergoing thoracic surgery with TEG, and the effectiveness of administered LMWH for thromboprophylaxis. Thirty patients with primary lung cancer (LC) and 30 with benign lung disease (BL) were studied prospectively. Patients were randomised to receive subcutaneous LMWH 40 mg once or twice per day perioperatively. Their coagulation status was monitored with TEG preoperatively and postoperatively for 3 consecutive days. Preoperative TEG parameters (k time, alpha angle and maximum amplitude (MA)) were within the normal range in both the LC and BL groups. Preoperative r time was prolonged in both the groups, but with no significant difference between the two groups (p>0.05). Postoperatively, r time was prolonged in some patients receiving LMWH twice daily, suggesting a possible adequate thromboprophylaxis in these patients only. This study demonstrates that the majority of patients with LC are not hypercoagulable. We also showed that LMWH once or twice a day might not provide sufficient thromboprophylaxis. We advocate screening for patients demonstrating hypercoagulable states and ensuring adequate thromboprophylaxis in this group of patients with careful monitoring."}
{"id": "20150854", "title": "Thrombelastography in the surgical patient.", "content": "Thrombelastography in the surgical patient. Coagulopathy in surgical patients is an important factor in triggering major perioperative complications, i.e., intra- or postoperative bleeding and thrombo-embolic events associated with an increased mortality and morbidity. Different methods exist to assess the coagulation status of patients before, during and after surgery. Routine coagulation tests have long been considered to be the clinical standard. However, these tests have considerable limitations. Information regarding the kinetics of clot formation, clot strength, interaction of the coagulation components, platelet function and fibrinolysis is not available. Moreover, there is an important delay in obtaining test results. In contrast, thrombelastography and thrombelastometry, which both measure the visco-elastic properties of whole blood, allow the dynamic assessment of a developing clot, from fibrin formation to clot strengthening and clot lysis. Both techniques are increasingly being used in daily clinical practice in order to detect perioperative coagulopathy and to guide predominantly pro-coagulant therapy in different settings. This article provides an overview of both techniques, thrombelastography (TEG) and thrombelastometry (ROTEM), and their field of perioperative application considering of recently published data."}
{"id": "20148980", "title": "Thrombin generation in haemophilia A patients with mutations causing factor VIII assay discrepancy.", "content": "Thrombin generation in haemophilia A patients with mutations causing factor VIII assay discrepancy. Up to 40% of patients with mild haemophilia A have a discrepancy whereby factor VIII (FVIII) measurements by a two-stage chromogenic assay (FVIII:C(CH)) are disproportionately reduced compared with the FVIII one-stage clotting value (FVIII:C). Which assay best reflects the coagulation potential and clinical phenotype in this patient group is of clinical significance, yet remains unclear. We have assessed the global coagulant ability of haemophilia patients with FVIII assay discrepancy using calibrated automated thrombography (CAT). A total of 18 patients with mutations Arg531His/Cys or Arg698Trp causing FVIII discrepancy were investigated, together with 12 haemophilia patients with concordant FVIII values and 15 normal controls. Factor VIII levels in all patients and controls were measured using both one-stage clotting assay and two-stage chromogenic assay. Thrombin generation was assessed in platelet-poor plasma by CAT using a low tissue factor concentration (1 pm). FVIII:C(CH) values were below normal in all patients, and in the discrepant group were between 1.5- and 8-fold lower than FVIII:C values. CAT parameters were affected in all haemophilia patients. The endogenous thrombin potential (ETP) was reduced to 58-67% of the mean normal value (1301 nm min(-1)), whereas peak thrombin was further reduced to 27-30% of the mean normal value (178 nm) in both discrepant and concordant patient groups. Analysis of the discrepant patient group showed the most significant correlation between the one-stage FVIII:C assay and ETP (r(2) = 0.44) and peak thrombin parameters (r(2) = 0.27)."}
{"id": "20142345", "title": "The relationship among thromboelastography, hemostatic variables, and bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass surgery in children.", "content": "The relationship among thromboelastography, hemostatic variables, and bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass surgery in children. Mediastinal bleeding is common after pediatric cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) surgery. Thromboelastography (TEG) may predict bleeding and provide insight into likely mechanisms. We aimed to (a) compare perioperative temporal profiles of TEG and laboratory hemostatic variables between patients with significant hemorrhage (BLEED) and those without (CONTROL), (b) investigate the relationship between TEG variables and routine hemostatic variables, and (c) develop a model for prediction of bleeding. TEG and laboratory hemostatic variables were measured prospectively at 8 predefined times for 50 children weighing <20 kg undergoing CPB. Patients who bled demonstrated different TEG profiles than those who did not. This was most apparent after protamine administration and was partly attributable to inadequate heparin reversal, but was also associated with a significantly lower nadir in mean (sd) fibrinogen for the BLEED group compared with CONTROL group: 0.44 (0.18) and 0.71 (0.40) g/L, respectively (P = 0.01). Significant nonlinear relationships were found between the majority of TEG and laboratory hemostatic variables. The strongest relationship was between the maximal amplitude and the platelet-fibrinogen product (logarithmic r(2) = 0.71). Clot strength decreased rapidly when (a) fibrinogen concentration was <1 g/L, (b) platelets were <120 x 10(9)/L, and (c) platelet-fibrinogen product was <100. A 2-variable model including the activated partial thromboplastin time at induction of anesthesia and TEG mean amplitude postprotamine discriminated well for subsequent bleeding (C statistic 0.859). Hypofibrinogenemia and inadequate heparin reversal are 2 important factors contributing to clot strength and perioperative hemorrhage after pediatric CPB. TEG may be a useful tool for predicting and guiding early treatment of mediastinal bleeding in this group."}
{"id": "20140242", "title": "Elevated cardiac troponin I in sepsis and septic shock: no evidence for thrombus associated myocardial necrosis.", "content": "Elevated cardiac troponin I in sepsis and septic shock: no evidence for thrombus associated myocardial necrosis. Elevated cardiac troponin I (cTnI) is frequently observed in patients with severe sepsis and septic shock. However, the mechanisms underlying cTnI release in these patients are still unknown. To date no data regarding coagulation disturbances as a possible mechanism for cTnI release during sepsis are available. Consecutive patients with systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS), sepsis or septic shock without evidence of an acute coronary syndrome were analyzed. Coagulation parameters (clotting time (CT), clot formation time (CFT), maximum clot firmness (MCF), alpha-angle) were assessed in native whole blood samples, and using specific activators to evaluate the extrinsic and intrinsic as well as the fibrin component of the coagulation pathway with the use of rotational thrombelastometry (ROTEM). Thirty-eight patients were included and 22 (58%) were cTnI-positive. Baseline characteristics between TnI-positive and -negative patients were similar. The CT, CFT, MCF and the alpha-angle were similar between the groups with trends towards shorter CT in the extrinsic and fibrin activation. We found no differences in coagulation parameters analyzed with rotational thrombelastometry between cTnI-positive and -negative patients with SIRS, severe sepsis, and septic shock. These findings suggest that pathophysiological mechanisms other than thrombus-associated myocardial damage might play a major role, including reversible myocardial membrane leakage and/or cytokine mediated apoptosis in these patients."}
{"id": "20135059", "title": "Assessment of laboratory assays to measure rivaroxaban--an oral, direct factor Xa inhibitor.", "content": "Assessment of laboratory assays to measure rivaroxaban--an oral, direct factor Xa inhibitor. Although there is no need for routine coagulation monitoring with rivaroxaban--an oral, direct factor Xa inhibitor--a haemostasis assay might be valuable to measure its pharmacodynamic effects. This study aimed to find assays, among those commercially available, to measure rivaroxaban pharmacodynamics. Several global conventional clotting tests, as well as clotting or chromogenic assays to measure anti-factor Xa activity, were studied. A thrombin generation test using calibrated automated thrombogram was also done. Tests were performed with the indirect factor Xa inhibitor fondaparinux for comparison. A concentration-dependent prolongation of prothrombin time (PT), dilute PT, and activated partial thromboplastin time was observed with rivaroxaban. The results varied depending on the reagents. This variability cannot be standardised with the international normalised ratio system commonly used for vitamin K antagonists. Using a standard calibration curve, PT test results can be expressed in plasma concentrations of rivaroxaban rather than PT seconds or ratio. Standard methods for HepTest and two-step prothrombinase-induced clotting time (PiCT) resulted in a paradoxical response, with low concentrations of rivaroxaban reducing clotting times. This was not observed with shorter incubation times, or when antithrombin-deficient (immunodepleted) plasma was used. The chromogenic tests found a dose-dependent relationship between anti-factor Xa activity and rivaroxaban concentration. Modified specific factor Xa chromogenic assays are being further investigated. One-step PiCT and HepTest with shortened incubation times, as well as the widely available PT assay (using a rivaroxaban calibrator) could be useful to monitor the pharmacodynamic effects of rivaroxaban accurately. Finally, all clotting and chromogenic assays showed a concentration-dependent effect induced by rivaroxaban."}
{"id": "20133450", "title": "Haemodilution-induced profibrinolytic state is mitigated by fresh-frozen plasma: implications for early haemostatic intervention in massive haemorrhage.", "content": "Haemodilution-induced profibrinolytic state is mitigated by fresh-frozen plasma: implications for early haemostatic intervention in massive haemorrhage. Fibrinolysis contributes to coagulopathy after major trauma and surgery. We hypothesized that progressive haemodilution is responsible, at least in part, for increased fibrinolytic tendency of blood clot. The study was performed in two parts. First, whole blood (WB) samples collected from six healthy, consented volunteers were diluted in vitro with either saline or fresh-frozen plasma (FFP) to 40% and 15% of baseline. We quantified factor levels related to coagulation and fibrinolysis, and measured endogenous thrombin generation in undiluted control plasma samples and in samples diluted with saline or FFP. Additionally, thromboelastometry was used to assess susceptibility to fibrinolysis after adding tissue plasminogen activator in undiluted WB samples and in samples diluted with saline before and after substitution of fibrinogen or FFP. Secondly, as a model of in vivo haemodilution, we evaluated the same parameters before and after operation in nine consented patients undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery. The dilution with saline caused dose-dependent decreases in plasma levels of coagulation and antifibrinolytic factors, and in thrombin generation. In FFP-supplemented samples, factor levels and thrombin generation were maintained within normal ranges. Fibrinolytic tendency was significantly higher after haemodilution with saline independent of fibrinogen substitution compared with FFP. Similarly, increased tendency for fibrinolysis was also observed in the in vivo haemodilution. We demonstrated in vitro and in vivo that progressive haemodilution decreases endogenous antifibrinolytic proteins including alpha(2)-antiplasmin and thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor, resulting in increased fibrinolytic tendency. Therefore, early fluid replacement therapy with FFP might be advantageous after massive haemorrhage."}
{"id": "20131826", "title": "Encapsulation and stabilization of gold nanoparticles with \"click\" polyethyleneglycol dendrimers.", "content": "Encapsulation and stabilization of gold nanoparticles with \"click\" polyethyleneglycol dendrimers. Water-soluble arene-cored \"clicked\" and non-\"clicked\" dendrimers terminated by 27, 81, and 243 triethyleneglycol (TEG) tethers (respectively generations G0, G1, and G2) have been synthesized and shown to form dendrimer-encapsulated gold nanoparticles (DEAuNPs) and dendrimer-stabilized gold nanoparticles (DSAuNPs). The dendrimers have been characterized by IR, (1)H NMR, (13)C NMR, size-exclusion chromatography, elemental analysis, MALDI-TOF mass spectroscopy, DOSY NMR, and dynamic light scattering. The AuNPs have been generated and stabilized by these PEGylated dendrimers using a variety of reduction modes, including NaBH(4) in methanol, various single-electron metallocene-type reductants, and even in the absence of additional reductants. The active role of the \"clicked\" triazole rings, dendrimer generation, stoichiometry of Au precursor, and nature of the reductant and of the solvent are delineated, leading to DSAuNPs with the G0 dendrimer and smaller DEAuNPs with the G1 and G2 dendrimers. Altogether, AuNPs in the size range from 1.8 to 42 nm were formed and characterized by transmission electron microscopy (TEM), high resolution TEM (HRTEM) and UV-vis spectroscopy. Both 1,2,3-triazole and PEGylated Percec-type dendrons are required in the dendrimer structure for the stabilization of AuNPs upon NaBH(4) reduction of HAuCl(4) in methanol. On the other hand, in the absence of other reductant in water, only PEGylated Percec-type dendrons in dendrimers were found to be indispensable, because of their semicavitand shape, for the spontaneous reduction of HAuCl(4) and stabilization of DSAuNPs."}
{"id": "20121512", "title": "Obstetric patient on Lovenox therapy: evidence of heparin activity at 24 hours.", "content": "Obstetric patient on Lovenox therapy: evidence of heparin activity at 24 hours."}
{"id": "20104173", "title": "New developments in massive transfusion in trauma.", "content": "New developments in massive transfusion in trauma. Trauma patients requiring massive transfusion represent a population at high risk for potentially preventable death. This review describes recent advances in the early recognition and treatment of the coagulopathy of trauma, as well as ongoing work to define optimal resuscitation strategies. Damage control resuscitation involves the rapid correction of hypothermia and acidosis, direct treatment of coagulopathy, and early transfusion in trauma patients. Recent evidence demonstrates improved mortality and lower overall blood product usage with higher ratios of plasma and platelets to red blood cells transfused. Adjuncts to damage control resuscitation such as factor VIIa may also be beneficial. Thrombelastography and advances in point-of-care testing may provide timely measurements to help guide massive transfusion in patients based on their individual needs. As optimal resuscitation strategies continue to evolve, recent efforts have focused on early and aggressive treatment of coagulopathy, with higher ratios of plasma and platelets to red blood cells transfused. Early evidence suggests that such strategies have a beneficial outcome in regards to trauma-related mortality."}
{"id": "20100756", "title": "Mild controlled hypothermia in preterm neonates with advanced necrotizing enterocolitis.", "content": "Mild controlled hypothermia in preterm neonates with advanced necrotizing enterocolitis. Necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC) with multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) carries significant morbidity and mortality. There is extensive experimental evidence to support investigation of therapeutic hypothermia in infants with these conditions. We aimed to establish the feasibility and safety of mild hypothermia in preterm neonates with NEC and MODS as a prelude to a randomized trial. This was a prospective, nonrandomized pilot study of 15 preterm infants who were referred for surgical intervention of advanced NEC and failure of at least 3 organs. Whole-body cooling was achieved by ambient temperature adjustment with or without cooling mattress. Three groups (n = 5 per group) were cooled to core temperatures of 35.5 degrees C (+/-0.5 degrees C), 34.5 degrees C, and 33.5 degrees C, respectively, for 48 hours before rewarming to 37 degrees C. Infants were carefully assessed to identify adverse effects that potentially were related to cooling and rewarming. A noncooled group (n = 10) with advanced surgical NEC and MODS was used for comparison. Data are medians (interquartile range). Gestational age at birth was 27 weeks (26-30), admission weight was 1.1 kg (1.0-1.7), and admission age was 31 days (12-45). Core temperature was maintained within target range for 90% (88%-97%) of the intended time. Statistically significant relationships were identified between core temperature and heart rate (P < .0001), pH (P < .0001), base excess (P = .003), and blood clot dynamics (longer time to initial clot formation, slower rate of clot formation, and decrease in clot strength; all P < .001) as assessed by thromboelastography. No major clinical problems or adverse events were noted during cooling or rewarming. Comparison with the noncooled group revealed no increase in mortality, bleeding, infection, or need for inotropes in infants who were cooled. Mild hypothermia for 48 hours in preterm neonates with severe NEC seems both feasible and safe. Additional investigation of the efficacy of this therapeutic intervention in this population is warranted."}
{"id": "20096680", "title": "Adaptive force sonorheometry for assessment of whole blood coagulation.", "content": "Adaptive force sonorheometry for assessment of whole blood coagulation. Viscoelastic diagnostics that monitor the hemostatic function of whole blood (WB), such as thromboelastography, have been developed with demonstrated clinical utility. By measuring the cumulative effects of all components of hemostasis, viscoelastic diagnostics have circumvented many of the challenges associated with more common tests of blood coagulation. We describe a new technology, called sonorheometry, that adaptively applies acoustic radiation force to assess coagulation function in WB. The repeatability (precision) of coagulation parameters was assessed using citrated WB samples. A reference range of coagulation parameters, along with corresponding measurements from prothrombin time (PT) and partial thromboplastin time (PTT), were obtained from WB samples of 20 healthy volunteers. In another study, sonorheometry monitored anticoagulation with heparin (0-5 IU/ml) and reversal from varied dosages of protamine (0-10 IU/ml) in heparinized WB (2 IU/ml). Sonorheometry exhibited low CVs for parameters: clot initiation time (TC1), <7%; clot stabilization time (TC2), <6.5%; and clotting angle (theta), <3.5%. Good correlation was observed between clotting times, TC1 and TC2, and PTT (r=0.65 and 0.74 respectively; n=18). Linearity to heparin dosage was observed with average linearity r>0.98 for all coagulation parameters. We observed maximum reversal of heparin anticoagulation at protamine to heparin ratios of 1.4:1 from TC1 (P=0.6) and 1.2:1 from theta (P=0.55). Sonorheometry is a non-contact method for precise assessment of WB coagulation."}
{"id": "20092278", "title": "One-step detection of galectins on hybrid monolayer surface with protruding lactoside.", "content": "One-step detection of galectins on hybrid monolayer surface with protruding lactoside. Galectins, or beta-galactoside binding lectins, are detected deep in tumor tissue and are recognized as diagnostic and prognostic markers of cancer and other serious diseases. There is a need to develop a faster, easier, and simpler method for detecting galectins. We have succeeded in forming a mixed self-assembled monolayer (SAM) interface consisting of beta-galactoside terminated alkanethiol (lactoside protuberant dodecanethiol) and tri(ethylene glycol) (TEG) terminated short alkanethiol, which proved to be a superior protein resistant material, to enable us to develop a label-free, one-step, and highly sensitive system for detecting the expected biomarker, galectin. We successfully detected nanomolar level (~ 1 nM) galectin-4 and -8 on a 4% lactoside protrusive surface, even though the affinity between the galectins and lactoside was very weak (KD = 1 x 10(-3)~1 x 10(-6)). The combination of the suppression of background noise by filling with TEG terminated short alkanethiol and control of the ligand ratio in the interface contributed to the highly sensitive detection of galectin. We also detected galectin-4 at subten nanomolar levels even in a solution containing much higher concentrations of serum proteins (1800 times larger than the galectin concentration) without using molecule labeling or an immunological method."}
{"id": "20087172", "title": "Determination of enoxaparin with rotational thrombelastometry using the prothrombinase-induced clotting time reagent.", "content": "Determination of enoxaparin with rotational thrombelastometry using the prothrombinase-induced clotting time reagent. Drug monitoring of low molecular weight heparin is generally not recommended, but could be reasonable in critically ill patients, whose risk for bleeding or thrombosis shows a high interpatient variability. Anti-Xa assays are not available around the clock even in central hospitals, whereas rotational thrombelastometry (ROTEM) becomes increasingly used at the bedside. Prothrombinase-induced clotting time (PiCT) reagent allows determination of factor Xa-inhibition in plasma. The aim of our study was to evaluate enoxaparin determination in whole blood with the ROTEM using specific test modifications, including PiCT. After ethics committee's approval, citrated whole blood obtained from overall 16 healthy volunteers was incubated with enoxaparin at 16 different anti-Xa concentrations. Main endpoint was the clotting time (CT) in ROTEM representing initial activation of clot formation. CT was determined in the new PiCT-ROTEM test, in a low-tissue factor-activated modification (LowTF-ROTEM) as well as in the commercially available heparin-sensitive ROTEM assays (HEPTEM and INTEM). In the absence of enoxaparin, CT values were 168.6 +/- 6.1 s (PiCT-ROTEM), 247.3 +/- 18.6 s (LowTF-ROTEM), and -6.2 +/- 7.9 s (INTEM-HEPTEM). A linear dependency (P < 0.01) between anti-Xa concentration and CT was found for PiCT-ROTEM, LowTF-ROTEM, and for INTEM-HEPTEM with correlation coefficients of 0.93 for PiCT-ROTEM, 0.94 for LowTF-ROTEM, and 0.81 for INTEM-HEPTEM. This in-vitro experiment demonstrates a strong correlation between enoxaparin anti-Xa concentrations and specific ROTEM tests. These promising assays should be further evaluated for monitoring anticoagulation in high-risk patients in clinical studies."}
{"id": "20083998", "title": "Comparative assessment of hypercoagulability in women with and without gynecologic malignancies using the thromboelastograph coagulation analyzer.", "content": "Comparative assessment of hypercoagulability in women with and without gynecologic malignancies using the thromboelastograph coagulation analyzer. The hypercoagulability status of women with and without gynecologic malignancies was compared using the thromboelastograph coagulation analyzer. Blood specimens from 25 women with newly diagnosed gynecologic malignancies and from 21 age-matched controls were analyzed. Hypercoagulability is defined by a short R value (min), a short K value (min), an elevated maximum amplitude (MA) value (mm), and a broad alpha-angle (degrees). A two-tailed, two-sample t-test was used for statistical analysis. When compared with specimens from age-matched controls, specimens from women with gynecologic malignancies demonstrated values consistent with hypercoagulability. The specific parameters are presented as a mean (+/- SD). Patients with gynecologic malignancies were found to have a short R value (7.1 +/- 2.1 vs. 11.8 +/- 1.8 min; P < 0.001), a short K value (3.1 +/- 0.9 vs. 4.6 +/- 0.9 min; P < 0.001), a prolonged MA value (64.7 +/- 5.4 vs. 58.8 +/- 6.1 mm; P = 0.001), and a greater alpha-angle (70.6 +/- 5.3 vs. 61.6 +/- 4.9 degrees ; P < 0.001). Detection of hypercoagulability as measured by thromboelastography is statistically more common among women with gynecologic malignancies compared with age-matched controls. Future studies may address the use of thromboelastography to identify patients at risk for gynecologic malignancies."}
{"id": "20080378", "title": "[Successful use of recombinant factor VIIa in the control of a massive bleeding in two patients with biventricular assist device (Thoratec)].", "content": "[Successful use of recombinant factor VIIa in the control of a massive bleeding in two patients with biventricular assist device (Thoratec)]. Massive bleeding is a dreaded complication of biventricular mechanical assistance implantation. Its origin is multifactorial. Blood products transfusion associated with correction of coagulopathy are sometimes insufficient. We report two cases of massive bleeding after a Thoratec biventricular assistance implantation. After surgical haemostasis failure and despite the correction of coagulation disorders, a major bleeding persisted, so these patients received a single injection of 90 microg/kg of rFVIIa. This allowed in both cases a significant reduction of the bleeding and the restoration of normal haemodynamic conditions. This treatment was not complicated by any thrombotic accident."}
{"id": "20076842", "title": "Clot formation of neonates tested by thromboelastography correlates with gestational age.", "content": "Clot formation of neonates tested by thromboelastography correlates with gestational age. Evaluation of clot formation in neonates is troublesome. Our aim was to investigate cord blood clot formation of pre-term versus full-term infants and adults, using rotating thromboelastogram (ROTEM), Pentafarm, Munich, Germany). ROTEM was investigated in cord blood of 184 full-term and 47 pre-term infants. Measurements of the clotting time (CT), clot formation time (CFT) and maximal clot firmness (MCF) were obtained in order to asses reference values for this age group, and compare between full-term and pre-term neonates and compared to adult controls. For each infant demographic information and data regarding pregnancy and delivery were gathered. Infants were prospectively followed until discharge. CT and CFT were significantly shorter among pre-term and term infants as compared to adults [median CT: 185, 194, 293 seconds respectively, p pound0.001, CFT: 80, 76, 103 seconds respectively, p pound0.001). MCF was lower in pre-term and term as compared to adults (p pound0.001) with significantly lower values in pre-term as compared to full-term neonates (p=0.004). Clotting time and MCF correlated with gestational age (R=0.132, p=0.045, R= 0.259, p<0.001, respectively). No association was found between any ROTEM values and the occurrence of post-natal complications in infants of our study group. This is the first study assessing clot formation by ROTEM in pre-term infants. Clot formation parameters of term and premature infants correlated with gestational age. The predictive value of clot formation tests in neonates deserves further attention."}
{"id": "20065662", "title": "Validity, regulatory registration and approval of ROTEM thromboelastometry.", "content": "Validity, regulatory registration and approval of ROTEM thromboelastometry."}
{"id": "20056447", "title": "Profound effects of cardiopulmonary bypass priming solutions on the fibrin part of clot formation: an ex vivo evaluation using rotation thromboelastometry.", "content": "Profound effects of cardiopulmonary bypass priming solutions on the fibrin part of clot formation: an ex vivo evaluation using rotation thromboelastometry. Dilutional coagulopathy as a consequence of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) system priming may also be affected by the composition of the priming solution. The direct effects of distinct priming solutions on fibrinogen, one of the foremost limiting factors during dilutional coagulopathy, have been minimally evaluated. Therefore, the authors investigated whether hemodilution with different priming solutions distinctly affects the fibrinogen-mediated step in whole blood clot formation. Prospective observational laboratory study. University hospital laboratory. Eight male healthy volunteers. Blood samples diluted with gelatin-, albumin-, or hydroxyethyl starch (HES)-based priming solutions were ex-vivo evaluated for clot formation by rotational thromboelastometry. The intrinsic pathway (INTEM) coagulation time increased from 186 +/- 19 seconds to 205 +/- 16, 220 +/- 17, and 223 +/- 18 seconds after dilution with gelatin-, albumin-, or HES-containing prime solutions (all p < 0.05 v baseline). The extrinsic pathway (EXTEM) coagulation time was only minimally affected by hemodilution. Moreover, all 3 priming solutions significantly reduced the INTEM and EXTEM maximum clot firmness. The HES-containing priming solution induced the largest decrease in the maximum clot firmness attributed to fibrinogen, from 13 +/- 1 mm (baseline) to 6 +/- 1 mm (p < 0.01 v baseline). All studied priming solutions prolonged coagulation time and decreased clot formation, but the fibrinogen-limiting effect was the most profound for the HES-containing priming solution. These results suggest that the composition of priming solutions may distinctly affect blood clot formation, in particular with respect to the fibrinogen component in hemostasis."}
{"id": "20056441", "title": "Argatroban \"reversal\" is caused by nonphysiologic stimulation of coagulation, not activated factor VII.", "content": "Argatroban \"reversal\" is caused by nonphysiologic stimulation of coagulation, not activated factor VII."}
{"id": "20051844", "title": "Hypocoagulability, as evaluated by thrombelastography, at admission to the ICU is associated with increased 30-day mortality.", "content": "Hypocoagulability, as evaluated by thrombelastography, at admission to the ICU is associated with increased 30-day mortality. Thrombelastography (TEG), a cell-based whole blood assay, may better reflect haemostatic competence than conventional coagulation assays and this was therefore evaluated including the clot forming parameters: R, angle and maximal amplitude in patients at ICU admission. This was a prospective, observational study of patients admitted to a general ICU at a tertiary care university hospital with an expected stay of more than 24 h. Blood samples for TEG and standard coagulation analysis were obtained at admission. The APACHE II and sequential organ failure assessment (SOFA) scores and 30-day mortality were recorded. At ICU admission, 106 patients (42%) showed hypocoagulability as evaluated by TEG and these patients had higher first day SOFA score (P < 0.0001) and higher 30-days (42 vs. 13%, P < 0.0001) mortality than patients presenting with a normal TEG. In 30-day survivors, admission platelet count (P = 0.05), angle (P < 0.001) and maximal amplitude (P = 0.001) were higher and R decreased (P = 0.0013) compared with nonsurvivors. Hypocoagulability at admission as evaluated by TEG was an independent risk factor for 30-day mortality [adjusted odds ratio (OR) 3.5; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.7-7.1]. Hypocoagulability as evaluated by TEG was frequent at admission in general ICU patients and associated with a higher rate of ventilator treatment, higher rate of renal replacement therapy and a higher use of blood products. Hypocoagulability is an independent risk factor for 30-day mortality."}
{"id": "20050927", "title": "Thrombin generation and fibrinolysis in anti-factor IX treated blood and plasma spiked with factor VIII inhibitor bypassing activity or recombinant factor VIIa.", "content": "Thrombin generation and fibrinolysis in anti-factor IX treated blood and plasma spiked with factor VIII inhibitor bypassing activity or recombinant factor VIIa. Activated prothrombin complex concentrates (aPCC) and recombinant activated factor VIIa (rFVIIa) are two important therapies in haemophilia patients with inhibitors and improve clot stability. We hypothesized that potential differences in procoagulant and fibrinolytic actions of aPCC and rFVIIa may lie in the clot stability against fibrinolytic activation. We used thrombin generation, fluorescence detection and thromboelastometry in anti-factor IXa (FIXa) aptamer-treated whole blood (WB) and plasma to evaluate: (i) generation of thrombin and activated factor X (FXa) and (ii) viscoelastic properties of blood clots in the presence of tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) after addition of aPCC (0.4 U mL(-1)) or rFVIIa (60 nm). Peak thrombin generation increased from 85 +/- 19 nm in aptamer-treated plasma to 276 +/- 83 nm and 119 +/- 22 nm after addition of aPCC and rFVIIa respectively (P < 0.001). FXa activity increased within 20 min by 87 +/- 6% and by 660 +/- 97% after addition of aPCC and rFVIIa respectively (P < 0.001). TPA-induced lysis time increased from 458 +/- 378 s in aptamer-treated WB to 1597 +/- 366 s (P = 0.001) and 1132 +/- 214 s (P = 0.075), after addition of aPCC and rFVIIa respectively. In this haemophilia model using the anti-FIXa aptamer, the larger amount of thrombin was generated with aPCC compared with rFVIIa, while FXa generation was more rapidly increased in the presence of rFVIIa. Furthermore, clot formation in anti-FIXa aptamer-treated WB was less susceptible to tPA-induced fibrinolysis after adding aPCC compared with rFVIIa."}
{"id": "20050846", "title": "Electrophysiological characterization of isolated human atrial myocytes exposed to tegaserod.", "content": "Electrophysiological characterization of isolated human atrial myocytes exposed to tegaserod. Tegaserod (Teg), a 5-hydroxytryptamine type-4 (5-HT(4)) receptor partial agonist, represents a novel treatment for irritable bowel syndrome with constipation and chronic constipation. Cardiovascular safety data from pooled clinical studies showed a signal suggestive of increased occurrence of ischaemic cardiovascular events in patients exposed to Teg versus placebo. Thereafter, marketing of Teg was suspended in the USA and other countries. The clinical data did not demonstrate a causative effect but raised questions of whether a non-recognized effect on the heart was present. Our aim was to evaluate for arrhythmogenic potential of Teg on human cardiomyocytes. Cells isolated from human atrial specimens during cardiac surgery were used to assess the effects of Teg (1, 10, 30 and 100 nM) on action potential and I(f) (funny current) by patch-clamp technique. Results showed that Teg (at all concentrations tested) did not significantly affect action potential characteristics of atrial myocytes when driven at different rates (0.2, 0.5 and 1 Hz). In contrast, 5HT significantly prolonged action potential duration (1 and 10 nM) and caused cell un-excitability (100 nM). Teg, at the highest concentration tested (100 nM, corresponding to 10 times C(max), produced by the recommended dose of 6 mg b.i.d.) increased the I(f) amplitude and caused a shift of its activation curve. This effect of a high concentration of Teg is not considered clinically relevant. When evaluated on single human atrial cells, Teg does not appear to exhibit arrhythmogenic properties, as it did not affect the action potential profile."}
{"id": "20040855", "title": "Algorithm-based coagulation management of catastrophic amniotic fluid embolism.", "content": "Algorithm-based coagulation management of catastrophic amniotic fluid embolism. Amniotic fluid embolism (AFE) is a rare, but often catastrophic, complication of pregnancy and associated with severe coagulopathy. We present an algorithm-based approach in managing coagulopathy and hemorrhage in a fatal case of histopathologically proven AFE. Thrombelastometry was used for rapid evaluation of the coagulation status. Stop of extensive hyperfibrinolysis with tranexamic acid, stabilization of initial clot formation with high-dose fibrinogen and platelet transfusions, and use of prothrombin complex concentrate together with a 1: 1 transfusion regimen of red packed cells and fresh frozen plasma was successful to control diffuse bleeding and restore clot firmness after hysterectomy. Stable clotting situation was maintained despite further clinical deterioration and development of multiple organ failure in this patient."}
{"id": "20035517", "title": "Use of thromboelastography PlateletMapping to monitor antithrombotic therapy in a patient with Budd-Chiari syndrome.", "content": "Use of thromboelastography PlateletMapping to monitor antithrombotic therapy in a patient with Budd-Chiari syndrome. Budd-Chiari syndrome (BCS) is the end result of a number of disease states resulting in hepatic venous outflow obstruction. We report a Janus kinase 2-homozygous patient with BCS who thrombosed a transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) despite treatment with warfarin (international normalized ratio = 3.0), aspirin, and clopidogrel. PlateletMapping (Haemonetics Corp.) is a novel point-of-care assay of platelet function based on thromboelastography (TEG) that has the ability to detect platelet inhibition (%) by antiplatelet therapy. Initial PlateletMapping traces showed no platelet inhibition by aspirin or clopidogrel but demonstrated adequate suppression of plasmatic coagulation. On this basis, the aspirin dose was doubled, and this resulted in a significant increase in platelet inhibition (45%). To further suppress platelet activity, the patient was started on tirofiban, a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitor. Repeat PlateletMapping revealed 100% inhibition of platelets by both pathways, and this coincided with angiographic evidence of TIPS blood flow. Subsequently, the patient developed bleeding from the venous access sites. TEG demonstrated poor underlying plasmatic coagulation with a prolonged R time of 9.2 minutes (normal = 2-8 minutes), and the international normalized ratio was found to be supratherapeutic (>4). Treatment with fresh frozen plasma stopped the bleeding without compromising the platelet inhibition. This case demonstrates that increased platelet activation may contribute to the development of thromboses in BCS. Despite the standard dose of dual antiplatelet therapy, there was minimal inhibition in platelet function, and anticoagulation with warfarin alone was not adequate to prevent thrombotic events. PlateletMapping was used to assess and then optimize the antiplatelet treatment while facilitating the management of complications without an increased risk of thrombosis."}
{"id": "20030789", "title": "Therapeutic efficacy of platelet transfusion in patients with acute leukemia: an evaluation of methods.", "content": "Therapeutic efficacy of platelet transfusion in patients with acute leukemia: an evaluation of methods. Clinical effect of platelet (PLT) transfusion is monitored by measures of PLT viability (PLT recovery and survival) and functionality. In this study we evaluate and compare transfusion effect measures in patients with chemotherapy-induced thrombocytopenia due to treatment of acute leukemia. Forty transfusions (28 conventional gamma-irradiated and 12 pathogen-inactivated photochemical-treated PLT concentrates [PCs]) were investigated. PC quality was analyzed immediately before transfusion. Samples were collected from thrombocytopenic patients at 1 and 24 hours for PLT increments and thromboelastography (TEG) with assessments of bleeding score and intertransfusion interval (ITI). Data were analyzed by Spearman's correlation. Patient and PC variables influencing the effect of transfusion were analyzed by use of a mixed-effects model. PLT dose, storage time, and pathogen inactivation correlated with PLT recovery but not with PLT survival (including ITI), TEG, or clinical bleeding. Fever was negatively correlated with PLT survival but did not affect PLT recovery. After 1 and 24 hours, strong correlations were observed within measures of PLT viability and between PLT increment and the TEG value maximal amplitude (MA). Negative correlation was observed between late MA increment and clinical bleeding status after transfusion (r = -0.494, p = 0.008). PLT count increments did not correlate to clinical bleeding status. PLT dose and quality of PCs are important for optimal immediate transfusion response, whereas duration of transfusion effect is influenced mainly by patient variables. The TEG value MA correlates with PLT count increments and bleeding, thus reflecting both PLT viability and functionality."}
{"id": "20028419", "title": "Comparison of kaolin and tissue factor activated thromboelastography in haemophilia.", "content": "Comparison of kaolin and tissue factor activated thromboelastography in haemophilia. A limitation of bypassing agent therapy for haemophilia patients with inhibitors is the absence of a laboratory assay, which predicts the clinical response to treatment. Recent investigations have demonstrated the potential for thromboelastography to assess the effects of bypassing agent therapy in this patient population. While tissue factor activation has been used in several prior studies, a recent multicentre study failed to demonstrate an expected concentration-response effect of rFVIIa and called into question the tissue factor activation methods that have been employed. A comparison of kaolin to two concentrations of tissue factor as the activation method for thromboelastography was investigated in patients with haemophilia. We performed kaolin and tissue factor activated thromboelastography on blood from inhibitor and non-inhibitor patients with and without addition of rFVIIa and rFVIII. The results demonstrate that kaolin leads to a longer R, K and angle than the higher dilution of tissue factor (1:17 000) at baseline (no factor) and after addition of rFVIIa for both the inhibitor and non-inhibitor patients. Kaolin led to a longer R and K in comparison to a low dilution of tissue factor (1:42 000) following the addition of rFVIIa in the inhibitor patients. The longer R and K allows for better discrimination of the effects of rFVIIa thus making kaolin the most sensitive activation method in this setting. Thus kaolin activated thromboelastography should be considered an effective, perhaps the most effective, activator when utilizing thromboelastography to assess the effects of rFVIIa in haemophilia patients with inhibitors."}
{"id": "20024495", "title": "Impaired thrombin generation and fibrin clot formation in patients with dilutional coagulopathy during major surgery.", "content": "Impaired thrombin generation and fibrin clot formation in patients with dilutional coagulopathy during major surgery. Patients subjected to haemodilution during surgery are at increased risk of bleeding. We hypothesised that, in the acquired dilutional coagulopathy, insufficient haemostasis is due to either insufficient thrombin generation or insufficient fibrin clot formation. In tissue factor-activated plasmas from patients with coagulation deficiency, we measured time curves of thrombin generation and fibrin clot formation (thromboelastography). Investigated were in study A: 10 patients treated with vitamin K antagonist and five healthy subjects; in study B: 30 patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) surgery and infused with on average 2,000 ml crystalloids and colloids (no major bleeding); in study C: 58 patients undergoing major general surgery, and transfused with >5,000 ml crystalloids, colloids and red cell concentrates, who experienced major bleeding and were post-transfused with fresh frozen plasma. The treatment with vitamin K antagonist led to a progressive reduction in thrombin generation but not fibrin clot formation. In CPB patients, plasma factor levels post-surgery were 53-60% of normal. This was accompanied by moderate reduction in both haemostatic processes. In plasmas from patients undergoing major surgery, factor levels were 38-41% of normal, and these levels increased after plasma transfusion. Taking preset thresholds for normal thrombin generation and fibrin clot formation, at least one of these processes was low in 88-93% of the patients with (persistent) bleeding, but only in 40-53% of the patients without bleeding. In conclusion, the ability of thrombin generation and fibrin clot formation is independently reduced in acquired dilutional coagulopathy, while minimal levels of both are required for adequate haemostasis."}
{"id": "20024491", "title": "Intra-patient variability of thromboelastographic parameters following in vivo and ex vivo administration of recombinant activated factor VII in haemophilia patients. A multi-centre, randomised trial.", "content": "Intra-patient variability of thromboelastographic parameters following in vivo and ex vivo administration of recombinant activated factor VII in haemophilia patients. A multi-centre, randomised trial. Thromboelastography methods have been used to predict or monitor treatment of haemophilia patients with recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa). However, neither of the two thromboelastographic methods (ROTEM and TEG) has as yet been validated. This multi-centre, randomised trial compared both methods in terms of intra- and inter- patient variability following in vivo and ex vivo rFVIIa administration to haemophilia A and B patients with and without inhibitors. Patients ((3)16 years old) received the same intravenous rFVIIa dose (45, 90 or 180 microg/kg) twice, 1-12 weeks apart. Blood samples were collected pre-dose and 15, 60, 120 and 240 minutes post-dose for ROTEM and TEG analysis. Pre-dose samples were also spiked ex vivo with rFVIIa (0.6, 1.2 or 2.4 microg/ml), to correspond to the three in vivo doses. Twenty-six haemophilia A and four haemophilia B patients were enrolled. A significant treatment effect was observed with in vivo rFVIIa (p<0.05) with more pronounced effects in inhibitor (n=14) versus non-inhibitor (n=16) patients. There was a strong positive correlation between ROTEM and TEG parameters. Intra- and inter-patient variation was large for all thromboelastography parameters at all time points and rFVIIa doses. Intra-patient variation was generally lower for non-inhibitor than inhibitor patients, and lower following ex vivo spiking versus in vivo rFVIIa administration. In conclusion, there was a clear effect of rFVIIa on all thromboelastography parameters, but the large intra- and inter-patient variability following in vivo rFVIIa administration renders the use of our method unsuitable for dose-response prediction for haemophilia patients in the clinical setting."}
{"id": "20023190", "title": "Thromboelastometry to guide recombinant activated factor VII therapy for postoperative refractory intracranial bleeding.", "content": "Thromboelastometry to guide recombinant activated factor VII therapy for postoperative refractory intracranial bleeding."}
{"id": "20007735", "title": "Multidisciplinary approach to the challenge of hemostasis.", "content": "Multidisciplinary approach to the challenge of hemostasis. A multidisciplinary panel consisting of experts chosen by the 2 chairs of the group representing experts in anesthesiology, blood banking, hematology, critical care medicine, and various surgical disciplines (trauma, cardiac, pediatric, neurologic, obstetrics, and vascular) convened in January 2008 to discuss hemostasis and management of the bleeding patient across different clinical settings, with a focus on perioperative considerations. Although there are many ways to define hemostasis, one clinical definition would be control of bleeding without the occurrence of pathologic thrombotic events (i.e., when balance among procoagulant, anticoagulant, fibrinolytic, and antifibrinolytic activities is achieved). There are common hemostatic challenges that include lack of scientific evidence and standardized guidelines for the use of therapeutic drugs, need for reliable and rapid laboratory tools for measuring hemostasis, and individual variability. Clinically meaningful and accurate real-time laboratory data reflecting a patient's hemostatic status are needed to guide treatment decisions. Current available routine laboratory tests of hemostasis (e.g., platelet count, prothrombin time/international normalized ratio, and activated partial thromboplastin time) do not reflect the complexity of in vivo hemostasis and can mislead the clinician. Although point-of-care coagulation monitoring tests including measures of thromboelastography/elastometry provide insight into overall hemostatic status, they are time-consuming to perform, complex to interpret, and require trained personnel. There is a particular need to develop laboratory tests that can measure the effects of anticoagulant and antiplatelet agents for individual patients, predict bleeding complications, and guide therapy when and if treatment with blood products or pharmacologic drugs is required. Formation of an organization comprised of specialists who treat bleeding patients will foster multidisciplinary collaborations and promote discussions of the current state of hemostasis treatment and future priorities for hemostasis research. Controlled trials with clinically meaningful end points and suitable study populations, as well as observational studies, investigator-initiated studies, and large registry and database studies are essential to answer questions in hemostasis. Because of the complexities of maintaining hemostatic balance, advances in hemostasis research and continuing communication across specialties are required to improve patient care and outcomes."}
{"id": "20005132", "title": "A new plasma-adapted hydroxyethyl starch preparation: in vitro coagulation studies.", "content": "A new plasma-adapted hydroxyethyl starch preparation: in vitro coagulation studies. Preparing hydroxyethyl starch (HES) in a plasma-adapted solution is supposed to improve safety with regard to coagulation. The influence of a new plasma-adapted HES preparation on coagulation was studied. Operator-blinded, randomized study. Laboratory in vitro study. Fifteen healthy young men scheduled for blood donation. Blood was diluted by 10%, 30%, and 50% using either a plasma-adapted or nonplasma-adapted (prepared in saline solution) potato-derived 6% HES 130/0.42. Only the composition of the solvent of the 2 HES preparations was different. Rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM; Pentapharm, Munich, Germany) was used to assess changes in coagulation; whole blood aggregometry with 3 inducers was used to assess effects of dilution with HES on platelet function. Clotting time (CT) and clot formation time were significantly prolonged by 30% and 50% dilution, showing significantly longer times in the non-plasma-adapted than in the plasma-adapted HES group (eg, intrinsic CT at the 30% dilution level: plasma-adapted HES 228 +/- 26 seconds [within normal range] v 269 +/- 29 seconds in the nonplasma-adapted HES group). Clot strengthening and clot firmness were significantly reduced by the non-plasma-adapted HES at the 30% dilution level. Platelet aggregation was significantly more reduced by the non-plasma-adapted HES at the 30% and 50% dilution levels. Dilution with the nonplasma-adapted HES 130/0.42 was associated with more negative effects on thromboelastometry and platelet aggregation than the same HES 130/0.4 dissolved in a plasma-adapted solution. The benefits of using a plasma-adapted modern HES preparation on blood loss and use of blood/blood products in cardiac surgery need to be studied."}
{"id": "19995396", "title": "Haemostasis and thrombosis in liver disease.", "content": "Haemostasis and thrombosis in liver disease. Liver disease impacts on both primary and secondary haemostatic mechanisms and historically these changes were thought to underpin the bleeding diathesis. However, bleeding complications in patients with liver disease are unpredictable, with the majority of haemorrhagic episodes occurring as a result of porto-systemic varices. Thrombosis is an increasingly recognised complication and systemic hypercoagulability may contribute to the development of parenchymal extinction and accelerated hepatic fibrosis. Routine laboratory tests do not reliably predict the risk of haemorrhage and the optimal management strategy to avert potential bleeding complications is yet to be established. There may be a future role for global coagulation assays, such as thrombelastography and thrombin generation, in both stratifying the risk of bleeding and guiding management of these patients."}
{"id": "19995349", "title": "Use of rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM) to achieve successful treatment of polytrauma with fibrinogen concentrate and prothrombin complex concentrate.", "content": "Use of rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM) to achieve successful treatment of polytrauma with fibrinogen concentrate and prothrombin complex concentrate. Goal-directed coagulation therapy is essential in the management of trauma patients with severe bleeding. Due to the complex nature of coagulation disorders in trauma, a quick and reliable diagnostic tool is essential. We report a severely injured multiple trauma patient who received haemostatic therapy with coagulation factor concentrates, guided by rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM). Initial therapy consisted of fibrinogen concentrate (Haemocomplettan P), as maximum clot firmness in the ROTEM analyses was low, whereas clotting time was normal. Later on, prothrombin complex concentrate was given to optimise thrombin generation. This approach enabled extended emergency hemihepatectomy to be performed without using fresh frozen plasma. As the EXTEM maximum clot firmness showed good clot quality, no platelets were transfused despite low platelet counts. This case shows the potential success of treatment using both fibrinogen concentrate and prothrombin complex concentrate, not only in restoring haemostasis but also in minimising requirement for transfusion of allogeneic blood products."}
{"id": "19962724", "title": "Post interventional cardiology urinary thromboxane correlates with PlateletMapping detected aspirin resistance.", "content": "Post interventional cardiology urinary thromboxane correlates with PlateletMapping detected aspirin resistance. We have previously defined aspirin resistance detected by TEG PlateletMapping using arachidonic acid (AA). This aspirin resistance is observed as platelet activation (>20%) by AA in whole blood, even though the isolated platelets are inhibited by aspirin. This platelet activation in whole blood is due to a transcellular pathway mediated by platelets and leukocytes. To determine if this PlateletMapping assay of aspirin resistance on pre-procedure blood samples correlated with an in vivo response we assayed the first voided urine samples collected 2-8 hours post interventional cardiology procedures for 11-dehydro thromboxane B2. We detected 27 aspirin resistant patients out of a total of 81 (33%), in agreement with our previous study. All of these patients were on aspirin therapy, confirmed by a <20% aggregation response to AA by light transmission platelet aggregometry using isolated platelet rich plasma. Aspirin resistant patients urine samples (14 out of a total of 60 patients analyzed) contained significantly (P=0.008) higher 11-dehydro thromboxane B2 levels than the other 46 aspirin sensitive patients urine samples. Since our previous study implicated 12- and 15-lipoxygenases in this pathway, we also assayed for polymorphisms to determine any correlation with aspirin resistance. A correlation was found in a polymorphism affecting the lipoxygenase domain of platelet 12-lipoxygenase. This result indicates that aspirin resistance detected in whole blood by the TEG PlateletMapping assay correlates with a physiological consequence in terms of thromboxane formation. This is the first report of such a correlation."}
{"id": "19929864", "title": "Hemostatic resuscitation for massive bleeding: the paradigm of plasma and platelets--a review of the current literature.", "content": "Hemostatic resuscitation for massive bleeding: the paradigm of plasma and platelets--a review of the current literature. Continued hemorrhage remains a major contributor of mortality in massively transfused patients and controversy regarding the optimal management exists. Recent studies indicate a possible survival benefit in patients receiving a higher ratio of plasma and platelets (PLTs) to red blood cells (RBCs) than what is recommended in current transfusion guidelines. English databases were searched for reports of patients receiving massive transfusion that tested the effects of administration of plasma and/or PLTs in relation to RBCs on survival from January 1990 to March 2009. Fourteen retrospective studies involving 4594 patients were identified. Six tested the effect on survival in relation to fresh-frozen plasma (FFP)-to-RBC ratio, and five investigated FFP- and PLT-to-RBC ratios. Two studies evaluated implementation of massive transfusion protocols with preemptive FFP and PLT administration; one study based transfusion therapy on the result of the thrombelastograph (TEG) analysis versus historic controls. All studies reviewed demonstrate a survival benefit for patients who receive more FFP and PLT as part of the hemostatic resuscitation. When TEG was used to guide transfusion therapy an increase in FFP and PLT was also seen when compared to historic controls and this was associated with improved survival. High FFP- and PLT-to-RBC ratios seem to improve survival in patients with massive bleeding. Randomized studies evaluating TEG-guided transfusion therapy versus fixed ratios of plasma and PLTs to RBCs in massively bleeding patients is highly warranted."}
{"id": "19923981", "title": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 increases the velocity of thrombus growth and strength in hemophilia A, hemophilia B and factor VII-deficient plasmas.", "content": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 increases the velocity of thrombus growth and strength in hemophilia A, hemophilia B and factor VII-deficient plasmas. Carbon monoxide derived from carbon monoxide releasing molecules (CORMs) has been demonstrated to enhance normal plasma thrombus speed of growth and strength in vitro. We tested the hypothesis that tricarbonyldichlororuthenium (II) dimer (CORM-2) improves the velocity of formation and strength of hemophiliac plasma thrombi as determined by thrombelastography. Plasma deficient (<1% normal activity) in factor VIII (FVIII; n = 11 individuals), factor IX (FIX; n = 5 individuals) or factor VII (FVII; n = 4 individuals) was exposed to 0 or 100 micromol CORM-2, with coagulation initiated with tissue factor. Coagulation kinetics were monitored with thrombelastography for 15 min. Paired t-tests were used to analyze FVIII-deficient plasma results; relative change was used to describe the other plasma types tested. In FVIII-deficient plasma, CORM-2 exposure significantly (P < 0.05) increased the velocity of thrombus formation (84%) and strength (48%) compared with plasma not exposed to CORM-2. FXI-deficient clots demonstrated an increase in velocity of formation (63%) and strength (43%) after CORM-2 exposure. Lastly, CORM-2 exposure increased FVII-deficient plasma velocity of formation (45%) and strength (63%). CORM-2 markedly enhanced the velocity of clot growth and strength in hemophiliac plasma. These findings serve as the rationale to determine whether CORMs could be utilized as hemostatic agents."}
{"id": "19918181", "title": "The effect of haemodilution with 6% hydroxyethyl starch (130/0.4) on haemostasis in pregnancy: an in-vitro assessment using thromboelastometry.", "content": "The effect of haemodilution with 6% hydroxyethyl starch (130/0.4) on haemostasis in pregnancy: an in-vitro assessment using thromboelastometry."}
{"id": "19912209", "title": "Very long half-life plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 reduces bleeding in a mouse model.", "content": "Very long half-life plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 reduces bleeding in a mouse model. To investigate the potential for the future clinical use of a very long half-life plasminogen activator inhibitor type 1 (VLHL PAI-1) as a haemostatic agent. We developed a VLHL PAI-1 (half-life >700 h) recombinant mutant of PAI-1 and assessed VLHL PAI-1 for its ability to inhibit fibrinolysis in vitro using human, rabbit, mouse and rat blood. Fibrin clot lysis time, monitored by thromboelastometry, was determined at various concentrations of VLHL PAI-1. Also, we determined total bleeding time and total blood loss of control, VLHL PAI-1-, tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA)- and tPA + VLHL PAI-1-treated mice. Using a thromboelastometer, mouse blood was most similar to human blood in its coagulation and fibrinolytic characteristics. We evaluated the affect of VLHL PAI-1 on haemostasis using the mouse model and showed that VLHL PAI-1 is an effective inhibitor of fibrin clot degradation. It reduced time of bleeding and total blood loss. VLHL PAI-1 may provide an important physiological mechanism to protect clots from premature dissolution in surgical and trauma settings."}
{"id": "19905844", "title": "Massive GI bleeding due to accidental ASA inhalation.", "content": "Massive GI bleeding due to accidental ASA inhalation. This report describes a 38-year-old man admitted to hospital for a massive rectal bleeding and syncope. He was known to have idiopathic thrombocytopenia but he had never complained of bleeding until he was admitted to hospital with uncontrolled hemorrhage. Upper and lower endoscopic examination, performed 6 hours after occurrence of bleeding, were negative for ulcers or other bleeding lesions. However, capsule endoscopy did detect diffuse areas of petechial hemorrhage and erosions in the small bowel. Thromboelastography performed on the day of admission showed a marked decrease in platelet aggregation rate, that normalized two days after. The patient recovered with conservative treatment only. Thorough questioning did not evidence relevant events apart from inhalation of a massive quantity of acetylsalicylic acid: the patient, working as a farmer, had prepared, without protection, fodder for the animals containing a great amount of acetylsalicylic acid. Bleeding had started few hours thereafter. After recovery, bleeding did not recur despite persistent thrombocytopenia."}
{"id": "19896171", "title": "The perfect measure of hemostasis: a quest for the holy grail.", "content": "The perfect measure of hemostasis: a quest for the holy grail."}
{"id": "19889111", "title": "Monitoring of haemostasis in liver transplantation: comparison of laboratory based and point of care tests.", "content": "Monitoring of haemostasis in liver transplantation: comparison of laboratory based and point of care tests. During orthotopic liver transplanatation haemostasis is often disturbed and coagulation monitoring is mandatory. We compared the results obtained by whole blood prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time assays (Hemochron) and thrombelastometry (ROTEM) 05) with laboratory coagulation assays (prothrombin time, activated partial prothrombin time, fibrinogen, and platelet count) in samples obtained during orthotopic liver transplantations. Determination of prothrombin time and activated partial prothrombin time using the Hemochron device showed good correlation with laboratory coagulation assays (r = 0.912, p < 0.001, and r = 0.794, p < 0.001). Maximum clot firmness as determined by thrombelastometry correlated well with platelet count (r = 0.779, p < 0.001) and, to a lesser degree, with fibrinogen concentration (r = 0.590, p < 0.001). During orthotopic liver transplantation, prothrombin time and activated partial prothrombin time can be reliably determined by the Hemochron device, while thrombelastometry allows assessment of platelet count and fibrinogen concentration."}
{"id": "19878097", "title": "Infusion of hypertonic saline/starch during cardiopulmonary bypass reduces fluid overload and may impact cardiac function.", "content": "Infusion of hypertonic saline/starch during cardiopulmonary bypass reduces fluid overload and may impact cardiac function. Peri-operative fluid accumulation resulting in myocardial and pulmonary tissue edema is one possible mechanism behind post-operative cardiopulmonary dysfunction. This study aimed to confirm an improvement of cardiopulmonary function by reducing fluid loading during an open-heart surgery. Forty-nine elective CABG patients were randomized to an intraoperative infusion of hypertonic saline/hydroxyethyl starch (HSH group) or Ringer's solution (CT group). Both groups received 1 ml/kg/h of the study solution for 4 h after baseline values were obtained (PICCO transpulmonary thermodilution technique). Net fluid balance (NFB), hemodynamic and laboratory parameters were measured. NFB was four times higher in the CT group compared with the HSH group during the first 6 h post-operatively. The total fluid gain until the next morning was lower in the HSH group, 2993.9 (938.6) ml, compared with the CT group, 4298.7 (1059.3) ml (P<0.001). Normalized values (i.e., %-changes from the baseline) of the cardiac index and the global end diastolic volume index increased post-operatively in both groups. Both parameters were significantly higher at 6 h in the HSH group compared with CT group (P=0.002 and 0.005, respectively). Normalized values of the intrathoracic blood volume index were lower in the HSH group at 6 h post-operatively when compared with the CT group. The PaO(2)/FiO(2) ratio decreased similarly in both groups early post-operatively, but recovery tended to be more rapid in the HSH group. Although serum-sodium and serum-chloride levels were significantly higher in the HSH group, the acid-base parameters remained similar and within the normal range. An intraoperative infusion of HSH during cardiac surgery contributes to reduced fluid loading and an improvement in the post-operative cardiac performance. No adverse effects of the HSH infusion were observed."}
{"id": "19860752", "title": "Successful rotational thromboelastometry-guided treatment of traumatic haemorrhage, hyperfibrinolysis and coagulopathy.", "content": "Successful rotational thromboelastometry-guided treatment of traumatic haemorrhage, hyperfibrinolysis and coagulopathy. Transfusion of allogeneic blood products is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Therefore, strategies for reducing transfusion of these products during trauma management are valuable. We report a case of severe blunt abdominal trauma, successfully treated with antifibrinolytic medication and fibrinogen concentrate. Rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) was used to identify hyperfibrinolysis and afibrinogenaemia. In order to achieve haemostasis, over a 3-h period, the patient received a total of 1 g of tranexamic acid, 7 U of packed red blood cells, 16 g of fibrinogen concentrate (Haemocomplettan P), 3500 ml of colloids and 5500 ml of lactated Ringer's solution. Together with surgical measures, this treatment stopped the bleeding and stabilised the patient. There was no transfusion of either fresh-frozen plasma or platelets. The limited need for allogeneic blood products is of particular interest, and clinical studies of the approach used here appear to be warranted."}
{"id": "19851087", "title": "Discard volume necessary for elimination of heparin flush effect on thromboelastography.", "content": "Discard volume necessary for elimination of heparin flush effect on thromboelastography. Heparin is commonly used to prevent obstruction of indwelling arterial catheters with blood clots. It is known to affect the outcomes of analysis of coagulation parameters with thromboelastography (TEG); therefore, it has been recommended to neutralize its effect with heparinase. However, heparinase may also neutralize the effect of low molecular weight heparin and endogenous heparinoids present in critically ill patients and thus yields unreliable results. The aim of this study was to evaluate the minimal discard blood volume needed to eliminate the effect of heparin flush on TEG parameters without the use of heparinase. Ten patients with indwelling arterial catheter were included in the study. Coagulation parameters were evaluated with kaolin-activated TEG. Blood samples were obtained after discarding 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 10 ml of blood to eliminate the effect of heparin. We investigated the influence of the discard volume on time until the first detectable clot (R), speed of clot development (alpha angle), maximal amplitude of the measured clot and time to maximal amplitude of the measured clot. We found an increase in coagulation (reflecting the heparin elimination) with the increasing discard volume between 1 and 4 ml. This was obvious from an increase in alpha angle and maximal amplitude of the measured clot and a decrease in R and time to maximal amplitude of the measured clot (P < 0.001). However, values obtained after discarding 4, 5 and 10 ml of blood did not differ markedly. To obtain valid information about TEG parameters, it is necessary to discard volume of at least 4 ml of blood (i.e., five times the volume of catheter dead space)."}
{"id": "19839992", "title": "Comparative assessment of coagulation changes induced by two different types of heart-lung machine.", "content": "Comparative assessment of coagulation changes induced by two different types of heart-lung machine. The cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) used in heart surgery has a deleterious effect on hemostasis. The aim of our study was to assess by means of standard laboratory and point-of-care methods changes induced by CPB in coagulation parameters, particularly in platelet function, and to determine whether these changes differ depending on the type of heart-lung machine (HLM) used: minimal extracorporeal circulation system (MECC) and standard HLM. The study enrolled 88 patients scheduled for coronary artery bypass surgery performed on pump. Forty-four interventions were performed with MECC and 44 with standard HLM. Blood was sampled preoperatively, after 30 min on CPB, after weaning from CPB, and 24 h postoperatively. Coagulation and platelet function were assessed using multiple electrode aggregometry (MEA), rotation thromboelastometry, as well as standard laboratory tests. Rotation thromboelastometry and standard laboratory reflected significantly impaired hemostasis after weaning from CPB but no significant differences between the two groups at different time points. Aggregation decreased significantly in both groups as early as 30 min after the institution of CPB (P < 0.05, Mann-Whitney U-test) and recovered within the first 24 h postoperatively, without reaching the preoperative level. Intraoperatively, aggregometry values reflected a significantly more severe reduction of platelet function in standard HLM group than in the MECC group (P < 0.01, ProcMixed test). Our findings suggest that MEA and thromboelastometry reflect impairment of coagulation in cardiac surgery performed on different types of HLM and that platelet function is less affected by MECC than by standard HLM."}
{"id": "19825916", "title": "Effects of acute hypervolemic fluid infusion of hydroxyethyl starch and gelatin on hemostasis and possible mechanisms.", "content": "Effects of acute hypervolemic fluid infusion of hydroxyethyl starch and gelatin on hemostasis and possible mechanisms. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of acute hypervolemic fluid infusion (AHFI) of 6% hydroxyethyl starch (HES) 130/0.4 or 4% succinylated gelatin (GEL) on hemostasis and the possible mechanisms. Thirty-six gastric cancer patients were randomized to receive AHFI of either HES, GEL or lactated Ringer's (RL) solution at the rate of 30 mL x kg(-1) x h( -1) from 20 minutes before to 40 minutes after induction of general anesthesia. Group HES and GEL had significantly prolonged PT and aPTT, decreased VIII:C and vWF immediately after AHFI. Statistically prolonged reaction time and coagulation time, and decreased growth angle were seen immediately after HES infusion. Maximum amplitude decreased significantly in group HES and GEL immediately after and 4 hours after AHFI. Gelatin reduced clot quality associated with derangements of fibrin polymerization and HES 130/0.4 delayed initiation of sufficient thrombin generation to convert fibrinogen to fibrin and impaired platelet function."}
{"id": "19819728", "title": "In vitro comparative study of hemostatic components in warfarin-treated and fibrinogen-deficient plasma.", "content": "In vitro comparative study of hemostatic components in warfarin-treated and fibrinogen-deficient plasma. The authors hypothesized that various hemostatic products may differently affect viscoelastic clot formation depending on their respective procoagulant activity and fibrinogen content. In vitro coagulopathy modeling using warfarin-treated plasma (international normalized ratio, 2.8-3.8) and fibrinogen-deficient plasma evaluated by rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM; Pentapharm, Munich, Germany). A university laboratory. Different volumes of cryoprecipitate, fresh frozen plasma (FFP), fibrinogen concentrate, and platelet concentrate were mixed with each abnormal plasma to simulate the in vivo transfusions of 250 mL to 1,000 mL. Three thromboelastometric variables that reflect the rate and extent of clot growth were measured: (1) coagulation time (CT), (2) angle, and (3) maximal clot firmness (MCF). In warfarin-treated plasma, the addition of FFP, cryoprecipitate, and platelets led to a dose-dependent improvement of CT and angle, whereas MCF increased with cryoprecipitate or platelets only. The addition of fibrinogen concentrate improved MCF and angle but not CT. In fibrinogen-deficient plasma, the addition of cryoprecipitate, platelets, and fibrinogen concentrate led to a dose-dependent improvement of ROTEM variables, whereas the addition of FFP resulted in significantly longer CT and lower MCF values compared with other hemostatic products. The addition of platelets in the presence of cytochalasin D (a platelet inhibitor) resulted in improvements of ROTEM variables that were similar to when FFP was added to warfarin-treated and fibrinogen-deficient plasma. Cryoprecipitate supports clot formation on ROTEM more efficiently than FFP because of the high fibrinogen content. Improved ROTEM variables after platelet addition are presumably caused by increased interaction among thrombin-activated platelets and fibrinogen."}
{"id": "19819727", "title": "Fatal pulmonary embolism during liver transplantation in a patient with fulminant hepatic failure: a diagnostic challenge of the \"flat-line\" thromboelastogram.", "content": "Fatal pulmonary embolism during liver transplantation in a patient with fulminant hepatic failure: a diagnostic challenge of the \"flat-line\" thromboelastogram."}
{"id": "19817997", "title": "The effect of elinogrel on high platelet reactivity during dual antiplatelet therapy and the relation to CYP2C19*2 genotype: first experience in patients.", "content": "The effect of elinogrel on high platelet reactivity during dual antiplatelet therapy and the relation to CYP2C19*2 genotype: first experience in patients. To study the effect of a new direct acting reversible P2Y(12) inhibitor, elinogrel (PRT060128), and the relation to cytochrome P450 (CYP) polymorphisms in patients with high platelet reactivity (HPR) on standard dual antiplatelet therapy. We studied the pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic effects of a single 60-mg oral dose of elinogrel in 20 of 45 previously stented stable patients with HPR. We also genotyped for CYP2C19*2,3,5,17 and CYP3A5*3. Platelet reactivity fell within 4 h of dosing, the earliest time point evaluated as measured by the following assays: maximum 5 and 10 microM ADP LTA (P < 0.001 for both vs. predosing); maximum 20 microM ADP LTA (P < 0.05); VerifyNow (P < 0.001); thrombelastography (P < 0.05); VASP phosphorylation (P < 0.01); and perfusion chamber assay (P < 0.05); this was reversible within 24 h in these same assays (P = ns vs. predosing for all assays). CYP2C19*2 was present in 44% of all patients but was more frequent in HPR patients (77% vs. 16%, P = 0.0004). HPR is reversibly overcome by a single 60-mg oral dose of elinogrel, a drug now being investigated in a phase 2 trial. CYP2C19*2 was associated with HPR during conventional dual antiplatelet therapy."}
{"id": "19816205", "title": "Effect of the combination of mannitol and ringer acetate or hydroxyethyl starch on whole blood coagulation in vitro.", "content": "Effect of the combination of mannitol and ringer acetate or hydroxyethyl starch on whole blood coagulation in vitro. Mannitol is administered to decrease the intracranial pressure and to improve surgical conditions during craniotomy. Simultaneously a crystalloid infusion is always given and sometimes hydroxyethyl starch (HES) is indicated for intravascular volume replacement. As normal coagulation profile is required during craniotomy, we aimed at determining the effect of mannitol with or without HES or Ringer acetate on blood coagulation in this randomized cross-over in vitro study. Blood samples were withdrawn from 10 volunteers. From whole blood we prepared 10 vol.% and 20 vol.% dilutions of mannitol (15% Mannitol) alone, mannitol and Ringer acetate, and mannitol and HES 130/0.4 (Voluven) at a ratio of 1:1. Blood samples were analyzed by modified thromboelastometry. Coagulation parameters: clotting time, clot formation time, and maximum clot firmness (MCF), were registered. Clot formation time was prolonged in all dilutions compared with control (P<0.05). MCF decreased in all dilutions compared with control (P<0.05). MCF in 20 vol.% dilution of mannitol with HES was lower than MCF in the corresponding dilution with Ringer acetate (P<0.05). Fibrinogen-dependent MCF in 10 vol.% dilution of mannitol with HES was lower than MCF in the corresponding dilution with Ringer acetate (P<0.05). We conclude that mannitol in combination with HES 130/0.4 impairs clot propagation and clot strength in vitro. Fibrin clot strength impairment is more pronounced when mannitol is combined with HES than Ringer acetate. Our findings indicate that HES in combination with mannitol should be avoided whenever a disturbance in hemostasis is suspected during craniotomy."}
{"id": "19815816", "title": "Effects of cigarette smoke exposure on clot dynamics and fibrin structure: an ex vivo investigation.", "content": "Effects of cigarette smoke exposure on clot dynamics and fibrin structure: an ex vivo investigation. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of cigarette smoke exposure (CSE) on clot dynamics and fibrin architecture and to isolate the relative contribution of platelets and fibrinogen to clot dynamics. From young healthy males smokers (n=34) and nonsmokers (n=34) a baseline blood was drawn, and smokers had another blood draw after smoking 2 regular cigarettes. Using thromboelastography (TEG) the degree of platelet-fibrin interaction was measured. In additional experiments, abciximab (20 microg/mL) was added to the smokers samples (n=27) to reduce the effects of platelet function from the TEG parameters. The maximum clot strength (G) obtained with abciximab measured mainly the contribution of fibrinogen to clot strength (GF). By subtracting GF from G, the contribution of platelets to clot strength (GP) was presumed. A significant difference was found for all TEG parameters between nonsmokers versus postsmoking and pre- versus postsmoking samples. Postsmoking both GF and GP were significantly higher as compared to presmoking. On electron microscopy and turbidity analysis, postsmoking fibrin clots were significantly different compared to presmoking and nonsmoking samples. Acute CSE changes clot dynamics and alters fibrin architecture. Both functional changes in fibrinogen and platelets appear to contribute to heightened thrombogenicity after acute CSE."}
{"id": "19804574", "title": "Intraoperatively salvaged red blood cells contain nearly no functionally active platelets, but exhibit formation of microparticles: results of a pilot study in orthopedic patients.", "content": "Intraoperatively salvaged red blood cells contain nearly no functionally active platelets, but exhibit formation of microparticles: results of a pilot study in orthopedic patients. Previous data show improved clot formation after retransfusion of salvaged red blood cells (RBCs). This study was conducted to explore whether such RBCs contain clinically relevant numbers of active residual platelets (PLTs) or exhibit formation of microparticles (MPs). Thirteen patients undergoing major orthopedic surgery were included in the study, and arterial blood samples from patients and samples from the retransfusion bag were analyzed with various PLT function tests and flow cytometry. With commercial blood cell counters, the numbers of PLTs in the RBC unit were reduced to approximately 25% compared to patients' blood. In contrast, results from flow cytometry showed an 11- to 945-fold reduction in median counts referring to total PLTs and free PLTs. Interestingly, smaller quantities of PLT-derived MPs were found in samples from the retransfusion bag than in patients' arterial blood. Conversely, RBC- and white blood cell-derived MP counts were increased in the retransfusion bag compared to the patient. Rotational thrombelastometry and the Impact-R system (DiaMed) showed a pronounced impairment of PLT ability with regard to adhesion, aggregation, and clot formation. With the use of confocal microscopy, only a few free thrombocytes were detectable among the huge numbers of RBCs. Only few free and thus active PLTs are detectable in processed RBCs. It seems very unlikely that these few PLTs can improve clot strength. Nevertheless, the impact of the detected MPs on thrombin generation needs to be clarified in further studies."}
{"id": "19788509", "title": "Pressure-aided transfusion of platelets: does it affect the platelets?", "content": "Pressure-aided transfusion of platelets: does it affect the platelets? In massively bleeding patients, pressure infusers are used for transfusion of red blood cells and plasma but not for platelets (PLTs) due to an assumed negative effect on the PLTs. This study examined whether pressure-aided in vitro transfusion affected the number, activation state, and/or function of the PLTs as measured by flow cytometry and thrombelastography (TEG). PLT concentrates stored for 1 (n = 8) or 8 (n = 7) days were transfused in vitro by means of a pressure inducer (300 mmHg). Samples before and after transfusion were measured for PLT concentration and expression of CD62P, CD63, and PAC-1. These activation markers were measured by flow cytometry on resting PLTs as well as PLTs stimulated with thrombin receptor-activating peptide. Clot generation and strength was examined by TEG by measuring the angle (degree) and maximum amplitude (mm), values that are highly dependent on the PLT function. PLT concentrations were unchanged after pressure-aided transfusion reflecting no destruction. With respect to activation state and in vitro functional capacity either no or only minor differences (<7%) were detected. In this study, use of a pressure inducer decreased the transfusion time of in vitro PLT transfusion by approximately 50%. No or only minor and inconsistent changes of the PLT number and function were observed. Consequently, this study indicates that pressure infusers could be used for transfusion of PLTs if clinically indicated, that is, in massively bleeding patients. However, in vivo studies to assess the safety and utility of pressure-aided PLT transfusion are warranted."}
{"id": "19747838", "title": "Rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM) stability and reproducibility over time.", "content": "Rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM) stability and reproducibility over time. Thromboelastometry is a whole blood assay performed to evaluate the viscoelastic properties during blood clot formation and lysis. Rotation thromboelastography (ROTEM), Pentapharm GmbH, Munich, Germany) has overcome some of the limitations of classic thromboelastography. So far, no clinical validation on reproducibility (inter- and intra-assay variability) and sample stability over time has been published. To evaluate the pre-analytic aspects, sample stability over time was assessed in 48 patients in eight age groups. Citrated blood was stored at room temperature. Tests measured every 30 min from T 0 min up to T 120 min on two ROTEM devices were INTEM (ellagic acid activated intrinsic pathway), EXTEM (tissue factor-triggered extrinsic pathway) and FIBTEM (with platelet inhibitor (cytochalasin D) evaluating the contribution of fibrinogen to clot formation). Precision by intra- and inter-assay variability was evaluated at two points of time in 10 volunteers. Finally, reference intervals and effect of age and sex were evaluated. Blood was stable over 120 min and no significant differences in ROTEM results were found. Maximum clot firmness measurements had a coefficient of variation of <3% for EXTEM, <5% for INTEM and <6% for FIBTEM. For clot formation time, the coefficient of variation was <4% for EXTEM and <3% for INTEM. Coefficient of variation for angle alpha was <3% for EXTEM and <6% for INTEM. The coefficient of variation for clotting time was <15% for both EXTEM and INTEM. Small but significant differences between ROTEM devices were found for maximum clot firmness in FIBTEM and INTEM as well as clot formation time and alpha angle in INTEM. ROTEM yields stable results over 120 min with a minimal variability on the same ROTEM device. However, small but significant differences between ROTEM devices were observed. Analysis should be performed on the same ROTEM device if small differences are of importance for treatment."}
{"id": "19719819", "title": "An evaluation of monitoring possibilities of argatroban using rotational thromboelastometry and activated partial thromboplastin time.", "content": "An evaluation of monitoring possibilities of argatroban using rotational thromboelastometry and activated partial thromboplastin time. Rotational thrombelastometry/thrombelastography with ROTEM and TEG is becoming available bedside in an increasing number of intensive care units, where many patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) are treated. The study has been performed in an effort to find out whether ROTEM could be an alternative to activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) when argatroban is used for anticoagulation. Argatroban was added in vitro to a series of citrated whole-blood samples from 10 healthy volunteers to obtain whole-blood concentrations of 0, 0.125, 0.25, 0.5, 1.0, 2.0, 4.0 and 8.0 mg/l. ROTEM and whole-blood aPTT analyses were performed at each argatroban concentration. Correlation analyses were performed using the Spearman correlation analysis. There was a significant and strong correlation between argatroban concentrations and clotting time (CT in ROTEM analysis with INTEM) (P<0.0001 and r=0.98). Also, the ROTEM time to maximum clot formation velocity (MAXV-t) appeared to have a very strong and highly significant correlation to argatroban concentrations (P<0.0001 and r=0.95). When we studied the correlation between aPTT and CT, we found a highly significant and strong correlation between these two analyses (P<0.0001 and r=0.97), especially so in the clinically relevant therapeutic range up to 100 s aPTT prolongation for HIT patients. A significant and strong correlation was found between argatroban concentrations and several ROTEM parameters. Rotational thrombelastometry/thrombelastography has a potential role in increasing the safety of argatroban anticoagulation in critically ill patients."}
{"id": "19696040", "title": "Exercise-induced hemostatic alterations are detectable by rotation thrombelastography (ROTEM): A marathon study.", "content": "Exercise-induced hemostatic alterations are detectable by rotation thrombelastography (ROTEM): A marathon study. Rotation thrombelastography (ROTEM) provides a whole blood assay that allows the assessment of plasmic- and platelet-related hemostasis in a single-step procedure. In our current study, we focused on the capability of the method to detect hemostatic alterations induced by physical exercise, enrolling 33 healthy participants of the Dusseldorf Marathon 2006. Venous blood drawn immediately before and after finishing the marathon was analyzed by a rotational thrombelastograph (Pentapharm, Munich, Germany). On initiation of blood coagulation by recalcification, standard ROTEM parameters were determined. Comparison of the results obtained before and after the physical exercise was performed using the Student t test for paired samples. As a result, the mean clotting time (CT) determined from blood samples obtained immediately after the marathon was significantly shorter (662.9 + or - 67.8 seconds vs 505.6 + or - 97.3 seconds, P = .002) and the mean maximal clot firmness was significantly broader (48.4 +/- 6.6 mm vs 51.5 +/- 4.5 mm, P = .0004) when compared to results obtained before the physical exercise. Differences between mean clot formation times (CFTs; 280.6 + 96 seconds vs 270.4 + or - 73.8 seconds) and mean alpha angles (45.9 degrees + or - 8 degrees vs 47.8 degrees + or - 5.8 degrees ) before and after the marathon were not statistically significant. Remarkably, some participants showed opposed results, particularly prolongation of CT and narrowing of maximum clot firmness (MCF). Our study demonstrates that ROTEM is sensitive to exercise-induced hemostatic alterations. The method appears to be capable of detecting even distinct changes in hemostasis in a single-step procedure. Further analyses are needed to clarify which hemostasis parameters influence ROTEM results and which ROTEM results are independent predictors of exercise-induced alterations of plasmic and platelet function. This might help to explain interindividual differences in exercise-induced alterations of hemostasis."}
{"id": "19674773", "title": "Correlation of thromboelastography with standard tests of anticoagulation in paediatric patients receiving extracorporeal life support.", "content": "Correlation of thromboelastography with standard tests of anticoagulation in paediatric patients receiving extracorporeal life support. Children requiring extracorporeal life support (ECLS) are at significant risk for thrombotic and haemorrhagic complications. Thromboelastography (TEG) is increasingly being used to assist in monitoring the coagulation status of critically ill patients. Its role in heparinised children receiving ECLS is unknown. A retrospective review of TEG in 27 children (mean age 2 years and 8 months) receiving ECLS in a tertiary paediatric intensive care unit between December 2006 and April 2008. Paired TEG (kaolin and heparinase) analysis was performed on 171 occasions. On all occasions activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) and platelet count were performed within 4 hours of the TEG (mean 6.5 minutes after TEG). On 158 occasions, the activated clotting time (ACT) was measured simultaneously with TEG. The TEG (kaolin) sample was not interpretable due to the heparin effect in 89 (52%) samples. There was a weak correlation between TEG (heparinase) variables and APTT, and between TEG and ACT with a stronger correlation between TEG (Maximum amplitude) and platelet count. TEG monitoring should always include paired samples in heparinised children on ECLS. In this heterogeneous population, weak, and moderate correlations exist between TEG and standard haematological tests. Prospective studies, with simultaneous sampling for TEG and conventional laboratory tests, must be performed in order to establish its absolute utility as a clinical tool in this population."}
{"id": "19604542", "title": "A randomised study comparing the antiplatelet and antiinflammatory effect of clopidogrel 150 mg/day versus 75 mg/day in patients with ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction and poor responsiveness to clopidogrel: results from the DOUBLE study.", "content": "A randomised study comparing the antiplatelet and antiinflammatory effect of clopidogrel 150 mg/day versus 75 mg/day in patients with ST-segment elevation acute myocardial infarction and poor responsiveness to clopidogrel: results from the DOUBLE study. The antiplatelet effect of standard or increased clopidogrel doses in patients with ST- segment elevation acute myocardial infarction (STEMI) has never been studied. In this study we compared the antiplatelet effect of a 75 mg daily maintenance dose of clopidogrel with 150 mg in patients with STEMI undergoing primary percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). Fifty-four patients with STEMI undergoing PCI were randomly allocated to receive either 75 mg/day clopidogrel (group 1) or 150 mg/day (group 2) for 1 month. Platelet function, measured by 5 different assays, was determined at 3 time points: 38+/-8 hours after the procedure, 1 week and 1 month after randomization. In group 1, mean +/- SD platelet reactivity index (PRI) measured with the VASP assay was 57.7+/-15.7% and 46.9+/-15.7% at 1 week and 1 month, respectively, compared to 38.8+/-15.7% and 34.9+/-12.6% in group 2 (p=0.0001). Same results were observed for light transmittance aggregometry, whole blood aggregometry and VerifyNow, but not for thromboelastometry. In contrast to what may be expected, the 75 mg daily maintenance dose took longer than 1-week to provide the full clopidogrel antiplatelet effect. Furthermore, patients in group 2 had a nearly 50% reduction in C-reactive protein levels both at 1 week and 1 month. In patients with STEMI and poor responsiveness to clopidogrel a 150 mg daily maintenance dose of clopidogrel is associated with a significant reduction of platelet aggregation and a trend towards reduced inflammation."}
{"id": "19549209", "title": "Endoscopic classification for reflux pharyngolaryngitis.", "content": "Endoscopic classification for reflux pharyngolaryngitis. The quality of life in patients who have undergone surgery for esophageal cancer is frequently disturbed by postoperative gastroesophageal reflux disease or pharyngolaryngeal reflux disease. Recently, there have been many reports on gastroesophageal reflux disease after esophagectomy, and only a few on pharyngolaryngeal reflux disease. There is not yet any convenient endoscopic classification of reflux pharyngolaryngitis. We designed a new classification for reflux pharyngolaryngitis based on endoscopic findings. Our new classification consists of the five grades from 0 to IV based on (i) the extent and severity of erythema and/or edema in the pharynx and the larynx, and (ii) the extent and severity of granulation or scarring stenosis in the vocal cords. Ninety-three patients after cervical esophagogastrostomy after esophagectomy (the CEG group) and 28 patients after intrathoracic esophagogastrostomy (the TEG group) were reviewed in this study. We investigated the relation between the severity of reflux pharyngolaryngitis and clinical symptoms in these patients, and the correlation between this new classification of reflux pharyngolaryngitis and the Los Angeles classification of reflux esophagitis. Reflux esophagitis was more severe in the TEG group than in the CEG group, while there was no difference in the grading of reflux pharyngolaryngitis between the two groups. The pharyngolaryngeal symptoms and F-scale scores were not correlated with the severity of reflux pharyngolaryngitis in each group. The grading of reflux pharyngolaryngitis and that of reflux esophagitis was correlated in each group (P<0.001 in the CEG group and P=0.002 in the TEG group). We proposed a new endoscopic classification of reflux pharyngolaryngitis. The new classification of reflux pharyngolaryngitis correlated fairly well with the Los Angeles classification of reflux esophagitis, although this classification did not correlate with the clinical symptoms in patients who underwent esophagectomy. Follow-up attention including upper endoscopy should be paid to reflux pharyngolaryngitis in patients after esophagogastrostomy as well as reflux esophagitis, because there is often a lack in symptoms regardless of high incidence of pharyngolaryngitis."}
{"id": "19482315", "title": "Quiescent platelets stimulate angiogenesis and diabetic wound repair.", "content": "Quiescent platelets stimulate angiogenesis and diabetic wound repair. Platelets partake in hemostasis, wound healing, and tumor growth. Although platelet-rich-plasma (PRP) has been used in surgery for several years, its mechanism of action and application methods are still poorly characterized. A single unit of human platelets obtained by plateletpheresis was diluted in plasma and divided into three equal volumes. One volume was stored at room temperature as fresh platelets (RT), another volume was frozen by storage at -80 degrees C (FZ), and the third volume was frozen at -80 degrees C with 6% DMSO (FZ6). Plasma (PL) was used as control. Using flow cytometry, platelets were tested for platelet glycoprotein GPIb and annexin V binding, as survival and activation markers, respectively. Hemostatic function was assessed by thromboelastometry. In vivo, platelets were topically applied on 1 cm,(2) full-thickness wounds on db/db mice (n = 10/group) and healing was staged microscopically and macroscopically. All platelet preparations showed hemostatic ability. RT platelets were GPIb positive (nonactivated-quiescent platelets) and stimulated angiogenesis by threefold, and cell proliferation by fourfold in vivo. FZ platelets were positive for annexin V, indicating activated platelets and, in vivo, increased only wound granulation. FZ6 platelets contained 30% nonactivated-quiescent and 50% activated platelets and stimulated granulation, angiogenesis, cell proliferation, and promoted re-epithelialization in vivo. Platelets showed distinct mechanisms to induce hemostasis and wound healing. Quiescent platelets are required to induce angiogenesis in vivo. Platelets stored at room temperature and frozen with 6% DMSO and stored at -80 degrees C achieved optimal wound healing in diabetic mice."}
{"id": "19450990", "title": "The predictability of blood loss with thromboelastometry.", "content": "The predictability of blood loss with thromboelastometry."}
{"id": "19418569", "title": "The use of thrombelastography to determine coagulation status in severe anorexia nervosa: a case series.", "content": "The use of thrombelastography to determine coagulation status in severe anorexia nervosa: a case series. Hospitalized patients with severe anorexia nervosa (AN) frequently have a complex coagulation profile, with elements of hypocoagulability--thrombocytopenia and elevated international normalized ratio (INR) and elements of hypercoagulability--usually manifested as immobility, which is either due to their marked weakness or from enforced degrees of bed rest to minimize energy expenditure. Hospitalized medical patients have been shown to have appropriate prophylaxis for venous thromboembolic (VTE) disease in only 40% of cases. A simple test that could evaluate the overall coagulation profile of these patients would help guide appropriate VTE prophylaxis. The thrombelastogram is a blood test that evaluates the full dynamic process of hemostasis. The study of patients did not reveal evidence of being hypocoagulable and thus should be considered for VTE prophylaxis. We report on three cases of young women with severe AN and weakness, hospitalized for closely monitored refeeding, in whom the thromboelastogram was used to evaluate the coagulation status of the patient and assist in guiding therapy."}
{"id": "19302233", "title": "Can Thromboelastography performed on kaolin-activated citrated samples from critically ill patients provide stable and consistent parameters?", "content": "Can Thromboelastography performed on kaolin-activated citrated samples from critically ill patients provide stable and consistent parameters? Thromboelastography (TEG) is a potentially useful tool but analysis within 4-6 min of collection imposes limitations on its use and access. The use of citrate blood tubes potentially increases the time frame for processing specimens. There is, however, limited research on the stability of citrate specimens, timing of processing and the accuracy of TEG results. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of early and delayed processing on TEG parameters using kaolin-activated citrated blood samples in the intensive care population. TEG analysis was performed on 61 patients. Blood was collected into two 3.2% sodium citrate (0.105 m) tubes. Kaolin-activated samples were analysed at 15, 30 and 120 min postcollection. TEG parameters analysed included reaction time (R), clot formation time (K), alpha angle (alpha), maximum amplitude, LY30, the coagulation index, time to maximum rate of thrombus generation, maximum rate of thrombus generation and total thrombus generation. Sixty-one critically ill patients were included. The results of the anova showed that time from collection was significantly associated with the TEG((R)) results (P < 0.05). On comparison of individual outcome variables, this difference in most cases was due to changes over time from 30 to 120 min. Furthermore, progressive changes in TEG parameters such as decreasing R were suggestive of a trend toward hypercoagulability of the specimens. Processing of kaolin-activated citrate TEG specimens can begin as early as 15 min postvenipuncture. However, delaying processing by more than 30 min leads to a significant change in results."}
{"id": "20523162", "title": "Characterization of the plasma and blood anticoagulant potential of structurally and mechanistically novel oligomers of 4-hydroxycinnamic acids.", "content": "Characterization of the plasma and blood anticoagulant potential of structurally and mechanistically novel oligomers of 4-hydroxycinnamic acids. Recently, we designed sulfated dehydropolymers (DHPs) of 4-hydroxycinnamic acids that displayed interesting anticoagulant properties. Structurally and mechanistically, sulfated DHPs are radically different from all the anticoagulants studied to date. To assess whether their unique mechanism and structure is worth exploiting for further rational design of homogeneous DHP-based molecules, we investigated their anticoagulant potential in human plasma and blood using a range of clotting assays. Sulfated DHPs prolong plasma clotting times, prothrombin and activated partial thromboplastin times at concentrations comparable to the clinically used low-molecular-weight heparin, enoxaparin. Fibrin formation studies on human plasma show that there is a structural dependence of anticoagulant action. Human whole blood studies using thromboelastography and hemostasis analysis system indicate that they are 17-140-fold less potent than enoxaparin. These results demonstrate that sulfated DHPs possess good in-vitro and ex-vivo activity, which will likely be improved through a rational design."}
{"id": "20339323", "title": "Effects of nadroparin, enoxaparin, and unfractionated heparin on endogenous factor Xa and IIa formation and on thrombelastometry profiles.", "content": "Effects of nadroparin, enoxaparin, and unfractionated heparin on endogenous factor Xa and IIa formation and on thrombelastometry profiles. Measurements of anti-FXa or anti-FIIa (thrombin) activities are conventional tests for biological monitoring of low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) or unfractionated heparin treatment. It was the aim of our study to assess the anticoagulant efficacy of the LMWHs nadroparin and enoxaparin and that of unfractionated heparin not by the above-mentioned isolated measurements but in the physiological environment of clotting plasma or whole blood. The effects of increasing amounts of nadroparin, enoxaparin, or unfractionated heparin on the time-course of FXa or FIIa formation were investigated in tissue factor activated platelet-poor plasma using a subsampling technique and chromogenic substrates. Moreover, the anticoagulant efficacy of these drugs was also investigated in whole blood triggered by the physiological relevant activator collagen/endogenous thrombin using thrombelastometry. Nadroparin is as efficient as enoxaparin concerning suppression of endogenous FXa or FIIa formation. The two LMWHs are capable of suppressing the formation of FIIa as efficient as that of FXa. Compared with equivalent anti-FXa activity, unfractionated heparin is markedly more efficient in suppressing the formation of FXa and FIIa than the LMWHs. Corresponding results were obtained in whole blood. The anticoagulant efficacy of nadroparin was comparable with that of enoxaparin and the influence of unfractionated heparin on thrombelastometry parameters was markedly stronger than that of the two LMWHs. We conclude that LMWHs are efficient inhibitors not only of endogenous FXa formation but also of endogenous FIIa formation. Under our experimental conditions, the anticoagulant efficacy of nadroparin was comparable with that of enoxaparin but markedly lower than that of unfractionated heparin."}
{"id": "20169510", "title": "Inhibitors in hemophilia A: advances in elucidation of inhibitory mechanisms and in inhibitor management with bypassing agents.", "content": "Inhibitors in hemophilia A: advances in elucidation of inhibitory mechanisms and in inhibitor management with bypassing agents. Development of inhibitory antibodies (inhibitors) to factor VIII (FVIII) is the most serious adverse event in replacement therapy of hemophilia A patients. The etiology and management of this condition remain major challenges for both researchers and clinicians. In the present review, we discuss recent advances in understanding the molecular mechanisms by which inhibitors inactivate FVIII and experimental approaches used for the mapping of inhibitor epitopes. We also present a comparative analysis of treatment of hemophilia A patients with inhibitors with currently available bypassing agents-activated prothrombin complex concentrate (FEIBA VH; Baxter Healthcare Corp., Westlake Village, CA) and recombinant activated factor VII (NovoSeven; Novo Nordisk, Princeton, NJ)-and describe some ongoing research programs aimed at developing new treatment options for these patients. Availability of sensitive and standardized laboratory assays that would assist in monitoring the effectiveness of bypass therapies is essential for designing customized treatment regimens and improvement in the management of health conditions of hemophilia patients with inhibitors."}
{"id": "20151531", "title": "[Reactive thrombocytosis: on the importance of hemostasis monitoring].", "content": "[Reactive thrombocytosis: on the importance of hemostasis monitoring]."}
{"id": "20109654", "title": "Results of an international, multicentre pharmacokinetic trial in congenital fibrinogen deficiency.", "content": "Results of an international, multicentre pharmacokinetic trial in congenital fibrinogen deficiency. Rare bleeding disorders represent 3-5% of all inherited coagulation factor disorders. Inherited afibrinogenemia, which is caused by a deficiency in plasma fibrinogen (coagulation factor I), accounts for only a small portion of all the rare bleeding disorders. Patients with afibrinogenemia have a variable bleeding pattern that may include potentially serious or life-threatening haemorrhages. Treatment of afibrinogenemia is aimed at replacing the missing fibrinogen to restore efficient haemostasis and to stop bleeding. Three sources of fibrinogen are currently available: fresh frozen plasma, cryoprecipitate, and lyophilized fibrinogen concentrate. Owing to its rarity, little is known about the optimal treatment of patients with afibrinogenemia, including the pharmacokinetics of fibrinogen concentrate. To explore this further, we conducted a prospective, open-label, uncontrolled, multinational pharmacokinetic trial of pasteurized human fibrinogen concentrate in 15 patients with afibrinogenemia. Infusion of a single dose of fibrinogen concentrate (70 mg/kg body weight) resulted in similar fibrinogen antigen and activity levels, which were highly correlated. Fibrinogen levels rose rapidly following infusion to reach a maximum of approximately 1.3 g/L at 1 hour. Fibrinogen concentrate effectively restored clot formation, based on the surrogate thromboelastographic end-point of maximum clot firmness. The concentrate was well tolerated and there were no treatment-related adverse events or evidence of viral transmission during the study."}
{"id": "20099710", "title": "Initial experience with dual antiplatelet thromboprophylaxis using clopidogrel and aspirin in patients with mechanical aortic prostheses.", "content": "Initial experience with dual antiplatelet thromboprophylaxis using clopidogrel and aspirin in patients with mechanical aortic prostheses. The aortic mechanical prosthesis (AMP) generates shear stress and causes erythrocyte fragmentation with ADP release that leads to platelet activation, the cause of thromboembolism. Thromboprophylaxis with the antiplatelet agents clopidogrel and aspirin (Clop-ASA) should reduce thromboembolic events in patients receiving an AMP. Over an eight-year period at the authors' institutions, a total of 135 patients underwent aortic valve replacement (AVR), with or without concomitant thoracic aortic procedures, and received Clop-ASA as thromboprophylaxis. Platelet reactivity was measured using the Verify Now system. Thromboelastography was commenced in August 2006, and patients were followed at six-month intervals, with echocardiography and assessment of platelet reactivity. The total follow up was 4,776 months (equivalent to 398 patient-years (pt-yr)); the average follow up was 35.4 +/- 25 months. During follow up, 18 patients (13.3%) died, eight from coronary artery disease and three from valve-related causes. Five patients (3.7%; 1.2%/pt-yr) had bleeding complications, but none experienced valve thrombosis. Two patients (1.5%; 0.5%/pt-yr) had a transient ischemic attack (TIA); one of these occurred in a patient who discontinued Clop-ASA, and the other in a responder to Clop-ASA. Seven patients (5.2%; 1.7%/pt-yr) had strokes, one of which occurred at 48.5 months after AVR. Of the remaining six patients who had a stroke, one was a non-responder to clopidogrel and five had stopped taking Clop-ASA. The incidence of strokes before using the Accumetrics and TEG devices was 2.5% per pt-yr, but only 1.0% per pt-yr thereafter. Thromboprophylaxis in patients with AMP receiving Clop-ASA seems to be effective. Patients had a low incidence of bleeding, TIA and ischemic stroke, and no valve thrombosis. The use of assays to determine platelet reactivity helped to identify those patients who were resistant to clopidogrel, hyporesponders, and poorly compliant patients. Notably, the incidence of strokes after implementing assays to monitor platelet reactivity was reduced. Deaths were due primarily to myocardial infarction, and none of the deaths was anticoagulant-related. Patients receiving Clop-ASA should undergo routine testing of platelet reactivity, and also continue antiplatelet therapy so as to reduce the risk of ischemic stroke."}
{"id": "20042049", "title": "Reference values of clinical chemistry and hematology parameters in rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta).", "content": "Reference values of clinical chemistry and hematology parameters in rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta). Rhesus monkey models are valuable to the studies of human biology. Reference values for clinical chemistry and hematology parameters of rhesus monkeys are required for proper data interpretation. Whole blood was collected from 36 healthy Chinese rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) of either sex, 3 to 5 yr old. Routine chemistry and hematology parameters, and some special coagulation parameters including thromboelastograph and activities of coagulation factors were tested. We presented here the baseline values of clinical chemistry and hematology parameters in normal Chinese rhesus monkeys. These data may provide valuable information for veterinarians and investigators using rhesus monkeys in experimental studies."}
{"id": "20028511", "title": "HES 130/0.4 impairs haemostasis and stimulates pro-inflammatory blood platelet function.", "content": "HES 130/0.4 impairs haemostasis and stimulates pro-inflammatory blood platelet function. Hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solutions are widely used for volume replacement therapy but are also known to compromise coagulation, impair renal function and increase long-term mortality. To test the hypotheses that HES 130/0.4 has fewer adverse effects than HES 200/0.5 and exerts anti-inflammatory properties, we compared the effects of HES 130/0.4, HES 200/0.5 and saline on in vitro haemostasis and pro-inflammatory platelet function. Whole blood samples from healthy volunteers were mixed with 6% HES 130/0.4, 10% HES 200/0.5, or normal saline to achieve a final haemodilution rate of 10% or 40%. Haemostatic capacity was characterised by thromboelastography (ROTEM) and measurement for FXIIIa activity. Platelet activation and pro-inflammatory platelet functions were characterised by flow cytometry measuring the platelet activation marker CD62P and binding of fibrinogen to platelets as well as the formation of heterotypic platelet-leukocyte conjugates. Compared with saline, HES 130/0.4 dose-dependently impaired formation and firmness of the fibrin clot but did not affect the fibrin crosslinking activity of FXIIIa. At 40% but not at 10% haemodilution rate, HES 200/0.5 also increased platelet fibrinogen binding and both HES solutions increased expression of CD62P, the main receptor for platelet-leukocyte adhesion. HES 130/0.4 but not HES 200/0.5 increased formation of platelet-neutrophil conjugates and, to a lesser degree, platelet-monocyte conjugates. Our data demonstrate that HES 130/0.4 has similar adverse effects as HES 200/0.5. In particular, both types of HES impair coagulation capacity and stimulate, rather than attenuate, pro-inflammatory platelet function."}
{"id": "20021469", "title": "Perioperative monitoring of thromboelastograph on hemostasis and therapy for cyanotic infants undergoing complex cardiac surgery.", "content": "Perioperative monitoring of thromboelastograph on hemostasis and therapy for cyanotic infants undergoing complex cardiac surgery. This study investigated features and treatments of perioperative coagulopathies in cyanotic infants with complex congenital heart disease (CCHD). Thirty-six infants with cyanotic CCHD were involved and divided into two groups: In group H (n = 20), hematocrit (HCT) > 54%, and in group L (n = 16), HCT < 54%. Blood was sampled at anesthesia induction (T1), rewarming to 36 degrees C (T2), after heparin neutralization (T3), and 4 h after operation (T4). The hemostatic changes were evaluated by thromboelastograph (TEG). After surgery, group H was treated with fibrinogen-combined platelets (PLT), while group L was treated with PLT only. We observed the effect at T4. At T1, the hemostatic function in group H, deteriorating with the increase of HCT (P < 0.01), was obviously lower than that in group L (P < 0.01), but the PLT function was still complete. In group H, the hemostatic function at T2 decreased with a significant drop of PLT function (P < 0.01) and had little change of functional fibrinogen (Ffg) (P > 0.05). At T3, compared with T2, there were improvements in hemostatic function and Ffg (P < 0.01, respectively) without increase of PLT (P > 0.05) in group H. After therapy, PLT function in both groups restored to T1 level (P > 0.05); Ffg at T4 was significantly better than at T1 (P < 0.01) in group H, but Ffg at T4 with still normal function was lower than at T1 in group L (P < 0.01). Whole hemostatic function at T4 was back to normal and had no differences between two groups. So, we proposed that fibrinogen and PLT transfusion in combination should be better for infants with high HCT CCHD, but PLT alone might be enough for low HCT ones."}
{"id": "20020412", "title": "Clinical and biomaterial evaluation of a new condensed dual-function extracorporeal circuit in reoperation for coronary artery bypass surgery.", "content": "Clinical and biomaterial evaluation of a new condensed dual-function extracorporeal circuit in reoperation for coronary artery bypass surgery. This prospective, randomized study compared the clinical performance of three types of circuits: a newly introduced, fully-coated, interchangeable open-closed circuit with a dual configuration (hard shell with a bypass shunt), reduced length, and reduced prime of less than 800 cc (CondECC); a completely coated circuit (ECC); and a similar uncoated, open circuit with standard length and prime (CONT). 75 patients undergoing reoperation for coronary revascularization were randomly allocated into three groups (N=25): Group 1: CondECC with shortened tubing, components and an open-closed configuration of low priming volume with a centrifugal pump and a shunt which bypassed the reservoir for closed configuration; Group 2: ECC with a roller pump and hard-shell reservoir; Group 3: CONT. Blood samples for CBC, inflammatory mediators [Interleukin-2 (IL-2), Complement-3a (C3a)] and flow cytometry (CD11b/CD18) were collected after induction (T1) and heparin administration (T2), 15 min after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) (T3), before cessation of CPB (T4), 15 min after reversal (T5), and the first postoperative day (T6). Leukocyte counts demonstrated significant increases at T4, T5 in CONT but remained stable in ECC and CondECC (p<0.05). Platelets were preserved better at T4, T5 in both ECC and CondECC study groups (p<0.05). IL-2 and C3a levels were significantly lower at T3, T4, T5 in CondECC and T4, T5 in ECC (p<0.05). Blood protein adsorption analysis demonstrated increased amount of microalbumin on CONT fibers (p<0.05). The CondECC is a flexible, dual-function, open/closed configuration system that was easy to use, safe and achieved better biocompatibility when compared to coated and uncoated conventional circuits."}
{"id": "20017439", "title": "[Is thromboelastography able to influence management of patients in cardiology and cardiosurgery?].", "content": "[Is thromboelastography able to influence management of patients in cardiology and cardiosurgery?]. Thromboelastography (TEG) is perceived as a non-specific test of hemostasis. It evaluates the global hemocoagulation, however by some modifications could be its diagnostic potential greater. With new inovations isTEG except more precise analysis of participation of blood components on final coagulation (for example rotational TEG) capable also to assess the antiplatelet drug nonresponsiveness (for example platelet mapping system). It gives more accurate information about prothrombotic conditions than routine laboratory techniques in state of ventricular assist device implantation."}
{"id": "20017430", "title": "[Is there a place for thromboelastography in cardiac surgery and cardiology?].", "content": "[Is there a place for thromboelastography in cardiac surgery and cardiology?]."}
{"id": "20009132", "title": "Altered clot kinetics in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease.", "content": "Altered clot kinetics in patients with non-alcoholic fatty liver disease. Emerging evidence has linked the presence of non-alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) with an increased risk for cardiovascular events. We hypothesised that altered clot kinetics and platelet function may contribute to this increased risk. This study compared whole blood clotting kinetics in patients with 1) non-cirrhotic NAFLD (n = 28) and 2) healthy control subjects (n = 22). Clotting kinetics were assessed in whole blood using thromboelastography (TEG) and assessed for correlations with cardiovascular risk factors. Clot kinetics in patients with NAFLD showed significantly stronger clot development (maximum amplitude (MA); 58.3 +/- 6.3 mm vs. 52.0 +/- 10.1 mm, p = 0.01) and reduced clot lysis in the presence of thrombin (35 +/- 30% vs. 51 +/- 26% clot lysis 30 minutes after MA, p = 0.03) compared to control subjects. Clot strength was independently positively associated with body mass index in NAFLD, but not in control subjects. There was a greater platelet contribution to clot strength in patients with NAFLD compared to controls despite similar platelet counts. There was no association between clot kinetics and features of the metabolic syndrome or presence of type 2 diabetes. Patients with NAFLD have disturbances in ex-vivo clot kinetics including increased clot strength and clots that are more resistant to thrombin-stimulated lysis."}
{"id": "19967151", "title": "A fusion protein with improved thrombolytic effect and low bleeding risk.", "content": "A fusion protein with improved thrombolytic effect and low bleeding risk. To resolve the therapeutic dilemma between efficacy of thrombolysis and bleeding risk associated with the use of a combination of thrombolytic and anticoagulant treatments, we created a fusion protein. Staphylokinase was fused to the N-terminus of hirudin using thrombin recognition sequence as linker peptide, resulting in a fusion protein STH. We hypothesised that STH would be cleaved by thrombin at the thrombus site, releasing staphylokinase and hirudin to perform bifunctionally, and attenuating bleeding risk. SDS-PAGE and Western blot analyses indicated that the linker peptide could be specially recognised and cleaved by thrombin. Amidolytic and thromboelastogram assays showed that the N-terminus of hirudin in STH was blocked by staphylokinase and linker peptide, impeding hirudin's anticoagulant activity. Once cleaved, STH displayed 35.7% of the anticoagulant activity of equimolar hirudin and exhibited anticoagulant effects in the fibrin clot lysis assay. Thrombin-binding and fibrin clot lysis assays showed that the C-terminus of hirudin retained its high affinity for thrombin. Moreover, STH showed improved thrombolytic effects and a lower bleeding risk in animals. Thus, STH may have the capacity to perform bifunctionally and release anticoagulant activity in a thrombus-targeted manner in vivo, which may reduce the bleeding risk that often accompanies high thrombolytic efficacy in the treatment of thromboembolic diseases."}
{"id": "19958060", "title": "Heparin effect on thromboelastography after transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt procedure.", "content": "Heparin effect on thromboelastography after transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt procedure. In patients with cirrhosis and bacterial infection there is impaired coagulation and a heparin effect on thromboelastography (TEG). Our aim was to assess the presence of a heparin effect on heparinase I-modified TEG in patients before and after transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS). Our hypothesis was that, given the presence of a portosystemic gradient of endotoxaemia, and the role of endotoxaemia on the release of heparinoids, the inflow of portal blood after TIPS might reveal heparinoids through a heparin effect on TEG. Blood samples for heparinase I-modified TEG were taken before, 1 h after, 6 h after and the morning after TIPS, with further daily samples being taken until any TEG changes had reverted to baseline. A heparin effect was defined as an improvement of > or =20% in a TEG variable after addition of heparinase I. We studied 10 patients (six males, mean age 48.8 years, mean Child score 8.8). The aetiology of liver disease was alcohol in six patients, Budd-Chiari syndrome in two, and hepatitis C virus and cryptogenic cirrhosis in one each. Indications for TIPS were recurrent variceal bleeding in four patients, refractory ascites or hydrothorax in four and Budd-Chiari syndrome in two. There was a statistically significant worsening in TEG parameters after TIPS placement. In eight patients a heparin effect appeared after TIPS and disappeared within 24-48 h. We report the appearance of a transient heparin effect in systemic venous blood after TIPS in patients with cirrhosis or Budd-Chiari syndrome, suggesting the presence of heparinoid substances in the portal venous system in these patients."}
{"id": "19957915", "title": "Lipid membranes carrying lipophilic cholesterol-based oligonucleotides--characterization and application on layer-by-layer coated particles.", "content": "Lipid membranes carrying lipophilic cholesterol-based oligonucleotides--characterization and application on layer-by-layer coated particles. Cholesterol-based lipophilic oligonucleotides incorporated into lipid membranes were studied using solid-state NMR, differential scanning calorimetry, and fluorescence methods. Lipophilic oligonucleotides can be used to build nanotechnological structures on membrane surfaces, taking advantage of the specific Watson-Crick base pairing. We used a cholesteryl-TEG anchor first described by Pfeiffer and Hook (J. Am. Chem. Soc. 2004, 126, 10224-10225). The cholesterol-based anchor molecules were found to incorporate well into lipid membranes without disturbing the bilayer structure and dynamics. In contrast to cholesterol, which is known to induce significant condensation of the membrane lipids, the cholesteryl-TEG anchor does not display this property. When the cholesteryl-TEG moiety was covalently bound to an oligonucleotide, the resulting lipophilic DNA molecules inserted spontaneously into lipid membranes without altering their structure. The duplex formed by two complementary cholesteryl-TEG oligonucleotides had increased thermodynamic stability compared to the same oligonucleotides without the anchor, both in solution and incorporated into lipid membranes. Since the cholesteryl-TEG anchor lacks the characteristic properties of cholesterol, oligonucleotides modified with this anchor are equally distributed between liquid-disordered and liquid-ordered domains in \"raft\" forming membranes. As an example of an application of these lipophilic oligonucleotides, cholesteryl-TEG-DNA was incorporated into supported lipid bilayers formed on polyelectrolyte-coated silica microparticles. The modified oligonucleotides were stably inserted into the lipid membrane and retained their recognition properties, therefore enabling further functionalization of the particles."}
{"id": "19938713", "title": "[Reducing the frequency of fresh frozen donor plasma transfusion on the basis of the results of thromboelastographic study in neurosurgical patients with intraoperative blood loss].", "content": "[Reducing the frequency of fresh frozen donor plasma transfusion on the basis of the results of thromboelastographic study in neurosurgical patients with intraoperative blood loss]. The paper gives the results of a study of the time course of changes in the major laboratorily determined hemostatic parameters, as well as the main characteristics of a thromboelastographic curve in 95 neurosurgical patients who developed significant intraoperative blood loss at surgery. The patients were divided into 2 comparable groups: 1) a decision on fresh frozen donor plasma transfusion was taken only on the basis of laboratory parameters; 2) this was done on the basis of thromboelastographic data. In Group 2, the frequency of fresh frozen donor plasma transfusion proved to be 4 times less than that in Group 1. The use of thromboelastography to evaluate the hemostatic system during operations with a significant blood loss volume permits a reduction in the frequency of fresh frozen donor plasma, without deteriorating the results of treatment."}
{"id": "19938712", "title": "[Thromboelastographic characteristics of different infusion therapy regimens in healthy bone marrow donors].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic characteristics of different infusion therapy regimens in healthy bone marrow donors]. Infusion solutions are able to change the hemostatic system. Thromboelastography (TEG) is an integral technique to evaluate the hemostatic system. TEG was used to evaluate the effect of three infusion solutions (6% hydroxyexyethyl starch (HES) 200/0.5 - Hemohes; HES 130/0.4 - Voluven; modified gelatin solution - Gelofusin) on the hemostatic system in 36 bone marrow donors (healthy individuals). The solutions were used in combination with crystalloid solutions during a procedure to compensate for intraoperative blood loss. Hemostatic changes were noted by the end of an operation in all groups; however, these were less pronounced when Voluven was administered. Thus, all colloid infusion solutions have varying effects on the hemostatic system, with a tendency toward both hypo- and hypercoagulation. According to TEG, HES 130/0.4 (Voluven) has a minimal effect on the hemostatic system."}
{"id": "19923501", "title": "Cardiopulmonary bypass priming using a high dose of a balanced hydroxyethyl starch versus an albumin-based priming strategy.", "content": "Cardiopulmonary bypass priming using a high dose of a balanced hydroxyethyl starch versus an albumin-based priming strategy. The optimal priming solution for cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) is unclear. In this study, we evaluated the influence of high-volume priming with a modern balanced hydroxyethyl starch (HES) preparation on coagulation, inflammation, and organ function compared with an albumin-based CPB priming regimen. In 50 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting, the CPB circuit was prospectively and randomly primed with either 1500 mL of 6% HES 130/0.42 in a balanced electrolyte solution (Na(+) 140 mmol/L, Cl(-) 118 mmol/L, K(+) 4 mmol/L, Ca(2+) 2.5 mmol/L, Mg(++) 1 mmol/L, acetate(-) 24 mmol/L, malate(-) 5 mmol/L) (n = 25) or with 500 mL of 5% human albumin plus 1000 mL 0.9% saline solution (n = 25). Inflammation (interleukins [IL]-6, -10), endothelial damage (soluble intercellular adhesion molecule-1), kidney function (kidney-specific proteins alpha-glutathione S-transferase, neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin), coagulation (measured by thrombelastometry [ROTEM, Pentapharm, Munich, Germany]), and platelet function (measured by whole blood aggregometry [Multiplate analyzer, Dynabyte Medical, Munich, Germany]) were assessed after induction of anesthesia, immediately after surgery, 5 h after surgery, and on the morning of first and second postoperative days. Total volume given during and after CPB was 3090 +/- 540 mL of balanced HES and 3110 +/- 450 mL of albumin. Base excess after surgery was lower in the albumin-based priming group than in the balanced HES priming group (-5.9 +/- 1.2 mmol/L vs +0.2 +/- 0.2 mmol/L, P = 0.0003). Plasma levels of IL-6, IL-10, and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 were higher after CPB in the albumin-based priming group compared with the HES priming group at all time periods (P = 0.0002). Urinary concentrations of alpha-glutathione S-transferase and neutrophil gelatinase-associated lipocalin were higher after CPB through the end of the study in the albumin group compared with the balanced HES group (P = 0.00004). After surgery through the first postoperative day, thrombelastometry data (clotting time and clot formation time) revealed more impaired coagulation in the albumin-based priming group compared with the HES priming group (P = 0.004). Compared with baseline, platelet function was unchanged in the high-dose balanced HES priming group after CPB and 5 h after surgery, but it was significantly reduced in the albumin-based priming group. High-volume priming of the CPB circuit with a modern balanced HES solution resulted in reduced inflammation, less endothelial damage, and fewer alterations in renal tubular integrity compared with an albumin-based priming. Coagulation including platelet function was better preserved with high-dose balanced HES CPB priming compared with albumin-based CPB priming."}
{"id": "19903188", "title": "Gender and responses to aspirin and clopidogrel: insights using short thrombelastography.", "content": "Gender and responses to aspirin and clopidogrel: insights using short thrombelastography. There is significant variability in both baseline clotting tendency and response to antiplatelet therapy. Responses are associated with outcome. We have investigated whether differences could explain the increased risk observed in women presenting with coronary artery disease. We have utilized short thrombelastography to assess (i) baseline clotting responses, (ii) response to aspirin and clopidogrel, and (iii) post-treatment platelet reactivity in 48 young volunteers, 22 older patients and 18 patients with previous stent thrombosis. Baseline responses were significantly higher in young women than in men. While there was no difference in response to aspirin, platelet reactivity on aspirin remained higher in women (area under curve at 15 min [AUC15] of arachidonic acid channel 332 +/- 122 vs. 172 +/- 80, P= 0.04). Young women had less response to clopidogrel (% reduction in AUC15 with adenosine diphosphate [ADP] 36.4 +/- 12.4 vs. 64.0 +/- 13.2, P < 0.01) in addition to higher post-treatment reactivity (AUC15 of ADP 714 +/- 161 vs. 311 +/- 146, P < 0.01) compared to men. There were no such differences between male and female patients over 50. However, young women with previous stent thrombosis had among the highest platelet reactivity observed. Compared to men, young women have greater baseline clotting tendency, reduced response to clopidogrel, and greater post-treatment reactivity while on both aspirin and clopidogrel. Differences in clotting tendency and response to antiplatelet therapy may contribute to the excess risk observed in young women but are not observed in older female patients."}
{"id": "19882085", "title": "Normal range values for thromboelastography in healthy adult volunteers.", "content": "Normal range values for thromboelastography in healthy adult volunteers. Thromboelastography (TEG) provides a functional evaluation of coagulation. It has characteristics of an ideal coagulation test for trauma, but is not frequently used, partially due to lack of both standardized techniques and normal values. We determined normal values for our population, compared them to those of the manufacturer and evaluated the effect of gender, age, blood type, and ethnicity. The technique was standardized using citrated blood, kaolin and was performed on a Haemoscope 5000 device. Volunteers were interviewed and excluded if pregnant, on anticoagulants or having a bleeding disorder. The TEG parameters analyzed were R, K, alpha, MA, LY30, and coagulation index. All volunteers outside the manufacturer's normal range underwent extensive coagulation investigations. Reference ranges for 95% for 118 healthy volunteers were R: 3.8-9.8 min, K: 0.7-3.4 min, alpha: 47.8-77.7 degrees, MA: 49.7-72.7 mm, LY30: -2.3-5.77%, coagulation index: -5.1-3.6. Most values were significantly different from those of the manufacturer, which would have diagnosed coagulopathy in 10 volunteers, for whom additional investigation revealed no disease (81% specificity). Healthy women were significantly more hypercoagulable than men. Aging was not associated with hypercoagulability and East Asian ethnicity was not with hypocoagulability. In our population, the manufacturer's normal values for citrated blood-kaolin had a specificity of 81% and would incorrectly identify 8.5% of the healthy volunteers as coagulopathic. This study supports the manufacturer's recommendation that each institution should determine its own normal values before adopting TEG, a procedure which may be impractical. Consideration should be given to a multi-institutional study to establish wide standard values for TEG."}
{"id": "19856870", "title": "[Thromboelastometry--a new method supporting the therapeutical decisions in the coagulopathy based on the Hartet's thromboelastography].", "content": "[Thromboelastometry--a new method supporting the therapeutical decisions in the coagulopathy based on the Hartet's thromboelastography]. Thromboelastometry is a diagnostic method presenting in graphs and numbers the dynamics of hemostasis and physical properties of the clot forming. Thromboelastometry allows quick and complete assessment of clotting and fibrinolysis mechanism respecting share of coagulation and fibrinolytic factors and also platelets. Interpretation is based on comparative analysis of model data from computer memory with graphs and numeric data that present clot formation and fibrinolysis in time periods. Graphic presentation of quality and dynamics of coagulation process allow to understand its disorders caused for different reasons, like coagulation factors deficiency, thrombocytopenia, massive bleeding and transfusion or sometimes hypothermia. Measuring device used for thromboelastometry is mobile and makes possible to test blood by a patient bed. By introducing specialist reagents that activate clotting in vitro it is possible to shorten the diagnostic period to 15 minutes therefore multiple patient hemostasis controls can be achieved in real time. Quick diagnostic and possibility of assessment an influence of applied treatment on coagulation process allow to make proper therapeutic decisions in patients with coagulopathy. Hemostasis image and reference to clinical situation might be helpful in diagnosis if there is a surgical bleeding or there is a bleeding released by coagulation and fibrinolytic disorders. Thromboelastometry contributes not only to widen knowledge about complex mechanics of coagulation disorders but also to reduce usage of blood and its products. Thromboelastograhic examinations play a major role in the documentation of coagulation disorders treatment. In order to widen use of this method in clinical practice the algorithms are created, based on thromboelastometry and thromboelatograhy results. These can indicate type and quantity of blood products and medicines that are necessary to administer. Thromboelastometry is applied in many medical disciplines like cardiothoracic surgery, transplant surgery, obstetrics, multiorgan failures, vascular surgery and intensive care. In this method specialistic laboratory education is unnecessary."}
{"id": "19825074", "title": "Comments on head to head TEG vs ROTEM.", "content": "Comments on head to head TEG vs ROTEM."}
{"id": "19824410", "title": "[The efficacy and safety of tranexamic acid and epsilon-aminocapronic acid in cardiac surgery under extracorporeal circulation].", "content": "[The efficacy and safety of tranexamic acid and epsilon-aminocapronic acid in cardiac surgery under extracorporeal circulation]. Sixty patients who had undergone cardiosurgical operations under extracorporeal circulation (EC) were enrolled in the study. All the patients were divided into 2 groups: (1) 40 patients were injected tranexamic acid (TA) (its loading dose was 15 mg/kg; maintenance infusion 1 mg/kg/h throughout the operation; 500 mg in the primary packing volume for an EC apparatus (EA); (2) 20 patients received epsilon-aminocapronic acid (ACA) (its loading dose was 5 g; 5 g in the primary packing volume for an EA and 10 g for infusion after EC). The effects of TA and ACA on the fibrinolytic system were evaluated from the time of XIIa-kallikrein-dependent fibrinolysis (sec) and the concentration of D-dimer (mg/ml). The hemocoagulation system (activated partial thromboplastin time, thrombin clotting time, prothrombin time with the determination of the international normalized ratio, fibrinogen) was studied. The thromboelastogram (the time R, K, and alpha-angle, MA) was analyzed. The indices were determined at the beginning and end of, and 12 hours after surgery. The analysis of the clinical efficacy and safety of the agents was based on the following perioperative data: the incidence of adverse reactions and complications associated with the administration of the agents, the frequency and amount of transfused donor blood components, the volume of blood loss, and the rate of resternotomies. The laboratory and clinical findings lead to the conclusion that TA (Tranexam, OOO \"MIR-PHARM\") has a 4-fold antifibrinolytic activity as compared with epsilon-ACA. The more pronounced TA-induced suppression of fibrinolysis affects the clinical course of a perioperative period in this group, which manifests itself as a reduced blood loss volume during and after surgery and a lower frequency of use of donor blood elements. By taking into account these data, TA may be recommended as one of the blood-preserving technology components during cardiosurgical operations under EC."}
{"id": "19822378", "title": "Inactivating influenza viruses on surfaces using hydrogen peroxide or triethylene glycol at low vapor concentrations.", "content": "Inactivating influenza viruses on surfaces using hydrogen peroxide or triethylene glycol at low vapor concentrations. Surfaces in congregate settings, such as vehicles used for mass transportation, can become contaminated with infectious microorganisms and facilitate disease transmission. We disinfected surfaces contaminated with H1N1 influenza viruses using hydrogen peroxide (HP) vapor at concentrations below 100 ppm and triethylene glycol (TEG)-saturated air containing 2 ppm of TEG at 25 degrees C. Influenza viruses in aqueous suspensions were deposited on stainless-steel coupons, allowed to dry at ambient conditions, and then exposed for up to 15 minutes to 10 to 90 ppm of HP vapor or TEG-saturated air. Virus assays were done on the solution used to wash the viruses from these coupons and from coupons treated similarly but without exposure to HP or TEG vapor. After 2.5 minutes, exposure to 10-ppm HP vapor resulted in 99% inactivation. For air saturated with TEG at 25 to 29 degrees C, the disinfection rate was about 1.3 log(10) reductions per hour, about 16 times faster than the measured natural inactivation rate under ambient conditions. Vapor concentrations of 10 ppm HP or 2 ppm TEG can provide effective surface disinfection. At these low concentrations, the potential for damage to even the avionics of an airplane would be expected to be minimal. At a TEG vapor concentration of 2 ppm, there are essentially no health risks to people."}
{"id": "19816662", "title": "[Coagulation management in the treatment of multiple trauma].", "content": "[Coagulation management in the treatment of multiple trauma]. In recent years a new understanding of trauma-associated hemorrhaging and trauma-induced coagulopathy has been achieved. This coagulopathy is multifactorial with the predominant mechanisms being tissue trauma, shock and hypoperfusion which can lead to hyperfibrinolysis by activation of the endothelium. Routinely tested coagulation parameters, such as prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time, are frequently employed for decision making but remain problematic as they do not give any information on clot stability, lysis or platelet function. Thrombelastometry seems to be a useful alternative. A pro-active anticipatory approach is required for a successful outcome to be achieved as rescue correction is more difficult than prevention. While the pathophysiological conception of causal relationship of the mentioned therapeutic options is conclusive, an evidence-based validation by randomized controlled studies is mostly lacking. The emergency and anesthesiological concept of damage control resuscitation consists of limiting volume therapy with crystalloids and colloids to reach a mean arterial pressure > or =65 mmHg (higher for head injuries), active (re-)warming management, the prevention of a pH< or =7.2 and a base excess (BE) < or =-6 mmol/l. The early and sufficient application of hemostatic drugs is essential. Because erythrocytes play a substantial role in the coagulation process, hemoglobin (Hb) values of around 6. 2 mmol/l (10 g/dl) and/or a hematocrit of 30% should be strived for when massive non-arrested hemorrhaging occurs. After severe multiple trauma a fibrinogen deficit develops and must be adequately compensated. If coagulation therapy is carried out using fresh frozen plasma sufficient quantities (20-30 ml/kgBW) must be administered to correspondingly raise the coagulation factors. Prothrombin complex concentrates can be helpful to optimize thrombin generation during severe hemorrhaging. Because hyperfibrinolysis occurs more often than previously assumed during severe trauma, an anti-fibrinolytic therapy should be used especially for patients with an instable circulation. The platelet count should not go below 100,000/microl when hemorrhaging occurs after multiple trauma. For thrombocytopathic patients with diffuse bleeding desmopressin (DDAVP) is a therapeutic option and the \"off label\" use of recombinant activated factor VIIa (rFVIIa) remains an option for individual situations with stringent indications and when the above named measures to optimize the coagulation situation have been taken."}
{"id": "19815949", "title": "Accelerated thrombus lysis in the blood of plasminogen activator inhibitor deficient mice is inhibited by PAI-1 with a very long half-life.", "content": "Accelerated thrombus lysis in the blood of plasminogen activator inhibitor deficient mice is inhibited by PAI-1 with a very long half-life. Patients with defective plasminogen activator inhibitor protein (PAI-1) or with PAI-1 deficiency can experience hemorrhage as a result of a hyperfibrinolysis. In these patients, a normal thrombus forms, but endogenous lysis is unchecked as tissue plasminogen activator is unopposed. Treatment includes anti-fibrinolytic agents, including oral tranexamic acid. Another treatment option is the administration of PAI-1, but this serpin rapidly inactivates itself. We have developed a mutant plasminogen activator inhibitor with a very long half life (VLHL PAI-1, t1/2>700 h). Here we investigate VLHL PAI-1 effects in the blood of PAI-1 deficient mice, as a model of human disease. Using a thrombelastograph, we found that blood clots of PAI-1 knockout mice were lysed much more quickly than wild type mice. Additionally, blood clots had less shear elastic modulus strength than clots of normal animals. VLHL PAI-1 treatment of PAI-1 deficient mice extended or prevented thrombus lysis and increased clot strength in a concentration dependent fashion. These two parameters determine the extent of thrombus growth and regression; thus, further testing is anticipated to confirm the effectiveness of plasminogen activator inhibitor with a very long half life in an in vivo model and we hope that this protein can be effective in human PAI-1 deficiency disorder."}
{"id": "19811222", "title": "Effects of clopidogrel on \"aspirin specific\" pathways of platelet inhibition.", "content": "Effects of clopidogrel on \"aspirin specific\" pathways of platelet inhibition. The most widely accepted methods of assessing response to clopidogrel involve isolated ADP-induced platelet aggregation. Whilst poor response determined by these assays correlates with adverse clinical events, the number of \"poor responders\" is far higher than the number of events attributed to treatment failure. Clopidogrel may have effects that cannot be assessed using isolated ADP-induced aggregation. We have investigated the effect of clopidogrel on Arachidonic Acid (AA) induced platelet activation-an \"aspirin specific\" pathway using a novel near patient assay. Thirty four volunteers on no medication and 36 patients, on maintenance therapy with aspirin 75 mg daily, were recruited. Blood tests for Thrombelastogram PlateletMapping were taken immediately prior to and 6 hours after administration of a 600 mg clopidogrel loading dose. Changes in the area under the response curve at 15 minutes (AUC15) with both ADP- and AA-stimulation were calculated as were the corresponding percentage platelet and percentage clotting inhibition (%PIn and %CIn). There were predictable and significant changes in the AUC15 of the ADP channel in response to clopidogrel and the corresponding %PIn and %CIn in both volunteers and patients. There were also significant reductions in the AUC15 of the AA channel (presented as Mean +/- 95%CI), by 27.2 +/- 11.8%, p = 0.005 in volunteers and 35.0 +/- 8.2%, p < 0.001 in patients) and increases in the %PIn and %CIn calculated using the AA channel in volunteers (by 20.0 +/- 11.4%, p + 0.02 and 32.3 +/- 12.8%, p < 0.001 respectively) and patients (by 24.2 +/- 8.6%, p < 0.001 and by 18.0 +/- 8.6, p < 0.001 respectively). Clopidogrel has both independent and aspirin-synergistic effects on AA-induced platelet activation suggesting potentiation of the antiplatelet activity of aspirin. This effect may be clinically important and is not detected by current \"gold standard\" methods of assessing response to clopidogrel."}
{"id": "19806801", "title": "A 2007 survey of extracorporeal life support members: personnel and equipment.", "content": "A 2007 survey of extracorporeal life support members: personnel and equipment. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) is used to support patients with cardiopulmonary failure in the intensive care unit. The purpose of this study is to determine what professional qualifications, equipment, and tests are used by established ECMO programs registered with the Extracorporeal Life Support Organization (ELSO). A survey link (Survey-Monkey) was e-mailed to the 110 registered ELSO program coordinators. Forty-nine responses were received. A test of binomial portions showed that nurses were more likely to be ECMO providers than respiratory therapists or perfusionists (p < .05). A chi2 test identified a difference in the type of pump (roller or centrifugal) based on patient age (p < .005). The most common monitoring/safety devices were battery back-up (84%), pre- and post-oxygenator pressure (82%), mixed venous oxygen saturation (80%),venous line pressure (76%), blood flowmeter (63%),bubble detector (61%), point-of-care blood gases (59%), and in-line blood gas monitoring (47%). Laboratory tests available included d-dimer (65%), plasma-free hemoglobin (63%), anti-Xa plasma heparin concentration (43%), thromboelastograph (37%), and heparin concentration using protamine titration (35%). This survey of ELSO-registered centers represents an overview of current ECMO practices."}
{"id": "19804533", "title": "Pharmacokinetics and safety of fibrinogen concentrate.", "content": "Pharmacokinetics and safety of fibrinogen concentrate. Although fibrinogen concentrate has been available for the treatment of congenital fibrinogen deficiency for years, knowledge of its pharmacokinetics comes from only two small studies. To assess the pharmacokinetic (PK) profile, clot integrity and safety of fibrinogen concentrate (human) (FCH) in patients with afibrinogenemia. A multinational, prospective, open-label, uncontrolled study of patients with afibrinogenemia > or = 6 years of age was conducted in the USA and Italy. Plasma was collected before and after infusion for PK analyses and evaluation by rotational thromboelastometry of maximum clot firmness (MCF) to assess clot integrity. Safety was assessed on the basis of adverse events and laboratory parameters. After a single dose of 70 mg kg(-1) body weight (b.w.) FCH in 14 patients, median incremental in vivo recovery was a 1.7 mg dL(-1) increase per mg kg(-1) b.w., and median levels were 1.3 g L(-1) for fibrinogen activity and antigen 1 h after infusion. Median half-life (t(1/2)) was 77.1 h for fibrinogen activity and 88.0 h for antigen. Plasma recovery in children < 16 years old was similar to that in adults aged 16 to < 65 years, but the t(1/2) and area under the curve were decreased, with an increased steady-state volume and clearance. MCF increased by a mean of 8.9 mm from baseline to 1 h after infusion of FCH (P < 0.0001). All four adverse events reported were mild, and none was serious or related to study drug. These PK findings confirm a rapid increase in plasma fibrinogen levels after infusion with FCH. Together with the clot integrity and safety data and published data on efficacy, the results support the idea that FCH substitution can restore hemostasis with a good safety profile."}
{"id": "19800846", "title": "The potential usefulness of thrombelastography in quality monitoring and quality improvement of blood components.", "content": "The potential usefulness of thrombelastography in quality monitoring and quality improvement of blood components."}
{"id": "19789037", "title": "Rapid thrombelastography (r-TEG) identifies hypercoagulability and predicts thromboembolic events in surgical patients.", "content": "Rapid thrombelastography (r-TEG) identifies hypercoagulability and predicts thromboembolic events in surgical patients. Despite routine prophylaxis, thromboembolic events (TEs) in surgical patients remain a substantial problem. Furthermore, the timing and incidence of hypercoagulability, which predisposes to these events is unknown, with institutional screening programs serving primarily to establish a diagnosis after an event has occurred. Emerging evidence suggests that point of care (POC) rapid thrombelastography (r-TEG) provides a real-time analysis of comprehensive thrombostatic function, which represents an analysis of both enzymatic and platelet components of thrombus formation. We hypothesized that r-TEG can be used as a screening tool to identify hypercoagulable states in surgical patients and would predict subsequent thromboembolic events. Rapid thrombelastography r-TEG analyses were performed on 152 critically ill patients in the surgical intensive care unit (ICU) during 7 months. Hypercoagulability was defined as clot strength (G)>12.4 dynes/cm(2). Variables of interest for identifying hypercoagulability and thromboembolic events included sex, age, operating hospital service, specific injury patterns, injury severity score (ISS), transfusion within first 24 h, ICU duration of stay, ventilator days, hospital admission days, and thromboprophylaxis. Comparisons between the hypercoagulable and normal groups or between the groups with and without thromboembolic events were performed using Chi-square tests or the Fisher exact test for categorical variables and independent sample t tests or Wilcoxon rank sum tests for continuous variables. Multivariate logistic regression analysis (LR) was performed to identify independent predictors of thromboembolic events. A receiver operating characteristic curve was used to measure the performance of G for predicting the occurrence of a TE event. All tests were 2-sided with significance of P < .05. In all, 86 patients (67%) were hypercoagulable by r-TEG. More than 85% of patients in the hypercoagulable group and 79% in the normal group received thromboprophylaxis during the study period. The differences between hypercoagulable and normal groups by bivariate analysis included high-risk injuries (52% vs 35%; P = .03), spinal cord injury (27% vs 12%; P = .03), median ICU duration of stay (13 vs 7 days; P < .001), median ventilator days (6 vs 2; P < .001), and median hospital duration of stay (20 vs 13 days; P < .001). A total of 16 patients (19%) of the hypercoagulable group suffered a thromboembolic event, and 10 hypercoagulable patients (12%) had thromboembolic events predicted by prior r-TEG hypercoagulability. No patients with normal coagulability by r-TEG had an event (P < .001). LR analysis showed that the strongest predictor of TE after controlling for the presence of thromboprophylaxis was elevated G value (odds ratio: 1.25, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.12-1.39). For every 1 dyne/cm(2) increase in G, the odds of a TE increased by 25%. These results indicate that the presence of hypercoagulability identified by r-TEG is predictive of thromboembolic events in surgical patients. Subsequent study is necessary to define optimal prophylactic treatment strategies for patients with r-TEG proven hypercoagulability."}
{"id": "19775458", "title": "Thrombelastography and tromboelastometry in assessing coagulopathy in trauma.", "content": "Thrombelastography and tromboelastometry in assessing coagulopathy in trauma. Death due to trauma is the leading cause of lost life years worldwide, with haemorrhage being responsible for 30-40% of trauma mortality and accounting for almost 50% of the deaths the initial 24 h. On admission, 25-35% of trauma patients present with coagulopathy, which is associated with a several-fold increase in morbidity and mortality. The recent introduction of haemostatic control resuscitation along with emerging understanding of acute post-traumatic coagulability, are important means to improve therapy and outcome in exsanguinating trauma patients. This change in therapy has emphasized the urgent need for adequate haemostatic assays to monitor traumatic coagulopathy and guide therapy. Based on the cell-based model of haemostasis, there is emerging consensus that plasma-based routine coagulation tests (RCoT), like prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), are inappropriate for monitoring coagulopathy and guide therapy in trauma. The necessity to analyze whole blood to accurately identify relevant coagulopathies, has led to a revival of the interest in viscoelastic haemostatic assays (VHA) such as Thromboelastography (TEG) and Rotation Thromboelastometry (ROTEM). Clinical studies including about 5000 surgical and/or trauma patients have reported on the benefit of using the VHA as compared to plasma-based assays, to identify coagulopathy and guide therapy. This article reviews the basic principles of VHA, the correlation between the VHA whole blood clot formation in accordance with the cell-based model of haemostasis, the current use of VHA-guided therapy in trauma and massive transfusion (haemostatic control resuscitation), limitations of VHA and future perspectives of this assay in trauma."}
{"id": "19767408", "title": "Anticoagulation and coagulation management for ECMO.", "content": "Anticoagulation and coagulation management for ECMO. Advances in extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) management have helped to reduce complications compared with its inception but they remain high. The principal causes of mortality and morbidity are bleeding and thrombosis. The nonbiologic surface of an extracorporeal circuit provokes a massive inflammatory response leading to consumption and activation of procoagulant and anticoagulant components. The vast differences in neonatal and adult anticoagulation and transfusion requirements demands tremendous clinical knowledge to provide the best care. Increased use of thrombelastogram will complement other methods currently being used to improved care. Methods to recognize the level of thrombin formation at the bedside could help reduce neurologic complications. ECMO requires a multidisciplinary team approach to achieve the best outcomes."}
{"id": "19762725", "title": "In vitro inhibition of factor XIII retards clot formation, reduces clot firmness, and increases fibrinolytic effects in whole blood.", "content": "In vitro inhibition of factor XIII retards clot formation, reduces clot firmness, and increases fibrinolytic effects in whole blood. Thrombelastography has received renewed interest in the perioperative setting. The main determinants of thrombelastographic results are coagulation factor concentrations (various zymogens and fibrinogen) and platelet count; thus, platelet inhibition renders these assays mainly coagulation factor dependent. Assays with and without platelet inhibition are thus increasingly used to trigger and monitor replacement therapy with blood products. In this study, we evaluated the effect of factor XIII inhibition and additional glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa blockade on (platelet-inhibited) whole blood thrombelastography and whether a modified routine assay (using factor XIII antibody) can be used to detect factor XIII deficiency. Normal whole blood was incubated with increasing amounts of a nonspecific antibody, an anti-GPIIb/IIIa antibody, or a neutralizing anti-factor XIII antibody; samples were analyzed with a tissue factor-activated and platelet-inhibited whole blood thrombelastographic assay. Clotting time, clot formation time, maximum clot firmness, and clot lysis at 60 min were evaluated in triplicate. Also, 25 whole blood routine samples were evaluated for factor XIII deficiency using a new thrombelastographic assay incorporating a factor XIII antibody and using a standard factor XIII assay for comparison. Although GPIIb/IIIa inhibition did not alter the results of the platelet-inhibited whole blood thrombelastography, factor XIII inhibition significantly reduced maximum clot firmness (P = 0.020) and increased clot formation time (P = 0.025) and clot lysis (P = 0.007), leaving clotting time unchanged; a ceiling effect seemed to be present with increasing antibody concentrations in whole blood (but not plasma). The thrombelastographic assay for factor XIII deficiency (<70% activity) had a 90% sensitivity and negative predictive value (area under receiver operating characteristic curve 0.803, P = 0.0015); for a deficiency <60%, sensitivity and negative predictive value were 100% (area under receiver operating characteristic curve 0.84, P = 0.0037). Factor XIII has significant impact on platelet-inhibited activated whole blood thrombelastography. This phenomenon should be considered when interpreting thrombelastographic results in the bleeding patient, especially when the results trigger procoagulant therapy. Antibody-mediated factor XIII inhibition can be used to establish thrombelastography-based assays to detect factor XIII deficiency."}
{"id": "19762300", "title": "Platelet function analyzer (PFA-100) offers higher sensitivity and specificity than thromboelastography (TEG) in detection of platelet dysfunction.", "content": "Platelet function analyzer (PFA-100) offers higher sensitivity and specificity than thromboelastography (TEG) in detection of platelet dysfunction. The development of advanced surgical procedures requires novel and early diagnostic techniques. One of the prime difficulties that need to be overcome is an abnormality in the coagulation system. The blood clot formation and fibrinolysis processes are very complicated and important perioperatively. However, most of the major surgeries, such as liver transplantation, use thromboelastography (TEG) for detection of coagulation abnormalities, even though TEG is not actually an ideal option. Therefore, we compared the sensitivity and specificity of the platelet function analyzer (PFA-100) and thromboelastogram (TEG) in predicting platelet dysfunction and bleeding risk. Human blood samples were drawn from healthy volunteers for this study. Levobupivacaine and CGS21680 have antiplatelet effects which were used as the detection target. The platelet counts before comparison, platelet aggregation, the closure time of PFA-100, and the parameters of TEG were examined for data analysis. Platelet aggregations were suppressed by all levobupivacaine doses (10 microg/mL, 50 micropg/mL, 200 microg/mL) and CGS21680 (100 nM, 500 nM, 1 microM) in a dose-dependent manner. Levobupivacaine and CGS21680 at maximal test doses produced no significant alteration in any parameter in the TEG assay. In the samples measured with PFA-100, both levobupivacaine and CGS21680 at maximal test doses significantly prolonged the closure time in the PFA-100 assay. We conclude that PFA-100 offers a higher sensitivity and specificity than TEG in detection of platelet dysfunction."}
{"id": "19762299", "title": "Evaluation of the platelet function analyzer (PFA-100) vs. the thromboelastogram (TEG) in the clinical setting.", "content": "Evaluation of the platelet function analyzer (PFA-100) vs. the thromboelastogram (TEG) in the clinical setting."}
{"id": "19760384", "title": "[Coagulation management in multiple trauma].", "content": "[Coagulation management in multiple trauma]. More than 25% of polytraumatized patients present in the emergency department with a coagulopathy which results in a 4-fold increase in mortality. The detection of microvascular bleeding is the major clinical indicator. Measurement of fibrinogen, activated partial thromboplastin time and prothrombin time as well as thrombelastometry are required. A prerequisite for the substitution of coagulation factors and platelets is an immediate surgical control of bleeding and correction of hypothermia, acidosis and hypocalcemia. The goals for platelet count, fibrinogen, PT and aPTT are well established. The use of an algorithm for transfusion and coagulation management results in optimized therapy and improved outcome. Substituted coagulation products are only effective if hyperfibrinolysis has been corrected before. The administration of fibrinogen corrects the coagulation factor that is critically reduced earliest, improves global coagulation tests and reduced mortality in some studies. The dose required (3-5 g) can be calculated by a formula. Fresh frozen plasma is given in a 1:1 ratio to red blood cells or at least 20-40 ml/kg body weight. A clear advantage for survival has not yet been shown and some of the risks include insufficient substitution of fibrinogen and transfusion-related acute lung injury. Goals for the administration of platelet concentrates depend on the acuity of bleeding, injury pattern (e.g. head trauma) and clinical signs of microvascular bleeding. Factor VIIa remains an off-label rescue therapy if bleeding persists despite optimization of preconditions and specific coagulation management."}
{"id": "19755462", "title": "Clinical evaluation of minimized extracorporeal circulation in high-risk coronary revascularization: impact on air handling, inflammation, hemodilution and myocardial function.", "content": "Clinical evaluation of minimized extracorporeal circulation in high-risk coronary revascularization: impact on air handling, inflammation, hemodilution and myocardial function. We examined intraoperative microembolic signals (GME), inflammatory response, hemolysis, perioperative regional cerebral oxygen saturation (rSO(2)), myocardial protection and desorbed protein amount on oxygenator fibers in high-risk patients undergoing coronary revascularization (CABG) with minimized and conventional cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). Over a ten-month period, 40 Euroscore 6+ patients undergoing CABG were prospectively randomized to one of the two perfusion protocols (N=20): Group 1: minimized extracorporeal circuits (Mini-CPB) (ROCsafe MPC, Terumo, Ann Arbor, MI, USA) and Group 2: conventional extracorporeal circuits (CECC) (Capiox SX18, Terumo, USA). Serum creatinine kinase-MB (CKMB), free hemoglobin, interleukin-6 (IL-6) and C3a levels were measured. Blood samples were collected at T1: following induction of anesthesia; T2: thromboelastography control; T3:15 min after commencement of CPB; T4: before cessation of CPB; T5: 15 min after protamine reversal and T6: ICU. Serum IL-6 levels were significantly lower in the Mini-CPB group at T4 and T5 and C3a levels were significantly less in the Mini-CPB group at T3, T4 and T5 vs. CECC (p<0.01). CKMB levels in coronary sinus blood demonstrated well preserved myocardium in the Mini-CPB group. Percentage expression of neutrophil CD11b/CD18 levels were significantly lower in the Mini-CPB group at T4 and T5 (p<0.05). There were no significant differences in air handling characteristics or free plasma hemoglobin levels in either circuit. rSO(2) measurements were significantly better at T3 and T4 in the Mini-CPB vs. CECC (p<0.05) and always higher in the Mini-CPB during follow-up. Blood protein adsorption analysis of oxygenator membranes demonstrated a significantly increased amount of microalbumin on CECC fibers (p<0.05). Mini-CPB provided a comfort and safety level similar to conventional control via satisfactory air handling, attenuated inflammatory response and hemodilution, with a better clinical outcome in patients undergoing high-risk CABG."}
{"id": "19733387", "title": "The combination of recombinant factor VIIa and fibrinogen correct clotting ex vivo in patient samples obtained following cardiopulmonary bypass surgery.", "content": "The combination of recombinant factor VIIa and fibrinogen correct clotting ex vivo in patient samples obtained following cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. Cardiac surgery involving cardio pulmonary bypass (CPB) may be associated with development of a coagulopathy that increases risk of bleeding. In the present ex vivo study we investigated the influence of fibrinogen and rFVIIa, alone or in combination, on whole blood coagulation thromboelastometry using pre- and postoperative blood samples from 18 consecutive adult patients undergoing CPB surgery. Dynamic thromboelastometric clotting profiles were recorded using citrated whole blood activated with trace amounts of tissue factor (Innovin, final dilution 1:17000). Blood samples were collected before surgery (control) and postoperative samples were obtained following in vivo neutralization of heparin with protamine sulphate. All blood samples were treated with heparinase to ensure neutralization of possible residual heparin effect. The post-operative blood samples were spiked with buffer, rFVIIa (2 microg/mL), fibrinogen (1 mg/mL), or the combination of rFVIIa and fibrinogen. Despite neutralization of heparin, CPB surgery left a measurable coagulopathy that was thromboelastometrically characterized by prolonged onset of clotting, reduced maximum velocity of clot formation (MaxVel), and decreased maximum clot firmness (MCF). Ex vivo spiking of the postoperative samples with rFVIIa shortened the clotting time. Fibrinogen also shortened the clotting time and, in addition, improved the MaxVel, and MCF. Finally, adding the combination of rFVIIa and fibrinogen to the postoperative samples corrected all thromboelastometric parameters to the preoperative range. In conclusion, the correction of whole blood clotting abnormalities that occurs with rFVIIa and/or fibrinogen suggests that future clinical trials on treatment of bleeding during CPB surgery should study the haemostatic effect of fibrinogen or possibly the combination of rFVIIa and fibrinogen."}
{"id": "19718472", "title": "Serotonergic mechanisms enhance platelet-mediated thrombogenicity.", "content": "Serotonergic mechanisms enhance platelet-mediated thrombogenicity. Although it is generally acknowledged that serotonin (5-HT) is a weak agonist for human platelets, recent information suggests an association between serotonergic mechanisms and cardiovascular risk. We investigated the action of 5-HT on adhesive, cohesive and procoagulant properties of human platelets. Impact of 5-HT on whole blood coagulation and thrombin generation was measured by modified thromboelastometry (TEM) and specific fluorogenic assays. We evaluated the effects of 5-HT on thrombus formation in an in-vitro model of thrombosis using human flowing blood. In platelet-rich plasma (PRP), 5-HT favoured the expression of CD62-P, and procoagulant molecules on platelet membranes. These effects were potentiated in the presence of Ca(++) and/or ADP. Incubation with 5-HT accelerated clotting times and augmented clot strength in whole blood TEM, and enhanced thrombin generation in PRP. In perfusion studies, 5-HT significantly increased fibrin deposition at low shear (300s(-1)) and enhanced platelet thrombus formation on the damaged vascular surface at high shear (1,200s(-1)). Selective inhibition of serotonin reuptake (SSRI) attenuated effects of 5-HT on platelet activation and downregulated the prothrombotic tendencies observed in the previous experimental conditions. In general, reductions of thrombogenic patterns observed with SSRI were more evident under shear conditions (aggregation and perfusion systems) and less evident under steady conditions (TEM and thrombin generation assays). In conclusion, 5-HT is not a weak agonist for human platelets; instead it accentuates platelet activation, potentiates procoagulant responses on human blood and increases thrombogenesis on damaged vascular surfaces. The remarkable antithrombotic actions achieved through SSRI deserve further mechanistic and clinical investigations."}
{"id": "19701086", "title": "Hemostatic strategies for minimizing mortality in surgery with major blood loss.", "content": "Hemostatic strategies for minimizing mortality in surgery with major blood loss. Continued hemorrhage remains a major contributor of mortality in massively transfused patients and controversy regarding their optimal management exists. This article reviews recent advances that impact the use and effectiveness of massive transfusion. In the past 18 months, nine retrospective studies and three before and after studies have evaluated the implementation of massive transfusion protocols in massively transfused patients receiving more than 10 units of red blood cells (RBCs) within 24 h from arrival. All studies demonstrate that patients receiving a high fresh frozen plasma (FFP):RBC or platelet:RBC ratio have improved survival, with patients receiving both high FFP:RBC and platelet:RBC ratios exhibiting the highest survival rate. When whole blood thrombelastography is used to guide transfusion therapy in massively bleeding patients, an increase in FFP and platelet to RBC ratio is also seen, and this is associated with improved survival. This indicates that thrombelastography is better than conventional coagulation assays to monitor coagulopathy and predict transfusion requirements in massive bleeders. Implementation of more aggressive hemostatic resuscitation strategies in massively bleeding patients seems reasonable, and optimally, thrombelastography should be used to monitor coagulopathy and guide FFP and platelet transfusions."}
{"id": "19699685", "title": "Methods for evaluation of platelet function.", "content": "Methods for evaluation of platelet function. There are a multitude of platelet function tests available, reflecting the complex nature of the platelet in haemostasis. No simple single test will ever cover all aspects of platelet function. Some tests focus on the aggregation of platelets, for example aggregometry, other on the swelling in response to hypotonic solutions, i.e. the well-known hypotonic shock response, or adhesion or coagulation and clot retraction, for example thromboelastography. In general there is a lack of clinical studies showing a predictive value of analysis of platelet concentrates."}
{"id": "19698858", "title": "Thromboelastometry-guided administration of fibrinogen concentrate for the treatment of excessive intraoperative bleeding in thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm surgery.", "content": "Thromboelastometry-guided administration of fibrinogen concentrate for the treatment of excessive intraoperative bleeding in thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm surgery. Thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm operations are associated with extensive blood loss and high requirements for allogeneic blood product transfusion. We assessed the efficacy of intraoperative post-cardiopulmonary bypass administration of fibrinogen concentrate in elective thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm surgery. In a retrospective group (group A, n = 12) of patients undergoing elective thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm surgery, clinically relevant diffuse bleeding after weaning from cardiopulmonary bypass was treated with allogeneic blood products (platelet concentrates, followed by fresh frozen plasma) according to a predetermined algorithm. In a prospective group (group F, n = 6) a first therapy step with fibrinogen concentrate was added to the algorithm. The dose of fibrinogen concentrate was estimated by using thromboelastometric data (ROTEM FIBTEM). Before each step of hemostatic therapy, blood loss in the range of 60 to 250 g per 5 minutes was confirmed. In group F, administration of 7.8 +/- 2.7 g of fibrinogen concentrate established hemostasis, completely avoiding intraoperative transfusion of fresh frozen plasma and platelet concentrates. Transfusion of blood products after cardiopulmonary bypass and during the 24 hours after surgical intervention was markedly lower in group F than in group A (2.5 vs 16.4 units; 4/6 patients in group F required no transfusion of blood products), as was 24-hour drainage volume (449 vs 1092 mL). Fibrinogen plasma levels, standard coagulation parameters, and hemoglobin and hematocrit values were comparable between the 2 groups on the first postoperative day. FIBTEM-guided post-cardiopulmonary bypass administration of fibrinogen concentrate resulted in improved intraoperative management of coagulopathic bleeding in thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm operations and reduced transfusion and 24-hour drainage volume."}
{"id": "19695750", "title": "Resuscitation and transfusion principles for traumatic hemorrhagic shock.", "content": "Resuscitation and transfusion principles for traumatic hemorrhagic shock. The transfusion approach to massive hemorrhage has continually evolved since it began in the early 1900s. It started with fresh whole blood and currently consists of virtually exclusive use of component and crystalloid therapy. Recent US military experience has reinvigorated the debate on what the most optimal transfusion strategy is for patients with traumatic hemorrhagic shock. In this review we discuss recently described mechanisms that contribute to traumatic coagulopathy, which include increased anti-coagulation factors and hyperfibrinolysis. We also describe the concept of damage control resuscitation (DCR), an early and aggressive prevention and treatment of hemorrhagic shock for patients with severe life-threatening traumatic injuries. The central tenants of DCR include hypotensive resuscitation, rapid surgical control, prevention and treatment of acidosis, hypothermia, and hypocalcemia, avoidance of hemodilution, and hemostatic resuscitation with transfusion of red blood cells, plasma, and platelets in a 1:1:1 unit ratio and the appropriate use of coagulation factors such as rFVIIa and fibrinogen-containing products (fibrinogen concentrates, cryoprecipitate). Fresh whole blood is also part of DCR in locations where it is available. Additional concepts to DCR since its original description that can be considered are the preferential use of \"fresh\" RBCs, and when available thromboelastography to direct blood product and hemostatic adjunct (anti-fibrinolytics and coagulation factor) administration. Lastly we discuss the importance of an established massive transfusion protocol to rapidly employ DCR and hemostatic resuscitation principles. While the majority of recent trauma transfusion papers are supportive of these general concepts, there is no Level 1 or 2 data available. Taken together, the preponderance of data suggests that these concepts may significantly decrease mortality in massively transfused trauma patients."}
{"id": "19691590", "title": "Thrombelastography in 26 healthy horses with and without activation by recombinant human tissue factor.", "content": "Thrombelastography in 26 healthy horses with and without activation by recombinant human tissue factor. To develop a standardized technique for thrombelastography (TEG) analysis in healthy adult horses, with and without the ex vivo addition of tissue factor (TF) as an activator. To determine reference intervals for TEG parameters in the horse, and to determine if traditional coagulation tests correlate with TEG. Prospective, observational. Veterinary teaching hospital. Twenty-six healthy adult horses. None. Thrombelastography with (TF-TEG) and without (TEG) the addition of TF performed by 4 operators. Coagulation profiles (prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, platelet count, fibrinogen, antithrombin, and fibrinogen degradation products) were assessed in a subset of horses. Mean values (SD) for TEG parameters in healthy horses were: reaction time (R)=17.0 minutes (3.0 min), K time (K)=5.8 minutes (2.3 min), clotting rate (Ang)=42 degrees (14 degrees ), maximum clot strength (maximum amplitude [MA])=60.3 mm (5.7 mm), CL30=97.0% (2.0%), LY30=0.8% (0.6%), CL60=92% (5.9%), LY60=3.2% (2.5%). Mean values (SD) for TF-TEG parameters were: R-TF=6.6 minutes (1.4 min), K-TF=3.1 minutes (1.0 min), Ang-TF=50.9 degrees (9 degrees ), MA-TF=62.3 mm (5.1 mm), CL30-TF=97.8% (1.6%), LY30-TF=0.6% (0.5%), CL60-TF=90.8% (4.2%), and LY60-TF=3.6% (1.9%). The addition of TF decreased R and K and increased Ang. TF-TEG had a narrower SD for R, K, Ang, CL60 and LY60 compared with TEG. Interoperator differences were reduced by the addition of TF. Regression analysis indicated a positive relationship between MA and fibrinogen concentrations (P=0.02) and R-TF time and prothrombin time (P=0.03). TF-TEG using the described protocol may minimize variability in data obtained across institutions or users. However, due to the variability associated with different operators, it is recommended that each laboratory set up individual reference intervals with the personnel who will perform the assay, and that the assay protocols and data obtained are compared on a regular basis."}
{"id": "19691584", "title": "Pulmonary thromboembolism.", "content": "Pulmonary thromboembolism. To review the pathophysiology, clinical signs, diagnosis, and treatment of pulmonary thromboembolism (PTE) in small animals. Human and veterinary clinical studies, reviews, texts, and recent research in canine and feline PTE diagnosis and thromboembolic therapeutics. In humans, clinical probability assessment and point-of-care D-dimer-based algorithms are widely used. Computed tomography pulmonary angiography is the gold standard for PTE diagnosis in humans. Echocardiography is increasingly used for bedside assessment of affected patients. In low-risk human patients anticoagulants alone are recommended while patients with cardiogenic shock are treated with thrombolytics followed by anticoagulation. PTE is associated with numerous predisposing conditions causing hypercoagulability, blood flow stasis, or endothelial injury. Identifying at-risk patients is key to diagnosis in small animals. Thromboelastography provides a method for identifying hypercoagulable patients. Computed tomography pulmonary angiography may replace selective pulmonary angiography as the imaging technique of choice for PTE diagnosis. PTE therapy consists of supportive treatment combined with appropriate, individualized thromboembolic pharmacotherapy for acute treatment and chronic management. Thrombolytic therapy for PTE remains controversial but may be indicated in hemodynamically unstable acute PTE. Thromboprophylaxis in specific conditions is rational although evidence of efficacy is limited. Prognosis depends upon degree of cardiopulmonary compromise and patient response to therapy. Mortality rates in small animals are unknown. New diagnostic techniques and advances in therapy offer significant potential for improvements in the identification and treatment of PTE in small animals. Further study must be directed to validating new diagnostic modalities and evaluating therapeutic regimes."}
{"id": "19690725", "title": "Water soluble SERS labels comprising a SAM with dual spacers for controlled bioconjugation.", "content": "Water soluble SERS labels comprising a SAM with dual spacers for controlled bioconjugation. Self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) of Raman reporter molecules adsorbed to the surface of metal nanoparticles are labelling agents for the selective detection of biomolecules by surface-enhanced Raman scattering (SERS). Advantages of SAM-based SERS labels include maximum coverage with Raman reporter molecules combined with their uniform molecular orientation within the SAM as well as minimal co-adsorption of other molecules from the surrounding. Water solubility and stability together with the option for controlled bioconjugation are desired properties of SERS labels. We present an approach to synthesize hydrophilic SERS labels in which the colloidal particle is stabilized by two different ethylene glycols attached to the SAM. This guarantees water solubility, independent of the type of a particular Raman reporter molecule and its properties at the SAM/solvent interface. Our dual SAM design is based on two different ethylene glycol spacers covalently bound to the same type of reporter molecule: a short monoethylene glycol (MEG-OH) and a longer triethylene glycol (TEG-COOH) moiety. The terminal carboxy group of the TEG spacer allows subsequent conjugation to biomolecules such as antibodies. Controlled bioconjugation is possible by varying the stoichiometric ratio of both spacers. Finally, dual SAM SERS labels are used in immuno-SERS microscopy for selective imaging of prostate-specific antigen in the epithelium of biopsies from patients with prostate cancer."}
{"id": "19681851", "title": "Haemostatic changes in the puerperium '6 weeks postpartum' (HIP Study) - implication for maternal thromboembolism.", "content": "Haemostatic changes in the puerperium '6 weeks postpartum' (HIP Study) - implication for maternal thromboembolism. We aim to measure the thrombotic changes during the postnatal period up to 6 weeks after delivery and assess the extent of the risk period. Prospective observational study. Queen Elizabeth II, an acute District General Hospital, Hertfordshire. Women booked at the antenatal clinic and prepared to deliver at the hospital. We assessed the haemoglobin, platelet count and function, fibrinogen, prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, protein C, S and antithrombin level and as well as rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) from predelivery till 6 weeks postpartum. A total 50 women were recruited of which four dropped out. Results compared against the finding at 6 weeks after delivery. Platelet was significantly elevated on day 19 compared to day 42 (P < 0.001). Fibrinogen was elevated from predelivery till day 15 after delivery (P < 0.01). Prothrombin time (PT) was low till day 15 (P < 0.05) and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) was significantly lower till day 3 after delivery (P < 0.001). ROTEM revealed low clotting time (CT) at predelivery and continued to be low till day 7. Clot formation time (CFT) significantly low till day 25 (P < 0.05). Maximum clot firmness, alpha angle and amplitude at 20 minutes were raised till day 19 (P < 0.001, P < 0.01 and P < 0.001 respectively). While, comparing vaginal delivery against caesarean section there were nonsignificant increase in thrombotic parameters in caesarean section. Coagulation screens as well as thomboelastometry suggest a persistent hypercoagulation during the first 3 weeks after delivery."}
{"id": "19667905", "title": "The emerging role of rapid thromboelastography in trauma care.", "content": "The emerging role of rapid thromboelastography in trauma care."}
{"id": "19667878", "title": "Thromboelastography as a better indicator of hypercoagulable state after injury than prothrombin time or activated partial thromboplastin time.", "content": "Thromboelastography as a better indicator of hypercoagulable state after injury than prothrombin time or activated partial thromboplastin time. To investigate the hemostatic status of critically ill, nonbleeding trauma patients. We hypothesized that a hypercoagulable state exists in patients early after severe injury and that the pattern of clotting and fibrinolysis are similar between burned and nonburn trauma patients. Patients admitted to the surgical or burn intensive care unit within 24 hours after injury were enrolled. Blood samples were drawn on days 0 through 7. Laboratory tests included prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), levels of activated factor XI, D-dimer, protein C percent activity, antithrombin III percent activity, and thromboelastography (TEG). Study subjects were enrolled from April 1, 2004, to May 31, 2005, and included nonburn trauma patients (n = 33), burned patients (n = 25), and healthy (control) subjects (n = 20). Despite aggressive thromboprophylaxis, three subjects (2 burned and 1 nonburn trauma patients [6%]) had pulmonary embolism during hospitalization. Compared with controls, all patients had prolonged PT and aPTT (p < 0.05). The rate of clot formation (alpha angle) and maximal clot strength were higher for patients compared with those of controls (p < 0.05), indicating a hypercoagulable state. Injured patients also had lower protein C and antithrombin III percent activities and higher fibrinogen levels (p < 0.05 for all). Activated factor XI was elevated in 38% of patients (control subjects had undetectable levels). Thromboelastography analysis of whole blood showed that patients were in a hypercoagulable state; this was not detected by plasma PT or aPTT. The high incidence of pulmonary embolism indicated that our current prophylaxis regimen could be improved."}
{"id": "19665684", "title": "Global hemostasis testing thromboelastography: old technology, new applications.", "content": "Global hemostasis testing thromboelastography: old technology, new applications. Thromboelastography (TEG) as a method of assessing global hemostatic and fibrinolytic function has existed for more than 60 years. Improvements in TEG technology have led to increased reliability and thus increased usage. The TEG has been used primarily in the settings of liver transplant and cardiac surgery, with proven utility for monitoring hemostatic and fibrinolytic derangements. In recent years, indications for TEG testing have expanded to include managing extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) therapy, assessing bleeding of unclear etiology, and assessing hypercoagulable states. In addition, TEG platelet mapping has been utilized to monitor antiplatelet therapy. Correlation between TEG platelet mapping and other platelet function tests such as the PFA-100 or platelet aggregation studies, however, has not been evaluated fully for clinical outcomes, and results may not be comparable. In general, the advantages of the TEG include evaluation of global hemostatic function using whole blood, a quick turn-around-time, the possibility of both point-of-care-testing and performance in central laboratories, the ability to detect hyperfibrinolysis, monitoring therapy with recombinant activated factor VII, and detection of low factor XIII activity. Potential applications include polycythemia and dysfibrinogenemia. Disadvantages of TEG include a relatively high coefficient of variation, poorly standardized methodologies, and limitations on specimen stability of native whole blood samples. In the pediatric setting, an additional advantage of the TEG is a relatively small sample volume, but a disadvantage is the difference in normal ranges between infants, especially newborns, and adults. In summary, TEG is an old concept with new applications that may provide a unique perspective on global hemostasis in various clinical settings."}
{"id": "19663218", "title": "[Thromboelastography as a method for preoperative screening for the hemostatic system in neurosurgical patients].", "content": "[Thromboelastography as a method for preoperative screening for the hemostatic system in neurosurgical patients]. The paper analyzes the use of a method of thromboelastography (TEG) as a screening technique of diagnosing hemostatic disorders in risk-group neurosurgical patients: hemostatic disorders detectable from the data of routine laboratory tests; the administration of anticoagulants and desaggresants, the use of anticonvulsants causing impairments in the hemostatic system, hematological diseases, and hepatic cirrhosis. As compared with the routine laboratory tests, TEG is shown to diagnose hemostatic disorders accurately and promptly and to monitor the efficiency of their therapy."}
{"id": "19657320", "title": "Multicentric comparison of single portion reagents and liquid reagents for thromboelastometry.", "content": "Multicentric comparison of single portion reagents and liquid reagents for thromboelastometry. Thromboelastometry ROTEM (Pentapharm, Munich, Germany) is a viscoelastic method of whole blood clotting assessment with applications in perioperative hemostasis and hematology. The different tests available for the investigation of distinct coagulation aspects are performed with combinations of liquid reagents. The use of liquid reagents for the ROTEM measurement requires several pipetting steps, which complicates their application in clinical routine even though pipetting is performed semiautomatically. New single portion reagents (SPR) containing in one vial all lyophilized reagents necessary for each test have been recently developed. SPR require only addition of blood into the single-use reagent vial in a unique pipetting step in order to mix reagents with the blood sample. Our study compared SPR and standard liquid reagents (Pentapharm) in 21 blood samples from normal subjects and 46 samples from patients in three study centers. Following ROTEM tests were performed: EXTEM (extrinsically activated TEM), INTEM (intrinsically activated TEM), FIBTEM (fibrin-based TEM), APTEM (aprotinin-controlled TEM) and HEPTEM (heparin-insensitive TEM). In the second part of the study, the stability of SPR at 37 degrees C was also assessed on 23 blood samples in one center. Very good correlation was found between SPR and liquid reagents for all clotting parameters (correlation coefficient between 0.85-0.99). The SPR reagents showed excellent stability against thermic stress and the measurements were easier to perform than with the conventional liquid reagents system."}
{"id": "19657316", "title": "Corn trypsin inhibitor decreases tissue-type plasminogen activator-mediated fibrinolysis of human plasma.", "content": "Corn trypsin inhibitor decreases tissue-type plasminogen activator-mediated fibrinolysis of human plasma. Corn trypsin inhibitor (CTI) has been considered the molecule of choice to inhibit activated factor XII (FXIIa) during the conduct of experimentation focusing on tissue factor-initiated coagulation. However, CTI-mediated attenuation of fibrinolysis following celite activation of coagulation was observed in pilot studies with the clot lifespan model. The goal of the present study was thus to characterize the mechanism(s) responsible for CTI-mediated hypofibrinolysis. Normal plasma was exposed to 0 or 49.6 microg/ml CTI, with coagulation initiated with celite or tissue factor. Fibrinolysis was initiated with tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA). Additional experiments utilized plasminogen activator inhibitor 1 deficient or alpha2-antiplasmin-deficient plasma. Coagulation/fibrinolysis kinetics were monitored with the thrombelastography-based clot lifespan model. In addition to delaying the initiation of coagulation, CTI prolonged clot growth time, delayed the onset of lysis, and prolonged clot lysis time in normal plasma after celite activation. Conversely, CTI increased the speed of clot growth, clot strength, and prolonged clot lysis time after tissue factor activation. Experiments with plasma deficient in antifibrinolytic proteins supported a primary inhibition of tPA by CTI. In addition to anti-FXIIa effects following celite activation, CTI likely exerts an anti-tPA effect, which contributed to hypofibrinolysis in this model."}
{"id": "19656278", "title": "Evaluation of lyophilized platelets as an infusible hemostatic agent in experimental non-compressible hemorrhage in swine.", "content": "Evaluation of lyophilized platelets as an infusible hemostatic agent in experimental non-compressible hemorrhage in swine. Human lyophilized platelets hold promise as a novel hemostatic infusion agent for the control of traumatic hemorrhage. Rehydrated, lyophilized platelets (Stasix) were investigated as an infusible hemostatic agent in experimental non-compressible hemorrhage, using a porcine liver injury model. Yorkshire swine underwent a grade III liver injury and uncontrolled bleeding. After 15 min, animals were infused with Stasix (n = 10) or normal saline vehicle (n = 10). At 2 h, the liver was repaired, and the animals were monitored for another4 h. Resuscitation, including blood transfusion, was administered during the hospital phase. Laboratory data, including arterial blood gas, complete blood count, thromboelastography (TEG), and coagulation parameters, were collected. All animals underwent necropsy with complete histopathologic examination. Overall survival in the Stasix group [8/10 (80%)] was significantly higher than in the control group [2/10 (20%)] (P = 0.023). Mean total blood loss index (g kg(-1)) was lower in Stasix-treated animals (22.2 +/- 3.5) than in control animals (34.7 +/- 3.4) (P = 0.019). Hemodynamic parameters were improved in the Stasix group, and a trend towards higher hemoglobin and lower lactate was observed. Coagulation and TEG parameters were not different between the groups. One surviving animal in the Stasix group had evidence of thrombi on necropsy. This is the first reported study to evaluate rehydrated, lyophilized platelets as an infusible hemostatic agent for non-compressible hemorrhage. Stasix improved survival and reduced blood loss in a liver injury porcine model. However, evidence of thrombotic complications warrants further investigation prior to human use in the setting of traumatic hemorrhage."}
{"id": "19652893", "title": "Response to aspirin in healthy individuals. Cross-comparison of light transmission aggregometry, VerifyNow system, platelet count drop, thromboelastography (TEG) and urinary 11-dehydrothromboxane B(2).", "content": "Response to aspirin in healthy individuals. Cross-comparison of light transmission aggregometry, VerifyNow system, platelet count drop, thromboelastography (TEG) and urinary 11-dehydrothromboxane B(2). Variable biological effect of aspirin is suggested to be related to pharmacological resistance. The incidence of this so-called \"resistant\" state varies with the study population and the assay used. We determined performance features of five assays used to assess aspirin effects in non-smoking healthy volunteers not taking any drug known to interfere with platelet function. Blood and urine samples were obtained immediately before and after 8-10 days of aspirin 80 mg intake. Forty-five participants 19-59 years old were enrolled. The sensitivity (SE), specificity (SP), and optimal cut-off (CO) value to detect the effect of aspirin were: light transmission aggregometry (LTA) with 1.6 mM arachidonic acid (AA) - SE 100%, SP 95.9%, CO 20%; LTA with adenosine diphosphate (ADP) 10 microM - SE 84.4%, SP 77.8%, CO 70%; VerifyNow Aspirin - SE 100%, SP 95.6%, CO 550 ARU; platelet count drop - SE 82.2%, SP 86,7%, CO 55%; TEG((R)) - SE 82,9%, SP 75,8%, CO 90%; and urinary 11-dehydrothromboxane B(2) levels (11-dHTB(2)) - SE 62.2%, SP 82.2%, CO 60 pg/ml. AA-induced LTA and the VerifyNow assay reliably detected aspirin intake in all subjects; there was wide overlap in pre- and post- aspirin results with ADP-induced LTA, platelet count drop, TEG((R)) and urinary 11-dHTB(2) assays. These results suggest that some of the variability in the reported incidence of \"aspirin resistance\" is unrelated to aspirin intake but related to inherent limitations of some assays to detect aspirin mediated effects or to underlying platelet reactivity variability independent of aspirin-mediated cyclooxygenase-1 inhibition."}
{"id": "19648162", "title": "Hypercoagulability in splenectomized thalassemic patients detected by whole-blood thromboelastometry, but not by thrombin generation in platelet-poor plasma.", "content": "Hypercoagulability in splenectomized thalassemic patients detected by whole-blood thromboelastometry, but not by thrombin generation in platelet-poor plasma. The mechanisms responsible for the increased thrombotic risk associated with thalassemia are still unclear. They might be related to the effects of red blood cell or endothelial cell derangements, increased numbers of platelets as well as abnormal plasma coagulation. To evaluate the relative role played by cells and plasma we investigated 169 patients with thalassemia by means of thromboelastometry and thrombin generation tests. Thromboelastometry measures indices of the viscoelastic properties of whole blood after activation of coagulation and is characterized by the clotting time, which may be considered as a conventional coagulation time, clot formation time, defined as the time needed for the clot to reach a fixed firmness, and the maximum clot firmness, defined as the maximal amplitude of the tracing. All the thromboelastometry parameters determined in whole blood (including shortened clotting time and clot formation time, and increased maximum clot firmness), were consistent with hypercoagulability, especially in splenectomized patients. Conversely, thrombin generation as determined in platelet-poor plasma was not. These findings point to blood cells and/or platelets rather than to plasma abnormalities as the most important determinants of the thrombotic risk observed in thalassemic patients who had been splenectomized. These results might have important diagnostic and therapeutic implications."}
{"id": "19646016", "title": "Coagulation dynamics and platelet functions in obstructive jaundiced patients.", "content": "Coagulation dynamics and platelet functions in obstructive jaundiced patients. All of the body systems are affected by increased levels of bilirubin. The aim of this study is to investigate the function of platelets and clotting dynamics in patients with obstructive jaundice. Liver function tests, serum CRP, PT, PTT and hemogram were measured in 23 patients with obstructive jaundice. Thromboelastography (TEG) was done for the evaluation of coagulation dynamics, while platelet function assay (PFA 100) was used to evaluate platelet functions. Blood samples were obtained at two occasions, before the drainage and 3 weeks after the relief of the obstruction. Hypercoagulation was detected in 80% of patients. Maximum strength, elasticity, coagulation indices of the clot were correlated with increased concentrations of direct bilirubin. Although maximum strength of coagulum usually represents increased activity of platelet function, membrane closure times with PFA 100 were found to be prolonged in 30% of patients, reduced values were determined in 17% of patients. No demonstrable effect on coagulation parameters and platelet function were detected after drainage procedures regardless of modality. Even though there is a general assumption about the increased bleeding tendency in obstructive jaundiced patients, we could not demonstrate reduced clotting activity by measuring with either PFA or TEG. On the contrary we observed tendency for hypercoagulation independent of increased prothrombin times. The most probable cause of this effect is the increased activity of fibrin polymers on platelet membrane."}
{"id": "19631364", "title": "Platelet inhibition assessed with VerifyNow, flow cytometry and PlateletMapping in patients undergoing heart surgery.", "content": "Platelet inhibition assessed with VerifyNow, flow cytometry and PlateletMapping in patients undergoing heart surgery. A substantial number of patients with coronary artery disease undergo cardiac surgery within five days of discontinuing anti-platelet treatment with aspirin and clopidogrel. The aims of this study were to describe the degree of platelet inhibition in patients with dual anti-platelet treatment scheduled for coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery and to investigate whether the measured platelet inhibition correlated to intra- and postoperative risk for bleeding and transfusion requirements. Sixty patients were included. Platelet inhibition was analysed with flow cytometry including phosphorylation status of the vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein (VASP-assay) and two bed-side analyzers, VerifyNow-System and PlateletMapping, a modified thrombelastograph. All 60 patients were analysed with VerifyNow and PlateletMapping, and 48 were analysed with flow cytometry and VASP-assay. There was a correlation between the ADP-receptor inhibition as measured by VASP-assay and VerifyNowP2Y(12) (r = -0.29, p<0.05), and between VASP-assay and the expression of P-selectin (r = 0.29, p<0.05) as measured by flow cytometry when platelets were stimulated with 5 microM ADP. VerifyNowP2Y(12) was the only measurement of platelet inhibition correlated to total blood loss (Spearman r = 0.29, p=0.03) and red blood cell transfusion (Spearman r = 0.43, p<0.01) requirements, although this might be confounded by aprotinin treatment. We found a modest agreement between the methods for preoperative platelet inhibition, though not for PlateletMapping-MA(ADP). There was a correlation between preoperative platelet inhibition measured by VerifyNowP2Y(12) and surgical blood loss or transfusion requirements. However, for the individual patient, preoperative use of VerifyNowP2Y(12) as an instrument to decide bleeding and transfusion risk does not seem helpful."}
{"id": "19620551", "title": "Treatment for blunt cerebrovascular injuries: equivalence of anticoagulation and antiplatelet agents.", "content": "Treatment for blunt cerebrovascular injuries: equivalence of anticoagulation and antiplatelet agents. We hypothesize that the 2 antithrombotic treatment regimens, systemic heparin sodium vs antiplatelet agents, are equivalent for the treatment of blunt cerebrovascular injuries (BCVIs) to prevent devastating injury-related strokes. Retrospective review of a prospective database. Level I trauma center. Patients with BCVIs from January 1, 1997, to January 1, 2007. Incidence of cerebrovascular accident (CVA), stratified by treatment. During the study period, 422 BCVIs were identified in 301 patients (64.8% men; mean [SEM] age, 37.0 [0.8] years; mean [SEM] injury severity score, 27.0 [0.9]). A total of 22 patients presented with neurologic ischemia, and 5 patients sustained CVAs after embolization and/or stenting of an injury. Treatment was initiated for 282 asymptomatic BCVIs (heparin, 192; aspirin, 67; aspirin and/or clopidogrel, 23); 1 patient had a CVA (0.5%). Of 107 patients with untreated, asymptomatic BCVIs, 23 (21.5%) had a CVA. For untreated patients sustaining BCVI-related CVAs, the mean (SEM) time to diagnosis was 58 (10) hours. For those who did not exhibit symptoms within 2 hours of injury, mean time to diagnosis of CVA was 75 (11) hours. Injury healing rates (heparin, 39%; aspirin, 43%; aspirin/clopidogrel, 46%) and injury progression rates (12%; 10%; 15%) were equivalent between therapeutic regimens. With an overall CVA risk of 21% and a documented latent period, comprehensive screening, early diagnosis, and institution of antithrombotic therapy for BCVI are clearly warranted. The type of treatment, heparin vs antiplatelet agents, does not appear to affect either stroke risk or injury healing rates."}
{"id": "19606044", "title": "Balanced hydroxyethylstarch preparations: are they all the same? In-vitro thrombelastometry and whole blood aggregometry.", "content": "Balanced hydroxyethylstarch preparations: are they all the same? In-vitro thrombelastometry and whole blood aggregometry. Haemostasis appears to be less altered with balanced than with unbalanced hydroxyethylstarch (HES) preparations. In a blinded in-vitro coagulation study, the effects of two HESs dissolved in different balanced solutions were measured. Blood from 12 healthy young male volunteers was diluted by 10, 30 and 50% by using either a balanced 6% HES 130/0.42 or a balanced 6% HES 130/0.4. Composition of the solvent of the two HES preparations differed. An unbalanced gelatin solution was used as a control. Rotation thrombelastometry was used to assess changes in coagulation, and whole blood aggregometry using three different inductors was used to assess the effects of dilution on platelet function. Dilutions of 10 and 30% showed no significant changes in thrombelastometry data and platelet aggregation in all three groups. Fifty per cent haemodilution was associated with significantly more pronounced deterioration in clotting time, clot formation time and clot firmness, with the balanced HES 130/0.42 containing calcium than with the balanced HES without calcium. Platelet function was also more impaired by HES not containing calcium than by HES containing calcium. Extreme dilution with gelatin showed similar results to those of balanced HES 130/0.4. Our in-vitro studies showed that extreme haemodilution with HES 130/0.42 dissolved in a balanced solution containing calcium was associated with less negative effects on thrombelastometry and platelet aggregation than HES 130/0.4 prepared in a balanced solution without calcium. Gelatin prepared in a nonbalanced solution showed similar effects on coagulation to balanced HES without calcium."}
{"id": "19604207", "title": "Thrombelastometer and low molecular weight heparin.", "content": "Thrombelastometer and low molecular weight heparin."}
{"id": "19596760", "title": "Thrombelastography Platelet Mapping is a useful preoperative tool in surgical patients taking antiplatelet medication.", "content": "Thrombelastography Platelet Mapping is a useful preoperative tool in surgical patients taking antiplatelet medication."}
{"id": "19590321", "title": "Hyperfibrinolysis after major trauma: differential diagnosis of lysis patterns and prognostic value of thrombelastometry.", "content": "Hyperfibrinolysis after major trauma: differential diagnosis of lysis patterns and prognostic value of thrombelastometry. The aim of this study was to diagnose hyperfibrinolysis (HF) and its pattern using thrombelastometry and to correlate the diagnosis with mortality. Furthermore, routine laboratory based and the rotational thrombelastometry analyzer (ROTEM)-derived variables were also correlated with survival. Severe trauma patients showing HF in ROTEM were consecutively enrolled in the study. Three different HF patterns were compared: fulminant breakdown within 30 minutes, intermediate HF of 30 to 60 minutes, and late HF after 60 minutes. Injury severity score (ISS), hemodynamics, hemoglobin, hematocrit, platelet count (PC), fibrinogen, and ROTEM variables at admission were analyzed. The observed mortality was compared with the predicted trauma and injury severity score mortality. Thirty-three patients were diagnosed with HF. The mean ISS was 47 +/- 14. Fulminant, intermediate, or late HF (n = 11 each group) resulted in 100%, 91%, or 73% mortality, respectively, with the best prognosis for late HF (p = 0.0031). The actual overall mortality of HF (88%) exceeded the predicted trauma and injury severity score mortality (70%) (p = 0.039). Lower PC (123 +/- 53 vs. 193 +/- 91; p = 0.034), ROTEM prolonged clot formation time [CFT, 359 (140/632) vs. 82 (14/190); p = 0.042], and lower platelet contribution to maximum clot firmness [MCF(EXTEM) - MCF(FIBTEM), 34 (20/40) vs. 46 (40/53); p = 0.026] were associated with increased mortality. ROTEM-based diagnosis of HF predicted outcome. Further independent predictors of death were combination of HF with hemorrhagic shock, low PC, and prolonged CFT in ROTEM. ROTEM-based point of care testing in the emergency room is thus able to identify prognostic factors such as prolonged CFT and low platelet contribution to clot firmness (MCF(EX) - MCF(FIB)) earlier than standard laboratory-based monitoring."}
{"id": "19583608", "title": "Thromboelastography-based transfusion algorithm reduces blood product use after elective CABG: a prospective randomized study.", "content": "Thromboelastography-based transfusion algorithm reduces blood product use after elective CABG: a prospective randomized study. Bleeding and allogeneic transfusion remain constant problems in cardiac surgical procedures. In this study, we aimed to test the role of a routine thromboelastography (TEG)-based algorithm on bleeding and transfusions in patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). Patients (n = 224) undergoing elective CABG with cardiopulmonary bypass were prospectively randomized into two groups according to transfusion strategy: in group 1 (clinician-directed transfusion, n = 110) need for blood transfusion was based on clinician's discretion and standard coagulation tests and in group 2 (TEG algorithm group, n = 114) kaolin-activated (k) TEG-based algorithm-guided perioperative transfusion management. Transfusion, blood loss, and outcome data were recorded. There were no differences in consumption of packed cell units, blood loss, re-exploration for bleeding, and early clinical outcome between the groups. Patients in the TEG group had significantly lower median units of fresh frozen plasma and platelets compared with the other group (p = 0.001). The median number of total allogeneic units transfused (packed cells and blood products) was significantly reduced in the TEG group compared with the other group (median 2, range 1-3 units vs. median 3, range 2-4 units, respectively, p = 0.001). The need for tranexamic acid was significantly diminished in the TEG group compared with the other group (10.3% vs. 19%, respectively, p = 0.007). Our results show that routine use of a kTEG-guided algorithm reduces the consumption of blood products in patients undergoing elective CABG. Adopting such an algorithm into routine management of these patients may help to improve clinical outcome and reduce the potential risks of transfusion-related complications and total costs after CABG."}
{"id": "19581801", "title": "Thromboelastometry in patients with severe sepsis and disseminated intravascular coagulation.", "content": "Thromboelastometry in patients with severe sepsis and disseminated intravascular coagulation. Severe sepsis induces coagulopathy, which may lead to disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). Thromboelastometry is a point-of-care whole blood coagulation monitor, which has been validated in human endotoxemia model. We assessed thromboelastometry in severe sepsis and overt DIC and investigated its applicability in differentiating sepsis-related coagulation disturbances. Thromboelastometry (EXTEM and FIBTEM tests) and traditional coagulation assays were analyzed in 28 patients with severe sepsis, 12 of who fulfilled the criteria of overt DIC on admission. Ten healthy persons served as controls. Coagulation parameters, clotting time, clot formation time (CFT), alpha angle, maximal clot firmness (MCF) and lysis index at 60 min, were registered. In patients with overt DIC, EXTEM MCF, CFT and alpha angle differed from that in both healthy controls and patients without DIC, indicating hypocoagulation (MCF 52, 63 and 68 mm; CFT 184, 88 and 73 s; and alpha angle 58, 72 and 76 degrees , respectively, P < 0.01 for all). In patients without DIC, the trend was toward hypercoagulation in EXTEM and FIBTEM MCF (68 vs. 63 mm, P = 0.042 and 23 vs. 15 mm, P = 0.034, respectively). Receiver operating characteristic curves showed that MCF, CFT and alpha angle discriminated patients with overt DIC moderately (area under curve 0.891, 0.815 and 0.828, respectively, P < 0.001 for all). Traditional coagulation assays showed progressively worsening coagulopathy from controls to septic patients without DIC and further to those with overt DIC. We conclude that thromboelastometry may be a valuable tool in assessing whole blood coagulation capacity in patients with severe sepsis with and without overt DIC."}
{"id": "19581800", "title": "Carbon monoxide-releasing molecule-2 decreases fibrinolysis in human plasma.", "content": "Carbon monoxide-releasing molecule-2 decreases fibrinolysis in human plasma. Carbon monoxide, derived from carbon monoxide-releasing molecules, has been recently demonstrated to enhance the velocity of formation and strength of plasma thrombi. We tested the hypothesis that carbon monoxide-releasing molecule-2 would modulate fibrinolysis of plasma thrombi. Normal plasma was exposed to 0, 25, 50, 100 or 200 micromol/l carbon monoxide-releasing molecule-2, with coagulation activated with tissue factor and fibrinolysis initiated with tissue-type plasminogen activator. Additional experiments utilized factor XIII, plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor or alpha2-antiplasmin-deficient plasmas. Thrombus growth/disintegration kinetics was monitored with thrombelastography. Carbon monoxide-releasing molecule-2, in a concentration-dependent fashion, increased the velocity of thrombus formation and strength, and markedly attenuated fibrinolysis in normal plasma. In factor XIII-deficient plasma, carbon monoxide-releasing molecule-2 mediated effects on thrombus growth/disintegration kinetics were similar to that seen with normal plasma; however, carbon monoxide-releasing molecule-2 had a less marked effect on thrombus growth/disintegration in both plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 and thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor-deficient plasma, with even less carbon monoxide-releasing molecule-2-mediated effects noted in alpha2-antiplasmin-deficient plasma. Carbon monoxide-releasing molecule-2 attenuated fibrinolysis by enhancing the velocity of clot growth and strength while augmenting the effects of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1, thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor and alpha2-antiplasmin. These findings serve as the rationale for further investigations to determine if carbon monoxide-releasing molecules could be utilized as hemostatic agents."}
{"id": "19577246", "title": "Noncitrated whole blood is optimal for evaluation of postinjury coagulopathy with point-of-care rapid thrombelastography.", "content": "Noncitrated whole blood is optimal for evaluation of postinjury coagulopathy with point-of-care rapid thrombelastography. Progressive postinjury coagulopathy has become the fundamental rationale for damage control surgery, and the decision to abort operative intervention must occur prior to overt laboratory confirmation of coagulopathy. Current coagulation testing is most commonly performed for monitoring anticoagulation therapy, the results are delayed, and the applicability of these tests in the trauma setting is questionable. Point-of-care (POC) rapid thrombelastography (r-TEG) provides real time analysis of thrombostatic function, which may allow for accurate, goal directed therapy. The test differs from standard thrombelastography (TEG) because the clotting process and subsequent analysis is accelerated by the addition of tissue factor to the whole blood sample, but is limited by the requirement that the analysis be performed within 4 min of blood draw to prevent clot formation. Consequently, citrated specimens have been proposed to obviate this time limitation. We hypothesized that the speed of r-TEG analysis following tissue factor addition to citrated blood might compromise accurate determinations compared with noncitrated whole blood. Additionally, we sought to compare the use of r-TEG with conventional coagulation tests in analysis of postinjury coagulopathy. We conducted a retrospective study of severely injured patients entered into our trauma database between January and June 2008 who were at risk for postinjury coagulopathy. Patients needed simultaneous conventional coagulation (INR, fibrinogen, platelet count) and r-TEG specimens with either fresh or citrated whole blood for inclusion in the study. kappa-Statistics were used to determine the agreement between the tests in predicting hypocoagulability. McNemar's chi(2) tests were used to compare theoretical blood product administration between r-TEG and conventional coagulation tests for noncitrated specimens. Therapeutic transfusion triggers were: INR (>1.5) and r-TEG ACT (>125 s) for FFP administration; fibrinogen (<133 mg/dL) and alpha-angle (<63 degrees ) for cryoprecipitate; and platelet count (<100K) and maximum amplitude (MA) (<52 mm) for aphaeresis platelets. Statistical significance was established as P<0.05 using two-sided tests. Forty-four patients met the inclusion criteria. kappa-Values (correlation) were higher in noncitrated versus citrated specimens for all comparisons between conventional and r-TEG tests, indicating better performance of r-TEG with the noncitrated specimens. FFP would have been administered to significantly more patients based on conventional transfusion triggers (61.5% by INR transfusion triggers versus 26.9% by r-TEG-ACT triggers, P=0.003). There was no statistically significant difference in potential cryoprecipitate or aphaeresis platelet administration. POC r-TEG is superior when performed with uncitrated versus citrated whole blood for evaluation of postinjury coagulation status. As a real time measure of total thrombostatic function, our preliminary data suggest that r-TEG may effectively guide transfusion therapy and result in reduced FFP administration compared with conventional coagulation tests."}
{"id": "19572078", "title": "Prophylactic fibrinogen infusion reduces bleeding after coronary artery bypass surgery. A prospective randomised pilot study.", "content": "Prophylactic fibrinogen infusion reduces bleeding after coronary artery bypass surgery. A prospective randomised pilot study. It has been suggested that preoperative fibrinogen plasma concentration is independently associated to postoperative blood loss after cardiac surgery. Theoretically, prophylactic infusion of fibrinogen concentrate may thus reduce postoperative bleeding, but this has not previously been investigated. Twenty elective coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) patients with preoperative plasma fibrinogen levels <3.8 g/l were included in a prospective randomised pilot study. Patients were randomised to receive an infusion of 2 g fibrinogen concentrate (FIB group) or no infusion before surgery (control group). Primary endpoint was safety with clinical adverse events and graft occlusion assessed by multi-slice computed tomography. Predefined secondary endpoints were postoperative blood loss, blood transfusions, haemoglobin levels 24 hours (h) after surgery, and global haemostasis assessed with thromboelastometry, 2 and 24 hours after surgery. Infusion of 2 g fibrinogen concentrate increased plasma levels of fibrinogen by 0.6 +/- 0.2 g/l. There were no clinically detectable adverse events of fibrinogen infusion. Computed tomography revealed one subclinical vein graft occlusion in the FIB group. Fibrinogen concentrate infusion reduced postoperative blood loss by 32% (565 +/- 150 vs. 830 +/- 268 ml/12 h, p=0.010). Haemoglobin concentration was significantly higher 24 h after surgery in the FIB group (110 +/- 12 vs. 98 +/- 8 g/l, p=0.018). Prophylactic fibrinogen concentrate infusion did not influence global postoperative haemostasis as assessed by thromboelastometry. In conclusion, in this pilot study preoperative fibrinogen concentrate infusion reduced bleeding after CABG without evidence of postoperative hypercoagulability. Larger studies are necessary to ensure safety and confirm efficacy of prophylactic fibrinogen treatment in cardiac surgery."}
{"id": "19572069", "title": "Anticoagulant mechanisms of covalent antithrombin-heparin investigated by thrombelastography. Comparison with unfractionated heparin and low-molecular-weight heparin.", "content": "Anticoagulant mechanisms of covalent antithrombin-heparin investigated by thrombelastography. Comparison with unfractionated heparin and low-molecular-weight heparin. We have developed an antithrombin-heparin covalent complex (ATH) which inhibits coagulation enzymes by two mechanisms: directly, or by catalytic activation of plasma antithrombin (AT). Anticoagulation by ATH was compared to unfractionated heparin (UFH) or low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) using a blood-based, tissue factor (TF)-activated thrombelastography (TEG) assay. Simplified TEG assays with plasma or purified plasma components were used to determine the contribution of the direct and catalytic mechanisms to ATH efficacy. Low anti-Xa concentrations of UFH inhibited clot formation significantly more than equivalent concentrations of ATH or LMWH in blood and plasma. ATH had reduced ability to catalyse AT-mediated thrombin (IIa) inhibition compared to UFH. However, at high anti-Xa concentrations, ATH had similar anticoagulant activity to UFH. ATH and non-covalent AT+UFH directly inhibited clotting to a similar degree in AT-deficient plasma. IIa-ATH complexes, which are limited to catalytic inhibition, displayed impaired anticoagulation compared to free ATH, and the magnitude of this effect increased significantly as anticoagulant concentration increased. Kinetic experiments indicated that the rate of reaction of AT with IIa is lower when catalysed by ATH versus UFH. In conclusion, at low anti-Xa doses catalytic inhibition is the primary mechanism of ATH anticoagulation, and the catalytic potential of ATH is reduced relative to UFH. However, the direct inhibitory activity of ATH is comparable to non-covalent AT+UFH, and at high anti-Xa doses the direct inhibitory activity of ATH may play a larger role in anticoagulation."}
{"id": "19567543", "title": "Clinical experience with a novel endotoxin adsorbtion device in patients undergoing cardiac surgery.", "content": "Clinical experience with a novel endotoxin adsorbtion device in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Endotoxaemia is thought to occur in cardiac surgery using extracorporeal circulation (ECC) and a positive correlation has been proposed between the magnitude of endotoxaemia and risk for postoperative complications. We studied the effects of a new endotoxin adsorber device (Alteco LPS adsorber) in patients undergoing cardiac surgery with ECC, with special reference to safety and ease of use. Fifteen patients undergoing coronary artery bypass and/or valvular surgery were studied. In 9 patients, the LPS Adsorber was included in the bypass circuit between the arterial filter and the venous reservoir. Flow through the adsorber was started when the aorta was clamped and stopped at the end of perfusion. Flow rate was kept at 150 ml/min. Six patients served as controls with no adsorber in the circuit. Samples were taken for analysis of endotoxin, TNFalpha, IL-1beta and IL-6 as well as complement factors C3, C4 and C1q. Whole blood coagulation status was evaluated using thromboelastograpy (TEG) and platelet count. No adverse events were encountered when the adsorber was used in the circuit. Blood flow through the device was easily monitored and kept at the desired level. Platelet count decreased in both groups during surgery. TEG data revealed a decrease in whole blood clot strength in the control group while it was preserved in the adsorber group. Endotoxin was detected in only 2 patients and IL-1beta in 4 patients. IL-6 decreased in both groups whereas no change in TNF concentrations was found. C3 fell in both groups, but no changes wer found in C4 and C1q. The Alteco LPS adsorber can be used safely and is easy to handle in the bypass circuit. No complications related to the use of the adsorber were noted. The intended effects of the adsorber, i.e. removal of endotoxin from the blood stream could not be evaluated in this study, presumably due to the small number of patients and the relatively short perfusion times."}
{"id": "19548973", "title": "Evaluation of a modified thrombelastography assay initiated with recombinant human tissue factor in clinically healthy horses.", "content": "Evaluation of a modified thrombelastography assay initiated with recombinant human tissue factor in clinically healthy horses. Thrombelastography (TEG) is used to evaluate the viscoelastic properties of blood during clotting and provides a global assessment of hemostasis and clot lysis. TEG analysis initiated with recombinant human tissue factor (TF) has not been evaluated in clinically healthy horses. The purpose of this study was to determine whether TEG results are affected by the time elapsed between sampling and analysis (storage time) of equine blood samples and to establish a preliminary equine reference interval for a modified TEG assay, using recombinant human TF to initiate coagulation. Citrated blood samples were obtained from 20 clinically healthy adult horses. Thirteen samples were stored for 30, 60, and 120 minutes at room temperature before TEG analysis. Coagulation was initiated by adding 20 microL of CaCl(2) to 330 microL of blood and 10 microL of diluted recombinant TF for a final dilution of 1:3600. Reaction (R) and clotting (K) times, angle (alpha), and maximum amplitude (MA) were compared between time points. A preliminary reference interval (minimum-maximum values) was determined using data from all 20 horses after 30 minutes of sample storage. There was a significant effect of storage time on R, K, and alpha but not MA. Reference intervals were: R, 3.65-6.4 minutes; K, 1.8-5.45 minutes; alpha, 33.4-66.2 degrees ; MA, 41.2-64.1 mm; lysis at 30 minutes post-MA (LY30), <2.75%; and lysis at 60 minutes post-MA (LY60), 1.55-9.5%. TEG can be performed on equine citrated blood samples using recombinant human TF to activate clot formation. TEG parameters were significantly affected by storage time, suggesting an incomplete inhibition of coagulation in citrated blood."}
{"id": "19539532", "title": "Improving the management of the blood supply through the use of Haemonetics' MCS-8150 automated double red cell collection devices.", "content": "Improving the management of the blood supply through the use of Haemonetics' MCS-8150 automated double red cell collection devices. Collecting additional red blood cell (RBC) units using the Haemonetics' MCS-8150 double red blood cell (DRBC) capability can improve operational efficiencies, reduce the risk of blood shortages, and influence the type-distribution of RBC inventories. Portable, durable, and reliable, the MCS-8150 is suitable for both in-center and mobile collection situations. Donor acceptance is high and many report an enhanced donation experience making these DRBC donors more likely to donate again. The use of the MCS-8150 is a major contributor to our blood center's collection growth, allowing us to transform from a major importer of RBC units to a self-sufficient exporter."}
{"id": "19534766", "title": "Definition, conservation and epigenetics of housekeeping and tissue-enriched genes.", "content": "Definition, conservation and epigenetics of housekeeping and tissue-enriched genes. Housekeeping genes (HKG) are constitutively expressed in all tissues while tissue-enriched genes (TEG) are expressed at a much higher level in a single tissue type than in others. HKGs serve as valuable experimental controls in gene and protein expression experiments, while TEGs tend to represent distinct physiological processes and are frequently candidates for biomarkers or drug targets. The genomic features of these two groups of genes expressed in opposing patterns may shed light on the mechanisms by which cells maintain basic and tissue-specific functions. Here, we generate gene expression profiles of 42 normal human tissues on custom high-density microarrays to systematically identify 1,522 HKGs and 975 TEGs and compile a small subset of 20 housekeeping genes which are highly expressed in all tissues with lower variance than many commonly used HKGs. Cross-species comparison shows that both the functions and expression patterns of HKGs are conserved. TEGs are enriched with respect to both segmental duplication and copy number variation, while no such enrichment is observed for HKGs, suggesting the high expression of HKGs are not due to high copy numbers. Analysis of genomic and epigenetic features of HKGs and TEGs reveals that the high expression of HKGs across different tissues is associated with decreased nucleosome occupancy at the transcription start site as indicated by enhanced DNase hypersensitivity. Additionally, we systematically and quantitatively demonstrated that the CpG islands' enrichment in HKGs transcription start sites (TSS) and their depletion in TEGs TSS. Histone methylation patterns differ significantly between HKGs and TEGs, suggesting that methylation contributes to the differential expression patterns as well. We have compiled a set of high quality HKGs that should provide higher and more consistent expression when used as references in laboratory experiments than currently used HKGs. The comparison of genomic features between HKGs and TEGs shows that HKGs are more conserved than TEGs in terms of functions, expression pattern and polymorphisms. In addition, our results identify chromatin structure and epigenetic features of HKGs and TEGs that are likely to play an important role in regulating their strikingly different expression patterns."}
{"id": "19528806", "title": "The effect of acute autologous blood transfusion on coagulation dysfunction after cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "The effect of acute autologous blood transfusion on coagulation dysfunction after cardiopulmonary bypass. To evaluate the influence of acute autologous blood transfusion on postcardiopulmonary bypass coagulation disturbances evaluated by thromboelastography (TEG) as a point-of-care test. This prospective randomized controlled study included consecutive patients who underwent elective cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass. The patients in group A underwent acute autologous blood transfusion with acute normovolemic haemodilution and those in group H received homologous blood, if needed, and served as controls. A total of 62 patients, from 68 enrolled, completed the study: 27 in group A and 35 in group H. Both groups had similar prolongation of prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time, decreased platelets count and changes in postoperative thromboelastographic variables. There were no differences between them for postoperative bleeding, blood transfusions or haemoglobin values. There was significant prolongation of the R value of TEG (without heparinase) in both groups at 4 h after surgery compared with the immediate postoperative values: from 11.3 +/- 4.2 to 12.3 +/- 5.5 mm, P < 0.05 for group A and from 9.9 +/- 3.7 to 12.5 +/- 5.4 mm, P < 0.01 for group H. The R values of TEG with and without heparinase differed significantly (P < 0.05) at 4 h postoperatively. Autologous blood transfusion of 15% estimated blood volume did not affect postcardiopulmonary bypass coagulopathy, nor did it decrease blood loss or homologous blood and its products transfusion in the early postoperative period. TEG is a valuable measure for detecting coagulation dysfunction with a potential role in the postoperative management of cardiac patients."}
{"id": "19527478", "title": "The in vitro effect of recombinant factor VIIa on coated platelet formation and clot dynamics of stored platelet concentrates.", "content": "The in vitro effect of recombinant factor VIIa on coated platelet formation and clot dynamics of stored platelet concentrates. Storage can negatively impact the hemostatic potential of platelet concentrates (PCs) used for transfusion. At the site of vascular injury, normal platelets (PLTs) are hypothesized to change into highly procoagulant-coated PLTs upon costimulation with collagen and thrombin. We investigated whether activated recombinant factor VII (rFVIIa, NovoSeven, Novo Nordisk A/S) could improve the ability of stored PLTs to support coagulation under conditions that promote the formation of coated PLTs. PCs stored for 1, 4, 6, and 8 days were costimulated with thrombin and with convulxin, a collagen glycoprotein VI receptor agonist, to create coated PLTs. The effect of rFVIIa on the ability of stored PCs to form coated PLTs, generate thrombin, and impact clot dynamics was evaluated by flow cytometry, a plasma-based assay, and thrombelastography, respectively. Coated PLT formation decreased significantly with increasing storage time (80% vs. 50%-55%, p < 0.05), and this was not affected by the addition of rFVIIa. rFVIIa accelerated thrombin generation (p < 0.001) and clot formation (p < 0.001) and significantly increased thrombin generation throughout the storage period (p < 0.001). Resistance to fibrinolysis was impaired at the end of storage, and this was not affected by the addition of rFVIIa. rFVIIa accelerated thrombin and clot formation throughout storage, with the most pronounced effect observed in the PCs that had been stored for the shortest length of time (Day 1). Resistance to fibrinolysis was gradually impaired throughout the storage period and was not affected by the addition of rFVIIa."}
{"id": "19524872", "title": "Early evaluation of acute traumatic coagulopathy by thrombelastography.", "content": "Early evaluation of acute traumatic coagulopathy by thrombelastography. Posttraumatic coagulopathy is a major cause of morbidity. This prospective study evaluated the thrombelastography (TEG) system and PlateletMapping (Haemoscope Corporation, Niles, Ill) values posttrauma, and it correlated those values with transfusions and fatalities. After institutional review board approval, assays were performed on 161 trauma patients. One citrated blood sample was collected onsite (OS), and 1 citrate and 1 heparinized sample were collected within 1 h of arrival to the emergency department (ED). Paired and unpaired t-testing was performed for nominal data with chi square testing for categorical values. Except for a slight increase in clot strength (maximal amplitude (MA)), there were no significant changes from OS to the ED. None of the TEG parameters were significantly different for the 22 patients who required transfusion. PlateletMapping showed lower platelet adenosine diphosphate (ADP) responsiveness in patients who needed transfusions (MA = 22.7 +/- 17.1 vs MA = 35.7 +/- 19.3, P = 0.004) and a correlation of fibrinogen <100 mg/dL with fatalities (P = 0.013). For the 14 fatalities, TEG reaction (R) time was 3703 +/- 11,618 versus 270 +/- 393 s (P = < 0.001), and MA was 46.4 +/- 22.4 versus 64.7 +/- 9.8 mm (P < 0.001). Hyperfibrinolysis (percent fibrinolysis after 60 min (LY60) >15%) was observed in 3 patients in the ED with a 67% fatality rate (P = < 0.001 by chi-square testing). PlateletMapping assays correlated with the need for blood transfusion. The abnormal TEG System parameters correlated with fatality. These coagulopathies were already evident OS. The TEG assays can assess coagulopathy, platelet dysfunction, and hyperfibrinolysis at an early stage posttrauma and suggest more effective interventions."}
{"id": "19520424", "title": "Envelope-type lipid nanoparticles incorporating a short PEG-lipid conjugate for improved control of intracellular trafficking and transgene transcription.", "content": "Envelope-type lipid nanoparticles incorporating a short PEG-lipid conjugate for improved control of intracellular trafficking and transgene transcription. Lipid envelope-type nanoparticles are promising carriers for gene delivery. The modification of liposomes with polyethyleneglycol (PEG) can often be useful in liposomal formation and pharmacokinetics. However, there is a dilemma concerning the use of PEG because of its poor intracellular trafficking properties. To overcome this problem, in the present study, we report on a strategy for improving the intracellular trafficking of PEG-modified lipid particles by incorporating a short PEG lipid. The findings presented here show that the incorporation of tetra(ethylene)glycol (TEG)-conjugated cholesterol into a liposome composition is useful in controlling the number of lipid envelopes, resulting in an improvement in particle uniformity with a reduced particle size. The TEG-modified lipid particles were found to enhance transfection activity by more than 100-fold. This increase is attributed to an enhancement of cellular uptake, and nuclear transcription by improving intracellular decoating. Moreover, the use of a various short PEG lipids in lipid particle formation showed a clear threshold polymerization degree (less or equal 25: PEG1100), for achieving stimulated transfection activity. Collectively, the use of short PEG lipid promises to be useful in developing an efficient non-viral gene vector."}
{"id": "19509608", "title": "Thrombelastography versus AntiFactor Xa levels in the assessment of prophylactic-dose enoxaparin in critically ill patients.", "content": "Thrombelastography versus AntiFactor Xa levels in the assessment of prophylactic-dose enoxaparin in critically ill patients. A standard dose of enoxaparin is frequently used for deep venous thrombosis (DVT) prophylaxis. Evidence suggests inconsistent bioavailability in intensive care unit (ICU) patients. Antifactor Xa activity (anti-Xa) has been used to monitor enoxaparin dosing but its accuracy and availability are problematic. Thrombelastography (TEG) is used to evaluate coagulation in diverse settings. The purpose of this study was to analyze whether TEG could be used to predict which enoxaparin-treated patients would develop DVT. Two hundred sixty-one simultaneous enoxaparin-active (active) and enoxaparin-neutralized (neutral) TEGs were performed in 61 surgical ICU patients over four consecutive days. Patient characteristics and anti-Xa were collected. DVT screening was per ICU protocol. Mean (+/-SEM) age was 54 (+/-2.3) years and Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II score was 17 (+/-0.7). There were 30 trauma and 31 general surgery patients (69% men). The DVT rate was 28%. Time to clot formation (R) and percent lysis at 30 minutes were different between active versus neutralized blood (p < 0.001). R time was 1.5 minutes shorter in patients with DVT versus those without (p < 0.001) indicating hypercoagulability in DVT patients. Anti-Xa levels were similar in patients with (0.135 +/- 0.012) and without (0.135 +/- 0.007) DVT (p = 0.97). There were no differences in age, body mass index, injury severity score, Acute Physiology and Chronic Health Evaluation II score, or trauma status between DVT and non-DVT groups. TEG demonstrates differences between enoxaparin-neutralized and enoxaparin-active blood in ICU patients that may be used to guide dosing. TEG differentiates enoxaparin-treated patients who subsequently develop DVT while anti-Xa levels do not. TEG demonstrates an enoxaparin-related increase in fibrinolysis."}
{"id": "19507243", "title": "A model for the interaction between NF-kappa-B and ASPP2 suggests an I-kappa-B-like binding mechanism.", "content": "A model for the interaction between NF-kappa-B and ASPP2 suggests an I-kappa-B-like binding mechanism. We used computational methods to study the interaction between two key proteins in apoptosis regulation: the transcription factor NF-kappa-B (NFkappaB) and the proapoptotic protein ASPP2. The C-terminus of ASPP2 contains ankyrin repeats and SH3 domains (ASPP2(ANK-SH3)) that mediate interactions with numerous apoptosis-related proteins, including the p65 subunit of NFkappaB (NFkappaB(p65)). Using peptide-based methods, we have recently identified the interaction sites between NFkappaB(p65) and ASPP2(ANK-SH3) (Rotem et al., J Biol Chem 283, 18990-18999). Here we conducted a computational study of protein docking and molecular dynamics to obtain a structural model of the complex between the full length proteins and propose a mechanism for the interaction. We found that ASPP2(ANK-SH3) binds two sites in NFkappaB(p65), at residues 236-253 and 293-313 that contain the nuclear localization signal (NLS). These sites also mediate the binding of NFkappaB to its natural inhibitor IkappaB, which also contains ankyrin repeats. Alignment of the ankyrin repeats of ASPP2(ANK-SH3) and IkappaB revealed that both proteins share highly similar interfaces at their binding sites to NFkappaB. Protein docking of ASPP2(ANK-SH3) and NFkappaB(p65), as well as molecular dynamics simulations of the proteins, provided structural models of the complex that are energetically similar to the NFkappaB-IkappaB determined structure. Our results show that ASPP2(ANK-SH3) binds NFkappaB(p65) in a similar manner to its natural inhibitor IkappaB, suggesting a possible novel role for ASPP2 as an NFkappaB inhibitor."}
{"id": "19499855", "title": "Point-of-care assessment of antiplatelet agents in the perioperative period: a review.", "content": "Point-of-care assessment of antiplatelet agents in the perioperative period: a review. The aim of this paper was to review the strengths and limitations of current 'point-of-care' techniques for the detection of antiplatelet drug effects. The review was based on a Medline search for articles with key words related to \"platelet function tests\", \"point-of-care\", and \"anaesthesia\", published in English between January 1996 and September 2008. It was found that global assessments of 'haemostasis', such as the standard thrombelastograph, Sonoclot, Clot Signature Analyser and Hemodyne, are not specific for platelet function and are essentially insensitive to cyclooxygenase inhibitors (aspirin, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) and P2Y12 antagonists (ticlopidine, clopidogrel). Global assessments of 'platelet function', such as the PFA-100 and PlateletWorks, are more specific for platelet function, but also have limited sensitivity for cyclooxygenase inhibitors and P2Y12 antagonists. The newer devices developed specifically for the assessment of antiplatelet drugs, such as Platelet Mapping, the Impact Cone and Platelet Analyser and the VerifyNow, are more promising, but are not as sensitive as laboratory platelet aggregometry. All three categories of devices detect G(p)II(b)/III(a) antagonists (abciximab, tirofiban, eptifibatide) activity, but not all provide quantitative assessments for monitoring therapy. The limitations appeared to be related to the complexity of platelet function, the multiple pathways of platelet activation, the wide interpatient variability in platelet responses and the interdependence between platelets and other aspects of coagulation. The strengths and limitations of point-of-care devices should be appreciated before they are used to assist clinical decision-making in the perioperative period."}
{"id": "19492711", "title": "Volatile methacrylates in dental practices.", "content": "Volatile methacrylates in dental practices. In recent years, an increase of occupational respiratory diseases, such as asthma caused by methacrylates, has been observed in dental personnel. In this study, the exposure of dental personnel to various volatile methacrylates was investigated. The air levels of methacrylates were measured during filling treatment while bonding agents were used in 4 dental practices in Munich, Germany. Short-term air sampling (15 min) was performed using solid phase microextraction (SPME). The SPME fibers were coated with carbowax/divinyl benzene to enrich the analytes. For analysis, the analytes were thermically desorbed from the fiber and subsequently analyzed directly by gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. The methacrylates methyl methacrylate (MMA), 2-hydroxyethyl methacrylate (HEMA), ethylene glycol dimethacrylate (EGDMA), and triethylene glycol dimethacrylate (TEG-DMA) were identified in the air of dental practices. The exposure levels of the four methacrylates varied during the filling treatments. The maximum concentrations found were 0.4 mg/m3 for MMA, 45 microg/m3 for HEMA, 13 microg/m3 for EGDMA, and 45 microg/m3 for TEG-DMA. The detection of TEG-DMA correlated with the application of bonding agents during performance of dental fillings. Exposure levels of different methacrylates were observed at all investigated dental practices. The maximum levels of MMA measured in this study were at least 200 times lower than the toxicologically relevant maximum allowable concentrations defined in various countries. Nevertheless, the exposure levels of methacrylates should be kept as low as possible due to the allergenic potential of some methacrylates."}
{"id": "19491662", "title": "Effects of acidosis, alkalosis, hyperthermia and hypothermia on haemostasis: results of point-of-care testing with the thromboelastography analyser.", "content": "Effects of acidosis, alkalosis, hyperthermia and hypothermia on haemostasis: results of point-of-care testing with the thromboelastography analyser. In this study we assessed the effects of changes in pH, temperature, and their combination in whole blood on thromboelastographic variables. Blood was collected from six healthy volunteers. Thromboelastograph (TEG series 5000; Haemoscope Corporation, Illinois, USA) channels were set at temperatures of 32, 37, and 39 degrees C and each was filled with artificially acidified, alkalified, and neutral blood, respectively. Acidification (pH 6.95) significantly impairs thromboelastographic variables reaction time r (from 23.3 to 33.7 min; P = 0.0280), kinetic time k (from 8.7 to 16.1 min; P = 0.028), angle alpha (from 24.3 degrees to 13.8 degrees ; P = 0.028), prothrombin time (from 11.4 to 12.1 s; P = 0.044), and activated partial thromboplastin time (from 29.3 to 45.0 s; P = 0.028). A temperature drop from 37 to 32 degrees C in blood of neutral pH significantly impaired k (from 8.7 to 10.2 min; P = 0.028) and alpha (from 24.3 degrees to 21.0 degrees ; P = 0.027), whereas maximum amplitude ma significantly increased (from 46.5 to 52.5 mm; P = 0.027). A temperature rise from 37 to 39 degrees C at pH 7.37 did not affect any of the TEG variables. Artificial alkalization (pH 7.68) at a temperature of 37 degrees C had no effect on any of the measured variables. Acidosis causes a significant impairment of clot formation and clot strength. Hypothermia had the same effects, but to a lesser extent. These findings emphasize the need for correction of acidosis and hypothermia to normalize haemostasis."}
{"id": "19489008", "title": "The design and testing of a dual fiber textile matrix for accelerating surface hemostasis.", "content": "The design and testing of a dual fiber textile matrix for accelerating surface hemostasis. The standard treatment for severe traumatic injury is frequently compression and application of gauze dressing to the site of hemorrhage. However, while able to rapidly absorb pools of shed blood, gauze fails to provide strong surface (topical) hemostasis. The result can be excess hemorrhage-related morbidity and mortality. We hypothesized that cost-effective materials (based on widespread availability of bulk fibers for other commercial uses) could be designed based on fundamental hemostatic principles to partially emulate the wicking properties of gauze while concurrently stimulating superior hemostasis. A panel of readily available textile fibers was screened for the ability to activate platelets and the intrinsic coagulation cascade in vitro. Type E continuous filament glass and a specialty rayon fiber were identified from the material panel as accelerators of hemostatic reactions and were custom woven to produce a dual fiber textile bandage. The glass component strongly activated platelets while the specialty rayon agglutinated red blood cells. In comparison with gauze in vitro, the dual fiber textile significantly enhanced the rate of thrombin generation, clot generation as measured by thromboelastography, adhesive protein adsorption and cellular attachment and activation. These results indicate that hemostatic textiles can be designed that mimic gauze in form but surpass gauze in ability to accelerate hemostatic reactions."}
{"id": "19486172", "title": "Lower doses of rFVIIa therapy are safe and effective for surgical interventions in patients with severe FXI deficiency and inhibitors.", "content": "Lower doses of rFVIIa therapy are safe and effective for surgical interventions in patients with severe FXI deficiency and inhibitors. Severe FXI deficiency is a rare injury-related bleeding disorder. In patients with FXI inhibitors, surgeries may be treated using recombinant activated factor VII; however, treatment safety is a major concern and the best dosing regimen as well as mode of administration is still to be defined. We describe four patients with severe factor XI deficiency and inhibitors to FXI, undergoing eight (four major) surgical procedures treated with continuous infusion of rFVIIa. Following acute MI that evolved after surgery of our first patient, all other patients were treated with low-dose bolus rFVIIa followed by low-dose continuous infusion of rFVIIa. Haemostasis was successfully achieved and no further thrombotic complications occurred. To support our clinical results ex-vivo thromboelastography studies were performed, demonstrating the differences of clot formation and lysis between patients with FXI deficiency and healthy controls and suggesting that low-dose rFVIIa corrects coagulation similarly to high-dose rFVIIa in FXI deficiency. Recombinant FVIIa at low doses may effectively induce haemostasis and seems to be a safe treatment mode in patients with FXI deficiency and inhibitors undergoing surgeries."}
{"id": "19477486", "title": "Lipopolysaccharide-induced activation of coagulation in neonatal cord and adult blood monitored by thrombelastography.", "content": "Lipopolysaccharide-induced activation of coagulation in neonatal cord and adult blood monitored by thrombelastography. Although precisely balanced hemostasis in newborns is rapidly changing during early development. During gram-negative sepsis, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) activates toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 and induces complex responses of immune system and hemostasis. In the present study we compared LPS-induced activation of coagulation in cord blood (CB) samples of healthy newborns to whole blood (WB) samples from healthy adult volunteers. Samples were incubated with LPS for various incubation periods (0-2-3-4 hrs), and coagulation was measured by rotation thrombelastography (TEG). All parameters (clotting time (CT), clot formation time (CFT), maximal clot formation (MCF), and angle alpha) were affected with increasing incubation period with LPS (100 ng/ml) in adult and cord WB. In the absence of LPS, CTs and CFTs were significantly shorter and MCFs and angels alpha were significantly longer in cord than in adult WB samples. Reduction of CT due to LPS incubation was significantly stronger in CB than in adult WB samples. Pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate, a specific inhibitor of the NFkappaB pathway, inhibited the effects of LPS on CT in adult and cord WB. In summary, TEG proved to be a sensitive and reliable tool for the determination of LPS-induced tissue factor mediated activation of hemostasis in whole blood samples from adults and neonates."}
{"id": "19476923", "title": "Sulfonation of papain-treated chitosan and its mechanism for anticoagulant activity.", "content": "Sulfonation of papain-treated chitosan and its mechanism for anticoagulant activity. The novel low-molecular-weight chitosan polysulfate (MW 5120-26,200 Da) was prepared using the depolymerization of chitosan with papain (EC. 3.4.22.2). The sulfonation of depolymerized products was performed using chlorosulfonic acid in N,N-dimethylformamide under semi-heterogeneous conditions. The structures of the products were characterized by FTIR, (13)C NMR, and (1)H NMR (1D, 2D NMR) spectroscopy. The present study sheds light on the mechanism of anticoagulant activity of chitosan polysulfate. Anticoagulant activity was investigated by an activated partial thromboplastin assay, a thrombin time assay, a prothrombin time assay, and thrombelastography. Surface plasmon resonance also provided valuable data for understanding the relationship between the molecular binding of sulfated chitosan to two important blood clotting regulators, antithrombin III and heparin cofactor II. These results show that the principal mechanism by which this chitosan polysulfate exhibits anticoagulant activity is mediated through heparin cofactor II and is dependent on polysaccharide molecular weight."}
{"id": "19467888", "title": "The utility of thromboelastography for guiding recombinant activated factor VII therapy for refractory hemorrhage after cardiac surgery.", "content": "The utility of thromboelastography for guiding recombinant activated factor VII therapy for refractory hemorrhage after cardiac surgery. Recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) is being increasingly used in cardiac surgical patients with refractory hemorrhage. In this study, the authors assessed the ability of thromboelastography (TEG) in guiding rFVIIa therapy in this setting. Retrospective study. Tertiary care university hospital. Thirty-eight consecutive patients who received rFVIIa for refractory hemorrhage after cardiac surgery and had a complete coagulation profile including TEG within 30 minutes before and after rFVIIa. Standard coagulation (prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, platelet number, and fibrinogen) and TEG measurements (r time, k time, alpha angle, and maximum amplitude) before and after rFVIIa therapy were compared between responders and nonresponders (determined retrospectively based on clinical records). Twenty-eight patients (74%) were classified as responders. There were no consistent changes in standard coagulation and TEG measurements before and after rFVIIa therapy. The number of abnormalities in pretreatment coagulation tests was related to response rates; odds of response were 11-fold (95% confidence interval [CI]) and 33-fold (95% CI) greater among patients with 0 or 1 abnormality in standard coagulation tests and TEG measures, respectively, than those with 2 or more abnormalities. TEG may be a useful tool for predicting response to rFVIIa in the setting of refractory hemorrhage after cardiac surgery."}
{"id": "19459866", "title": "Bedside assessment of fibrinogen level in postpartum haemorrhage by thrombelastometry.", "content": "Bedside assessment of fibrinogen level in postpartum haemorrhage by thrombelastometry. To establish whether reagent-supported thrombelastometry with the rotation thrombelastometry system (ROTEM) point-of-care device correlated with fibrinogen level in postpartum haemorrhages. Prospective observational study. Ninety-one women at the third trimester of pregnancy: 37 with postpartum haemorrhage (study group) and 54 without abnormal bleeding (control group). Standard laboratory test results were compared with those obtained at bedside from the ROTEM with the FIBTEM test (54 tests in the control group and 51 in the study group). Analysis of correlations between fibrinogen levels and FIBTEM test results: clotting time (CT), clot amplitude at 5 and 15 minutes (CA5; CA15) and maximal amplitude [maximum clot firmness (MCF)]. Median fibrinogen level was significantly lower in the haemorrhage group than in the control group (3.4 and 5.1 g/l, respectively, P < 0.0001). Median CT was higher in the haemorrhage group than in the control group (P = 0.05). CA5, CA15 and MCF were significantly lower in the haemorrhage group than in controls (P < 0.0001) and strongly correlated with fibrinogen levels in both groups (r = 0.84-0.87, P < 0.0001). A cut-off value of CA5 at 5 mm and CA15 at 6 mm presented an excellent sensitivity (100% for both parameters) and a good specificity (respectively 85 and 88%) to detect fibrinogen levels <1.5 g/l in postpartum haemorrhage. Conclusions The early parameters obtained from the FIBTEM test correlated well with fibrinogen levels. ROTEM might be helpful in guiding fibrinogen transfusion during postpartum haemorrhage."}
{"id": "19453986", "title": "Washing platelets in neutral, calcium-free, Ringer's acetate.", "content": "Washing platelets in neutral, calcium-free, Ringer's acetate. Washed platelets (PLTs) are occasionally requested for patients with histories of allergic or anaphylactic reactions. Washing methods and conditions result in the loss of PLT number and function. Short postwash storage times occasionally conflict with other patient activities and result in the wastage of washed products. Better washing procedures are a start to longer postwash hold times. Twenty-six units of just-outdated 6- or 7-day-old apheresis PLT concentrates were sampled; washed in neutral, calcium-free, Ringer's acetate (NRA); allowed to recover for 0.5 hour; and resampled. PLTs were counted, subjected to transmission electron microscopy, diluted with either equal-volume NRA (prewash) or autologous plasma (postwash), and subjected to thromboelastography. Pre- and postwash products were compared. PLT recovery was 71%. Plasma removal was 96%. Electron microscopy PLT morphology was unchanged by washing. Thromboelastography showed a mild decrease in final clot strength after washing that was not related to PLT concentration. PLT washing in NRA allows good recovery of PLT numbers and good preservation of function in vitro as assessed by thromboelastography. If performed in a closed-system cell washer, extension of the current 4-hour storage time for washed PLTs should be possible."}
{"id": "19451364", "title": "Bedside evaluation of thienopyridine antiplatelet therapy.", "content": "Bedside evaluation of thienopyridine antiplatelet therapy."}
{"id": "19444979", "title": "The use of combination FEIBA and rFVIIa bypassing therapy, with TEG profiling, in uncontrollable bleeding associated with acquired haemophilia A.", "content": "The use of combination FEIBA and rFVIIa bypassing therapy, with TEG profiling, in uncontrollable bleeding associated with acquired haemophilia A."}
{"id": "19439685", "title": "Thiopental inhibits lipopolysaccharide-induced tissue factor expression.", "content": "Thiopental inhibits lipopolysaccharide-induced tissue factor expression. During Gram-negative sepsis, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulates toll-like receptor 4, resulting in an activation of the immune system and the expression of tissue factor on monocytes. As a consequence, intravascular coagulation, ischemia, and multiorgan dysfunction may occur. Because thiopental has been described to modulate the immune system, we tested the hypothesis that thiopental alters the LPS-induced tissue factor expression. (i) Citrated whole blood samples were incubated with thiopental (0, 0.25, 0.5, 1 mg/mL) and LPS (100 microg/mL) for 4 h. After recalcification, clotting time (CT) was determined by rotational thrombelastometry. (ii) The mechanism of the LPS-induced shortening of CT was investigated using the tissue factor blocker active-site inhibited factor VIIa and the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide. (iii) A concentration response curve for the effect of tissue factor on CT was generated. LPS shortened CT from 618 +/- 122 s to 192 +/- 33 s (n = 6; P < 0.05). Shortening of CT was mediated by synthesis of tissue factor, because both inhibition of protein synthesis and blockade of tissue factor effects abolished this effect of LPS. Thiopental markedly inhibited the LPS-induced shortening of CT (372 +/- 86 s; n = 6; P < 0.001). Comparison of CT with a tissue factor standard curve demonstrated that thiopental reduced the LPS-induced tissue factor activity up to 86%. A direct effect of thiopental on coagulation was excluded, because tissue factor-induced CT was not affected by the barbiturate. Thiopental markedly inhibits the LPS-induced tissue factor expression in whole blood samples."}
{"id": "19422451", "title": "Mechanisms of hydroxyethyl starch-induced dilutional coagulopathy.", "content": "Mechanisms of hydroxyethyl starch-induced dilutional coagulopathy. The biochemical mechanisms causing dilutional coagulopathy following infusion of hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 (HES) are not known in detail. To give a detailed biochemical description of the mechanism of coagulopathy following 30%in vivo dilution with HES, to present a systematic ex vivo test of various hemostatic agents, and to investigate the hypothesis that acquired fibrinogen deficiency constitutes the most important determinant of the coagulopathy. Dynamic whole blood clot formation assessed by thromboelastometry, platelet count, thrombin generation, and the activities of von Willebrand factor, coagulation factor II, FVII, FVIII, FIX, FX and FXIII were measured in 20 bleeding patients enrolled in a prospective clinical study investigating in vivo substitution of blood loss with HES up to a target level of 30%. Thromboelastometry parameters were further evaluated after ex vivo spiking experiments with fibrinogen, prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC), FXIII, activated recombinant FVIIa (rFVIIa), fresh frozen plasma, and platelets. Hemodilution reduced maximum clot firmness (MCF), whereas whole blood clotting time (CT) and maximum velocity remained unaffected. All coagulation factor activities were reduced. Fibrinogen, FII, FXIII and FX activities decreased significantly below the levels expected from dilution. The endogenous thrombin potential was unchanged. Ex vivo addition of fibrinogen normalized the reduced MCF and increased the maximum velocity, whereas PCC, rFVIIa and platelets shortened the CT but showed no effect on the reduced MCF. Acquired fibrinogen deficiency seems to be the leading determinant in dilutional coagulopathy, and ex vivo addition corrected the coagulopathy completely."}
{"id": "19420005", "title": "Finding the optimal concentration range for fibrinogen replacement after severe haemodilution: an in vitro model.", "content": "Finding the optimal concentration range for fibrinogen replacement after severe haemodilution: an in vitro model. Replacement of fibrinogen is presumably the key step in managing dilutional coagulopathy. We performed an in vitro study hypothesizing that there is a minimal fibrinogen concentration in diluted whole blood above which the rate of clot formation approaches normal. Blood samples from six healthy volunteers were diluted 1:5 v/v with saline keeping haematocrit at 24% using red cell concentrates. We measured coagulation factors and thrombin generation in plasma at baseline and after dilution. Thromboelastometry was used to evaluate (i) speed and quality of clot formation in diluted samples supplemented with fibrinogen 50-300 mg dl(-1) and (ii) clot resistance to fibrinolysis. Diluted and undiluted samples with no added fibrinogen served as controls. Coagulation parameters and platelets were reduced by 74-85% after dilution. Peak thrombin generation was reduced by 56%. Adding fibrinogen led to a concentration-dependent improvement of all thromboelastometric parameters. The half maximal effective concentration (EC50) for fibrinogen replacement in haemodiluted blood was calculated to be 125 mg dl(-1). Adding tissue plasminogen activator, 0.15 microg ml(-1), led to a decrease of clot firmness and lysis time. The target plasma concentration for fibrinogen replacement was predicted by these in vitro results to be greater than 200 mg dl(-1) as only these concentrations optimized the rate of clot formation. This concentration is twice the level suggested by the current transfusion guidelines. Although improved, clots were prone to fibrinolysis indicating that the efficacy of fibrinogen therapy may be influenced by co-existing fibrinolytic tendency occurring during dilutional coagulopathy."}
{"id": "19417630", "title": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 increases the velocity of thrombus growth and strength in human plasma.", "content": "Carbon monoxide releasing molecule-2 increases the velocity of thrombus growth and strength in human plasma. Carbon monoxide derived from degradation of heme by heme oxygenase or carbon monoxide releasing molecules (CORMs) has been demonstrated to decrease thrombosis in vivo and to weakly inhibit platelet aggregation. We tested the hypothesis that carbon monoxide released from tricarbonyldichlororuthenium (II) dimer (CORM-2) would diminish the velocity of formation and strength of plasma thrombi as determined by thrombelastography. Normal plasma was exposed to 0 or 100 micromol/l CORM-2 or inactivated CORM-2 (iCORM-2), with coagulation initiated with tissue factor or celite (n = 8 per condition). Additional experiments utilized factor XIII (FXIII) deficient plasma activated with celite. Coagulation kinetics was monitored with thrombelastography for 15 min. CORM-2, and to a lesser extent, iCORM-2, significantly (P < 0.05) increased the velocity of formation (122 and 56%, respectively) and strength (66 and 57%, respectively) of plasma clots initiated with either tissue factor or celite compared with thrombi not exposed to CORM-2 or iCORM. In FXIII deficient plasma CORM-2 significantly increased the velocity of clot formation (264%) and strength (240%). Carbon monoxide and iCORM-2 derived from CORM-2 markedly enhance the velocity of clot growth and strength. These findings serve as the rationale for further investigations to determine if CORMs could be utilized as hemostatic agents."}
{"id": "19413726", "title": "Stored red blood cell supernatant facilitates thrombin generation.", "content": "Stored red blood cell supernatant facilitates thrombin generation. Observational studies have reported that patients transfused with red blood cells (RBCs) have a worse clinical outcome than untransfused patients and that storage age of RBCs at the time of transfusion may be an independent predictor of this adverse clinical outcome. Eight RBC concentrates in additive solution were studied over an 8-week storage period. The RBC supernatant was ultracentrifuged to concentrate microvesicles (RCMVs). RCMVs were studied by flow cytometry to identify phosphatidylserine (PS)-expressing RCMVs and in a thromboelastograph (TEG) using a modified assay to detect a thrombin facilitation effect. For all products, the percentage of RCMVs that exhibited PS expression on Day 1 was 50 \u00b1 13%, which increased with storage, and on Day 31 was 90 \u00b1 4%. After 31 days, four of the eight products showed a thrombin facilitation effect as evidenced by a shortening of the TEG reaction (R) time of 1.3 \u00b1 1.1 minutes, which persisted to Day 41. Data are the mean \u00b1 1 SD. This TEG R shortening effect was neutralized by annexin V. No such effect was observed on, or before, Day 21. Some stored RBCs release RCMVs, which express PS and are capable of facilitating thrombin generation in vitro. This provides a possible mechanism by which stored RBCs could promote adverse thrombotic or inflammatory effects."}
{"id": "19411671", "title": "Bleeding management with fibrinogen concentrate targeting a high-normal plasma fibrinogen level: a pilot study.", "content": "Bleeding management with fibrinogen concentrate targeting a high-normal plasma fibrinogen level: a pilot study. Bleeding diathesis after aortic valve operation and ascending aorta replacement (AV-AA) is managed with fresh-frozen plasma (FFP) and platelet concentrates. The aim was to compare haemostatic effects of conventional transfusion management and FIBTEM (thromboelastometry test)-guided fibrinogen concentrate administration. A blood products transfusion algorithm was developed using retrospective data from 42 elective patients (Group A). Two units of platelet concentrate were transfused after cardiopulmonary bypass, followed by 4 u of FFP if bleeding persisted, if platelet count was < or =100 x 10(3) microl(-1) when removing the aortic clamp, and vice versa if platelet count was >100 x 10(3) microl(-1). The trigger for each therapy step was > or =60 g blood absorbed from the mediastinal wound area by dry swabs in 5 min. Assignment to two prospective groups was neither randomized nor blinded; Group B (n=5) was treated according to the algorithm, Group C (n=10) received fibrinogen concentrate (Haemocomplettan P/Riastap, CSL Behring, Marburg, Germany) before the algorithm-based therapy. A mean of 5.7 (0.7) g fibrinogen concentrate decreased blood loss to below the transfusion trigger level in all Group C patients. Group C had reduced transfusion [mean 0.7 (range 0-4) u vs 8.5 (5.3) in Group A and 8.2 (2.3) in Group B] and reduced postoperative bleeding [366 (199) ml vs 793 (560) in Group A and 716 (219) in Group B]. In this pilot study, FIBTEM-guided fibrinogen concentrate administration was associated with reduced transfusion requirements and 24 h postoperative bleeding in patients undergoing AV-AA."}
{"id": "19410018", "title": "A prospective study of conventional and expanded coagulation indices in predicting ulcer bleeding after variceal band ligation.", "content": "A prospective study of conventional and expanded coagulation indices in predicting ulcer bleeding after variceal band ligation. There is controversy over whether coagulation status predicts bleeding caused by ulceration after esophageal varices band ligation (EVL). EVL was performed for primary (n = 45) or secondary (n = 105) prophylaxis in 150 patients with cirrhosis (Child A, n = 74, 49%; Child B, n = 42, 28%; Child C, n = 34, 23%). International normalized ratio (INR) and platelet counts were assessed in all. In 92 patients, levels of factor V, fibrinogen, D-dimer, protein C and protein S, von Willebrand factor, and thromboelastography (TEG) were assessed. Platelet count <50 x 10(3)/mm(3) and INR >1.5 were considered high-risk cutoff for bleeding. Conversely, platelet count >or=50 x 10(3)/mm(3) with INR <or=1.5 were safe cutoffs. Overall, 11 patients (7.3%) had post-EVL ulcer bleeding. Bleeding occurred in 5 patients with Child A/B (4.3%) and 6 patients with Child C (17%) (P = .0174 for Child A/B versus Child C). Eight patients with bleeding were among the 110 below the cutoff for INR and platelet count, whereas only 3 of the patients with bleeding were among the 40 patients with purported high-risk values (P = 1.0). Among the 92 patients with expanded coagulation tests, bleeding occurred in 5. There was no difference in any of the coagulation parameters, including overall TEG patterns, between patients who did and did not bleed. Post-EVL ulcer bleeding was associated with Child C status but not with conventional or expanded coagulation indices in cirrhotic patients without renal failure or infection undergoing elective EVL. These results call into question the common use of prophylactic procoagulants in the elective setting."}
{"id": "19408191", "title": "Diagnostic evaluation of platelet function disorders in neonates and children: an update.", "content": "Diagnostic evaluation of platelet function disorders in neonates and children: an update. Investigation of platelet function disorders in infants and small children requires the collaborative efforts of clinicians and clinical laboratories. A detailed personal, family, and medication history, and a search for additional clinical phenomena may help to direct diagnostic laboratory investigations. Testing for these disorders in young children presents several challenges: the requirement of relatively large volumes of blood, lack of standardization, and the absence of well-established age-specific reference ranges. Neonates show the most notable differences in platelet function compared to older children and adults; the decreased platelet activation responses persist for the first 2 to 4 weeks after delivery. Small studies of normal postneonatal pediatric populations have provided data on platelet function assays, including bleeding times, PFA-100 closure times, thromboelastography, aggregation, secretion, and flow cytometry. The majority of these studies, comparing normal children with adults, found only minor differences in platelet responses measured by these assays."}
{"id": "19406552", "title": "Hemostasis in cardiac arrest patients treated with mild hypothermia initiated by cold fluids.", "content": "Hemostasis in cardiac arrest patients treated with mild hypothermia initiated by cold fluids. Application of mild hypothermia (32-33 degrees C) has been shown to improve neurological outcome in patients with cardiac arrest. However, hypothermia affects hemostasis, and even mild hypothermia is associated with bleeding and increased transfusion requirements in surgery patients. On the other hand, crystalloid hemodilution has been shown to induce a hypercoagulable state. The study aim was to elucidate in which way the induction of mild therapeutic hypothermia by a bolus infusion of cold crystalloids affects the coagulation system of patients with cardiac arrest. This was a prospective pilot study in 18 patients with cardiac arrest and return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC). Mild hypothermia was initiated by a bolus infusion of cold 0.9% saline fluid (4 degrees C; 30ml/kg/30min) and maintained for 24h. At 0h (before hypothermia), 1, 6 and 24h we assessed coagulation parameters (PT, APPT), platelet count and performed thrombelastography (ROTEM) after in vitro addition of heparinase. A total amount of 2528 (+/-528)ml of 0.9% saline fluid was given. Hematocrit (p<0.01) and platelet count (-27%; p<0.05) declined, whereas APTT increased (2.7-fold; p<0.01) during the observation period. All ROTEM parameters besides clotting time (CT) after 1h (-20%; p<0.05) did not significantly change. Mild hypothermia only slightly prolonged clotting time as measured by rotation thrombelastography. Therefore, therapeutic hypothermia initiated by cold crystalloid fluids has only minor overall effects on coagulation in patients with cardiac arrest."}
{"id": "19405329", "title": "ROTEM analysis: a significant advance in the field of rotational thrombelastography.", "content": "ROTEM analysis: a significant advance in the field of rotational thrombelastography. At the turn of the century, a significant advance in the rapidly expanding field of rotational thrombelastography (ROTEG), known at present as thrombelastometry or ROTEM analysis, was developed at the Ludwig-Maximillian University in Munich. The measuring unit is operated by a laptop computer. There are four temperature-controlled measuring channels in which the global assays not only detect coagulation factor defects but also platelet function, abnormal fibrinogen polymerisation, anticoagulant defects and hyperfibrinolysis. ROTEM has steadily increased in popularity, particularly because of its well-established application as a diagnostic aid at the point of care in the critical care situation. It also provides a useful guide in the choice of an appropriate therapeutic option in the bleeding patient, reducing costs by avoiding administration of costly component therapy such as fresh-frozen plasma, cryoprecipitate, platelet concentrates or antifibrinolytic agents. As well as being useful in monitoring anticoagulant therapy and the use of pharmacological agents, ROTEM is a valuable research tool in the field of hypercoagulability, fibrinolysis, factor XIII activity and the ultimate phases of the blood coagulation process."}
{"id": "19404534", "title": "In-vitro evaluation of anti-factor IXa aptamer on thrombin generation, clotting time, and viscoelastometry.", "content": "In-vitro evaluation of anti-factor IXa aptamer on thrombin generation, clotting time, and viscoelastometry. The REG1 system consists of factor IXa inhibitor, RB006, an aptamer-based anticoagulant and its antidote, RB007. The optimal use of RB006 can be facilitated by understanding its effect on the formation of thrombin and fibrin, and other standard tests of coagulation. Blood from consented volunteers was drawn into 3.2% citrate (9:1 v/v) and either used immediately or centrifuged to obtain platelet-poor plasma. Increasing concentrations of aptamer (6-24 microg/ml) alone or in combination with heparin (0.1 U/ml) or lepirudin (0.2 microg/ml) were added to blood and plasma samples. Activated clotting times (ACT+, low range-ACT), thrombelastometry (ROTEM) or thrombelastography (TEG) were performed in recalcified whole blood samples. Thrombin generation, prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) were performed in plasma samples. To some samples the antidote RB007 was added to neutralise the anticoagulation activity of RB006. In all experiment the ratio of RB006 to RB007 was kept 1:2. RB006 dose-dependently prolonged aPTT and low range-ACT, but, as expected, had no effect on PT. RB006 prolonged the lag time and decreased the peak of Actin-triggered thrombin generation. Thrombin-activated TEG demonstrated that RB006 decreases the rate of clot formation. These effects were potentiated when RB006 was combined with heparin or lepirudin. In all experiments RB007 reversed the effects of RB006 back to baseline. In conclusion, RB006 inhibits thrombin generation and clot formation in a concentration-dependent manner. It is feasible to monitor RB006 and its reversal with RB007 using aPTT, low range-ACT, and thrombin-activated TEG."}
{"id": "19401660", "title": "Perioperative assessment of coagulation in paediatric neurosurgical patients using thromboelastography.", "content": "Perioperative assessment of coagulation in paediatric neurosurgical patients using thromboelastography. Primary brain tumours may be associated with coagulation disorders, which can pose intraoperative and postoperative management difficulties. Thromboelastography is a useful technique for evaluating coagulability. In this study, we evaluated the perioperative coagulation profile using both standard laboratory work and thromboelastography in paediatric patients undergoing craniotomy for primary brain tumours. Forty paediatric patients were enrolled in the study. All patients received standard anaesthesia. Blood was analysed for both standard laboratory analysis and thromboelastography at three points for each patient: preoperatively, intraoperatively and postoperatively. Postoperative patients were divided into two groups according to the occurrence or nonoccurrence of postoperative haematomas: nonhaematoma group and haematoma group. The standard blood analysis and thromboelastography values for both groups were compared. Perioperative standard blood analysis was within normal limits for all patients, with no significant difference between both groups. In the nonhaematoma group, thromboelastography values were indicative of a hypercoagulable state that started intraoperatively and continued into the first postoperative day. In the haematoma group, thromboelastography values were indicative of a hypocoagulable state that was evident in the preoperative thromboelastography values and continued into the intraoperative as well as the postoperative period. Thromboelastography may be useful in the perioperative assessment and monitoring of coagulation in paediatric neurosurgical patients and helps in identifying patients at increased risk of bleeding or thromboembolic events."}
{"id": "19392784", "title": "Biochemical quality of the pharmaceutically licensed plasma OctaplasLG after implementation of a novel prion protein (PrPSc) removal technology and reduction of the solvent/detergent (S/D) process time.", "content": "Biochemical quality of the pharmaceutically licensed plasma OctaplasLG after implementation of a novel prion protein (PrPSc) removal technology and reduction of the solvent/detergent (S/D) process time. A new chromatographic step for the selective binding of pathological prion proteins (PrP(Sc)) to an affinity ligand, developed and optimized for PrP(Sc) capture and attached to synthetic resin particles (PRDT, USA; ProMetic BioSciences Ltd, Isle of Man, UK) was implemented into the manufacturing process of the solvent/detergent (S/D) treated biopharmaceutical quality plasma Octaplas. Pilot batches of Octaplas with the implemented chromatographic step [labelled as OctaplasLG (ligand gel)] were manufactured by Octapharma PPGmbH, Vienna, Austria. The biochemical quality was compared directly after manufacturing as well as after 18 months storage. All samples were tested on global coagulation parameters, fibrinogen levels, activities of coagulation factors and protease inhibitors, ADAMTS13 levels, as well as markers of activated coagulation and fibrinolysis. In addition, von Willebrand factor multimeric analysis was performed. The incorporation of this novel chromatography into the large-scale routine manufacturing process was shown to be technically feasible and the performance of the column was assessed to be excellent. The biochemical studies showed that Octaplas and OctaplasLG produced without and with the new column, respectively, demonstrate an identical biochemical quality. OctaplasLG remained stable over a period of 18 months stored frozen. A parallel reduction of the S/D virus inactivation step from 4-4.5 to 1-1.5 h led to significantly higher activities of plasmin inhibitor. The studies confirmed that the affinity ligand chromatography under the developed conditions can be introduced into the Octaplas manufacturing process, as a mean to reduce potentially present PrP(Sc), without hampering the proven quality of this product."}
{"id": "19390256", "title": "Transfusion strategies in postinjury coagulopathy.", "content": "Transfusion strategies in postinjury coagulopathy. Coagulopathy represents one of the major challenges in the management of the severely injured patient. The present review will attempt to define the current 'optimal' transfusion strategies for the coagulopathic trauma patient and to assess potential weaknesses in the pertinent literature. Existing limitations in the management of postinjury coagulopathy include the lack of a uniform definition of the entity, the lack of understanding the mechanisms, and the lack of accurate and rapid diagnostic tests. Rapid thromboelastography represents an improved diagnostic modality that allows 'point-of-care' testing of postinjury coagulopathy and monitoring of transfusion strategies. Ongoing controversies in the field include the optimal target blood pressure and the ideal threshold for blood component transfusions in the hospital. Furthermore, the concentration of plasma transfusions remains an ongoing debate. Coagulopathy has a significant impact on survival after major trauma. Most recent publications in the field are of retrospective design, and thus do not allow definitive recommendations for clinical practice. Well designed prospective trials and improved basic research studies are required to improve this important aspect of trauma care."}
{"id": "19390255", "title": "The role of thromboelastometry and recombinant factor VIIa in trauma.", "content": "The role of thromboelastometry and recombinant factor VIIa in trauma. Recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) and thromboelastography have acquired increasing importance in patients with severe bleeding and coagulopathy. This article reviews the current opinions regarding their use, with the purpose of clarifying the ambiguities that exist in dealing with trauma patients. Recent evidence encourages the early use of rFVIIa and thromboelastography in the severe trauma patient with hemorrhagic shock, as a component of the damage control strategy. rFVIIa may decrease short-term mortality and the rate of required blood components during resuscitation, with no apparent increase in thromboembolic complications. Thromboelastometry enables better and earlier recognition of the coagulopathy accompanying such trauma patients. In patients with traumatic brain injury and coagulopathy, rFVIIa may delay or even halt the need for surgery, with no proven decrease in mortality. In those who needed urgent neurosurgical intervention, rFVIIa may rapidly correct the coagulopathy, enabling earlier and safer surgical intervention. Thromboelastometry may guide the medical staff when and to whom rFVIIa could be administered. Evidence also encourages the use of rFVIIa in traumatic brain injury. More research is required to prove decreases in mortality using both thromboelastography and rFVIIa in trauma, with a focus on clear end points and goal-directed therapy."}
{"id": "19376522", "title": "Novel application of thermally expanded graphite as the support of catalysts for direct synthesis of DMC from CH3OH and CO2.", "content": "Novel application of thermally expanded graphite as the support of catalysts for direct synthesis of DMC from CH3OH and CO2. Novel Cu-Ni bimetallic catalysts supported on thermally expanded graphite (TEG) were prepared as an example to show the particular characteristics of TEG as a carbon support material. The structures of TEG and the synthesized Cu-Ni/TEG catalysts were characterized using BET, FTIR, TG, SEM, TEM, XRD and TPR techniques. The catalytic activities of the prepared catalysts were investigated by performing micro-reaction in the direct synthesis of dimethyl carbonate (DMC) from CH3OH and CO2. The experimental results indicated that the prepared Cu-Ni/TEG catalysts exhibited highly catalytic activity. Under the optimal catalytic conditions at 100 degrees C and under 1.2 MPa, the highest conversion of CH3OH of 4.97% and high selectivity of DMC of 89.3% can be achieved. The highly catalytic activity of Cu-Ni/TEG in DMC synthesis can be attributed to the synergetic effects of metal Cu, Ni and Cu-Ni alloy in the activation of CH3OH and CO2 and the particular characteristics of TEG as a carbon support material."}
{"id": "19372316", "title": "The effects of platelet transfusions evaluated using rotational thromboelastometry.", "content": "The effects of platelet transfusions evaluated using rotational thromboelastometry. In this study, we assessed the immediate effects of platelet transfusion on whole blood coagulation. Ten thrombocytopenic patients given a single unit platelet transfusion of 200-300 x 10(9) platelets had their coagulation status assessed before and immediately after transfusion using rotational thromboelastometry. Transfusion increased the median platelet count from 31.5 to 43.5 x 10(9)/L. Clot formation time decreased by 32% (P = 0.005), whereas maximum clot strength increased by 47% (P = 0.005). Statistically significant improvements in rotational thromboelastometry-measured parameters were observed in association with a mean increase of 12 x 109/L in platelet count after platelet transfusion in these patients."}
{"id": "19372315", "title": "The effect of milrinone on platelet activation as determined by TEG platelet mapping.", "content": "The effect of milrinone on platelet activation as determined by TEG platelet mapping. Milrinone is a phosphodiesterase III inhibitor that increases intracellular cyclic adenosine monophosphate resulting in improved ventricular function and vasodilation. Increased intracellular levels of cyclic adenosine monophosphate also inhibit adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and arachidonic acid (AA)-induced platelet aggregation. We hypothesized that inhibition of ADP and AA-induced platelet activation by therapeutic blood concentrations of milrinone could be quantified using TEG Platelet Mapping. Blood was taken from 15 healthy adults who had not been taking antiplatelet medications. Milrinone was added to whole blood in three clinically relevant concentrations (30, 100, and 300 ng/mL). Conventional thromboelastography (TEG) and TEG Platelet Mapping were performed on whole blood without milrinone and at each of these three concentrations. Increased blood concentrations of milrinone were associated with increased inhibition of ADP and AA-induced platelet activation (P < 0.0001). Milrinone at a blood concentration of 300 ng/mL markedly impaired the platelet activation response to ADP and AA. Therapeutic blood concentrations of milrinone exhibit a significant inhibitory effect on ADP and AA-induced platelet activation as determined by TEG Platelet Mapping, without affecting the conventional kaolin-activated TEG. We suggest that TEG Platelet Mapping results be interpreted with caution in patients being treated with milrinone, and other drugs that modify platelet cyclic nucleotide concentrations."}
{"id": "19364021", "title": "[Case of caesarean section using Cell Savers5+ in a patient with the placenta accreta associated with massive hemorrhage].", "content": "[Case of caesarean section using Cell Savers5+ in a patient with the placenta accreta associated with massive hemorrhage]. Placenta accreta which occurs as a complication of total placenta previa is comparatively rare. And the diagnosis of placenta accreta before the caesarean section (C-section) is difficult. We experienced an extremely difficult anesthesia management of placenta accrete because of critical hemorrhage during C-section. We used self-blood collection device Cell Saver5+ (Haemonetics Japan Ltd, Tokyo) for the massive bleeding of 25,500 ml. The Cell Saver could be used to treat life threatening bleeding in C-section without any side effects, although it is thought that the use of the self-blood collection device during C-section had the danger of the amniotic fluid embolism and fetal red cell ontamination. It is necessary to consider using the Cell Saver in the obstetrical operation for life-saving medical treatment in response to unexpected massive bleeding."}
{"id": "19361030", "title": "Use of a thrombelastograph platelet mapping assay for diagnosis of clopidogrel resistance: a case report.", "content": "Use of a thrombelastograph platelet mapping assay for diagnosis of clopidogrel resistance: a case report. A 62-year-old woman presented to the emergency department with sudden collapse, intractable ventricular fibrillation, and an inferior wall myocardial infarction (MI). An emergent cardiac catheterization showed a totally occluded right coronary artery (RCA). A bare-metal stent was placed in the stenosis, resulting in thrombolysis in myocardial infarction (TIMI)-III flow with 0% residual stenosis. Four days after stenting, the patient developed chest pain. A repeat cardiac catheterization showed a totally occluded stent. The patient was subsequently tested using a thrombelastograph (TEG) Platelet Mapping assay to exclude clopidogrel resistance. The assay confirmed the patient to be non-responsive to clopidogrel for the inhibition of platelet ADP receptors. In an attempt to increase ADP inhibition, the ADP antagonist was changed to ticlopidine. Further testing was confounded by the presence of abciximab; however, the patient has remained free of cardiac events."}
{"id": "19361027", "title": "Platelet hyperreactivity in response to on- and off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting.", "content": "Platelet hyperreactivity in response to on- and off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting. Hypercoagulability has been reported after off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (OPCAB) compared with patients undergoing standard coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) with cardiopulmonary bypass. The aim of this study was to evaluate the changes in platelet reactivity in response to cardiac surgery, both OPCAB and CABG. Platelet reactivity was monitored pre- and postoperatively (days 1 and 4) in elective OPCAB (n = 29) and CABG (n = 24) patients using the maximal amplitude (MA) parameter obtained with thrombelastography. Platelet reactivity was also examined at 1 month in 30 of the 53 patients. Twenty-three percent of the patients (12/53) had a preoperative MA value above normal reference value (MA > 69 mm). By postoperative day 4, 88% of the patients presented with an MA > 69 mm, and significant increases in MA were shown in both groups (p < .0001). Of the 30 patients examined at 1 month after surgery, 75% of the patients with high preoperative MA (6/8) remained at this level. In contrast, only 4.5% of patients with normal preoperative MA (1/22) presented with high MA at day 30. MA has previously been shown to correlate with the incidence of thrombotic and ischemic complications and this study identified 23% of patients needing coronary bypass surgery to be at high risk for recurrent ischemic events at 1 month after surgery, based on the MA. These results suggest that a more aggressive antithrombotic treatment might be warranted for patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting, both OPCAB and CABG, presenting with a high MA pre- and postsurgery."}
{"id": "19359946", "title": "It is time to assess the utility of thrombelastography in the administration of blood products to the patient with traumatic injuries.", "content": "It is time to assess the utility of thrombelastography in the administration of blood products to the patient with traumatic injuries."}
{"id": "19359945", "title": "Can RapidTEG accelerate the search for coagulopathies in the patient with multiple injuries?", "content": "Can RapidTEG accelerate the search for coagulopathies in the patient with multiple injuries? Early recognition of coagulopathy may improve the care of patients with multiple injuries. Rapid thrombelastography (RapidTEG) is a new variant of thrombelastography (TEG), in which coagulation is initiated by the addition of protein tissue factor. The kinetics of coagulation and the times of measurement were compared for two variants of TEG--RapidTEG and conventional TEG, in which coagulation was initiated with kaolin. The measurements were performed on blood samples from 20 patients with multiple injuries. The RapidTEG results were also compared with conventional measurements of blood coagulation. The mean time for the RapidTEG test was 19.2 +/- 3.1 minutes (mean +/- SD), in comparison with 29.9 +/- 4.3 minutes for kaolin TEG and 34.1 +/- 14.5 minutes for conventional coagulation tests. The mean time for the RapidTEG test was 30.8 +/- 5.72 minutes, in comparison with 41.5 +/- 5.66 minutes for kaolin TEG and 64.9 +/- 18.8 for conventional coagulation tests---measured from admission of the patients to the resuscitation bay until the results were available. There were significant correlations between the RapidTEG results and those from kaolin TEG and conventional coagulation tests. RapidTEG is the most rapid available test for providing reliable information on coagulopathy in patients with multiple injuries. This has implications for improving patient care."}
{"id": "19359396", "title": "Coagulation tests in future studies: what to use?", "content": "Coagulation tests in future studies: what to use?"}
{"id": "19357907", "title": "Thromboelastography of patients after fontan compared with healthy children.", "content": "Thromboelastography of patients after fontan compared with healthy children. Patients who have undergone a Fontan procedure face an increased risk for thromboembolic complications. This study aimed to evaluate whether thromboelastography, a global whole-blood assay of coagulation, can be used to detect hypercoagulability in pediatric Fontan patients compared with healthy children. This prospective, cross-sectional study investigated 25 Fontan patients and 51 healthy children in three age groups: 1-5 years, 6-10 years, and 11-16 years. Kaolin-activated thromboelastography was performed on citrated samples. No statistically significant differences in thromboelastography parameters were found among the different age groups of the 51 healthy children. None of the 25 Fontan patients demonstrated evidence of hypercoagulability on thromboelastography (95% confidence interval, 0-7%), as defined by two standard deviations above or below the normal mean. The findings suggest that the percentage of Fontan patients demonstrating hypercoagulability on thromboelastography is substantially lower than the reported incidence of thromboembolic complications. Whether thromboelastography could be helpful in predicting patients at increased risk for thromboembolic complications or not still is not known. Further studies comparing the thromboelastography of Fontan patients with the thromboembolic complications of those without Fontan are needed to delineate these issues."}
{"id": "19350122", "title": "Coagulation assessment by rotation thrombelastometry in normal pregnancy.", "content": "Coagulation assessment by rotation thrombelastometry in normal pregnancy. We analysed changes in coagulation during normal pregnancy with a novel point-of-care device based on thrombelastometry (ROTEM). We compared the results obtained with those of standard coagulation tests in 104 patients: 20 non-pregnant women (controls) and 84 women in the first (T1, n = 17), second (T2, n = 9) and third (T3, n = 58) trimesters of pregnancy. We measured the clotting time (CT), the maximum clot firmness (MCF), the early clot amplitude at 5 and 15 minutes (CA(5), CA(15)) and the clot lysis index (CLI(30)) with four tests containing specific reagents. (a) The INTEM test involving ellagic acid activated the intrinsic pathway and (b) the EXTEM test using tissue factor triggered the extrinsic pathway; (c) The FIBTEM test based on a platelet inhibitor (cytochalasin D) evaluated the contribution of fibrinogen to clot formation and (d) the APTEM test was similar to the EXTEM but was based on inhibition in vitro of fibrinolysis by aprotinin. CT and CLI(30) were not significantly modified during pregnancy whereas MCF, CA(5) and CA(15) (INTEM, EXTEM, FIBTEM) increased significantly between the second and third trimesters (e.g. median [interquartile range]: MCF-FIBTEM, 13 [11-16] mm vs. 19 [17-23] mm, respectively, in controls and T3, p < 0.001). EXTEM values were not significantly different from those measured with APTEM. There were significant correlations between the results obtained with ROTEM and those from standard coagulation tests. ROTEM analysis showed a marked increase in coagulability during normal pregnancy. ROTEM values may serve as the basis for future studies in pregnant women."}
{"id": "19347258", "title": "Development of in situ-forming hydrogels for hemorrhage control.", "content": "Development of in situ-forming hydrogels for hemorrhage control. We report the preparation of in situ-forming hydrogels, composed of oxidized dextran (Odex) and amine-containing polymers, for their potential use as a wound dressing to promote blood clotting. Dextran was oxidized by sodium periodate to introduce aldehyde groups to form hydrogels, upon mixing in solution with different polymers containing primary amine groups, including polyallylamine (PAA), oligochitosan and glycol chitosan. A series of experiments were conducted to identify the optimum gelation condition for the Odex-PAA system. The polymer concentration appeared to have a major effect on gelation time and the polymer weight ratio affected the resulting gel content and swelling. Other influencing factors included pH of the buffer used to dissolve each polymer, PAA molecular weight, and the type of individual material. The latter also contributed significantly to gel content and swelling. Thromboelastography was used to examine the effects of the in situ gelation on blood coagulation in vitro, where the Odex-PAA combination was found to be most pro-hemostatic, as indicated by a decrease in clotting time and an increase in clot strength. The results of this study demonstrated that in situ-forming hydrogels could promote clotting in vitro; however, further studies are required to determine if the same hydrogel formulations are effective in controlling hemorrhage in vivo."}
{"id": "19331653", "title": "Thromboelastometry for the assessment of coagulation abnormalities in early and established adult sepsis: a prospective cohort study.", "content": "Thromboelastometry for the assessment of coagulation abnormalities in early and established adult sepsis: a prospective cohort study. The inflammatory response to an invading pathogen in sepsis leads to complex alterations in hemostasis by dysregulation of procoagulant and anticoagulant factors. Recent treatment options to correct these abnormalities in patients with sepsis and organ dysfunction have yielded conflicting results. Using thromboelastometry (ROTEM(R)), we assessed the course of hemostatic alterations in patients with sepsis and related these alterations to the severity of organ dysfunction. This prospective cohort study included 30 consecutive critically ill patients with sepsis admitted to a 30-bed multidisciplinary intensive care unit (ICU). Hemostasis was analyzed with routine clotting tests as well as thromboelastometry every 12 hours for the first 48 hours, and at discharge from the ICU. Organ dysfunction was quantified using the Sequential Organ Failure Assessment (SOFA) score. Simplified Acute Physiology Score II and SOFA scores at ICU admission were 52 +/- 15 and 9 +/- 4, respectively. During the ICU stay the clotting time decreased from 65 +/- 8 seconds to 57 +/- 5 seconds (P = 0.021) and clot formation time (CFT) from 97 +/- 63 seconds to 63 +/- 31 seconds (P = 0.017), whereas maximal clot firmness (MCF) increased from 62 +/- 11 mm to 67 +/- 9 mm (P = 0.035). Classification by SOFA score revealed that CFT was slower (P = 0.017) and MCF weaker (P = 0.005) in patients with more severe organ failure (SOFA >or= 10, CFT 125 +/- 76 seconds, and MCF 57 +/- 11 mm) as compared with patients who had lower SOFA scores (SOFA <10, CFT 69 +/- 27, and MCF 68 +/- 8). Along with increasing coagulation factor activity, the initially increased International Normalized Ratio (INR) and prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) corrected over time. Key variables of ROTEM(R) remained within the reference ranges during the phase of critical illness in this cohort of patients with severe sepsis and septic shock without bleeding complications. Improved organ dysfunction upon discharge from the ICU was associated with shortened coagulation time, accelerated clot formation, and increased firmness of the formed blood clot when compared with values on admission. With increased severity of illness, changes of ROTEM(R) variables were more pronounced."}
{"id": "19326038", "title": "Relative direction and position of recurrent laryngeal nerve for anatomical configuration.", "content": "Relative direction and position of recurrent laryngeal nerve for anatomical configuration. The present study aims to describe the course of the recurrent laryngeal nerve (RLN) using the tracheoesophageal groove (TEG) at the cricothyroid joint as a base line, and the configuration of RLN and inferior thyroid artery (ITA) for careful dissection in thyroid surgery. The RLN of left side is likely to be found posterior to ITA and course mainly from 0 degrees up to 30 degrees based on TEG near cricothyroid joint while the nerve of right side is likely to be found anterior to ITA in right side and course mainly from 15 degrees up to 45 degrees based on TEG. The contacting point of RLN with ITA locate from the tip of cricoid cartilage at about three tenth of the distance from the tip of cricoid cartilage to sternal notch without reference to individual body size. 70 cadavers were investigated. The angle of RLN from TEG was measured at the cricothyroid joint. The relative position of RLN to ITA was classified. The location of the contacting point of RLN with ITA was measured and converted as an index. These findings suggest the area for careful dissection near cricothyroid joint, the configuration of RLN for identifying the nerve."}
{"id": "19320829", "title": "Fibrinogen substitution improves whole blood clot firmness after dilution with hydroxyethyl starch in bleeding patients undergoing radical cystectomy: a randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial.", "content": "Fibrinogen substitution improves whole blood clot firmness after dilution with hydroxyethyl starch in bleeding patients undergoing radical cystectomy: a randomized, placebo-controlled clinical trial. Infusion of artificial colloids such as hydroxyethyl starch (HES) induces coagulopathy to a greater extent than simple dilution. Several studies have suggested that the coagulopathy could be corrected by substitution with a fibrinogen concentrate. The aims of the present prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled trial were to investigate the hemostatic effect of a fibrinogen concentrate after coagulopathy induced by hydroxyethyl starch in patients experiencing sudden excessive bleeding during elective cystectomy. Twenty patients were included. Blood loss was substituted 1:1 with HES 130/0.4. At a dilution level of 30%, patients were randomly selected for intra-operative administration of a fibrinogen concentrate or placebo. The primary endpoint was maximum clot firmness (MCF), as assessed by thromboelastometry. Secondary endpoints were blood loss and transfusion requirements, other thromboelastometry parameters, thrombin generation and platelet function. Whole-blood MCF was significantly reduced after 30% dilution in vivo with HES. The placebo resulted in a further decline of the MCF, whereas randomized administration of fibrinogen significantly increased the MCF. Furthermore, only 2 out of 10 patients randomly chosen to receive fibrinogen substitution required postoperative red blood cell transfusions, compared with 8 out of 10 in the placebo group (P = 0.023). Platelet function and thrombin generation were reduced after 30% hemodilution in vivo, and fibrinogen administration caused no significant changes. During cystectomy, fluid resuscitation with HES 130/0.4 during sudden excessive bleeding induces coagulopathy that shows reduced whole-blood maximum clot firmness. Randomized administration of fibrinogen concentrate significantly improved maximum clot firmness and reduced the requirement for postoperative transfusion."}
{"id": "19318931", "title": "Preeclampsia and anaesthesia.", "content": "Preeclampsia and anaesthesia. The most recent findings on preeclampsia with a focus on maternal mortality, haemodynamic changes, clotting disorders and anaesthesia are reviewed. Preeclampsia is a major cause of maternal morbidity and mortality. Cerebral haemorrhage is the single most common cause of maternal death in preeclampsia and currently far outnumbers pulmonary oedema. Although there was a focus on diastolic pressure in the past, the present recommendations of the National Enquiries into Maternal Death advocate treatment of systolic blood pressures above 160 mmHg in order to avoid intracranial bleeding. Noninvasive monitoring techniques such as pulse wave analysis and echocardiography have provided new insights into the haemodynamic changes of preeclampsia and corroborated previous findings. In early-onset preeclampsia, the most common haemodynamic features include vasoconstriction, low cardiac output and low filling pressures. Neuraxial anaesthesia aids in providing stable haemodynamics, the incidence of hypotension and the need for vasopressors are reduced compared with healthy parturients, and cardiac output is unchanged. With cautious fluid administration, the risk of pulmonary oedema seems negligible. In order to avoid spinal epidural haematoma in the presence of thrombocytopenia, spinal anaesthesia may afford the best risk-benefit analysis. It remains open to question whether thromboelastography will aid in guiding treatment in the future. Cerebral haemorrhage is the major cause of maternal mortality in preeclampsia and any increases in maternal blood pressure above 160 mmHg or at induction of general anaesthesia should be treated. Traditional rapid sequence induction is, therefore, best avoided; neuraxial anaesthesia is the technique of choice."}
{"id": "19308889", "title": "Milestones and perspectives in coagulation and hemostasis.", "content": "Milestones and perspectives in coagulation and hemostasis. Hemostasis is traditionally defined as the physiologic process whereby bleeding is antagonized and possibly stopped to minimize blood loss. The first medical description of the clinical and inherited features of hemostasis can be dated back more than 1000 years, when Abu al-Qasim Khalaf ibn 'Abbas al-Andalusi al-Zahrawi' medical treatise provided some initial insights into this puzzling process. Since then, continuous and revolutionary scientific developments have contributed to decoding several aspects of this intricate but essential physiologic phenomenon, providing a reliable model to explain the leading mechanisms involved. Although the point at which bleeding stops is commonly referred to as \"coagulation,\" blood coagulation is actually only one part of a two-part hemostatic process that develops through sequential steps referred to as primary and secondary hemostasis. Throughout its activation and development, the coagulation cascade is strictly regulated by a series of natural inhibitors, which prevent unnecessary and excessive clotting. The aim of this article is to provide a concise overview of the major discoveries and past and current perspectives in coagulation and hemostasis."}
{"id": "19300245", "title": "Coagulopathy in trauma patients: what are the main influence factors?", "content": "Coagulopathy in trauma patients: what are the main influence factors? Coagulopathy and bleeding after severe injury is a common problem. Whenever caring for critically ill patients, clinicians must anticipate, recognize and manage the coagulopathy of trauma. When left untreated, cardiovascular shock and multiorgan system failure ensue. Uncompensated hemorrhage often culminates in death, highlighting the significance of recognizing the main influences in coagulopathy of trauma. With recent improvements in prehospital care, trauma specialists face more challenging cases than ever before. Hemostatic transfusion strategies, with early and more aggressive use of plasma, platelets, cryoprecipitate and coagulation factor isolates, decrease blood loss in trauma patients. Combined with point-of-care testing for thromboelastography, coagulation panels, lactate and local pO2, there is an opportunity for frontline trauma clinicians to directly improve patient outcomes. Although mortality previously was thought to be summarily independent of medical interventions and resuscitations, we now know the opposite to be true; it is our expectation and indeed our obligation to recognize and manage the coagulopathy of trauma better than in past years. In as much as we continue to prevent acidosis, hypothermia and the progressive coagulopathy following injury, trauma victims the world over are benefiting and surviving longer, living proof that demonstrates the utility of managing the coagulopathy of trauma."}
{"id": "19299818", "title": "Thrombelastography in a patient with prolonged partial thromboplastin time undergoing a kidney transplant.", "content": "Thrombelastography in a patient with prolonged partial thromboplastin time undergoing a kidney transplant."}
{"id": "19295225", "title": "Efficacy of homeopathically potentized antimony on blood coagulation. A randomized placebo controlled crossover trial.", "content": "Efficacy of homeopathically potentized antimony on blood coagulation. A randomized placebo controlled crossover trial. Homeopathically potentized antimony 6x is traditionally used in anthroposophic medicine for an alleged pro-coagulatory effect in bleeding disorders. However, the scientific evidence base is yet insufficient. Results of a previous in vitro study suggested a slight increase of maximal clot firmness (MCF) and a tendency towards a shorter clotting time (CT). The objective of this study was to investigate the pro-coagulatory effects of antimony in vivo, and possible unexpected or adverse events. A randomized placebo controlled double blind crossover study was carried out in 30 healthy volunteers (15 males, 15 females). Each participant received intravenously 10 ml of antimony 6x and placebo in a randomized order at an interval of 1 month. Thrombelastography (TEG) was carried out immediately before and 30 and 60 min after the injection. Statistically significant pro-coagulatory effects were observed 30 min after injection for CT in men (p = 0.0306), and for MCF in men and women combined (p = 0.0476). The effect of antimony was significantly larger on test day 1 than on test day 2, whereas the effect of placebo was similar on both test days. No unexpected adverse or adverse events causally related to antimony were observed. This study adds evidence to the hypothesis that homeopathically potentized antimony may be efficacious in vivo. The consistency of the results with previous in vitro results indicates an effect on MCF and CT. The in vivo application of antimony 6x is safe."}
{"id": "19286767", "title": "Assessment of platelet inhibition secondary to clopidogrel and aspirin therapy in preoperative acute surgical patients measured by Thrombelastography Platelet Mapping.", "content": "Assessment of platelet inhibition secondary to clopidogrel and aspirin therapy in preoperative acute surgical patients measured by Thrombelastography Platelet Mapping. Increasing numbers of patients prescribed clopidogrel and aspirin are presenting for non-elective surgery. No consensus on the timing of surgery exists after withdrawal of antiplatelet and tests of platelet function are not routinely available. The Thrombelastography Platelet Mapping (TEG-PM) assay is designed to assess platelet inhibition secondary to antiplatelet therapy. We assessed its ability to detect platelet inhibition in preoperative acute surgical patients. We conducted a prospective observational study in three groups of preoperative patients: those taking clopidogrel or aspirin up to admission, and a control group. TEG-PM was performed on the day of admission and alternate days until surgery. Mean (SD) platelet thromboxane A(2) receptor inhibition in the control group was 17.5% (23.8) (n=20), 52.6% (32.3) (n=18) in the aspirin group, and 31.9% (27.6) (n=21) in the clopidogrel group (P<0.01). Mean (SD) platelet adenosine diphosphate (ADP) receptor inhibition in the control group was 47.8% (18.9) (n=20), 52.6% (19.7) (n=18) in the aspirin group, and 71.5% (18.4) (n=21) in the clopidogrel group (P<0.01). Among the clopidogrel group awaiting surgery, mean platelet ADP channel inhibition decreased on day 3 to 67.1% (24.7) (n=11), 48.8% (24.4) (n=4) on day 5, and 36.1% (15.9) (n=2) on day 7 (P=0.57). TEG-PM can identify statistically significant platelet inhibition after antiplatelet therapy; however, the overlap in platelet receptor inhibition between the three groups is likely to limit the clinical usefulness of this test."}
{"id": "19266421", "title": "[Hemostasis management in multiple trauma patients--value of near-patient diagnostic methods].", "content": "[Hemostasis management in multiple trauma patients--value of near-patient diagnostic methods]. Massively transfused multiple trauma patients commonly develop a complex coagulopathy which needs immediate treatment. Near-patient diagnostic methods are available for the management of this coagulopathy and for the guidance of the therapeutic options with blood products and haemostatic drugs: conventional laboratory analysis methods adapted to the point-of-care (POC) situation (blood gas analysis, point of care PT, APTT and platelet count), and the complex whole blood methods used for near-patient coagulation monitoring (thromboelastometry and platelet function analysis). Based on the new Guidelines of the German Medical Association for the use of blood and plasma derivates, interventions with blood products and haemostatic drugs in multiple trauma patients are suggested. The diagnostic value of near-patient methods for coagulation monitoring is discussed."}
{"id": "19265371", "title": "An old dog with a new trick.", "content": "An old dog with a new trick."}
{"id": "19265363", "title": "Thromboelastography to direct the administration of recombinant activated factor VII in a child with traumatic injury requiring massive transfusion.", "content": "Thromboelastography to direct the administration of recombinant activated factor VII in a child with traumatic injury requiring massive transfusion. To describe the use of thromboelastography (TEG) to direct hemostatic resuscitation in a child with traumatic injury requiring massive transfusion. Case report. Level 1 pediatric trauma center in an academic tertiary care facility. A 5-year-old boy with grade IV liver injury and right common hepatic artery laceration. TEG-directed resuscitation, including recombinant activated factor VII. Measurements included vital signs, laboratory results to include TEG values, and blood product administration. TEG-directed resuscitation with recombinant activated factor VII was associated with the prevention of increased intracranial hemorrhage and survival in a coagulopathic patient with a life-threatening traumatic injury. Our clinical and TEG laboratory results postresuscitation support the potential use of TEG as a tool to direct hemostatic resuscitation in patients with severe trauma requiring massive transfusion. TEG is a quick and focused method of qualitatively assessing the entire coagulation cascade, from clot formation to fibrinolysis that permits a targeted transfusion approach to the treatment of coagulopathy. TEG has the potential to rapidly and effectively direct hemostatic resuscitation in patients with the coagulopathy of trauma."}
{"id": "19261288", "title": "Downstream processing of antibodies: single-stage versus multi-stage aqueous two-phase extraction.", "content": "Downstream processing of antibodies: single-stage versus multi-stage aqueous two-phase extraction. Single-stage and multi-stage strategies have been evaluated and compared for the purification of human antibodies using liquid-liquid extraction in aqueous two-phase systems (ATPSs) composed of polyethylene glycol 3350 (PEG 3350), dextran, and triethylene glycol diglutaric acid (TEG-COOH). The performance of single-stage extraction systems was firstly investigated by studying the effect of pH, TEG-COOH concentration and volume ratio on the partitioning of the different components of a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells supernatant. It was observed that lower pH values and high TEG-COOH concentrations favoured the selective extraction of human immunoglobulin G (IgG) to the PEG-rich phase. Higher recovery yields, purities and percentage of contaminants removal were always achieved in the presence of the ligand, TEG-COOH. The extraction of IgG could be enhanced using higher volume ratios, however with a significant decrease in both purity and percentage of contaminants removal. The best single-stage extraction conditions were achieved for an ATPS containing 1.3% (w/w) TEG-COOH with a volume ratio of 2.2, which allowed the recovery of 96% of IgG in the PEG-rich phase with a final IgG concentration of 0.21mg/mL, a protein purity of 87% and a total purity of 43%. In order to enhance simultaneously both recovery yield and purity, a four stage cross-current operation was simulated and the corresponding liquid-liquid equilibrium (LLE) data determined. A predicted optimised scheme of a counter-current multi-stage aqueous two-phase extraction was hence described. IgG can be purified in the PEG-rich top phase with a final recovery yield of 95%, a final concentration of 1.04mg/mL and a protein purity of 93%, if a PEG/dextran ATPS containing 1.3% (w/w) TEG-COOH, 5 stages and volume ratio of 0.4 are used. Moreover, according to the LLE data of all CHO cells supernatant components, it was possible to observe that most of the cells supernatant contaminants can be removed during this extraction step leading to a final total purity of about 85%."}
{"id": "19253712", "title": "[Enhancement of coagulation caused by transfusion of artificial plasma-replacement solutions].", "content": "[Enhancement of coagulation caused by transfusion of artificial plasma-replacement solutions]. To investigate hemostasis disorders caused by massive blood transfusions of artificial plasma replacing solutions (PRS). Two groups of patients were examined: 7 healthy volunteers without blood loss (group 1) and 11 healthy donors of bone marrow with intraoperative blood loss 1-2 l (group 2). Five patients of group 1 received transfusion of 12 ml/kg hydroxyethyl starch (HES) 130/0.4, two patients of group 1 received transfusion of modified gelatine solution (gelofusin). All of them received infusions (1-1.5 l) of crystalloid PRS (1-2 l) and infusion of one of colloid PRS (6-HES, 5--gelofusin). Estimated hemodilution in group 1 was 1.17 +/- 0.01 times, in group 2 it varied from 1.3 to 2.7 times (mean 1.78 +/- 0.4 times). Hemostasis was studied by clot growth rate (for groups 1 and 2), endogenic thrombin potential and parameters of thromboelastography (for group 2) in plasm samples obtained before, 2.24 and 48 hours after infusion of colloid PRS. For both groups spatial clot growth rate 2 hours after hemodilution was high. Then it fell and reached baseline level 48 hours after PRS infusion. Endogenic thrombin potential and thromboelastography data (for group 2) changed by the same pattern. A hypercoagulation effect of gelofusin on parameters of thromboelastography and clot growth rate was higher than of HES 130/04. Moderate hemodilution with PRS in vivo causes hypercoagulation which persisted longer than volemic effect of PRS."}
{"id": "19249246", "title": "Thrombelastography.", "content": "Thrombelastography. Thromboelastography (TEG) records the continuous profiles of whole blood coagulation by measurement of the viscoelastic changes associated with fibrin polymerization, and thereby provides a global assessment of haemostatic function. In the past decades there has been an increasing interest for TEG in clinical practice. In this paper we present the rationale for the method and a discussion of the possible application of TEG. This review is based on personal experience and literature retrieved from searches in PubMed. Currently TEG is used with standard coagulation tests to decrease the risk for bleeding and reduce the homologous blood transfusion in cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass and in liver surgery. Other applications are severe trauma, obstetric medicine, haemophilia and hypercoagulable conditions. Development of a modified TEG, using heparin in combination with reptilase and factor XIIIa, has the potential to monitor the effects of platelet inhibiting drugs. It should be kept in mind that the TEG is a global test of coagulation and therefore the need for additional haemostatic tests should be evaluated when applicable. The main advantage for TEG is an inexpensive patient near method for quick evaluation of the patient's global haemostatic system. Used by experienced hands, TEG is a valuable haemostatic test, the future of which is already present."}
{"id": "19246310", "title": "[Postoperative analgesia with fentanyl combined with flurbiprofen axetil following gynecologic surgery for turnor].", "content": "[Postoperative analgesia with fentanyl combined with flurbiprofen axetil following gynecologic surgery for turnor]. a To observe the analgesic effect of fentanyl combined with flurbiprofen axetil for postoperative analgesia after gynecologic surgery. One hundred and forty patients undergoing gynecologic surgery were randomized equally into two groups to receive postoperative patient controlled intravenous analgesia (PCIA) with fentanyl (1.6-1.8 mg) plus tropisetron (5 mg/100 ml) (group I), or with fentanyl (0.8-1.0 mg) and flurbiprofen axetil (200 mg) plus tropisetron (5 mg/100 ml) (group II), at the PCIA rate of 2 ml/h, bolus dose of 1 ml, and lock time of 15 min. At 6 h (T1), 12 h (T2), 24 h (T3), and 48 h (T4) after the operation, the analgesic effect was evaluated with the Prine-Henry score (PHS), and the side effects were recorded. The coagulation function of the patients was assessed with thrombelastography before (T0) and 48 h (T4) after the operation, and the time of gastrointestinal function recovery was recorded. The fentanyl dose was significantly less in group II than in group I (P<0.05). At the time points of T1 and T2, the PHS in group II was significantly lower than that in group I (P<0.05), but comparable between the two groups at T3 and T4 (P>0.05). Significant higher incidences of the adverse effects such as nausea, dizziness and lethargy was noted in group I than in group II (P<0.05). Compared with that at T0, the parameter K was significantly delayed at T4 in both groups (P<0.05). The two groups showed similar time of gastrointestinal function recovery after the operation (P>0.05). Flurbiprofen axetil combined with fentanyl for postoperative analgesia can significantly reduce fentanyl dose and the incidence of adverse effects associated with fentanyl without obviously affecting the coagulation and gastrointestinal functions."}
{"id": "19243319", "title": "Recombinant factor VIIa and fibrinogen display additive effect during in vitro haemodilution with crystalloids.", "content": "Recombinant factor VIIa and fibrinogen display additive effect during in vitro haemodilution with crystalloids. Major blood loss requires fluid resuscitation for maintaining hemodynamic stability. Excessive volume infusions predispose to dilutional coagulopathy through loss, consumption and dilution of cells and proteins involved in haemostasis. Further treatment with fibrinogen concentrate and/or recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) may be initiated, although the haemostatic effects in a situation with haemodilution are not fully detailed. The present study evaluates haemostatic effect of fibrinogen and rFVIIa and their combination in an in vitro model of haemodiluted whole blood with two commonly used crystalloids. Eight healthy, male volunteers were enrolled. Outcome variables were clot initiation, propagation and strength assessed by thrombelastographic parameters: clotting time, clot formation time, maximum velocity, time until maximum velocity, maximum clot firmness evaluated at dilution levels of 0% (control), 10%, 30% and 50% with isotonic saline and Ringer's lactate in a model of tissue factor-activated whole blood. Fibrinogen and rFVIIa were additional final reaction concentrations, reflecting commonly used clinically therapeutic dosages. Dose-dependent coagulopathy developed following haemodilution with isotonic saline and Ringer's lactate, characterised by a prolonged clot initiation, reduced clot propagation and reduced clot strength. Fibrinogen improved clot strength and propagation phase while rFVIIa shortened clot initiation, both with a positive dose dependency. The combination of fibrinogen and rFVIIa displays an additive effect and improves overall in vitro whole blood clot formation in a model of in vitro crystalloid-induced haemodilution."}
{"id": "19239406", "title": "Role of fibrinogen-, factor VIII- and XIII-mediated clot propagation in gelatin haemodilution.", "content": "Role of fibrinogen-, factor VIII- and XIII-mediated clot propagation in gelatin haemodilution. Gelatin solution impairs coagulation. The mechanism of coagulopathy is incompletely defined. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the capacity of single coagulation factors to reverse gelatin-promoted whole-blood coagulation disorders in vitro. Venous blood was withdrawn from 12 volunteers in a crossover study. Four percent succinylated gelatin was added to citrated whole-blood samples to make a 40 vol% end-concentration of gelatin. The baseline and 40 vol% samples, and samples with addition of fresh-frozen plasma (FFP), fibrinogen, coagulation factors XIII (FXIII) or VIII, together with the von Willebrand factor (FVIII+vWF), were analysed by thromboelastometry (ROTEM. Coagulation was initiated by tissue thromboplastin (ExTEM with and without cytochalasin to determine the functional component of fibrinogen (FibTEM. Initiation of coagulation and fibrin formation were delayed at 40 vol% gelatin dilution. At this stage, the median (25th-75th percentiles) maximum clot firmness (MCF) was 76.3 (65.9-80.0) and 32.5 (27.4-45.0)% of the pre-dilution value in ExTEM and FibTEM thromboelastometry, respectively. Coagulation time was corrected by addition of fibrinogen and FFP in ExTEM and FibTEM analysis, whereas FVIII or FXIII had minimal effects. MCF was partly restored only by FFP in ExTEM. In FibTEM analysis, MCF improved more by fibrinogen than by FVIII+VWF, FXIII or FFP. Gelatin-induced whole-blood coagulation disorder in vitro is mainly dependent on the initial fibrinogen-fibrin interaction. The proposed mechanism might suggest not to reverse gelatin coagulopathy solely by fibrinogen administration. The administration of FFP, a mixture of different coagulation factors, reversed the gelatin-induced in vitro coagulopathy the best."}
{"id": "19235055", "title": "Evaluation of the Platelet Mapping Assay on rotational thromboelastometry ROTEM.", "content": "Evaluation of the Platelet Mapping Assay on rotational thromboelastometry ROTEM. Rotational thromboelastometry ROTEM is available as point-of-care coagulation monitoring in an increasing number of European operating theatres and emergency rooms. The Platelet Mapping Assay has been described as a platelet aggregation assay for thromboelastography TEG. The aim of this experimental trial was to evaluate feasibility of the Platelet Mapping Assay on the ROTEM test system. Whole blood was drawn from 22 adult volunteers and patients with and without antiplatelet medication. Platelet aggregability was determined in three whole blood assays: the Platelet Mapping Assay using both activators arachidonic acid (AA) and adenosine diphosphate (ADP) on TEG, its adapted version on ROTEM, and the multiple electrode impedance aggregometer Multiplate. Percent aggregation inhibition results were plotted in a linear regression analysis and correlation was estimated. Sensitivity and specificity for detecting antiplatelet medication were determined. Overall correlations were statistically significant with an r(2) = 0.83 in AA-activated and an r(2) = 0.82 in ADP-activated Platelet Mapping Assay. AA-activated tests and the Multiplate analysis identified aspirin-inhibition in 86% and 100%, respectively. ADP-activated tests and the Multiplate analysis identified clopidogrel-inhibition in 67% and 89%, respectively. Specificity was low both in ROTEM and TEG. Differences in frequency distribution between the results obtained in ROTEM and TEG were not statistically significant. The Platelet Mapping Assay can be performed on the ROTEM. For the perioperative scenario, however, longer test duration and higher costs have to be considered compared to Multiplate analyses."}
{"id": "19235051", "title": "The link between heightened thrombogenicity and inflammation: pre-procedure characterization of the patient at high risk for recurrent events after stenting.", "content": "The link between heightened thrombogenicity and inflammation: pre-procedure characterization of the patient at high risk for recurrent events after stenting. Heightened thrombogenicity and biomarker evidence of inflammation have been independently associated with ischemic risk in patients with coronary artery disease. However, a study examining their relation has not been reported. We analysed the relation between measurements of thrombogenicity and biomarkers in patients undergoing stenting and followed for 24 months recurrent ischemic events. In 84 consecutive patients undergoing stenting, pre-procedure thrombogenicity was measured by thrombelastography (TEG) and conventional aggregometry whereas biomarkers were measured by fluorokine multi-analyte profiling. Patients were stratified into quartiles based on platelet-fibrin clot strength (MA) by TEG and correlated with ischemic event occurrence. Patients in the highest MA quartile (high MA) had greater ADP-induced platelet aggregation (57.5 +/- 15.0% vs. 47.9 +/- 17.6%, p = 0.05), C-reactive protein (25.0 +/- 5.6 vs. 4.2 +/- 1.0 microg/mL, p = 0.006) and interleukin-8 (23.8 +/- 2.8 vs. 14.1 +/- 1.6 pg/mL, p < 0.001) than patients within the lowest MA quartile (low MA). Epidermal growth factor (7.7 +/- 2.2 vs. 1.2 +/- 0.3 pg/mL, p = 0.006) and vascular endothelial growth factor (296 +/- 35 vs. 190 +/- 10 pg/mL, p = 0.05) were also higher. Patients with high-MA had an ischemic event more often than patients with low-MA (48% vs. 13%, p = 0.02). Our study suggests that a link is present between inflammation and heightened thrombogenicity measured pre-procedurally in the patient at high risk for recurrent ischemic events after stenting. Larger studies are required to solidify these observations and their clinical relevance."}
{"id": "19232896", "title": "Bivalirudin and clopidogrel with and without eptifibatide for elective stenting: effects on platelet function, thrombelastographic indexes, and their relation to periprocedural infarction results of the CLEAR PLATELETS-2 (Clopidogrel with Eptifibatide to Arrest the Reactivity of Platelets) study.", "content": "Bivalirudin and clopidogrel with and without eptifibatide for elective stenting: effects on platelet function, thrombelastographic indexes, and their relation to periprocedural infarction results of the CLEAR PLATELETS-2 (Clopidogrel with Eptifibatide to Arrest the Reactivity of Platelets) study. The primary objective of this study was to compare the effect of therapy with bivalirudin alone versus bivalirudin plus eptifibatide on platelet reactivity measured by turbidometric aggregometry and thrombin-induced platelet-fibrin clot strength (TIP-FCS) measured by thrombelastography in percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) patients. The secondary aim was to study the relation of platelet aggregation and TIP-FCS to the occurrence of periprocedural infarction. Bivalirudin is commonly administered alone to clopidogrel na\u00efve (CN) patients and to patients on maintenance clopidogrel therapy (MT) undergoing elective stenting. The effect of adding eptifibatide to bivalirudin on platelet reactivity (PR) and TIP-FCS, and their relation to periprocedural infarction in these patients are unknown. Patients (n = 200) stratified to clopidogrel treatment status were randomly treated with bivalirudin (n = 102) or bivalirudin plus eptifibatide (n = 98). One hundred twenty-eight CN patients were loaded with 600 mg clopidogrel immediately after stenting, and 72 MT patients were not loaded. The PR, TIP-FCS, and myonecrosis markers were serially determined. In CN and MT patients, bivalirudin plus eptifibatide was associated with markedly lower PR at all times (5- and 20-microM adenosine diphosphate-induced, and 15- and 25-microM thrombin receptor activator peptide-induced aggregation; p < 0.001 for all) and reduced mean TIP-FCS (p < 0.05). Patients who had a periprocedural infarction had higher mean 18-h PR (p < 0.0001) and TIP-FCS (p = 0.002). For elective stenting, the addition of eptifibatide to bivalirudin lowered PR to multiple agonists and the tensile strength of the TIP-FCS, 2 measurements strongly associated with periprocedural myonecrosis. Future studies of PR and TIP-FCS for elective stenting may facilitate personalized antiplatelet therapy and enhance the selection of patients for glycoprotein IIb/IIIa blockade. (Peri-Procedural Myocardial Infarction, Platelet Reactivity, Thrombin Generation, and Clot Strength: Differential Effects of Eptifibatide + Bivalirudin Versus Bivalirudin [CLEAR PLATELETS-2]; NCT00370045."}
{"id": "19225670", "title": "Synthesis of hydrophilic conjugated porphyrin dimers for one-photon and two-photon photodynamic therapy at NIR wavelengths.", "content": "Synthesis of hydrophilic conjugated porphyrin dimers for one-photon and two-photon photodynamic therapy at NIR wavelengths. We report the synthesis of a series of hydrophilic butadiyne-linked conjugated zinc porphyrin dimers, designed as photodynamic therapy (PDT) agents. These porphyrin dimers exhibit exceptionally high two-photon absorption cross sections (delta(max) approximately 8,000-17,000 GM) and red-shifted linear absorption spectra (lambda(max) approximately 700-800 nm) making them ideal candidates for one-photon and two-photon excited photodynamic therapy. Four polar triethyleneglycol substituents are positioned along the sides of each dimer, but, on their own, these TEG chains do not confer sufficient solubility in aqueous physiological media for reproducible delivery into live cells. Charged cationic (methylpyridinium and trimethylammonium) and anionic (sulfonate and carboxylate) substituents have been appended to the meso-positions of porphyrin dimers using three synthetic strategies: 1) Suzuki coupling, 2) Sonogashira coupling, and 3) nucleophilic Senge arylation. Approaches 1 and 3 both allow attachment of aromatic substituents directly to the meso-positions of porphyrins. Approach 2 provides a route to hydrophilic porphyrin dimers with an ethyne link between the porphyrin and the polar aromatic substituent. The palladium-catalysed approaches 1 and 2 allow the synthesis of a broader range of meso-capped porphyrins, as many aryl halides are available. However the synthesis of the intermediate required for these routes necessitates a statistical reaction step, which decreases the overall yield. On the other hand, Senge-arylation provides highly regioselective nucleophilic aromatic substitution, and offers higher overall yield than the other routes. All these charged dimers exhibit good solubility in polar solvents (e.g. methanol) and aqueous solvent mixtures (aqueous DMSO or DMF)."}
{"id": "19224779", "title": "The effects of fibrinogen levels on thromboelastometric variables in the presence of thrombocytopenia.", "content": "The effects of fibrinogen levels on thromboelastometric variables in the presence of thrombocytopenia. The binding of fibrinogen and fibrin to platelets is important in normal hemostasis. The extent of platelet-fibrin interaction can be measured as the viscoelastic strength of clot by rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM). In this study, we investigated the effect of fibrinogen concentration and its relative contribution to overall clot strength using ROTEM. Blood samples were collected from healthy volunteers. The effects of platelet count on clot strength, determined by maximum clot elasticity (MCE), were evaluated on ROTEM using platelet-rich plasma (PRP) adjusted with autologous plasma to generate a range of platelet counts. PRPs were adjusted to 10 x 10(3) mm(-3), 50 x 10(3) mm(-3), and 100 x 10(3) mm(-3) and spiked with fibrinogen concentrates at 550 and 780 mg/dL. The effect of fibrin polymerization on clot strength, independent of platelet attachment, was analyzed by the cytochalasin D-modified thromboelastometry (FIBTEM) method. Additional retrospective analysis of clot strength (MCE) in two groups of thrombocytopenic patients was conducted. Clot strength (MCE) decreased at a platelet count below 100 x 10(3) mm(-3), whereas increases in MCE peaked and reached a plateau at platelet counts from 400 x 10(3) mm(-3). Increasing fibrinogen concentrations in PRP increased clot strength in a concentration-dependent manner, even at low platelet counts (10 x 10(3) mm(-3)). The positive correlation between clot strength and plasma fibrinogen level was also confirmed in the analysis of the data obtained from 904 thrombocytopenic patients. These in vitro and clinical data indicate that the clot strength increases in a fibrinogen concentration-dependent manner independent of platelet count, when analyzed by ROTEM. The maintenance of fibrinogen concentration is critical in the presence of thrombocytopenia. EXTEM (extrinsic activation) and FIBTEM may be useful in guiding fibrinogen repletion therapy."}
{"id": "19224778", "title": "Detection of protamine and heparin after termination of cardiopulmonary bypass by thrombelastometry (ROTEM): results of a pilot study.", "content": "Detection of protamine and heparin after termination of cardiopulmonary bypass by thrombelastometry (ROTEM): results of a pilot study. Our goal of this study was to determine whether protamine's effects on coagulation can be detected and differentiated from those of heparin when using thrombelastometry (ROTEM). To reverse the effects of heparin after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), 22 consecutive patients undergoing aortocoronary bypass graft surgery were included. According to clinical routine, all patients received a first dose of protamine calculated from the total amount of heparin given; additional protamine (70 U/kg) was administered to patients with activated clotting time (ACT) above baseline and clinical signs of diffuse bleeding. Simultaneously, routine ACT measurements, ROTEM assays (heparin-sensitive INTEM, and heparinase-containing HEPTEM test) and standard coagulation tests were performed, and the activity of coagulation factors as well as antifactor Xa activity measured. Administration of additional protamine (n = 16) resulted in a statistically significant increase in coagulation times on the intrinsically activated test (INTEM-CT), namely from (mean [+/-SD]) 219.8 (+/-19.1) s to 241.1 (+/-21.7) s (P < 0.001), and on the heparinase-containing test (HEPTEM-CT), namely from 210.2 (+/-19.9) s to 226.8 (+/-21.8) s (P < 0.001). These changes were not observed in patients receiving a single protamine dose (n = 6). The INTEM-CT:HEPTEM-CT ratio correctly identified 56 of the 58 samples as not containing residual heparin and correctly detected residual heparin in 3 of the only 6 samples showing elevated antifactor Xa values after CPB. Our preliminary data show that at termination of CPB administration of additional protamine results in a brief prolongation of coagulation times on the INTEM and HEPTEM test and that ROTEM might be useful in excluding residual heparin in cases showing prolonged ACT."}
{"id": "19224777", "title": "Does thromboelastography predict postoperative thromboembolic events? A systematic review of the literature.", "content": "Does thromboelastography predict postoperative thromboembolic events? A systematic review of the literature. Since thromboelastography (TEG) can detect hypercoagulable states, it is a potentially useful test for predicting postoperative thromboembolic complications. Therefore, we performed a systematic review of the literature to evaluate the accuracy of TEG in predicting postoperative thromboembolic events. PUBMED and EMBASE electronic databases were searched by two independent investigators to identify prospective studies involving adult patients undergoing operative procedures in which a TEG test was performed perioperatively and outcomes were measured by reference standards. The quality of included studies was assessed and measures of diagnostic test accuracy were estimated for each included study. Ten studies (with a total of 1056 patients) were included in this analysis; however, only five reported measures of TEG test accuracy. The overall quality of the studies and level of diagnostic evaluation of the studies were highly variable, from poor to good. As there were variations in the definition of hypercoagulability, TEG methodology and patient characteristics, reference standards used and outcomes measured, a meta-analysis was not undertaken. The sensitivity and specificity ranged from 0% to 100% and 62% to 92%, respectively. The diagnostic odds ratio ranged from 1.5 to 27.7; area under the curve ranged from 0.57 to 0.91. Of the TEG variables, maximum amplitude seems to be the best parameter to identify hypercoagulable states and to predict thromboembolic events. The predictive accuracy of TEG for postoperative thromboembolic events is highly variable. To determine if the TEG is a clinically useful screening test in high-risk surgical populations, more prospective studies are needed."}
{"id": "19224768", "title": "Anticoagulation and reversal paradigms: is too much of a good thing bad?", "content": "Anticoagulation and reversal paradigms: is too much of a good thing bad?"}
{"id": "19220741", "title": "Heparin-like effect contributes to the coagulopathy in patients with acute liver failure undergoing liver transplantation.", "content": "Heparin-like effect contributes to the coagulopathy in patients with acute liver failure undergoing liver transplantation. Liver transplantation (LT) in cirrhotics is characterized by severe coagulopathy, associated with a well documented heparin-like effect (HLE) seen by thromboelastography (TEG) after reperfusion. The amount of HLE present in patients with acute liver failure (ALF) and its role in their bleeding tendency before LT has not been investigated. To investigate the presence and extent of HLE in patients with ALF undergoing LT and to compare the extent of HLE in this group with a group of cirrhotics undergoing LT. Ten consecutive ALF and 10 cirrhotic patients undergoing LT were included. TEG (with and without heparinase I), surrogate total thrombin generation (TTG) derived by TEG and haemodynamic variables were recorded for every stage of the LT. HLE was defined as a correction of r+k times on TEG of more than 50% by the addition of heparinase I. Before incision, patients with ALF showed a significantly greater HLE compared with patients with cirrhosis (r+k time: 66 min corrected to 29 vs 45 min corrected to 32 min, P=0.001). After reperfusion, all the patients showed extensive HLE, without any difference between the two groups. Despite the greater HLE, patients with ALF showed similar TTG compared with the cirrhotic group. By the end of the operation, the extent of the HLE was greatly reduced in both the groups. Before transplantation, patients with ALF have a greater HLE than patients with liver cirrhosis. However, this did not affect the thrombin generation calculated by TEG and resolved after transplantation."}
{"id": "19220674", "title": "Thromboelastographic evaluation of coagulation in patients with extrahepatic portal vein thrombosis and non-cirrhotic portal fibrosis: a pilot study.", "content": "Thromboelastographic evaluation of coagulation in patients with extrahepatic portal vein thrombosis and non-cirrhotic portal fibrosis: a pilot study. Non-cirrhotic portal hypertension due to extrahepatic portal vein thrombosis (EHO) and non-cirrhotic portal fibrosis (NCPF) is a major cause of upper gastrointestinal hemorrhage in India. Hypercoagulability has been proposed to explain the thrombosis in the portal vein in EHO and intrahepatic portal vein radicals in NCPF. However, some authors have reported hypocoagulability in these patients. Thromboelastography (TEG), which gives a dynamic assessment of coagulation, has potential for evaluating coagulation in these patients but has not been used so far. It was the aim of this study to evaluate the coagulation status in patients of EHO and NCPF using TEG. Thirty patients with EHO and 19 patients with NCPF were studied. TEG was done in all patients. R (reaction time), K (constant), alpha (angle), MA (maximal amplitude), A 60 (width of tracing after 60 min) were recorded and TEG index calculated and compared to controls. Seven patients (23.3%) in the EHO group and eight (42.1%) in the NCPF group had severe thrombocytopenia (platlets, < 50 000 cells/dL). TEG showed significantly shorter R, higher MA and larger A in both EHO and NCPF compared to controls (P < 0.01). Thrombocytopenia normalized A but R continued to be significantly shorter in EHO and NCPF. Overt hypercoagulability (TEG index, > +2.5) was seen in two patients with EHO and one patient with NCPF. A latent hypercoagulable state exists in patients with EHO and NCPF which is partially masked by the thrombocytopenia secondary to splenomegaly and hypersplenism."}
{"id": "19194150", "title": "Factor XIII substitution in surgical cancer patients at high risk for intraoperative bleeding.", "content": "Factor XIII substitution in surgical cancer patients at high risk for intraoperative bleeding. Excessive intraoperative bleeding is associated with significant morbidity and mortality. The authors and others have shown that fibrin monomer allows preoperative risk stratification for intraoperative blood loss, likely due to an imbalance between available factor XIII and prothrombin conversion. The authors hypothesized that the use of factor XIII would delay the decrease of clot firmness in high-risk patients. The concept was tested in a prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trial in elective gastrointestinal cancer surgery. Patients were randomized to receive factor XIII (30 U/kg) or placebo in addition to controlled standard therapy. Twenty-two patients were evaluable for a planned interim analysis. For the primary outcome parameter maximum clot firmness, patients receiving factor XIII showed a nonsignificant 8% decrease, and patients receiving placebo lost 38%, a highly significantly difference between the two groups (P = 0.004). A reduction in the nonprimary outcome parameters fibrinogen consumption (-28%, P = 0.01) and blood loss (-29%, P = 0.041) was also observed in the factor XIII group. Three patients experienced adverse events that seemed unrelated to factor XIII substitution. The trial was stopped early after a planned interim analysis with the primary endpoint reached. This proof of concept study confirms the hypothesis that patients at high risk for intraoperative blood loss show reduced loss of clot firmness when factor XIII is administered early during surgery. Further clinical trials are needed to assess relevant clinical endpoints such as blood loss, loss of other coagulation factors, and use of blood products."}
{"id": "19187954", "title": "Thromboelastography in patients with cerebral venous thrombosis.", "content": "Thromboelastography in patients with cerebral venous thrombosis. Cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) is a rare presentation of venous thrombosis and has been associated with many conditions. In about 20% no risk factor is identified. The aim of this study was to assess the clot formation by thromboelastography (TEG) in patients with a history of CVT compared with healthy controls. TEG analysis was performed on recalcified blood samples of 19 CVT patients from a single centre cohort and 1:1 sex/ age (+/-3 year) matched controls. Four TEG parameters were monitored: reaction time (r) to clot initiation, time to reach a 20 mm level of clot formation (K), slope angle alpha from r to K (alpha) and maximum vertical amplitude (MA). Patients were tested for thrombophilic defects, including deficiencies of antithrombin, protein C and protein S, factor V Leiden, prothrombin G20210A mutation, lupus anticoagulant, antiphospholipid antibodies, and high factor VIII levels. Thrombophilia testing identified a prothrombotic abnormality in 11 patients (58%). Sixteen patients (84%) had one or more transient risk factor. There were no significant differences in TEG parameters between CVT patients and controls, neither between the subgroup of patients with a thrombophilic defect and controls. Seven of all patients (37%), including 5 patients with abnormal thrombophilia testing, and 5 controls (26%) had one or more TEG hypercoagulable parameters. A persistent hypercoagulable state which could have predisposed to venous thrombosis in CVT patients and in the subgroup of patients with a thrombophilic defect could not be demonstrated by TEG."}
{"id": "19175547", "title": "P-selectin mRNA is maintained in platelet concentrates stored at 4 degrees C.", "content": "P-selectin mRNA is maintained in platelet concentrates stored at 4 degrees C. Platelets (PLTs) contain mRNA and synthesize proteins in response to activation. Most guidelines for PLT concentrates (PCs) recommend ambient temperature for storage but the impact of the storage temperature on PLT mRNA content has not yet been investigated. Ten leukoreduced apheresis PCs were split and stored at 22 and 4 degrees C. P-selectin mRNA, its expression on PLTs, and its soluble form were quantified. In parallel, cellular (cell count, mean PLT volume), metabolic (pH, pO(2), pCO(2), HCO(3), glucose), and functional markers (swirling, hypotonic shock response, aggregation to collagen) were analyzed. Rotation thrombelastography was used to monitor the hemostatic potential of PLTs. All measurements were performed on Days 1 and 5 of storage. After 5 days of storage at 4 degrees C, only 31 +/- 27 percent of P-selectin mRNA and 29 +/- 41 percent of glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase mRNA were lost, while minute amounts of the mRNAs were detectable at 22 degrees C. In PCs stored at 4 degrees C the percentage of P-selectin-positive PLTs was significantly higher when compared to PCs stored at 22 degrees C. Soluble P-selectin concentrations did not significantly differ between both storage temperatures. Thrombelastography revealed significantly shorter reaction times in PLTs kept at 4 degrees C. Our data indicate that storage at 4 degrees C is accompanied by maintained mRNA levels. PLTs with intact mRNA levels and short reaction times in thrombelastography might be functionally superior to PLTs that are devoid of mRNA and show less augmented P-selectin surface expression. In therapeutic applications, that is, if PLTs are transfused to control acute bleeding, PLTs kept at 4 degrees C may be advantageous."}
{"id": "19174824", "title": "Prospective, observational study of antiplatelet and coagulation biomarkers as predictors of thromboembolic events after implantation of ventricular assist devices.", "content": "Prospective, observational study of antiplatelet and coagulation biomarkers as predictors of thromboembolic events after implantation of ventricular assist devices. Long-term success in ventricular assist device (VAD) recipients is limited by thromboembolic events, the prediction of which remains elusive. We evaluated the predictive value of aspirin hyporesponsiveness and markers of coagulation and fibrinolysis. We prospectively enrolled patients scheduled to undergo VAD implantation between June 2004 and March 2006. Once before surgery, daily during hospitalization, and weekly after discharge we assessed platelet function, measured prothrombin activation fragment 1.2 (F1.2) and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) concentrations, and evaluated aspirin hyporesponsiveness by whole-blood aggregometry and thromboelastography. All patients received 325 mg oral aspirin daily from at least 7 days before VAD implantation. Follow-up continued until heart transplantation, death or closure of the database. We included 26 patients (median follow-up 315 days, range 9-833 days). In eight (31%) patients, 14 thromboembolic events occurred at a median of 42 (interquartile range 26-131) days. Only six (43%) events based on whole-blood aggregometry and one (7%) based on thromboelastography coincided with aspirin hyporesponsiveness. Within-patient variability was high for both tests (59% and 567%, respectively). Compared with levels before surgery, PAI-1 concentrations were raised for up to 45 days (P <0.0001) and those of F1.2 for up to 3 days (P = 0.0001) after VAD implantation. PAI-1 and F1.2 levels did not rise significantly further before thromboembolic events. Aspirin hyporesponsiveness was not associated with raised risk of future clinical thromboembolic events after VAD implantation. Impaired fibrinolysis, demonstrated by raised PAI-1 concentrations, might, however, indicate a predisposition to such events early after surgery."}
{"id": "19173690", "title": "Equal effects of gelatin and hydroxyethyl starch (6% HES 130/0.42) on modified thrombelastography in children.", "content": "Equal effects of gelatin and hydroxyethyl starch (6% HES 130/0.42) on modified thrombelastography in children. Artificial colloids are frequently used to prevent or treat circulatory failure due to hypovolaemia. Whereas gelatin has been shown not to affect coagulation besides its haemodilutional effect, hydroxyethyl starches (HES) have additional negative effects on haemostasis. The third-generation HES solutions have been developed to minimise these effects. We therefore conducted a prospective, randomised study, to verify the hypothesis that a 6% HES 130/0.42/6 : 1 and a 4% gelatin infusion influences modified thrombelastography (TEM) parameters in children in the same manner and to the same extent. A total of 50 paediatric patients aged 0-12 years scheduled for surgery were assigned to receive either 10 ml/kg HES 130/0.42 or gelatin. Blood gas analysis, haemodynamic parameters and TEM measurements were performed before and after colloid administration. Patient characteristics, indications/surgical procedures and the main results obtained from blood gas analysis were comparable between the two groups. After administration of either gelatin or HES, all TEM parameters, except for clotting time, indicated impaired coagulation whereas the mean values of all TEM parameters remained within the normal ranges. Comparing the gelatin and HES 130/0.42/6 : 1 groups, none of the measured TEM parameters was found to show between-group differences at baseline or after colloid infusion. In conclusion, we could demonstrate that the investigational product, HES 130/0.42/6 : 1 solution, administered at a dosage of 10 ml/kg to children, had comparable effects on coagulation monitored with TEM as a gelatin solution. Perioperative administration of HES 130/0.42/6 : 1 does not alter coagulation to an extent above and beyond the effect of haemodilution."}
{"id": "19173686", "title": "Living without aprotinin: the results of a 5-year blood saving program in cardiac surgery.", "content": "Living without aprotinin: the results of a 5-year blood saving program in cardiac surgery. After 20 years of regular use in cardiac surgery patients, aprotinin has recently been withdrawn from the market due to many concerns about its safety. For a number of reasons aprotinin has not been available in Italy since 1998. The present study presents an aprotinin-free treatment protocol applied at our institution during the last 5 years, and aims to verify the results of this protocol in terms of allogeneic blood product transfusions, postoperative blood loss and surgical re-exploration rate. Retrospective study on 7988 consecutive patients who underwent cardiac surgery during the years 2003-2007. All the patients received specific hemostasis/coagulation management based on (a) routine use of tranexamic acid, (b) heparin dose-response monitoring, thromboelastography, platelet (PLT) function analysis in a select population of patients, and (c) use of fresh frozen plasma (FFP), PLTs, and desmopressin according to the hemostasis/coagulation profile. Data retrieved from the institutional database were quantity of packed red cells (PRCs), FFP, PLT transfusion rate, blood loss in the first 12 postoperative hours, and surgical re-exploration rate. PRCs were transfused in 40.4% of patients (with higher rates for selected high-risk subpopulations), FFP in 12.9% and PLTs in 2.6%. Surgical re-exploration rate was 3.7%. With respect to historical controls, a significant reduction of PRCs and FFP transfusions was obtained using closed circuits, point of care coagulation tests, and combination of the two. This aprotinin-free blood saving program is an effective strategy for allogeneic blood products transfusion containment."}
{"id": "19171115", "title": "Mechanisms of antiphospholipid-induced thrombosis: effects on the protein C system.", "content": "Mechanisms of antiphospholipid-induced thrombosis: effects on the protein C system. An acquired resistance to activated protein C (APC) has been demonstrated in patients with antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL). Recent studies report interactions between beta2 glycoprotein I (beta2GPI) and prothrombin-binding antibodies and the protein C system. Some aPL in patients recognize one or more conformational epitopes shared by beta2GPI and catalytic domains of APC. Both beta2GPI and anti-prothrombin antibodies are associated with APC resistance. Several clinical studies have focused on an association between aPL and APC resistance, determined by classic activated partial thromboplastin time-based tests. It has been shown in most studies that APC resistance was associated with lupus anticoagulants. APC resistance is also associated with thrombosis, especially venous thromboembolism. Several recent studies have reported a novel integrated approach of coagulation using calibrated automated thrombography. This technique allows an approach of APC sensitivity without interference with lupus anticoagulants. Clinical associations between APC resistance and thromboembolic events have been demonstrated."}
{"id": "19170989", "title": "Thrombin generation and clot formation in methylene blue-treated plasma and cryoprecipitate.", "content": "Thrombin generation and clot formation in methylene blue-treated plasma and cryoprecipitate. Methylene blue (MB) treatment of plasma is known to reduce the activity of clotting factors, but its effect on thrombin generation and clot formation is not well documented. Individual clotting factors and inhibitors and global tests of thrombin generation and clot formation using rotational thrombelastometry (ROTEM) were assessed in a paired study of standard or MB plasma and cryoprecipitate (n = 20 each). MB treatment resulted in a 10 percent reduction in endogenous thrombin potential and 30 percent decrease in peak thrombin as well as the expected 20 to 35 percent loss of Factor (F)VIII, fibrinogen, and FXI activity. MB treatment had no effect on the rate of clot formation and increased the clot firmness by 20 percent as assessed by ROTEM. There were minimal further changes in either coagulation factor levels or thrombin generation when thawed plasma was stored for an additional 24 hours. FVIII and fibrinogen content of MB cryoprecipitate was reduced by 30 and 40 percent, respectively, but this was not associated with altered clot time or rate of clot formation by ROTEM and only an 8 percent decrease in clot firmness. It is concluded that MB treatment is associated with a reduction in the thrombin-generating capacity of plasma, but has very little effect on the strength of clot formation as assessed by thrombelastometry. The thrombin-generating capacity of standard and MB plasma is relatively unaltered by subsequent storage of thawed plasma at 4 degrees C for 24 hours."}
{"id": "19166709", "title": "Methods for the measurement of platelet function.", "content": "Methods for the measurement of platelet function. This article discusses the advantages and disadvantages of methods for the measurement of platelet function. The focus is on tests that can be used to monitor antiplatelet activity in the setting of cardiovascular disease and potentially predict thrombosis and bleeding. The tests described are platelet aggregometry; impedance aggregometry; VerifyNow (Accumetrics, San Diego, CA); Plateletworks (Helena Laboratories, Beaumont, TX); platelet surface P-selectin, platelet surface-activated glycoprotein IIb/IIIa, and leukocyte-platelet aggregates; TEG Platelet Mapping system (Haemoscope, Niles, IL); Impact cone and plate(let) analyzer (DiaMed, Cressier, Switzerland); Platelet Function Analyzer-100 (Siemens Healthcare Diagnostics, Inc., Deerfield, IL); phosphorylation of vasodilator-stimulated phosphoprotein; serum thromboxane B(2); and urinary 11-dehydro thromboxane B(2). Some of the factors that differentiate these tests are sample volume requirements, the use of whole blood, the presence of shear, point-of-care status, need for a technician, and expense."}
{"id": "19152788", "title": "Solidification mechanisms of chitosan-glycerol phosphate/blood implant for articular cartilage repair.", "content": "Solidification mechanisms of chitosan-glycerol phosphate/blood implant for articular cartilage repair. Chitosan-glycerol phosphate (chitosan-GP) is a unique polymer solution that is mixed with whole blood and solidified over microfractured or drilled articular cartilage defects in order to elicit a more hyaline repair cartilage. For clinical ease-of-use, a faster in situ solidification is preferred. Therefore, we investigated the mechanisms underlying chitosan-GP/blood implant solidification. In vitro solidification of chitosan-GP/blood mixtures, with or without added clotting factors, was evaluated by thromboelastography. Serum was analyzed for the onset of thrombin, platelet, and FXIII activation. In vivo solidification of chitosan-GP/blood mixtures, with and without clotting factors, was evaluated in microdrilled cartilage defects of adult rabbits (N=41 defects). Chitosan-GP/blood clots solidified in an atypical biphasic manner, with higher initial viscosity and minor platelet activation followed by the development of clot tensile strength concomitant with thrombin generation, burst platelet and FXIII activation. Whole blood and chitosan-GP/blood clots developed a similar final clot tensile strength, while polymer-blood clots showed a unique, sustained platelet factor release and greater resistance to lysis by tissue plasminogen activator. Thrombin, tissue factor (TF), and recombinant human activated factor VII (rhFVIIa) accelerated chitosan-GP/blood solidification in vitro (P<0.05). Pre-application of thrombin or rhFVIIa+TF to the surface of drilled cartilage defects accelerated implant solidification in vivo (P<0.05). Chitosan-GP/blood implants solidify through coagulation mechanisms involving thrombin generation, platelet activation and fibrin polymerization, leading to a dual fibrin-polysaccharide clot scaffold that resists lysis and is physically more stable than normal blood clots. Clotting factors have the potential to enhance the practical use, the residency, and therapeutic activity of polymer-blood implants."}
{"id": "19152603", "title": "Effect of Haemostatic Control Resuscitation on mortality in massively bleeding patients: a before and after study.", "content": "Effect of Haemostatic Control Resuscitation on mortality in massively bleeding patients: a before and after study. Evidence supporting the use of platelets and plasma in resuscitation of massive bleedings is questionable. Current consensus guidelines recommend restrictive use. Our aim was to determine the effect of changing the transfusion practice on 30-day survival in massively bleeding patients. Consecutive adult patients receiving more than 10 units of red blood cells (RBC) within 24 h 2 years prior to (2002-2003) and 2 years after (2005-2006) a change in transfusion practice were included. In 2004, we implemented Haemostatic Control Resuscitation (HCR) with preemptive use of platelets and plasma, administered in transfusion packages, comprising 5 units of RBCs, 5 units of fresh-frozen plasma and 2 units of platelet concentrates (PC), when massive bleeding occurred or upon arrival at the emergency room and thereafter directed by thrombelastography throughout the peri- and postoperative period. In 2005-2006, the 442 patients received more PCs within 24 h from admission [mean 5.0 (SD 4.2) vs. 1.7 (2.0); P < 0.0001] and had a smaller decrease in platelet count during the bleeding episode [91.5 (81.2) vs. 119.7 (100.8) x 10(9)/l; P = 0.0025] than the 390 patients treated in 2002-2003. Thirty-day mortality was reduced in 2005-2006 (20.4% vs. 31.5%; P = 0.0002) and at 90-day (22.4% vs. 34.6%; P < 0.0001) as compared to 2002-2003. In patients who experience massive bleeding, HCR with platelets and plasma, as guided by thrombelastography, is associated with improved survival. While confirmation from a randomized controlled trial is urgently needed, HCR may be considered in these patients."}
{"id": "19150309", "title": "Tests of coagulation in liver disease.", "content": "Tests of coagulation in liver disease. The complex coagulation defect secondary to chronic liver disease is considered responsible for the bleeding problems that often are associated with the disease. Accordingly, clinicians order laboratory tests to assess the risk of bleeding and rely on these results to make decisions about the management of the associated coagulation disturbances. Recent data, however, indicate that the abnormality of coagulation in stable cirrhosis is more a myth than a reality and may help explain why the prolonged global coagulation tests are poor predictors of bleeding in this setting. Alternative tests more closely mimicking what occurs in vivo should be developed and investigated in appropriate clinical trials to determine their value in the management of bleeding in cirrhosis."}
{"id": "19150308", "title": "Heparin-like effect in liver disease and liver transplantation.", "content": "Heparin-like effect in liver disease and liver transplantation. Liver cirrhosis is characterized by impairment of primary and secondary hemostasis but it is not clear how this impairment is related to the bleeding problems seen in cirrhosis. This delicate hemostatic balance can be perturbed by numerous conditions, such as variceal bleeding, renal failure, or infection/sepsis, which may lead to worsening of coagulation status to date. The role of endogenous heparinoids (glycosaminoglycans) in the coagulopathy of patients who have cirrhosis has been demonstrated by thromboelastography with the addition of heparinase I in patients who have recent variceal bleeding and infection. The heparin-like effect has also been demonstrated to be part of the coagulopathy seen after reperfusion in patients who have cirrhosis and are undergoing liver transplant. Therapeutic implications of these findings are not clear at the moment and the use of drugs able to cleave heparinoids should be explored."}
{"id": "19146374", "title": "Molecular glues carrying multiple guanidinium ion pendants via an oligoether spacer: stabilization of microtubules against depolymerization.", "content": "Molecular glues carrying multiple guanidinium ion pendants via an oligoether spacer: stabilization of microtubules against depolymerization. Dendron G1(Gu(+))(9)R and linear peptide oligomer Asn(TEG-Gu(+))(9), decorated with multiple guanidinium (Gu(+)) ions as sticky pendants via an oligo(oxyethylene) spacer, adhere to BSA and protein assemblies such as microtubules in aqueous buffers. Using fluorescently labeled G1(Gu(+))(9)R with pyrenyl and rhodamine focal cores, the adhesion process can be visualized by FRET or confocal laser scanning microscopy. The adhesion to microtubules leads to their stabilization against depolymerization into alpha/beta-tubulin heterodimer components, where the effects of G1(Gu(+))(9)R and Asn(TEG-Gu(+))(9) are comparable to that of paclitaxel, known as an anticancer drug. Since G1(Gu(+))(9)R and Asn(TEG-Gu(+))(9) are superior to lower-generation G0(Gu(+))(3)OMe and arginine nonamer, respectively, the multivalency of the interaction and a conformational flexibility of the oligoether spacers play a crucial role in the efficient adhesion to proteins."}
{"id": "19143701", "title": "The TEG vs the ROTEM thromboelastography/thromboelastometry systems.", "content": "The TEG vs the ROTEM thromboelastography/thromboelastometry systems. We have evaluated the TEG thromboelastograph and the ROTEM thromboelastometer, two point-of-care devices that measure blood coagulation. During a one-week period, seven consultant anaesthetists, one consultant haematologist, one associate specialist anaesthetist and two senior trainee anaesthetists were trained by the manufacturers and set up, calibrated and used both systems, after which their views were obtained and specific technical/support information was sought from the manufacturers using a questionnaire. Although the devices shared common features, they differed in complexity and aspects of ease of use, and in their purchase and running costs."}
{"id": "19135704", "title": "The coagulopathy of cirrhosis assessed by thromboelastometry and its correlation with conventional coagulation parameters.", "content": "The coagulopathy of cirrhosis assessed by thromboelastometry and its correlation with conventional coagulation parameters. Thromboelastometry allows continuous registration of the blood viscoelastic changes upon activation by cephaline or tissue-factor plus calcium-chloride. The technique is used as a near-patient-testing device to guide transfusion in cardiac surgery or liver transplantation and less to investigate hemostasis in acquired or congenital coagulopathies. (i) Review of the coagulopathy associated with cirrhosis and (ii) report on its investigation by thromboelastometry in comparison with conventional coagulation parameters. We investigated citrated blood samples from 51 adult cirrhotics for the following thromboelastometry parameters: coagulation-time (CT), clot-formation-time (CFT), maximum-clot-firmness (MCF). Relatively few patients [14/51(27%)] were identified as abnormal by CT; in contrast, a greater proportion were identified by the CFT [41/51(80%)] or MCF [39/51(76%)]. CFT and MCF were correlated with the platelet-count, antithrombin and fibrinogen. Prothrombin time (PT) was correlated with CFT and MCF. None of the coagulation parameters were correlated with CT. The correlation of the Child-Pugh-score (taken as index of severity) versus MCF or PT was -0.457(p < 0.001) or 0.484(p < 0.001), suggesting MCF as a suitable prognostic index. CFT and MCF, but not CT obtained ROC curves that were useful to distinguish patients from healthy individuals. Thromboelastometry, currently used to assist liver transplantation is also suitable for investigating stable cirrhosis. CFT and MCF are the most interesting parameters to be considered for future clinical studies needed to assess their value as measures of bleeding-risk and prognosis in this category of patients."}
{"id": "19135193", "title": "Exsanguination in trauma: A review of diagnostics and treatment options.", "content": "Exsanguination in trauma: A review of diagnostics and treatment options. Trauma patients with haemorrhagic shock who only transiently respond or do not respond to fluid therapy and/or the administration of blood products have exsanguinating injuries. Recognising shock due to (exsanguinating) haemorrhage in trauma is about constructing a synthesis of trauma mechanism, injuries, vital signs and the therapeutic response of the patient. The aim of prehospital care of bleeding trauma patients is to deliver the patient to a facility for definitive care within the shortest amount of time by rapid transport and minimise therapy to what is necessary to maintain adequate vital signs. Rapid decisions have to be made using regional trauma triage protocols that have incorporated patient condition, transport times and the level of care than can be performed by the prehospital care providers and the receiving hospitals. The treatment of bleeding patients is aimed at two major goals: stopping the bleeding and restoration of the blood volume. Fluid resuscitation should allow for preservation of vital functions without increasing the risk for further (re)bleeding. To prevent further deterioration and subsequent exsanguinations 'permissive hypotension' may be the goal to achieve. Within the hospital, a sound trauma team activation system, including the logistic procedure as well as activation criteria, is essential for a fast and adequate response. After determination of haemorrhagic shock, all efforts have to be directed to stop the bleeding in order to prevent exsanguinations. A simultaneous effort is made to restore blood volume and correct coagulation. Reversal of coagulopathy with pharmacotherapeutic interventions may be a promising concept to limit blood loss after trauma. Abdominal ultrasound has replaced diagnostic peritoneal lavage for detection of haemoperitoneum. With the development of sliding-gantry based computer tomography diagnostic systems, rapid evaluation by CT-scanning of the trauma patient is possible during resuscitation. The concept of damage control surgery, the staged approach in treatment of severe trauma, has proven to be of vital importance in the treatment of exsanguinating trauma patients and is adopted worldwide. When performing 'blind' transfusion or 'damage control resuscitation', a predetermined fixed ratio of blood components may result in the administration of higher plasma and platelets doses and may improve outcome. The role of thromboelastography and thromboelastometry as point-of-care tests for coagulation in massive blood loss is emerging, providing information about actual clot formation and clot stability, shortly (10min) after the blood sample is taken. Thus, therapy guided by the test results will allow for administration of specific coagulation factors that will be depleted despite administration with fresh frozen plasma during massive transfusion of blood components."}
{"id": "19132185", "title": "Improving outcomes with antiplatelet therapies in percutaneous coronary intervention and stenting.", "content": "Improving outcomes with antiplatelet therapies in percutaneous coronary intervention and stenting."}
{"id": "19117801", "title": "Protocol based on thromboelastograph (TEG) out-performs physician preference using laboratory coagulation tests to guide blood replacement during and after cardiac surgery: a pilot study.", "content": "Protocol based on thromboelastograph (TEG) out-performs physician preference using laboratory coagulation tests to guide blood replacement during and after cardiac surgery: a pilot study. Allogenic blood transfusion may affect clinical outcomes negatively. Up to 20% of blood transfusions in the United States are associated with cardiac surgery and so strategies to conserve usage are of importance. This study compares administration according to physician's choice based on laboratory coagulation tests with application of a strict protocol based on the thromboelastograph (TEG). Sixty-nine patients presenting for cardiac surgery were randomised to either study or control groups. In the study group a strict protocol was followed covering usage of all blood products according to TEG patterns. In the control group, the physician directed product administration with reference to activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), international normalised ratio (INR), fibrinogen and platelet count. Bleeding, re-sternotomy, minimum haemoglobin, intubation time, and ICU stay were documented. TEG-based management reduced total product usage by 58.8% in the study group but this was not statistically significant. This was associated with a statistically insignificant trend towards better short-term outcomes. This pilot study suggests that a strict protocol for blood product replacement based on the TEG might be highly effective in reducing usage without impairing short-term outcome."}
{"id": "19109232", "title": "Successful treatment of canine hemophilia by continuous expression of canine FVIIa.", "content": "Successful treatment of canine hemophilia by continuous expression of canine FVIIa. Continuous expression of activated factor VII (FVIIa) via gene transfer is a potential therapeutic approach for hemophilia patients with or without inhibitory antibodies to human factor VIII (FVIII) or IX (FIX). Here, we investigate whether gene transfer of an engineered canine FVIIa (cFVIIa) transgene can affect hemostasis in a canine model of hemophilia, a good predictor of efficacy of hemophilia treatments. Purified recombinant cFVIIa exhibited 12-fold higher tissue factor-dependent activity than purified recombinant zymogen cFVII. Subsequently, we generated a serotype 8 recombinant adeno-associated viral vector expressing cFVIIa from a liver-specific promoter. Vector delivery via the portal vein in hemophilia A and B dogs was well tolerated, and long-term expression of cFVIIa resulted in a shortening of the prothrombin time, partial correction of the whole blood clotting time and thromboelastography parameters, and a complete absence of spontaneous bleeding episodes. No evidence of hepatotoxicity, thrombotic complications, or inhibitory immune response was found. These data provide the first evidence for in vivo efficacy and safety of continuously expressed FVIIa as a FVIII/FIX-bypassing agent in a large animal model of hemophilia, avoiding the risk of inhibitor formation associated with bolus FVIII or FIX infusion."}
{"id": "19104179", "title": "CU-2010--a novel small molecule protease inhibitor with antifibrinolytic and anticoagulant properties.", "content": "CU-2010--a novel small molecule protease inhibitor with antifibrinolytic and anticoagulant properties. In cardiac surgery, the contact of blood with the artificial surfaces of the cardiopulmonary bypass results in activation of coagulation, fibrinolysis, and platelets, which is recognized as reason for increased bleeding tendency. Antifibrinolytics like tranexamic acid or the broad-spectrum protease inhibitor aprotinin attenuate this response. The marketing of aprotinin has been suspended after a recent clinical trial suggested increased risks associated with aprotinin. Moreover, aprotinin is a protein of animal origin and has antigenic properties. As a result, alternative antifibrinolytic compounds are desirable. This in vitro study compared the antifibrinolytic efficacy of the synthetic small molecule CU-2010 with aprotinin and tranexamic acid. Antifibrinolytic activity in plasma and whole blood of ten healthy volunteers was examined with a turbidometric method and with tissue factor-activated thromboelastometry (ROTEM; Pentapharm, Munich, Germany). In addition, anticoagulant effects were assessed through measurement of plasma and whole blood clotting times and thrombin generation. With its high affinity for plasmin (Ki, 2 nM), CU-2010 inhibited fibrinolysis comparable to aprotinin (Ki, 4 nM) and was ten times more potent than tranexamic acid. CU-2010 also inhibited plasma kallikrein (Ki < 1 nM) and factors Xa (Ki, 45 nM) and XIa (Ki, 18nM), which was reflected in prolongation of coagulation times and an attenuation of thrombin generation. These findings suggest that CU-2010 has similar antifibrinolytic potency compared to aprotinin, is more potent than tranexamic acid, and possesses some anticoagulant effects."}
{"id": "19101285", "title": "Platelet dysfunction in outpatients with left ventricular assist devices.", "content": "Platelet dysfunction in outpatients with left ventricular assist devices. Thromboembolic and bleeding complications in outpatients with a left ventricular assist device are common and can be detrimental. A meticulous balance between anticoagulant and procoagulant factors is therefore crucial. However, in contrast to routinely performed plasmatic coagulation tests, platelet function is hardly ever monitored although recent reports indicated platelet dysfunction. We therefore differentially evaluated platelet function with four commonly used point-of-care devices. In a cross-sectional design platelet function was assessed in 12 outpatients and 12 healthy matched volunteers using thrombelastography platelet mapping, thromboelastometry, platelet function analyzer, and a new whole blood aggregometer (Multiplate). Phenprocoumon produced an international normalized ratio of 3.5. It was associated with a twofold prolongation in the thromboelastometry clotting time (p < 0.001). Platelet function under high shear was severely compromised: collagen adenosine diphosphate closure times were 2.5-fold longer in patients than in volunteers (p < 0.001), and 50% of patients had maximal collagen adenosine diphosphate closure time values. Although antigen levels of von Willebrand factor were 80% higher in patients (p < 0.001), von Willebrand factor-ristocetin was subnormal in 5 of 12 patients. Ristocetin-induced aggregation was also threefold higher in volunteers (p < 0.001), indicating an additional functional defect of platelets affecting the glycoprotein Ib-von Willebrand factor axis. The von Willebrand factor multimer pattern in patients also appeared abnormal. Multimodal antiplatelet monitoring showed markedly impaired platelet function in patients with a left ventricular assist device. Platelet dysfunction under high shear rates and abnormal ristocetin-induced aggregation is only partly attributable to low von Willebrand factor activity. These findings resemble the acquired von Willebrand syndrome that is associated with microaggregate formation and enhanced bleeding."}
{"id": "19095827", "title": "Rapidly degradable hydroxyethyl starch solutions impair blood coagulation after cardiac surgery: a prospective randomized trial.", "content": "Rapidly degradable hydroxyethyl starch solutions impair blood coagulation after cardiac surgery: a prospective randomized trial. There is continuing concern about the effect of hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solutions on blood coagulation. Rapidly degradable HES solutions with more favorable effects on clot strength have therefore been developed. Because the risk of bleeding is increased after cardiopulmonary bypass, we examined whether these types of HES solutions could be administered after cardiac surgery without an alteration of coagulation. Two new rapidly degradable HES solutions were compared with human albumin in 45 patients scheduled for elective primary cardiac surgery. After admission to the cardiac surgical intensive care unit, the patients were allocated in random order to receive either 15 mL/kg of HES solution with low molecular weight and low molar substitution (either 6% HES200/0.5 or 6% HES130/0.4) or 4% human albumin solution as a short-time (70-240 min) infusion. Clot formation time was prolonged and maximum clot firmness was decreased in thromboelastometry tracings after infusion of both HES solutions. This impairment in thromboelastometry tracings partly recovered (using InTEM and ExTEM coagulation activators) at 2 h after the completion of the study infusion. Platelet contribution to maximum clot firmness remained unaffected in all of the study groups. HES did not induce fibrinolysis. No changes in thromboelastometry tracings were observed after human albumin infusion. Chest tube drainage was comparable in the study groups. We conclude that a short-time infusion of rapidly degradable HES solutions after cardiac surgery produces impairment in fibrin formation and clot strength in thromboelastometry tracings. In this clinical setting, human albumin does not impair hemostasis."}
{"id": "19092656", "title": "Clot lifespan model analysis of the effects of warfarin on thrombus growth and fibrinolysis: role of contact protein and tissue factor initiation.", "content": "Clot lifespan model analysis of the effects of warfarin on thrombus growth and fibrinolysis: role of contact protein and tissue factor initiation. Warfarin therapy has served as the backbone of chronic anticoagulation therapy for decades to prevent thrombotic morbidity secondary to blood-biomaterial interfaces. Unfortunately, thrombotic and bleeding complications are observed despite maintenance of therapeutic international normalized ratio (INR) values. We proposed to define the effects of warfarin therapy on thrombus growth and disintegration following contact pathway protein or tissue factor (TF) initiation. Normal subject or patient plasma with INR values between 1.8 and 9.6 were exposed to TF or celite and tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA). Thrombus growth/disintegration kinetics were determined by changes in resistance over time with the clot lifespan model (CSLM), a thrombelastographic-based methodology. Data were collected until clot lysis time was observed. Linear relationships of the difference between the CLSM parameter values obtained from paired celite and TF-activated samples and corresponding INR value were determined and reported as r. The time to clot initiation was progressively prolonged with increasing INR values in all samples, and speed of clot formation, clot strength, and time to onset of fibrinolysis decreased as INR increased. Throughout the range of INR values tested, contact activation resulted in faster growing, stronger, and longer lived thrombi when compared with matched TF-activated plasma samples. Only the time to maximum rate of lysis was correlated with INR (r=0.36, p=0.005). INR values have little correlation with the difference between contact protein and TF-activated coagulation/fibrinolysis."}
{"id": "19077136", "title": "Protamine sulphate for treatment of severe post-reperfusion coagulopathy in pediatric liver transplantation.", "content": "Protamine sulphate for treatment of severe post-reperfusion coagulopathy in pediatric liver transplantation. In this case report, we describe a child with biliary atresia who underwent a living LDLT and developed severe coagulopathy after reperfusion of the graft. The ROTEM analysis strongly suggested the presence of either a heparin effect or severe deficiency of coagulation factors. The former diagnosis was supported by a subsequent in-vitro HEPTEM. A small dose of protamine sulphate was then administered, which promptly restored hemostasis. The remainder of the procedure was uneventful."}
{"id": "19074154", "title": "Influence on coagulation of a potato-derived hydroxethylstarch (HES 130/0.42) and a maize-derived hydroxethylstarch (HES 130/0.4) in patients undergoing cardiac surgery.", "content": "Influence on coagulation of a potato-derived hydroxethylstarch (HES 130/0.42) and a maize-derived hydroxethylstarch (HES 130/0.4) in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. This study compared the effects of a potato-based hydroxyethyl starch (HES) with those of a maize-derived HES preparation on coagulation in cardiac surgery patients. Sixty patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass were allocated randomly to receive either a potato-derived HES (6% HES 130/0.42) (n=30) or a waxy-maize-derived HES (6% HES 130/0.4) (n=30) given to keep pulmonary capillary wedge pressure/central venous pressure between 12 and 14 mm Hg until the second postoperative day (POD). A four-channel thrombelastography analyzer was used to measure rotation thrombelastometry (ROTEM) and whole blood aggregometry was used to assess the effects on platelet function. Potato HES 2990 (340) ml and maize HES 2890 (350) ml were given on the second POD. Standard coagulation (e.g. fibrinogen and antithrombin III) did not differ between the groups. Blood loss and need for transfusion of blood/blood products did not differ. Coagulation time (intrinsic/extrinsic CT) and clot formation time (intrinsic/extrinsic CFT) increased similarly after surgery and after 5 h, but recovered completely by the first and second POD. Clot firmness was similar in both groups. Platelet function induced by three inductors decreased significantly after surgery, but without significant differences between the two groups. Platelet function had recovered fully by the first POD. Both HES preparations showed similar effects on thrombelastometry and platelet function. As blood loss and need for the use of blood products were also similar, both potato- and maize-derived HES preparations can be safely used in cardiac surgery with regard to haemostasis."}
{"id": "19021004", "title": "Laboratory investigation of hypercoagulability in cancer patients using rotation thrombelastography.", "content": "Laboratory investigation of hypercoagulability in cancer patients using rotation thrombelastography. The goal of this study was laboratory testing for hypercoagulability in patients with solid tumors using rotation thrombelastogram (ROTEM) and correlate ROTEM parameters with routine coagulation tests. A total of 78 untreated patients with cancer were included: 28 gastrointestinal system tumors (group 1), 27 respiratory system tumors (group 2), and 23 miscellaneus group of ovarian, renal, nasopharyngeal, mesothelioma, and unknown origin (group 3). Platelet count was significantly increased in group 2 in respect to group 3 (P < 0.05) and fibrinogen level was significantly increased in group 2 in respect to group 1 (P < 0.05). There was no statistically significant difference between subgroups in respect to TEG parameters. Tumor-node-metastasis (TNM) stages of patients was not also associated with either of TEG parameters. Correlation analysis revealed significant correlation between laboratory parameters and ROTEM parameters. Fibrinogen showed the strongest correlation with MCF (r > 0.7) and CFT in all assays (INTEM, EXTEM, FIBTEM, APTEM). There were also statistically significant correlations between platelet number and other ROTEM parameters (INTEM-CFT, -MCF, EXTEM-CFT, -MCF, FIBTEM-MCF, APTEM-CFT, -MCF). In conclusions, our data demonstrates thromboelastographic signs of hypercoagulability in patients with solid tumors. ROTEM is able to identify the contribution of fibrinogen and platelets to clot strength in this patient population."}
{"id": "19016728", "title": "Whole blood coagulation in children with thrombocytopenia and the response to platelet replacement, recombinant factor VIIa, and a potent factor VIIa analogue.", "content": "Whole blood coagulation in children with thrombocytopenia and the response to platelet replacement, recombinant factor VIIa, and a potent factor VIIa analogue. The present study evaluated dynamic coagulation profiles, platelet aggregation, and thrombin generation in whole blood (WB) from eight children with thrombocytopenia during chemotherapy, and the haemostatic potential of platelets (+60 x 10(9)/l), recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa - NovoSeven), and a potent rFVIIa analogue (NN1731) both at 1 and 4 microg/ml. Dynamic WB coagulation profiles were recorded by thrombelastometry employing activation with tissue factor (TF - Innovin) at low concentrations. The baseline WB coagulation patterns were characterised by a prolonged clotting time (CT) and a pronounced reduction in clot propagation (MaxVel). WB platelet aggregation signal was five times lower in the study group compared with measurements in modelled thrombocytopenic WB from healthy volunteers. In vitro addition of fresh platelets reversed the coagulopathy. Addition of rFVIIa induced no significant changes in the thrombelastographic profile, whereas spiking with NN1731 shortened the CT significantly. The changes in WB thrombin generation reflected the changes in the MaxVel. In modeled thrombocytopenic WB from healthy individuals, both rFVIIa and NN1731 exhibited a pronounced haemostatic effect with NN1731 showing greater potency than rFVIIa. Compromised platelet function in the study group was assumingly responsible for the weakened haemostatic potential of rFVIIa as well as that of NN1731."}
{"id": "19012951", "title": "Calibrated automated thrombin generation and modified thromboelastometry in haemophilia A.", "content": "Calibrated automated thrombin generation and modified thromboelastometry in haemophilia A. Global coagulation tests may have a better relation with phenotype in haemophilia than traditional coagulation tests. These include the Calibrated Automated Thrombin generation assay (CAT) and modified thromboelastometry using low tissue factor triggering. Both have shown marked variability in thrombin generation and clot formation profiles respectively despite similar FVIII:C levels and have been suggested as means to monitor treatment. Data with modified thromboelastometry are largely limited to severe and moderate haemophiliacs. CAT measurements in haemophilia are generally performed at low TF concentrations (1 pM) because of a higher sensitivity for the intrinsic pathway at this concentration but is also sensitive for FVIII at higher concentrations (5 pM) and this has the advantage that inhibition of contact factor activation can be avoided. No formal comparison of both TF concentrations has been reported and the data on modified thromboelastometry in mild haemophilia are limited. In this study we compared thrombin generation at 1 and 5 pM in 57 haemophilia patients without exposure to treatment and 41 patients after treatment. We also assessed the sensitivity of thromboelastometry for haemophilia A in 29 patients. We found that CAT discriminates well between normal individuals and haemophilia patients; also FVIII:C correlates well with the ETP/peak. We found no clear advantages of measurements at 1 compared to 5 pM but found increased variation over time at 1 pM. The sensitivity of modified thromboelastometry for haemophilia A was less than CAT with abnormal measurements largely limited to severe and moderate patients. Larger studies correlating both methods with clinical outcome are required."}
{"id": "19012950", "title": "Impact of P2Y(12) inhibitory effects induced by clopidogrel on platelet procoagulant activity in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients.", "content": "Impact of P2Y(12) inhibitory effects induced by clopidogrel on platelet procoagulant activity in type 2 diabetes mellitus patients. Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) patients have a variable response profile to the P2Y(12) receptor antagonist clopidogrel. P2Y(12) receptor signalling promotes platelet procoagulant activity. The aim of this study was to determine if T2DM patients with suboptimal clopidogrel response have greater platelet procoagulant activity compared with optimal responders and evaluate if this can be modulated by enhancing P2Y(12) receptor inhibition. A total of 50 T2DM patients in a steady state phase of clopidogrel therapy were studied. Suboptimal responders were randomly assigned to standard (75 mg) or high (150 mg) clopidogrel maintenance therapy for one-month. Afterwards, all patients resumed standard therapy. Platelet procoagulant activity assessed by thrombin-induced platelet-fibrin clot formation using thrombelastography (TEG) was determined at baseline, one-month post-randomization, and one-month after resuming standard therapy. In the overall study population, the reaction time (R), a measure of time to initial thrombin induced platelet-fibrin clot formation, and the time to maximum rate of thrombin generation (TMRTG) values were 6.3+/-1.7 and 7.6+/-1.9 minutes, respectively. Suboptimal clopidogrel responders (n=30) had acceleration of R (p=0.002) and TMRTG (p=0.002) compared to optimal responders (n=20). Suboptimal clopidogrel responders treated with a 150 mg dose showed prolongation of R (p=0.0001) and TMRTG (p<0.0001), which returned to baseline values after resuming standard dosage. No differences were observed among patients randomized to 75 mg. T2DM patients with suboptimal clopidogrel response have enhanced platelet procoagulant activity compared to patients with optimal response, which can be down-regulated by more potent platelet P2Y(12) inhibition using high clopidogrel maintenance dosing."}
{"id": "18993055", "title": "Anaesthesia for caesarean delivery in a parturient following a recent cerebrovascular event.", "content": "Anaesthesia for caesarean delivery in a parturient following a recent cerebrovascular event. Ischaemic cerebrovascular events in pregnancy are uncommon. The anaesthetic management of a pregnant patient within six weeks of an ischaemic cerebrovascular event has not previously been reported. Issues raised include consent and minimising further neurological insult. Changes in regional blood flow, cerebral metabolic rate and integrity of the blood brain barrier must be considered although evidence to support regional in preference to general anaesthesia is lacking. We report the case of a woman with known systemic lupus erythematosis and antiphospholipid syndrome who developed idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura in pregnancy and suffered a thrombotic cerebral vascular accident at 32 weeks of gestation. Ten days later she required urgent caesarean delivery, which was performed under general anaesthesia. There was no deterioration in neurological function following surgery and eight days postoperatively she was transferred to a neuro-rehabilitation centre for further care. The idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura did not respond to medical therapy following delivery and a second anaesthetic was required for splenectomy four weeks later."}
{"id": "18990441", "title": "The influence of triethylene glycol derived from dental composite resins on the regulation of Streptococcus mutans gene expression.", "content": "The influence of triethylene glycol derived from dental composite resins on the regulation of Streptococcus mutans gene expression. Bacterial microleakage along the tooth/composite resin dental restoration interface contributes to post-operative sensitivity, recurrent caries, pulp inflammation and necrosis. Studies have confirmed that saliva can catalyze the degradation of constitutive monomers in dental restorative composites, forming biodegradation by-products (BBPs) such as methacrylic acid (MA), and triethylene glycol (TEG). TEG accelerates the growth of Streptococcus mutans, a major etiological agent of dental caries. Restriction fragment differential display polymerase chain reaction (RFDD-PCR) in conjunction with single strand conformation polymorphism (SSCP) was used to identify S. mutans genes with differential expression when grown in the presence of TEG at pH levels 5.5 and 7.0. Quantitative real-time PCR (q-RT PCR) was utilized to study specific gene expression patterns. TEG modulated the expression levels of glucosyltransferase B (gtfB) (involved in biofilm formation) and yfiV (a putative transcription regulator) in S. mutans. The expression patterns were dependent on the bacterial growth mode (planktonic vs. biofilm) as well as pH (5.5 vs. 7.0). The findings describe the effect of composite resin-derived BBPs on important physiological functions of S. mutans (at BBP concentration levels found in vivo), and indicate the potential influence of BBPs in biofilm formation and microbial survival on surfaces in the oral cavity."}
{"id": "18977029", "title": "In vitro chelating, cytotoxicity, and blood compatibility of degradable poly(ethylene glycol)-based macromolecular iron chelators.", "content": "In vitro chelating, cytotoxicity, and blood compatibility of degradable poly(ethylene glycol)-based macromolecular iron chelators. Desferrioxamine (DFO) is used to treat an excess accumulation of iron in the body and is currently the most commonly used iron chelator for the treatment of 'iron overload' disorder. However, the disadvantages of DFO surround its high toxicity and very short plasma half-life. Here, the detailed in vitro evaluation of a novel class of high molecular weight iron chelators based on DFO and polyethylene glycol methacrylate is reported. Reversible addition fragment chain transfer (RAFT) copolymerization afforded polymer conjugates (P-DFO) with well-controlled molecular weight (27-127 kDa) and substitution of DFO (5-26 units per chain) along the copolymer. Human umbilical vein endothelial cell (HUVEC) based cell viability assays showed that the cytotoxicity of P-DFO decreased more than 100-fold at identical concentrations of DFO. The hemocompatibilities of various P-DFO samples were determined by measuring prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), thrombelastograph parameters (TEG), complement activation, platelet activation, and red blood cell aggregation. Furthermore, the iron binding properties and chelating efficiency of P-DFO were compared to DFO by measuring the spectral properties upon binding to iron(III), while the prevention of iron(III) mediated oxidation of hemoglobin was also determined. Degradation of the P-DFO conjugates via cleavable ester linkages between the polymer backbone and the PEG side chains was evaluated using gel permeation chromatography (GPC) and NMR. Since the chelating ability of DFO remains intact after conjugation to the copolymer backbone, these macromolecular, blood compatible and degradable conjugates are promising candidates as long circulating, non-toxic iron chelators."}
{"id": "18948035", "title": "RapidTEG observation suggests activation of factor VII may overcome argatroban-induced coagulopathy.", "content": "RapidTEG observation suggests activation of factor VII may overcome argatroban-induced coagulopathy."}
{"id": "18930953", "title": "Potential role of thrombelastography in the monitoring of acquired factor VIII inhibitor hemophilia A: report on a 78-year-old woman with life-threatening bleedings.", "content": "Potential role of thrombelastography in the monitoring of acquired factor VIII inhibitor hemophilia A: report on a 78-year-old woman with life-threatening bleedings. A 78-year-old woman was admitted to our hospital because of syncope associated with hematomas in both legs. Acquired hemophilia A (AHA) with a low antifactor VIII antibodies activity was diagnosed. Whole blood (WB) thrombelastographic profile depicted a hypocoagulable state. During hospitalization, the patient experienced life-threatening bleedings in the neck and in the right thigh. FVIII concentrates and rFVIIa was safe and effective in controlling acute hemorrhagic symptoms. Immunosuppressive therapy was used successfully to eradicate the inhibitor. At discharge, FVIII inhibitor was absent and thrombelastogram showed a normal profile. Our report confirms that AHA is a heterogeneous condition in terms of risk of bleeding. Even though the criteria for the diagnosis of AHA is quite well defined, a laboratory test useful to predict the bleeding risk and monitor the response to treatment is lacking. ROTEM profile appears to be correlated with the response to treatment and with the eradication of the inhibitor."}
{"id": "18834828", "title": "Methemoglobin effects on coagulation: a dose-response study with HBOC-200 (Oxyglobin) in a thrombelastogram model.", "content": "Methemoglobin effects on coagulation: a dose-response study with HBOC-200 (Oxyglobin) in a thrombelastogram model. Because oxidation affects platelet and coagulation factors, hemoglobin auto-oxidation in HBOCs results in the transformation to methemoglobin, which may have additive adverse effects on coagulation. The risk of coagulopathy after different dilutions of HBOC-200 with low and high methemoglobin concentrations was studied. A laboratory study on donor blood using thromboelastography (TEG; Haemoscope, Niles, IL). A university laboratory. Volunteer donor blood. Blood samples simulated hemodilution during clinical resuscitation of hemorrhagic shock with varying doses of HBOC-200 (Oxyglobin; Biopure Corp, Cambridge, MA). Coagulopathy related to 1:11, 1:5, 1:2, and 1:1 dilution of whole blood with HBOC-200 high methemoglobin concentrations (65%) and HBOC-200 low methemoglobin concentrations (1%) were analyzed. Analysis of fixed effects of dilution on coagulation showed that the progressive dilution of HBOC-200 (low methemoglobin) and HBOC-200 (high methemoglobin) produced significant prolongation in reaction time (R) and clot propagation (K) and significant decreases in clot kinetics (alpha) and clot strength (MA and G). Analysis of fixed effects of treatment group on coagulation showed that clot propagation (K, alpha) and clot strength (MA and G) are significantly different in HBOC-200 (high methemoglobin) compared with HBOC-200 (low methemoglobin). High methemoglobin concentrations in HBOC-200 cause additive coagulation impairment that likely results from the effects of oxidative substances on platelet function and coagulation proteins. Oxidative products adversely react with coagulation factors and modify redox-sensitive sites in the platelets. Therefore, if methemoglobinemia occurs as a result of HBOC administration and if the levels are significantly elevated (greater than 10%), impairment of coagulation is possible."}
{"id": "18797172", "title": "Collagen/endogenous thrombin-induced platelet aggregation in cord versus adult whole blood.", "content": "Collagen/endogenous thrombin-induced platelet aggregation in cord versus adult whole blood. In previous studies, neonatal platelets have been shown to be hypoaggregable to various agonists when compared with adult platelets. It was the aim of this study to investigate the aggregability of neonatal versus adult platelets when the physiological relevant agonist collagen/endogenous thrombin is used. Whole blood (WB) aggregation experiments employing the impedance method revealed the same responsiveness of neonatal and adult platelets to collagen/endogenous thrombin. Maximum aggregation (13.5 +/- 3.2 vs. 13.6 +/- 3.2 Omega; p = 0.94), slope (5.8 +/- 1.8 vs. 6.2 +/- 2.6 Omega/min; p = 0.79) and lag time until the onset of platelet aggregation (38.7 +/- 8.9 vs. 42.6 +/- 16.5 s; p = 0.59) were similar in cord and adult WB. However, the rise in serotonin plasma levels due to platelet activation was significantly lower in neonates versus adults (227.57 +/- 57.65 vs. 473.34 +/- 155.75 ng/ml; p = 0.0001). Furthermore, we found a fast capability of cord plasma to generate (the efficient platelet agonist) endogenous thrombin: thrombin generation started significantly earlier in cord compared with adult plasma (215 +/- 19 vs. 247 +/- 21 s; p = 0.01). Moreover, thrombelastometry revealed significantly shorter coagulation times in cord versus adult WB activated with collagen/endogenous thrombin (229.8 +/- 12.5 vs. 256.3 +/- 25.3 s; p = 0.003). The efficient platelet aggregation in cord WB provoked by collagen/endogenous thrombin might help to explain the clinically observed well-functioning primary hemostasis of neonates."}
{"id": "18777584", "title": "Experimental optimization of an in situ forming hydrogel for hemorrhage control.", "content": "Experimental optimization of an in situ forming hydrogel for hemorrhage control. The fabrication of a novel in situ forming hydrogel composed of a multifunctional poly(ethylene glycol) (PEG) N-hydroxysuccinimide ester (NHS) and poly(allylamine hydrochloride) (PAA) was investigated. FTIR confirmed that PAA formed the hydrogel matrix (i.e., the formation of a PAA-like hydrogel). A factorial experiment was conducted to identify the key parameters that controlled gelation time, gel content, and swelling properties. The type of PEG (e.g., 4- and 6-arm) appeared to play a major role in determining all three performance parameters, with the greatest effect on gelation time. Other influencing factors include (a) the PEG concentration, which contributes to the gelation time and gel content; (b) pH of the buffer used for dissolving each polymer, which can affect the gelation time; and (c) PAA molecular weights, which contribute to the gel content and swelling. The concentration of PAA solution had no significant effects on hydrogel formation and properties within the investigated range, presumably due to negligible changes in the crosslinking density of the hydrogels. The PAA buffer pH influenced the gel content as well. Finally, thromboelastography was used to examine the effects of each polymer and their in situ gelation on blood coagulation in vitro. All individual polymers tested reduced clot strength, while the gelation of the polymers enhanced overall procoagulant effects. These results suggest that the biomaterial can be optimized to provide a combination of rapid gelation and swelling properties suitable for hemorrhage control and thus warrant further studies in animal bleeding models."}
{"id": "18773874", "title": "Perioperative thromboelastography analysis during suction-assisted lipectomy: a prospective cohort study.", "content": "Perioperative thromboelastography analysis during suction-assisted lipectomy: a prospective cohort study. The purpose of this study was to prospectively investigate coagulation during suction-assisted lipoplasty (SAL) and to compare it to other plastic surgery where no SAL was used, with the aid of a computerised thromboelastograph coagulation analyser (TEG). A prospective cohort study enrolled 50 pure SAL patients and 50 patients presenting for other aesthetic plastic surgery operations, without the need of liposuction. TEG evaluates in real time the competency of the blood clot in samples that are studied under a low shear environment resembling venous flow. Six thromboelastographic measurements were performed in each patient: one preoperative, two intraoperative at the middle and end of the surgery and three postoperative at 60, 90 minutes and 24 hours. All the patients also had standard pre- and postoperative coagulation studies. R (time of clot to form) and K (time or speed the clot takes to be firm) were shorter in the SAL group vs control (P<0.001). Angle (growth and stranding process of fibrin) and MA (dynamic properties of the platelets and the final strength and elasticity of the fibrin clot) were greater in SAL vs control (P<0.001). None of the cases had pre- or postoperative coagulation study abnormalities. TEG analysis demonstrates that SAL patients have decreased initial clotting time, decreased time to full clot formation, increased pro-coagulability state, and increased clot rigidity. The clot lysis time was not different between the studied groups."}
{"id": "18696068", "title": "Citrate artificially masks the haemostatic effect of recombinant factor VIIa in dilutional coagulopathy.", "content": "Citrate artificially masks the haemostatic effect of recombinant factor VIIa in dilutional coagulopathy. Most often, thrombelastographic analyses are carried out using citrated blood and re-calcification. However, calcium chelation may affect dynamics of tissue-factor-initiated thrombin generation. The present study investigates the effect of sample anticoagulant on the response of a colloid induced dilutional coagulopathy model to recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) as measured by thrombelastography. Thrombelastographic evaluation of whole blood coagulation activated with minute amounts of tissue factor in a model of in vitro haemodilution with hydroxyethyl starch (HES) 130/0.4 in a prospective laboratory study. Whole blood coagulation was evaluated before and after 30% dilution with HES 130/0.4, and following in vitro addition of rFVIIa to whole blood collected into tubes containing citrate, corn trypsin inhibitor (CTI), and no stabilizers. Haemodilution with HES 130/0.4 induces a coagulopathy characterised by a reduced maximum rate of clot formation and a pronounced reduction in the final clot firmness. With all test mediums investigated, rFVIIa significantly shortened clot initiation phase. In cases of native whole blood and CTI-stabilised whole blood, rFVIIa shortens the clotting time but also demonstrated an acceleration of the maximum velocity of clot formation. When citrate is used as anticoagulants in thrombelastographic clotting assays, these may artificially mask the haemostatic effect of rFVIIa in colloid haemodilution. The effect in vitro of rFVIIa in citrated blood samples may underestimate the haemostatic potential of rFVIIa."}
{"id": "18608742", "title": "The strand transfer oligonucleotide inhibitors of HIV-integrase.", "content": "The strand transfer oligonucleotide inhibitors of HIV-integrase. Retroviral integrase participates in two catalytic reactions, which require interactions with the two ends of the viral DNA in the 3'processing reaction, and with a targeted host DNA in the strand transfer reaction. The 3'-hydroxyl group of 2'-deoxyadenosine resulting from the specific removing of GT dinucleotide from the viral DNA in the processing reaction provides the attachment site for the host DNA in a transesterification reaction. We synthesized oligonucleotides (ONs) of various lengths that mimic the processed HIV-1 U5 terminus of the proviral long terminal repeat (LTR) and are ended by 2'-deoxyadenosine containing a 3'-O-phosphonomethyl group. The duplex stability of phosphonomethyl ONs was increased by covalent linkage of the modified strand with its complementary strand by a triethylene glycol loop (TEG). Modified ONs containing up to 10 bases inhibited in vitro the strand transfer reaction catalyzed by HIV-1 integrase at nanomolar concentrations."}
{"id": "18497710", "title": "Reproducibility of an animal model simulating complex combat-related injury in a multiple-institution format.", "content": "Reproducibility of an animal model simulating complex combat-related injury in a multiple-institution format. We developed a complex combat-relevant model of abdominal and extremity trauma, hemorrhagic shock, hypothermia, and acidosis. We then simulated injury, preoperative, and operative phases. We hypothesized that this model is reproducible and useful for randomized multicenter preclinical trials. Yorkshire swine were anesthetized, intubated, and instrumented. They then underwent femur fracture, 60% total blood volume hemorrhage, a 30-min shock period, induced hypothermia to 33 degrees C, and hemorrhage volume replacement with 3:1 isotonic sodium chloride solution (NS) at each of three centers. Hemodynamic parameters were measured continuously. Thromboelastography, arterial blood gas, and laboratory values were collected at baseline, after the shock period, and after NS replacement. Thirty-seven animals were used for model development. Eight (21%) died before completion of the study period. Twenty-nine survivors were included in the analysis. MAP (+/-SEM) after the shock period was 32 +/- 2 mmHg and was similar between centers (P = 0.4). Mean pH, base deficit, and lactate levels were 7.29 +/- 0.02, 8.20 +/- 0.65 mmol/L, and 5.29 +/- 0.44 mmol/L, respectively, after NS replacement. These were similar between centers (P > 0.05). Prothrombin time values increased significantly over time at all centers, reflecting a progressive coagulopathy (P < 0.02). Thromboelastography maximum amplitude values were similar among centers (P > 0.05) and demonstrated progressively weakened platelet interaction over time (P < 0.03). Hematocrit was similar after controlled hemorrhage (P = 0.15) and dilution (P = 0.9). The pH, lactate, base deficit, and coagulation tests reflect a severely injured state. A complex porcine model of polytrauma and shock can be used for multi-institutional study with excellent reproducibility. A consistent severe injury profile was achieved, after which experimental interventions can be applied. This is the first report of a reproducible multicenter trauma and resuscitation-related animal model."}
{"id": "18314895", "title": "Composite resin degradation products from BisGMA monomer modulate the expression of genes associated with biofilm formation and other virulence factors in Streptococcus mutans.", "content": "Composite resin degradation products from BisGMA monomer modulate the expression of genes associated with biofilm formation and other virulence factors in Streptococcus mutans. Bacterial microleakage along the tooth/composite resin dental restoration interface contributes to postoperative sensitivity, recurrent caries, and necrosis. Studies have confirmed that enzymes in human saliva degrade composite resin monomers 2,2-bis [4-(2-hydroxy-3-methacryloxypropoxy) phenyl] propane (BisGMA) and triethylene glycol dimethacrylate (TEGDMA) to release methacrylic acid (MA), bishydroxypropoxyphenyl propane (Bis-HPPP), and triethylene glycol (TEG) at levels of 50 microM in vivo. Studies have found that TEGDMA degradation products alter the growth and gene expression of cariogenic Streptococcus mutans. Specifically, TEG was shown to alter S. mutans gene expression levels of gtfB, a known virulence factor, and yfiV, a putative transcriptional regulator of cell-surface fatty acid genes. The objective of this study was to examine the effect of BisGMA degradation products on the growth and gene expression of S. mutans NG8 cells. Results demonstrated slight inhibition of bacterial growth at Bis-HPPP concentrations of 1.0 x 10(2) and 2.5 x 10(2) microM at pH 5.5. Furthermore, both MA and Bis-HPPP affected gtfB and yfiV expression in a concentration-dependent manner. Because BisGMA is universally used across most dental restorative materials, with millions of placement procedures performed annually, these findings are relevant due to the potential influence of resin monomer-derived biodegradation products on biofilm formation, acid tolerance, and proliferation of S. mutans cells."}
{"id": "19845078", "title": "Cryopreserving and deglycerolizing sickle cell trait red blood cell components using an automated cell-processing system.", "content": "Cryopreserving and deglycerolizing sickle cell trait red blood cell components using an automated cell-processing system. RBC components with rare phenotypes are sometimes required for patients with sickle cell disease, and these rare components can often be found among donors with sickle cell trait. Cryopreserving RBC components from sickle cell trait donors requires a modified deglycerolization method to preserve the integrity of the RBCs. This study evaluated the feasibility of using an automated cell-processing system to cryopreserve and deglycerolize sickle cell trait donor RBC components. CP2D/AS-3 RBC components were collected from three donors with sickle cell trait. Each component was processed with an automated cell-processing system (ACP 215, Haemonetics Corp., Braintree, MA) and cryopreserved within 6 days of collection. The components were stored at -65 degrees C or less for at least 2 days and were deglycerolized using the automated cell-processing system's standard procedure. Before cryopreservation and after deglycerolization, several variables were measured. Deglycerolization resulted in recovery of 43.0, 76.5, and 67.5 percent of RBCs from the three sickle-cell-trait donor components compared with 80 percent or greater for all six control components. A small, dark red, jelly-like mass was noted in the bowl of the disposable set after deglycerolization of each of the three RBC sickle cell trait components. The osmolalities of all three sickle cell trait components were less than 400 mOsm/kg, but only one of the three was acceptable for a 14-day outdate. Freezing and deglycerolization of sickle cell trait donor RBC components with the automated cell-processing system resulted in recovery of some RBCs, but a decrease in RBC recovery was problematic. Modifications of the procedure are needed for processing sickle cell trait donor RBC components."}
{"id": "19378528", "title": "Effects of pudendal nerve, epidural and subarachnoid block on coagulation of pregnant women.", "content": "Effects of pudendal nerve, epidural and subarachnoid block on coagulation of pregnant women. The significant reduction in postoperative thromboembolic complications has been attributed to the use of regional block, probably due to attenuation of the neuroendocrine-metabolic response. Pregnant women, who demonstrate important hypercoagulability, can in theory benefit from this effect during labor. The objective of this study was to determine the effects of regional block on coagulation of pregnant women. Thirty patients in the 3rd trimester were enrolled; ten patients underwent epidural block for cesarean section with 150 mg of 0.5% bupivacaine without epinephrine and 2 mg of morphine (PD group); ten underwent subarachnoid block for cesarean section with 15 mg of 0.5% hyperbaric bupivacaine and 0.2 mg of morphine (SA group); and ten, pudendal block for vaginal delivery with up to 100 mg of 0.5% bupivacaine without epinephrine (BP group). Coagulation tests (prothrombin time, thrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time) and thromboelastography (r-time, k-time, r+k-time, alpha-angle, maximum amplitude) were performed in the following moments: before and after the blockade, after delivery, and 24 hours after the blockade in PD and SA groups. In the BP group, the evaluation was done before the blockade, after delivery, and 24 hours after the blockade. The results indicate that the anesthetic technique did not influence coagulation of pregnant women. They also demonstrate that coagulation is activated during labor, which is responsible for the changes seen in all the study groups. In the conditions of the present study, the sympathetic blockade and the local anesthetic did not have any influence on the coagulation of pregnant women at term undergoing epidural, subarachnoid, or pudendal nerve block."}
{"id": "19241825", "title": "[Effects of the parameters of washing in Haemonetics Cell Saver 5 on the quality of the obtained erythrocyte mass at different rates of centrifuge rotation].", "content": "[Effects of the parameters of washing in Haemonetics Cell Saver 5 on the quality of the obtained erythrocyte mass at different rates of centrifuge rotation]. The aim of the investigation was to study effectiveness of washing autoblood by Cell Saver 5 (Haemonetics ) device in using different rates of washing and centrifuging. Autoblood was washed with 1000 ml 0.9% NaCl with different rates (500, 800 and 1000 ml/min) at different rates of centrifuge (5650 r/min and 4350 r/min). It was shown that Haemonetics Cell Saver 5 secured the optimum composition of the end product when using high rates of washing (800 and 1000 ml/min) and standard rate of the centrifuge rotation (5650 r/min)."}
{"id": "19192757", "title": "Long-term extracorporeal circulation management: the role of low- and high-range heparin ACT tests.", "content": "Long-term extracorporeal circulation management: the role of low- and high-range heparin ACT tests. Modern management of extracorporeal circulation, especially during long-term support of post-cardiac surgical patients, remains challenging and requires optimal care of the patient's fluid balance and coagulation hemostasis for its successful outcome. The activated clotting time assay is one of the tests used to manage extracorporeal circulation and is available in a low- and high-range level. The question of which assay is more appropriate for procedures that require low to moderate heparin dosing is still unclear. We report our experience with a neonate diagnosed with hypoplastic left heart syndrome who needed emergent extracorporeal membrane oxygenation support for 13 days after Norwood stage I palliation using a Sano shunt. Although successful, bleeding complications prompted us to review our strategy for management of coagulation hemostasis."}
{"id": "19192750", "title": "Effects of modified ultrafiltration on coagulation as measured by the thromboelastograph.", "content": "Effects of modified ultrafiltration on coagulation as measured by the thromboelastograph. Hemodilution during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) continues to be a cause of morbidity associated with coagulation dysfunction, bleeding, and allogeneic blood transfusion. Clot formation and strength have been shown to impact bleeding and transfusions. Strategies to reduce hemodilution may be negated based on the course of the cardiac procedure itself. Modified ultrafiltration (MUF) is commonly used in pediatric cardiac surgery; however, it is not well accepted in adult surgery. This study aimed to evaluate clot formation and strength, bleeding, and transfusions in adult subjects undergoing MUF. Nineteen subjects having primary coronary artery bypass, aortic, or mitral valve surgeries were recruited and randomized to having MUF (n = 10) or no-MUF (n = 9) performed after the termination of CPB. Five time points for data collection were designated: T1, baseline/induction; T2, termination CPB; T3, post-MUF; T4, post-protamine; T5, 24 hours postoperative. Subjects randomized to MUF had 1505 +/- 15.8 mL of effluent removed, and no-MUF subjects had the CPB remnants processed with a cell salvage device. There was no statistical difference seen in 24-hour chest tube output, thromboelastograph values, or allogeneic transfusions at any time point between MUF and no-MUF subjects. There was a significant difference between MUF and no-MUF in the number of autologous cell salvage units processed (1.3 +/- .48 vs. 2.9 +/- .78, p = .0013) and end of procedure net fluid balance (+2003 +/- 1211 vs. +4194 +/- 1276 mL, p = .001), respectively. Estimated plasma loss from the cell salvage device was 477.6 mL greater in the no-MUF group. In primary adult cardiac procedures, MUF did not change coagulation values as measured by thromboelastography, number of allogeneic unit transfusions, or chest tube output at 24 hours postoperatively. There was a significant difference in autologous cell salvage units processed and end of procedure net fluid balance that benefited MUF subjects."}
{"id": "19132237", "title": "Peculiar whole blood rotation thromboelastometry (Rotem) profile in 40 sideropenic anaemia patients.", "content": "Peculiar whole blood rotation thromboelastometry (Rotem) profile in 40 sideropenic anaemia patients. The ROtation ThromboElastoMetry analyser (ROTEM, Pentapharm, Munich, Germany) is useful for studying whole blood (WB) clot formation and lysis. Reduction of haematocrit (HCT) has been reported to influence traditional thromboelastography parameters without compromising \"in vitro\" blood coagulation. We performed this case-control study to evaluate ROTEM profiles in sideropenic anaemia patients with different degrees of reduction of HCT levels. Forty consecutively referred patients with sideropenic anaemia were enrolled. A group of 40 healthy age and gender matched subjects acted as a control. The influence of HCT on ROTEM was assessed in the study population and in a model of artificially reconstituted blood with modified HCT values. Cases presented significantly increased levels of maximum clot firmness (MCF) as compared to controls (p < 0.001) mimicking a sort of \"hypercoagulable profile\". However, thrombin generation tests failed to detect an increase in thrombin generation in cases as compared to controls. A statistically significant inverse linear correlation between HCT and MCF (p < 0.0001) was found. In addition, ROTEM profiles following \"in vitro\" manipulation of HCT confirmed the inverse linear correlation between HCT and MCF found in the study population. In conclusion, the increased clot firmness found by ROTEM in anaemic patients is likely to be related to the method in itself rather than representing a marker of hypercoagulability \"in vivo\". Since ROTEM is widely used by anaesthesiologists when deciding the optimisation of products supplementation during surgery, attention should be paid in the case of anaemic patients taking depending on the peculiar thrombo-elastography profile found."}
{"id": "19121184", "title": "The characterization and impact of microparticles on haemostasis within fresh-frozen plasma.", "content": "The characterization and impact of microparticles on haemostasis within fresh-frozen plasma. We have previously demonstrated that clot formation in fresh-frozen plasma (FFP) is influenced by the presence of microparticles (MP). In this study, the cellular source(s), properties and influence of MPs on clot formation within FFP were further characterized. Fresh-frozen plasma was prepared after an overnight hold of whole blood at 4 degrees C. We examined the effect of a 0.2 microm filtration device designed to remove cellular MPs on thrombin generation test (TGT) and Thrombelastography (TEG(R)) as well as clotting factors and physiological inhibitors: prothrombin time (PT); activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), fibrinogen (Fg), factor VIII (FVIII), von Willebrand factor antigen (VWF:Ag), antithrombin III (AT-III) and protein C (PC). MPs were measured using a functional assay and also by flow cytometry. Microparticle levels by functional assay were reduced by filtration (pre- 5.11 vs. post- 4.43 nmol/l phosphatidylserine equivalent, P < 0.0001). Flow cytometry showed that the most numerous MPs were derived from red blood cells, with ~87% binding annexin V, most of which (94%) were removed by filtration. MP removal had minimal effect on the PT, APTT, Fg, VWF:Ag, AT-III or PC or FVIII, but a major effect on TGT (endogenous thrombin potential: pre- 1722 vs. post- 990 nM thrombin, P < 0.0001; peak thrombin: pre- 91 vs. post- 44 nM thrombin, P < 0.0001), which in turn reflected the changes seen in TEG(R), where post-filtration clots started forming more slowly and the rate of clot formation was reduced. These data suggest that MPs contribute towards clot formation in FFP."}
{"id": "19095614", "title": "Ex vivo coagulation test on tissue factor-expressing cells with a calibrated automated thrombogram.", "content": "Ex vivo coagulation test on tissue factor-expressing cells with a calibrated automated thrombogram. A calibrated automated thrombogram is not affected by the turbidity of platelet and cell preparations because the measurement is based on fluorescence. To examine conditions that mimic the physiological state, we investigated thrombograms that show thrombin generation on tissue factor (TF)-bearing cells. An increase in the number of J82 cells did not affect the endogenous thrombin potential (ETP) of normal plasma, although the lag time (LT), the peak height, and the time to peak (ttPeak) did depend on cell concentration. When 5 parameters of coagulation factor-deficient plasmas were plotted on a radar graph, the thrombogram pattern of factor XI (FXI)-deficient plasma became slightly reduced. The thrombogram did not improve when washed normal platelets or washed normal platelets with adenosine diphosphate (ADP) were added. FVII-depleted plasma, FVIII-deficient plasma, and FIX-deficient plasma showed remarkably reduced peak heights, ttPeaks, and times to the end of thrombin generation (start tails). The thrombogram of FVII-depleted plasma was characterized by a remarkably prolonged LT, unlike the patterns of FVIII- or FIX-deficient plasma and FXI-depleted plasma. The ETP of FVIII- and FIX-deficient plasma, but not FVII-depleted plasma, improved significantly upon addition of washed normal platelets or washed normal platelets with ADP. The thrombograms of coagulation factor-deficient plasma containing TF-bearing cells differed from those for recombinant TF and phospholipid in the liquid phase. We suggest that thrombograms using TF-bearing cells can be a useful ex vivo test, because this experimental model may be analogous to most coagulation processes in vivo."}
{"id": "19085759", "title": "The history of phenotypic testing in thrombosis and hemostasis.", "content": "The history of phenotypic testing in thrombosis and hemostasis. This article takes the reader through a journey of the history of the phenotypic tests for hemostasis and thrombosis starting from the most simple (which were based on the visual inspection and recording of the time needed for native whole blood to clot) to the more complex ones based on the addition to plasma of exogenous substances, use of sophisticated coagulometers or synthetic substrates, and use of computer software to record coagulation times or visualize coagulation tracings and thrombin generation curves. One can see how the simple tests evolved over the years and how such old and time-honored tests as thrombin generation and thromboelastography, devised more than 50 years ago and neglected for many years, are now gaining momentum thanks to the progress made by the technology combined with a better understanding of the coagulation mechanisms. This progress notwithstanding, it should be realized that current tests are still somewhat far from being adequate to investigate hemostasis and thrombosis. The challenge in the future will be to devise newer tests mimicking more closely what occurs in vivo."}
{"id": "19032319", "title": "The effect of line flush heparin contamination on thromboelastograph trace analysis.", "content": "The effect of line flush heparin contamination on thromboelastograph trace analysis."}
{"id": "19002046", "title": "Argatroban enhances fibrinolysis by differential inhibition of thrombin-mediated activation of thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor and factor XIII.", "content": "Argatroban enhances fibrinolysis by differential inhibition of thrombin-mediated activation of thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor and factor XIII. Direct thrombin inhibitors enhance fibrinolysis more efficiently than heparin. Direct thrombin inhibitors and heparin enhance fibrinolysis by inhibition of activation of thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI); however, the role played by other thrombin-activated proteins [e.g., factor XIII (FXIII)] in fibrinolysis remained to be elucidated. Our goal was thus to define the roles of TAFI and FXIII in direct thrombin inhibitor-mediated fibrinolysis enhancement. Plasma was exposed to argatroban or heparin, with coagulation initiated with kaolin/tissue factor and fibrinolysis initiated with tissue plasminogen activator. Additional experiments utilized TAFI and FXIII-deficient plasmas. Coagulation/fibrinolysis kinetics were monitored with thrombelastography. Argatroban (1.25, 2.5 microg/ml) significantly decreased clot lysis time and increased the maximum rate of lysis compared with unexposed plasma, whereas heparin exposure only diminished clot lysis time. When changes in maximum rate of lysis were related to changes in the maximum rate of thrombus generation, argatroban was associated with a greater increase in maximum rate of lysis per decrease in maximum rate of thrombus generation compared with heparin. Experiments with TAFI-deficient and FXIII-deficient plasma demonstrated a sparing of thrombin-mediated FXIII activation with concurrent inhibition of TAFI activation. The mechanism by which argatroban more efficiently enhanced fibrinolysis was via a differential inhibition of thrombin-mediated activation of TAFI and FXIII."}
{"id": "19002044", "title": "Rotational thromboelastography for monitoring of fibrinogen concentrate therapy in fibrinogen deficiency.", "content": "Rotational thromboelastography for monitoring of fibrinogen concentrate therapy in fibrinogen deficiency. To characterize a functional assay for circulating fibrinogen based on rotational thrombelastography. Maximum clot firmness was determined by rotational thrombelastography in normal human plasma pool, fibrinogen-deficient plasma pool, normal whole blood, and individual plasma samples from 17 patients with fibrinogen deficiency. Plasma samples spiked with varying concentrations of exogenous fibrinogen were also measured. Results were compared with enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and Clauss assay. The impact of sample freezing and filtration and use of cytochalasin D were also investigated. Over the tested range of 0-3 mg/ml added exogenous fibrinogen, the maximum clot firmness standard curve for determination of fibrinogen in plasma pools (n = 7) was linear (r2 = 0.97). Maximum clot firmness was highly linearly correlated both with Clauss assay (r2 = 0.93) and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (r2 = 0.95). In unspiked plasma samples from individual patients with fibrinogen deficiency, fibrinogen was undetectable by rotational thromboelastography. By all evaluated methods, the response to spiking with fibrinogen in such samples coincided closely in patients with afibrinogenemia and hypofibrinogenemia. In dysfibrinogenemia, smaller Clauss assay responses to spiking were observed, whereas the enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay response was variable. Maximum clot firmness was the only evaluated method of fibrinogen assessment to yield consistent results across all categories of fibrinogen deficiency. These in-vitro results suggest the potential clinical utility of rotational thromboelastography as a versatile method for monitoring the response to fibrinogen concentrate among patients with fibrinogen deficiency. Clinical investigations using rotational thromboelastography after in-vivo fibrinogen administration to patients with congenital fibrinogen deficiency are warranted."}
{"id": "18983514", "title": "Aspirin 'resistance': role of pre-existent platelet reactivity and correlation between tests.", "content": "Aspirin 'resistance': role of pre-existent platelet reactivity and correlation between tests. Aspirin 'resistance' is a widely used term for hyporesponsiveness to aspirin in a platelet function test. Serum thromboxane (TX) B(2) is the most specific test of aspirin's effect on platelets. (i) To examine the role of pre-existent platelet hyperreactivity in aspirin 'resistance'. (ii) To determine the correlation between aspirin resistance defined by serum TXB(2) and other assays of platelet function. To enable pre-aspirin samples to be drawn, platelet function was measured in normal subjects (n = 165) before and after aspirin 81 mg daily for seven days. The proportion of the post-aspirin platelet function predicted by the pre-aspirin platelet function was 28.3 +/- 7.5% (mean +/- asymptotic standard error) for serum TXB(2), 39.3 +/- 6.8% for urinary 11-dehydro TXB(2), 4.4 +/- 7.7% for arachidonic acid-induced platelet aggregation, 40.4 +/- 7.1% for adenosine diphosphate-induced platelet aggregation, 26.3 +/- 9.2% for the VerifyNow Aspirin Assay, and 45.0 +/- 10.9% for the TEG PlateletMapping System with arachidonic acid. There was poor agreement between aspirin-resistant subjects identified by serum TXB(2) vs. aspirin-resistant subjects identified by the other five assays, irrespective of whether the analysis was based on categorical or continuous variables. Platelet count correlated with pre-aspirin serum TXB(2) and VerifyNow Aspirin Assay, but not with any post-aspirin platelet function test. (i) Aspirin 'resistance' (i.e. hyporesponsiveness to aspirin in a laboratory test) is in part unrelated to aspirin but is the result of underlying platelet hyperreactivity prior to the institution of aspirin therapy. (ii) Aspirin resistance defined by serum TXB(2) shows a poor correlation with aspirin resistance defined by other commonly used assays."}
{"id": "18957002", "title": "Successful use and dosing of bivalirudin after temporary total artificial heart implantation: a case series.", "content": "Successful use and dosing of bivalirudin after temporary total artificial heart implantation: a case series. The temporary total artificial heart (TAH-t) has emerged as an effective bridge to transplantation for individuals with biventricular failure. Implantation of a TAH-t creates a hypercoagulable state requiring a multidrug approach that includes low-dose unfractionated heparin (UFH) in order to minimize thromboembolism. A concern with UFH is the development of heparin-dependent antibodies, which develop in up to 50% of patients receiving the drug as part of cardiopulmonary bypass. If UFH therapy continues postoperatively, the risk of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia approaches 3%. Small investigations have demonstrated that bivalirudin, given as a bolus of 0.75-1 mg/kg followed by an infusion at 1.75-2.5 mg/kg/hour, is an effective alternative to UFH for therapeutic anticoagulation during coronary artery bypass surgery, valve replacement, or both. We describe a series of five adults (age range 24-58 yrs) who received bivalirudin as an alternative to low-dose UFH after TAH-t implantation. None of the patients had documented heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Treatment was started at the discretion of the treating physician, and adjustments were based principally on the results of thromboelastography. Additional general monitoring included activated partial thromboplastin time, prothrombin time, international normalized ratio, fibrinogen, D-dimer, platelet count, hemoglobin, hematocrit, and platelet aggregation studies. Bivalirudin therapy was continued until successful warfarin implementation. All five patients received bivalirudin in addition to standard antithrombotic therapy. Bivalirudin treatment started at a dosage of 0.005 or 0.01 mg/kg/hour with titration to maintain normocoagulability, which occurred (without concomitant warfarin therapy) within the dosage range of 0.01-0.02 mg/kg/hour. Duration of TAH-t implantation was a mean of 38.8 days (range 25-60 days), and bivalirudin was continued for a mean of 15.2 days (range 7-24 days). No major hemorrhagic events occurred during treatment, and all patients successfully transitioned to warfarin therapy. Low-dose bivalirudin, as an alternative to UFH, maintained normocoagulability after TAH-t implantation. Further investigation is warranted to define the role and dosing of bivalirudin in this situation."}
{"id": "18956284", "title": "Point of care coagulation tests in critically ill patients.", "content": "Point of care coagulation tests in critically ill patients. Point of care assays for various analytes have been established in critical care, including blood gas analysis, glucose, electrolytes, and markers for cardiac ischemia. Coagulation assays can also be adapted to the critical care environment by using whole blood as sample material and instruments optimized for point of care analysis. Available assays include the conventional coagulation assays, such as prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time, fibrinogen, assays for monitoring of anticoagulant drugs, global coagulation assays based on thrombelastography and viscosimetry, platelet function assays, and D-dimer assays. The main problem in point of care coagulation diagnostics is quality control. Point of care coagulation assays help in rapidly establishing a diagnosis, clarifying causes of bleeding, and monitoring therapy. Thrombelastography and similar assays extend the scope of coagulation diagnostics by visualizing the process of clot formation and extending the observation period to provide an estimate of clot stability versus mechanical and proteolytic attack."}
{"id": "18950467", "title": "Differential clot stabilising effects of rFVIIa and rFXIII-A2 in whole blood from thrombocytopenic patients and healthy volunteers.", "content": "Differential clot stabilising effects of rFVIIa and rFXIII-A2 in whole blood from thrombocytopenic patients and healthy volunteers. The haemostatic effect of recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa;NovoSeven) in thrombocytopenic patients has been a matter of controversy. Haemostasis by rFVIIa occurs via FVIIa-mediated thrombin generation in a platelet-dependent manner and may therefore be suboptimal in patients without functional platelets. Under such conditions, a clot-stabilizing agent, such as factor XIII (FXIII), may supplement the effect ofrFVIIa and improve haemostasis. Recombinant factor XIII (rFXIII-A2) is produced as an A2 homodimer of the FXIII A subunit and is equivalent to cellular FXIII normally found in platelets. The combined effects of rFVIIa andrFXIII-A2 were evaluated in clot lysis assays using factor XIII-deficient plasma and by whole blood thrombelastography (TEG) analysis from normal donors and thrombocytopenic stem cell transplantation patients. Clotting time was shortened by rFVIIa (0.6-10 microg/ml). rFVIIa only modestly improved anti-fibrinolysis,whereas rFXIII-A2 (0-20 microg/ml) enhanced anti-fibrinolysis without effect on clotting time. TEG analysis showed rFVIIa shortened the clotting time, and enhanced clot development, maximal mechanical strength and resistance to fibrinolysis, whereas, rFXIII-A2 enhanced clot development,maximal mechanical strength and markedly enhanced resistance to fibrinolysis. These data illustrate that rFVIIa and rFXIII-A2 contribute to clot formation and stability by different mechanisms suggesting enhanced haemostatic efficacy by combining these agents."}
{"id": "18931200", "title": "A thromboelastometric evaluation of the effects of hypothermia on the coagulation system.", "content": "A thromboelastometric evaluation of the effects of hypothermia on the coagulation system. Hypothermia may be accidental or therapeutic. Therapeutic hypothermia is increasingly used as treatment for various conditions, e.g., neuroprotection after cardiac arrest. Hypothermia leads to an impairment of the coagulation system, but the degree of impairment has been difficult to determine. Most studies have been performed on plasma instead of whole blood. We therefore evaluated whole blood investigating the effects of hypothermia on the coagulation system over a wide range of temperatures (25-40 degrees C). Blood was drawn from six healthy volunteers into citrated test tubes. Samples were then placed in water baths with temperatures ranging from 25 to 40 degrees C for 30 min before the coagulation system was studied using rotational thromboelastometry. A contact activator (Ellagic acid) was used for initiation of coagulation. Clotting time, clot formation time, alpha angle, and maximum clot strength were measured. All tests were run for 60 min and they were performed at the same temperature as the temperature in the water bath. Coagulation was increasingly impaired with decreasing temperatures in the temperature range studied. All variables measured were significantly impaired in a stepwise pattern (P < 0.0001). Evaluation using a whole blood analysis shows that hypothermia progressively impairs the coagulation system."}
{"id": "18929289", "title": "Perioperative management of Sneddon syndrome during thyroidectomy.", "content": "Perioperative management of Sneddon syndrome during thyroidectomy. The perioperative management of an adult woman with Sneddon syndrome is presented. This syndrome is characterized by vasculopathy, hypercoagulable state, ischemic cerebral events, livedo reticularis, heart valve disease, and renal insufficiency. During surgery in these patients, the balance between bleeding and thrombosis requires rapid diagnostic information for therapeutic decisions. Thrombelastographic analysis may be a valuable tool to use in monitoring these patients."}
{"id": "18922422", "title": "Monitoring recombinant factor VIIa treatment: efficacy depends on high levels of fibrinogen in a model of severe dilutional coagulopathy.", "content": "Monitoring recombinant factor VIIa treatment: efficacy depends on high levels of fibrinogen in a model of severe dilutional coagulopathy. Recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) is increasingly being given to treat massive bleeding. However, there is no clear guidance on which patients are suitable for treatment and how the effects of treatment should be monitored. The aim of this in vitro study was to assess the coagulation status of severely hemodiluted blood samples before and after treatment with therapeutic doses of rFVIIa and/or fibrinogen with 2 viscoelastic point-of-care coagulation analyzers: ROTEM (Pentapharm GmbH, Munich, Germany) and Sonoclot (Sienco Inc, Arvada, CO). Laboratory study. Research coagulation laboratory. Ten healthy male volunteers without hereditary or acquired coagulation disorders. Blood samples were obtained. After severe hemodilution with albumin 5%, therapeutic doses of rFVIIa and/or fibrinogen were added, and the coagulation status was assessed with new 1:1,000 diluted tissue factor-activated tests from ROTEM and Sonoclot. The administration of therapeutic doses of rFVIIa to hemodiluted samples shortened the initiation phase of coagulation only. Isolated fibrinogen administration to physiologic levels improved both the initiation of coagulation as well as clot formation and strength. Combined fibrinogen and rFVIIa administration further improved both effects. ROTEM and Sonoclot were able to monitor the effects of rFVIIa and fibrinogen administration with 1:1,000 diluted tissue factor-activated tests. The efficacy of rFVIIa was largely dependent on the presence of high levels of fibrinogen in reversing this severe dilutional coagulopathy."}
{"id": "18922420", "title": "Perioperative coagulation management and blood conservation in cardiac surgery: a Canadian Survey.", "content": "Perioperative coagulation management and blood conservation in cardiac surgery: a Canadian Survey. To determine which strategies are currently used for (anti)coagulation management and blood conservation during cardiac surgery in Canada. Institutional survey. University hospital. All sites performing cardiac surgery in Canada. None. The response rate was 85%. Anticoagulation with heparin is monitored routinely through the activated coagulation time (ACT). Less than 10% of centers use heparin concentrations (Hepcon HMS, Medtronic), thromboelastography, or other point-of-care tests perioperatively. Eighty percent of centers routinely use tranexamic acid as the primary antifibrinolytic agent; however aprotinin until recently, was used more commonly for patients at increased risk for bleeding. Retrograde autologous prime is commonly used (62%); however, cell savers are uncommon for routine patients undergoing cardiac surgery (29%). Although most hospitals use a hematocrit of 20% to 21% for transfusing red blood cells, more than 50% of intensive care units do not have written guidelines for the administration of protamine, fresh frozen plasma, platelets, or factor VIIa. At least one third of centers do not audit their transfusion practices regularly. The majority of Canadian institutions do not use point-of-care tests other than ACT. Most institutions do not have algorithms for management of bleeding following cardiac surgery and at least 30% do not monitor their transfusion practice perioperatively. Cardiac surgery patients in Canada may benefit from a standardized approach to blood conservation in the perioperative period."}
{"id": "18922419", "title": "Can ROTEM thromboelastometry predict postoperative bleeding after cardiac surgery?", "content": "Can ROTEM thromboelastometry predict postoperative bleeding after cardiac surgery? To evaluate the predictive ability of ROTEM thromboelastometry (Pentapharm, Basel, Switzerland) to identify patients bleeding more than 200 mL/h in the early postoperative period after cardiac surgery. A prospective observational study. A single university hospital. Fifty-eight adult male and female patients undergoing primary coronary artery revascularization. Blood samples taken preoperatively and at 1, 2, and 3 hours after surgery. Eight patients bled at least 200 mL/h in the study period. All (100%) had at least 1 abnormal ROTEM result in the study period. Of the 49 patients not found to be bleeding more than 200 mL/h in any of the first 4 postoperative hours, 46 (94%) had at least 1 abnormal ROTEM result. The positive and negative predictive values were 14.8% and 100%, respectively. ROTEM thromboelastometry has poor predictive utility to identify patients who bleed more than 200 mL/h in the early postoperative period after cardiac surgery. However, its negative predictive value was good."}
{"id": "18922418", "title": "If nothing goes wrong, is everything all right?", "content": "If nothing goes wrong, is everything all right?"}
{"id": "18844500", "title": "Preanalytical effects of pneumatic tube transport on routine haematology, coagulation parameters, platelet function and global coagulation.", "content": "Preanalytical effects of pneumatic tube transport on routine haematology, coagulation parameters, platelet function and global coagulation. Pneumatic tube transport of blood samples reduces turnaround times and labour. However, the preanalytical effects on new clinical chemistry parameters and instruments are not fully known. The aim of this study was to evaluate the effect of pneumatic tube transport on haematology and coagulation parameters, including platelet function with PFA-100, and global coagulation with a thromboelastograph. Paired venous blood samples from healthy volunteers were obtained before and after 1 week of treatment with acetylsalicylic acid. One sample was transported by pneumatic tube transport, while the other remained in the laboratory. No preanalytical effect of pneumatic tube transport could be seen for most haematology and coagulation parameters, as well as analysis with PFA-100. For the thromboelastographic analysis, time to clot formation was shorter (-16%, p=0.037) in the transported samples. Treatment with acetylsalicylic acid had no effect on the majority of the test results. Pneumatic tube transport does not introduce preanalytical errors when transporting samples for analysis of routine haematology, coagulation parameters and platelet function with the PFA-100. We recommend manual transport of samples for analysis with thromboelastographic techniques."}
{"id": "18844273", "title": "The surgical application of point-of-care haemostasis and platelet function testing.", "content": "The surgical application of point-of-care haemostasis and platelet function testing. Disordered coagulation complicates many diseases and their treatments, often predisposing to haemorrhage. Conversely, patients with cardiovascular disease who demonstrate antiplatelet resistance may be at increased thromboembolic risk. Prompt identification of these patients facilitates optimization of haemostatic dysfunction. Point-of-care (POC) tests are performed 'near patient' to provide a rapid assessment of haemostasis and platelet function. This article reviews situations in which POC tests may guide surgical practice. Their limitations and potential developments are discussed. The paper is based on a Medline and PubMed search for English language articles on POC haemostasis and platelet function testing in surgical practice. POC tests identifying perioperative bleeding tendency are already widely used in cardiovascular and hepatic surgery. They are associated with reduced blood loss and transfusion requirements. POC tests to identify thrombotic predisposition are able to determine antiplatelet resistance, predicting thromboembolic risk. So far, however, these tests remain research tools. POC haemostasis testing is a growing field in surgical practice. Such testing can be correlated with improved clinical outcome."}
{"id": "18840579", "title": "Whole blood hypercoagulability despite anticoagulation during mechanical cardiac assist.", "content": "Whole blood hypercoagulability despite anticoagulation during mechanical cardiac assist. We report hypercoagulability despite activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT)-guided heparin treatment during Berlin Heart-supported circulation in a 38-year-old man with heart failure for 19 days. The patient was anticoagulated using unfractionated heparin, acetylsalicylic acid and dipyridamole. Contact and tissue factor-activated thromboelastometry revealed increased clot firmness, although anticoagulation assessed by APTT was in accordance with the treatment protocol. Strength of polymerized fibrin was also increased. We saw no clinical signs of thrombosis. Thromboelastometry normalized after heart transplantation. Our results suggest that hypercoagulability is due to excess fibrin formation. Monitoring anticoagulation using APTT may, therefore, be misleading during mechanical cardiac assist."}
{"id": "18823464", "title": "Effects of recombinant human activated protein C on the coagulation system: a study with rotational thromboelastometry.", "content": "Effects of recombinant human activated protein C on the coagulation system: a study with rotational thromboelastometry. Recombinant human activated protein C (rhAPC) is an anticoagulant that can be used for treatment of patients with severe sepsis. The use of rhAPC is accompanied by an increased risk of severe bleeding. Rotational thromboelastometry is a method for measuring the status of the coagulation. The aim of the study was to investigate whether rotational thromboelastometry could be used for monitoring the effects of rhAPC on the coagulation. Whole blood was mixed in vitro with concentrations of rhAPC ranging from 0 to 75 ng/ml and analysed with rotational thromboelastometry. The parameter Coagulation Time was significantly prolonged by increasing the concentrations of rhAPC (P=0.002). Other parameters were not significantly affected. rhAPC dose dependently affects the early humoral parts of the coagulation, while platelet function and fibrinogen to fibrin conversion seem virtually unaffected."}
{"id": "18821761", "title": "Prominent electron transport property observed for triply fused metalloporphyrin dimer: directed columnar liquid crystalline assembly by amphiphilic molecular design.", "content": "Prominent electron transport property observed for triply fused metalloporphyrin dimer: directed columnar liquid crystalline assembly by amphiphilic molecular design. A triply fused copper porphyrin dimer, when site-specifically modified on its periphery with hydrophobic and hydrophilic wedges (1C12/TEG), self-assembles into a columnar liquid crystalline (LC) mesophase over a wide-temperature range from -17 to 99 degrees C but gives rise to an amorphous solid when modified with only hydrophobic (1C12/C12) or hydrophilic wedges (1TEG/TEG). A LC film of 1C12/TEG displays at 16 degrees C a top-class one-dimensional electron mobility (0.27 cm2/V x s), as evaluated from its maximum flash-photolysis time-resolved microwave conductivity."}
{"id": "18807895", "title": "[Diagnosis and transfusion algorithm for the management of perioperative coagulopathy].", "content": "[Diagnosis and transfusion algorithm for the management of perioperative coagulopathy]. The present article reviewed the management of coagulopathy in the perioperative setting, following the Japanese practical guidelines for the blood component therapy, edited by the Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare of Japan in 2005. The threshold concentrations of platelets, prothrombin time international normalized ratio (PT-INR) and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) were optimized for the perioperative critical care under active and/or microvascular bleeding, based on currently available randomized controlled trials. Discontinuation or modification of anticoagulants as well as antiplatelets is essential for the safe perioperative care. Several factors, including normothermia, normovolemia, as well as the maintenance of plasma calcium levels within normal range, are important for the management of coagulopathy. Platelet counts, PT, APTT, and if possible, other point-of-care testing including thromboelastography and its modified techniques should be performed following visual inspection of abnormal bleeding. The transfusion algorithms based on causal diagnosis of coagulopathy optimize the risk/ benefit ratio of perioperative transfusion therapy."}
{"id": "18795093", "title": "Re-operations for bleeding in cardiac surgery: treatment strategy.", "content": "Re-operations for bleeding in cardiac surgery: treatment strategy. Cardiac surgery patients are prone to bleeding postoperatively owing to the extensive sternotomy wound, multiple vessel and heart sutures, and disorders of hemostasis. In this study we retrospectively analyzed the outcomes for all patients in our department who were re-operated for bleeding, over a 5 year period. A total of 4297 patients underwent heart surgery between February 2002 and January 2007, of which 98 (2.3 %) were emergency reoperations for bleeding. We analyzed the process of indication for repeat surgery, possible source of bleeding, and postoperative complications. Most (85.7 %) of the reoperated patients had undergone their first operation as an elective cardiac procedure. The mean blood loss before the reoperation was 1557 ml. The studied group was characterized by increased mortality (11.2 %), longer ventilation period (35.1 hours) and ICU (4.5 days) and hospital (13.3 days) stays. The postoperative outcomes did not differ significantly between patients with TEG-detected coagulation disorder and the rest of the patients, or between patients treated with antilysin and those who did not receive antifibrinolytics. It is vital for the indication process leading to reoperation of the bleeding patient to be as short as possible so as to minimize the delay to repeat surgery. Echocardiography including ultrasound of both pleural spaces, and TEG could shorten that time delay, and should always be included when evaluating patients. Platelets should be administered more often, with the use of antifibrinolytics reserved for cases with confirmed fibrinolysis."}
{"id": "18784499", "title": "Saline versus balanced hydroxyethyl starch: does it matter?", "content": "Saline versus balanced hydroxyethyl starch: does it matter? A total balanced volume replacement strategy is a new concept for correcting hypovolemia. To fulfill this concept, balanced colloids, for example, balanced hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solutions, are necessary in addition to balanced crystalloids. Conventional HES solutions consist of saline with abnormally high concentrations of sodium (154 mmol/l) and chloride (154 mmol/l). In animal as well as in human studies, the use of HES dissolved in a plasma-adapted solution showed beneficial effects on acid-base status compared with conventional HES dissolved in saline. As the base excess is an important surrogate marker for identifying patients with malperfused tissues, infusion of considerable amounts of unbalanced HES solutions producing low base excess would possibly result in inappropriate clinical interventions. Balancing the HES preparation was associated with significantly fewer alterations in coagulation; dilution of blood with balanced HES showed significantly fewer negative effects on thrombelastography and platelet aggregation than conventional HES. Although only a few studies using balanced HES solutions are available at present, it is difficult to argue against using HES preparations that are adapted to plasma instead of HES preparations that contain unphysiologic saline solution. First results are very promising - large clinical trials are necessary to assess the value of a total balanced volume replacement strategy including plasma-adapted HES solutions."}
{"id": "18766254", "title": "Interspecies differences in coagulation profile.", "content": "Interspecies differences in coagulation profile. Many animals are used in research on blood coagulation and fibrinolysis, but the relevance of animal models to human health is often questioned because of differences between species. The objective was to find an appropriate animal species, which mimics the coagulation profile in humans most adequately. Species differences in the coagulation profile with and without thrombin stimulation in vitro were assessed in whole blood by Rotation Thromboelastometry (ROTEM). Endogenous thrombin generation was measured in platelet-poor plasma. Measurements were performed in blood from five different species: humans, rats, pigs, sheep and rabbits. In humans and sheep, the clotting time (ROTEM) was in the same range with or without thrombin stimulation and a 100-fold lower dose of thrombin (0.002 IU) was required to cause a shortening in the clotting time as compared to rats, pigs and rabbits (0.2 IU) (p<0.05). Similarly, the endogenous thrombin potential (ETP) was in the same range in humans and sheep. The maximum clot firmness with or without thrombin stimulation was similar in rabbits and humans. The maximum lysis with or without thrombin stimulation was similar in humans and pigs. Significant species differences exist in the coagulation profile with or without thrombin stimulation. Most importantly, sheep had a clotting time most similar to humans and could thus be a suitable species for translational coagulation studies. Moreover, our findings confirm the potential usefulness of pigs as an experimental species to study fibrinolytic pathway and support the usefulness of rabbits as a species for examining platelets."}
{"id": "18718092", "title": "[Application of thrombelastography in evaluation of platelet function during storage].", "content": "[Application of thrombelastography in evaluation of platelet function during storage]. This study was aimed to explore changes of platelet function in vitro during storage by thrombelastography (TEG). 12 units plateletpheresis were randomly selected and stored at 20 to 24 degrees C with agitation. Thrombelastography variable parameters R, K values and maximal amplitude (MA) were measured on 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 days of platelet storage. Platelet concentration, mean platelet volume (MPV), hypotonic shock response (HSR), CD62p expression and CD62p reexpression on platelet surface were detected at the same time. Changes of platelet function in virto were systematically evaluated by above-mentioned indexes. The results showed that MPV augmented slightly with prolongation of preserved time (p > 0.05), and CD62p expression on platelet surface increased remarkably (p < 0.01), while CD62p reexpression decreased gradually (p < 0.01). There were no significant differences in HSR level of platelets during storage (p > 0.05). R value increased with prolongation of preserved time (p < 0.01). There were no obvious changes on K value and alpha Angle during storage (p > 0.05). There were no obvious changes in MA from 1 to 4 days, and MA decreased slightly on day 5 (p < 0.05). It is concluded that there was no significant change in MA and HSR which reflects comprehensive coagulation of platelets during storage. Platelets on the end of storage have excellent function of hemostasis; Thrombelastography parameter MA value can be used as a valuable indicator for evaluation of platelet function in vitro during storage."}
{"id": "18707921", "title": "Effect of thrombocytapheresis on blood rheology in healthy donors: role of nitric oxide.", "content": "Effect of thrombocytapheresis on blood rheology in healthy donors: role of nitric oxide. Platelet transfusions are increasingly being used to treat thrombocytopenic conditions. Because of anticoagulation, changes in blood composition and extracorporeal circulation, donor apheresis may cause alterations in hemorheology. This study aimed at investigating the effects of thrombocytapheresis on donor blood rheology. The effect of nitric oxide (NO) on donor red blood cell (RBC) deformability after thrombocytapheresis was also studied. Platelets were collected by a Haemonetics MCS 3p cell seperator. Blood samples were obtained before and 15 min after thrombocytapheresis. RBC deformability and aggregation were measured using an ektacytometer, whole blood viscosity (WBV) was determined with a cone-plate rotational viscometer. Donor RBCs were shown to be less deformable at all stress levels except 0.30 Pa after thrombocytapheresis and NO donor sodium nitroprusside (SNP, 10(-6) M) reversed the reduced deformability caused by thrombocytapheresis. It was observed that donor apheresis induces a decrement in RBC aggregation and WBV measured at standard hematocrit (Hct). No significant alterations were observed in WBV values determined at native Hct values. Thrombocytapheresis also resulted in a decrement in fibrinogen, total protein, cholesterol and albumin levels whereas Hct was found to be increased and serum glucose, triglyceride, hemoglobin levels unaltered after apheresis. These results suggest that, thrombocytapheresis causes alterations in hemorheological parameters and hence in the perfusion of the microvasculature of the donors and NO appears to have a protective effect on the impairment observed in RBC deformability."}
{"id": "18701053", "title": "Evaluation of triple anti-platelet therapy by modified thrombelastography in patients with acute coronary syndrome.", "content": "Evaluation of triple anti-platelet therapy by modified thrombelastography in patients with acute coronary syndrome."}
{"id": "18685432", "title": "A comparison of kaolin-activated versus nonkaolin-activated thromboelastography in native and citrated blood.", "content": "A comparison of kaolin-activated versus nonkaolin-activated thromboelastography in native and citrated blood. Thromboelastography can be performed with native or citrated blood (a surrogate to native blood in healthy controls, surgical and cirrhotic patients). Activators such as kaolin are increasingly used to reduce the time to trace generation. To compare kaolin-activated thromboelastography with nonkaolin-activated thromboelastography of native and citrated blood in patients with liver disease, patients undergoing treatment with warfarin or low-molecular weight heparin and healthy volunteers. We studied thromboelastography parameters in 21 healthy volunteers (group 1) and 50 patients, including 20 patients with liver cirrhosis with a nonbiliary aetiology (group 2), 10 patients with primary biliary cirrhosis or primary sclerosing cholangitis (group 3), 10 patients on warfarin treatment (group 4) and 10 patients with enoxaparin prophylaxis (group 5). Thromboelastography was performed using four methods: native blood (kaolin-activated and nonkaolin-activated) and citrated blood (kaolin-activated and nonkaolin-activated). For all thromboelastography parameters, correlation was poor (Spearman correlation coefficient < 0.70) between nonkaolin-activated and kaolin-activated thromboelastography, for both citrated and native blood. In healthy volunteers, in patients with liver disease and in those receiving anticoagulant treatment, there was a poor correlation between nonkaolin-activated and kaolin-activated thromboelastography. Kaolin-activated thromboelastography needs further validation before routine clinical use in these settings, and the specific methodology must be considered in comparing published studies."}
{"id": "18682908", "title": "[Coagulation management of severe surgical bleeding].", "content": "[Coagulation management of severe surgical bleeding]. Severe intraoperative bleeding may endanger the patient's life, necessitate additional human resources and increase perioperative costs. The aetiology of perioperative coagulopathy is complex and consists of depletion, consumption and dilution of clotting factors and thrombocytes. Cofactors like hypothermia, acidosis and severe anaemia may aggravate coagulopathy. Previously healthy patients often show hypofibrinogenaemia as the primary trigger of coagulopathy, whereas thrombocytopenia rather is a late event during massive bleeding. Early and differentiated diagnosis is essential for initiating targeted therapy. Evaluation of the clinical bleeding situation and coagulation tests, in particular point-of-care testing like thrombelastography, should be used to guide and control the therapeutic strategy. Fresh frozen plasma, concentrates of clotting factors, platelet concentrates and antifibrinolytic drugs are available for therapy of perioperative coagulopathy. To obtain optimal benefit for the patient, these products should be applied based on a therapeutic algorithm."}
{"id": "18675136", "title": "Use of recombinant factor IX and thromboelastography in a patient with hemophilia B undergoing liver transplantation: a case report.", "content": "Use of recombinant factor IX and thromboelastography in a patient with hemophilia B undergoing liver transplantation: a case report. Hemophilia B is a congenital recessive disorder caused by deficiency of coagulation factor IX (FIX). Surgical procedures can be performed in patients with hemophilia using high-purity and/or recombinant FIX, which has been shown to be safe and effective in surgical hemostasis. Liver transplantation is the only potentially curative treatment available for these patients, providing a long-term phenotypic cure for hemophilia. End-stage liver disease together with hemophilia exposes patients to greater risks of bleeding complications during the perioperative period with consequent difficulties in managing coagulopathy. The limited experiences reported by different investigators and the various strategies for clotting factor replacement make it difficult to define a single approach with respect to the optimal dose and method of administering FIX to achieve perioperative hemostasis. The limits of plasma-based coagulation tests--prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time--have made thromboelastography a valid alternative in this kind of surgery. It has been demonstrated to be a useful tool for real-time analysis of clot formation using a whole-blood assay format. Further, it accurately illustrates the clinical effects of procoagulant or anticoagulant interventions. In this article, we have described the usefulness of thromboelastography to monitor the ability of high-purity FIX supplementation to restore a normal coagulation state and to guide the perioperative administration of blood products in a successful orthotopic liver transplantation in a hemophilic patient with deficiencies of factors IX and X, presenting with hepatitis C virus-related cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma."}
{"id": "18673348", "title": "Effects of plasma dilution on tissue-factor-induced thrombin generation and thromboelastography: partly compensating role of platelets.", "content": "Effects of plasma dilution on tissue-factor-induced thrombin generation and thromboelastography: partly compensating role of platelets. Bleeding upon major surgery or severe trauma is treated by transfusion with crystalloids, colloids, or plasma. This treatment, however, can lead to dilutional coagulopathy and impaired hemostasis. We investigated the suitability of two integrative coagulation tests to measure the hemostatic activity of diluted plasma. Plasma from healthy donors was diluted in vitro with saline or colloid (venofundin or gelofusin). Coagulant activity in response to tissue factor was monitored by calibrated automated thrombin (CAT) generation and rotational thromboelastography (TEG), detecting formation of elastic fibrin clots. Plasma from patients receiving fluid infusion during coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) was analyzed with the same assays. Optimal activity of CAT and TEG assays required the presence of 10 pmol per L tissue factor and 4 micromol per L phospholipid vesicles or 100 x 10(9) platelets (PLTs) per L. Strikingly, thrombin generation and clot formation became impaired at a higher extent of dilution with PLTs present (< or =40% plasma) than with phospholipid vesicles present (< or =60% plasma). Colloids aggravated the dilution effect on clot formation, but FFP antagonized the dilution effect on thrombin and clot formation. In contrast, fibrinogen and Factor (F)XIII only restored the impaired clot formation. In plasma samples from patients undergoing CABG, CAT and TEG assay variables were altered to an extent corresponding with the volume of fluid infusion. Thrombin generation and clot formation are reduced at a plasma dilution of more than 40 percent. In either process, PLTs can partly compensate for the dilution effect. In vitro dilution with colloids impaired fibrin clot elasticity compared to saline."}
{"id": "18670387", "title": "Intraoperative coagulation was more interfered by HES 200/0.5 than normal saline in off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery.", "content": "Intraoperative coagulation was more interfered by HES 200/0.5 than normal saline in off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery. Rapid fluid administration is often necessary for anesthesiologists to maintain intravascular volume in off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB) with acceptable hematocrits. Postoperative hypocoagulation involving postoperative bleeding and hypercoagulation involving graft patency were focused in previous studies but bleeding and blood transfusion are often peaked during vascular anastomoses during OPCAB. This study is designed to investigate the sequential effects of intraoperative coagulation with normal saline and hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solution by thromboelastography (TEG) and standard coagulation tests (SCT). Twenty adult patients scheduled for OPCAB were enrolled in this study. After anesthetic induction, one group received HES 200/0.5 infusion up to 20 mL/kg and the other received 0.9% normal saline (NS) to maintain central venous pressure (CVP) and pulmonary artery occlusion pressures (PAOP). SCT and TEG were measured at T0 (baseline), T1 (after heparin 150 IU/kg, before vascular anastomoses), T2 (after protamine reversal), and T3 (24 hrs after the surgery) to compare the coagulation status. Baseline data were comparable in both groups. The number of patient who need blood components is higher in HES group. Dilutional hypocoagulation was shown by a significant prolongation of R time at T1 and T2 but also returned comparable at T3 in both groups. K, a-angle, CI and G remained unchanged in NS group but significantly affected in HES group. A statistically significant interaction between groups and treatments on maximal amplitude (MA) (P<0.01) with more blood loss in HES group 24 hours postoperatively (P=0.05). International Normalized Ratio (INR) increased significantly at T2 and T3 in both groups. A rapid infusion of either normal saline or HES solution to maintain intraoperative intravascular volume induce a significant diluted hypocoagulation during OPCAB. The use of HES solution has a prolonged dilutional hypocoagulation and a significant decrease of MA by specific platelet inhibition effects and more transfusion of blood components. All the above changes were not shown in standard coagulation tests."}
{"id": "18665922", "title": "Polyphosphate as a general procoagulant agent.", "content": "Polyphosphate as a general procoagulant agent. Polyphosphate is secreted by activated platelets and we recently showed that it accelerates blood clotting, chiefly by triggering the contact pathway and promoting factor (F) V activation. We now report that polyphosphate significantly shortened the clotting time of plasmas from patients with hemophilia A and B and that its procoagulant effect was additive to that of recombinant FVIIa. Polyphosphate also significantly shortened the clotting time of normal plasmas containing a variety of anticoagulant drugs, including unfractionated heparin, enoxaparin (a low molecular weight heparin), argatroban (a direct thrombin inhibitor) and rivaroxaban (a direct FXa inhibitor). Thromboelastography revealed that polyphosphate normalized the clotting dynamics of whole blood containing these anticoagulants, as indicated by changes in clot time, clot formation time, alpha angle, and maximum clot firmness. Experiments in which preformed FVa was added to plasma support the notion that polyphosphate antagonizes the anticoagulant effect of these drugs via accelerating FV activation. Polyphosphate also shortened the clotting times of plasmas from warfarin patients. These results suggest that polyphosphate may have utility in reversing anticoagulation and in treating bleeding episodes in patients with hemophilia."}
{"id": "18657078", "title": "Investigation of the effect of kaolin and tissue-factor-activated citrated whole blood, on clot-forming variables, as evaluated by thromboelastography.", "content": "Investigation of the effect of kaolin and tissue-factor-activated citrated whole blood, on clot-forming variables, as evaluated by thromboelastography. The Thrombelastograph (TEG; Haemoscope Corp.) analyzes clot formation in whole blood (WB) and treatment based on this analysis has been shown to reduce transfusion requirements in liver and cardiac surgery when compared to conventional coagulation analysis. Implementing TEG as a routine laboratory-based analysis, however, requires validation of the activators employed and the effect of storage of the WB sample in citrate before analysis. The effect of kaolin, tissue factor (TF) 1:17,000, or TF 1:42,500 on TEG clotting time (R), Angle (velocity of clot formation), and maximum clot strength (amplitude [MA]) were evaluated, together with day-to-day variation, the coefficient of variance (CV%), and the effect of citrate storage time. Clot formation variables were equally affected by TF 1:17,000 and kaolin activation, whereas R was significantly longer when TF 1:42,500 was used. The CV for the different variables varied from 3 to 13 percent with no significant differences between assays. Storage of citrated WB significantly affected the TEG variables in a hypercoagulable direction. Only the R, however, was significantly affected (12%) when samples rested for 0 and 30 minutes were evaluated with kaolin as the activator. The TEG assays evaluated were reproducible and present with an acceptable CV% for routine clinical practice. Kaolin and TF 1:17,000 equally affected the clot formation variables. Storage of WB for up to 30 minutes in citrate did not, except for R, affect clot formation variables when kaolin was used as activator allowing for immediate analysis when the sample arrives in the laboratory."}
{"id": "18653912", "title": "Trend of antibiotic resistance of Vibrio cholerae strains from East Delhi.", "content": "Trend of antibiotic resistance of Vibrio cholerae strains from East Delhi. Epidemics of cholera caused by toxigenic Vibrio cholerae O1 and O139 (Bengal strain) represent a major public health problem in most developing countries. In view of the reported shift in epidemiology and pattern of antibiotic resistance in this was study carried out to assess the development of resistance to essential drugs like fluoroquinolones during treatment of cholera and cholera like cases in Delhi. Faecal specimens collected from 1184 patients with cholera and cholera like illness between 2001-2006 admitted to Guru Teg Bahadur hospital, East Delhi were subjected to culture isolation. Antimicrobial susceptibility testing of V. cholerae isolates was done by disc diffusion method. Of the 1184 faecal samples examined, 670 (56.6%) were positive for V. cholera from 2001- 2006. V. cholerae El Tor Ogawa (54.6%) was more common than serotype Inaba (32.5%). During 2004-2006 V. cholerae Inaba emerged as the predominant serotype. Resistance to nalidixic acid, furazolidone and co-trimoxazole was constantly high (100%). Multiple antibiotic resistance (MAR) V. cholerae O1 Inaba isolates exhibited increased resistance to ciprofloxacin with MIC >4 microg/ml, but largely all remained susceptible to other antibiotics like, gentamicin, tetracycline and chloramphenicol. V. cholerae have a permanent existence in the environment and during the quiescent period, their survival in water bodies allows dissipation of resistance patterns to different serotypes or strains of V. cholerae O1 and therefore there is need for constant observation."}
{"id": "18645351", "title": "Mechanical circulatory device thrombosis: a new paradigm linking hypercoagulation and hypofibrinolysis.", "content": "Mechanical circulatory device thrombosis: a new paradigm linking hypercoagulation and hypofibrinolysis. This review considers the perhaps unappreciated role of contact pathway proteins in the pathogenesis of thrombotic/thromboembolic morbidity associated with mechanical circulatory support. Placement of ventricular assist devices (VADs) has been associated with consumption of circulating contact proteins and persistent generation of activated contact proteins such as Factor XII and high molecular weight kininogen. Importantly, activated contact proteins are absorbed to the surface of VADs via the Vroman effect. Further, hyperfibrinogenemia and persistent platelet activation exist in patients with VADs, likely contributing to speed of clot growth. Using thrombelastographic-based analyses, it has been determined that contact pathway protein activated coagulation results in a thrombus that develops strength at a significantly faster rate that tissue factor initiated coagulation. Further, thrombelastographic analyses that include the addition of tissue-type plasminogen activator have demonstrated that contact protein pathway activation results in thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor activation to a far greater extent than that observed with tissue factor initiated coagulation, resulting in a thrombus that takes significantly longer to lyse. These observations serve as the rational basis for clinical investigation to determine if regional suppression of thrombin generation with FXII/high molecular weight kininogen inhibition in concert with thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor inhibition may decrease mechanical circulatory support-associated thrombotic morbidity."}
{"id": "18635585", "title": "The Haemonetics Cell Saver 5 washing properties: effect of different washing pump and centrifuge speeds.", "content": "The Haemonetics Cell Saver 5 washing properties: effect of different washing pump and centrifuge speeds. This study evaluated the effect of different washing and centrifuge rates of the Cell Saver 5 on the quality of processed autologous blood. Autologous blood was washed with 1000 ml of sterile normal saline at centrifuge speed of 5650 revolutions per minute (rpm) (group I) or 4350 rpm (group II) with different washing pump speeds--500, 800 and 1000 ml/min. Hemoglobin, free hemoglobin, hematocrit, erythrocytes, leukocytes, platelets, and protein were measured before and after processing. The highest values of hemoglobin, hematocrit and erythrocytes were achieved using 800 and 1000 ml/min pump speeds in group I and 500 ml/min speed in group II. Red blood cells concentration was higher in group I. There were no significant changes of free hemoglobin removal within group I. In group II the lowest free hemoglobin was achieved when 1000 ml/min rate was used. Platelets and protein did not depend on wash pump speeds in both groups. Platelet recovery in group I was higher than in group II at all washing pump speeds. Leukocytes were not adequately removed at all pump speeds. The Cell Saver 5 produces optimum results when the high wash pump speeds (800 and 1000 ml/min) and standard centrifuge speed are used."}
{"id": "18633015", "title": "Thromboelastography-guided recombinant factor VIIa administration in a patient with refractory autoimmune idiopathic thrombocytopenia.", "content": "Thromboelastography-guided recombinant factor VIIa administration in a patient with refractory autoimmune idiopathic thrombocytopenia. Autoimmune idiopathic thrombocytopenia poses a significant challenge for clinicians in the perioperative period. Repeat platelet transfusions may not result in satisfactory increments in the platelet count and routine coagulation screens may not reflect the degree of abnormal hemostasis. We report the use of point-of-care testing with thromboelastography and platelet counting in managing a patient with refractory autoimmune idiopathic thrombocytopenia, undergoing a splenectomy for active bleeding. These tests were successfully used to monitor the frequency of administration of recombinant factor VIIa (NovoSeven(R), NovoNordisk, Copenhagen, Denmark) with platelet transfusions."}
{"id": "18633014", "title": "Thrombelastography-guided factor VIIa therapy in a surgical patient with severe hemophilia and factor VIII inhibitor.", "content": "Thrombelastography-guided factor VIIa therapy in a surgical patient with severe hemophilia and factor VIII inhibitor. A patient with hemophilia and factor VIII inhibitors required urgent evacuation of a spinal cord hematoma. Two large doses of recombinant factor VIIa (200 microg/kg followed by 300 microg/kg) were required for hemostasis. Traditional and rotational thrombelastography were used to guide dose and timing of rFVIIa therapy. With the limitations of prothrombin and partial thromboplastin times as perioperative monitors of rFVIIa efficacy, this description of thrombelastography supports reports of in vitro use, and may be helpful when large perioperative doses of rFVIIa are required."}
{"id": "18633013", "title": "The influence of aprotinin and tranexamic acid on platelet function and postoperative blood loss in cardiac surgery.", "content": "The influence of aprotinin and tranexamic acid on platelet function and postoperative blood loss in cardiac surgery. Antifibrinolytic drugs including aprotinin and tranexamic acid are currently used in cardiac surgery to reduce postoperative bleeding and transfusion requirements, and may have different effects on platelets. We therefore evaluated platelet function after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and cardiac surgery to determine the effect of either aprotinin or tranexamic acid. In a prospective, randomized study, 50 patients scheduled for elective cardiac surgery with CPB were evaluated. Patients received high-dose aprotinin (n = 25) or tranexamic acid (n = 25) as antifibrinolytic drugs. Coagulation and platelet function were assessed preoperatively, after CPB, 3 and 24 h after surgery using modified thrombelastography and whole blood aggregometry. Impaired coagulation after CPB occurred in both groups compared with preoperative data (P < 0.01). In contrast to modified thrombelastography, thrombin receptor-mediated aggregometry after CPB was significantly decreased only in those patients receiving tranexamic acid until the end of the study period in comparison to the aprotinin group (P < 0.05). Aprotinin-treated patients showed significantly less chest tube drainage (575 mL +/- 228 vs 1033 mL +/- 647, P < 0.05) and need for postoperative transfusion requirements (P < 0.01) compared with the tranexamic acid group. Platelet function measured by whole blood aggregometry is better preserved by aprotinin than tranexamic acid and may be responsible for producing less bleeding within the first 24 h after CPB."}
{"id": "18613942", "title": "Use of thromboelastography and hydroelectrolytic management in a child with chronic renal insufficiency submitted to liver transplantation secondary to type 1 primary hyperoxaluria.", "content": "Use of thromboelastography and hydroelectrolytic management in a child with chronic renal insufficiency submitted to liver transplantation secondary to type 1 primary hyperoxaluria."}
{"id": "18612778", "title": "Megakaryopoiesis and platelet function in polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia patients with JAK2 V617F mutation.", "content": "Megakaryopoiesis and platelet function in polycythemia vera and essential thrombocythemia patients with JAK2 V617F mutation. Patients with Ph chromosome negative myeloproliferative disease (Ph-MPD) have an increased risk of vascular complications. It remains controversial whether patients with the JAK2 V617F mutation (V617F) exhibit increased risk, while recent growing evidence has shown a critical role for V617F in clonal erythropoiesis in Ph-MPD. We studied 53 patients with Ph-MPD especially in relation to megakaryopoiesis, the thrombotic complications and the presence of V617F. Using novel mutation-specific PCR which is a highly sensitive PCR-based assay for detection of JAK2 mutated allele(s), we identified V617F in 38 Ph-MPD, which include 13 polycythemia vera (PV), 23 essential thrombocythemia (ET) and 2 chronic idiopatic myelofibrosis. The numbers of megakaryocytes were significantly increased in PV and ET patients with V617F, but the platelet counts were slightly lower. Although statistically not significant, the incidence of thrombotic events was higher in the group with V617F compared to in those without the mutation. Agonist-induced in vitro platelet aggregation and platelet adhesion were not affected by the presence of this mutation. Nonetheless, we found a hypercoagulable state in Ph-CMPD with V617F by employing whole blood thromboelastography. It suggests pre-thrombotic tendencies in CMPD are complex and JAK2 V617F mutation might have a role in vivo blood coagulation by altering not only the number, but function(s) of all three myeloid cells, including red blood cells, white blood cells and platelets in Ph-CMPD."}
{"id": "18600098", "title": "An unusual clinical presentation of factor XIII deficiency and issues relating to the monitoring of factor XIII replacement therapy.", "content": "An unusual clinical presentation of factor XIII deficiency and issues relating to the monitoring of factor XIII replacement therapy. Congenital factor XIII deficiency is a very rare bleeding disorder. Patients with severe FXIII deficiency usually exhibit severe bleeding diatheses. Factor XIII is also involved in maintaining pregnancy, and women with factor XIII deficiency have a high risk of spontaneous abortions. We report here the case of a patient with a mild bleeding history before her pregnancy but who had three spontaneous haemorrhagic miscarriages. The patient was homozygous for G 501 R mutation of the factor XIII A subunit gene. We also detected a coinherited heterozygous factor V Leiden mutation, probably leading to a milder bleeding tendency. The patient had successful factor XIII replacement therapy throughout her fourth pregnancy. The efficacy of the factor XIII infusions was monitored using thromboelastometry and routine factor XIII measurements. This case report shows that factor XIII deficiency should be ruled out in patients with recurrent fetal loss but with a normal miscarriage workup, even in the absence of a history of severe bleeding since childhood. We also showed that thromboelastometry could be a valuable tool for the monitoring of factor XIII replacement therapy."}
{"id": "18600085", "title": "High incidence of vaproate-induced coagulation disorders in children receiving valproic acid: a prospective study.", "content": "High incidence of vaproate-induced coagulation disorders in children receiving valproic acid: a prospective study. Reports have been published on blood coagulation disturbances by valproate therapy. In the present prospective trial, blood samples were drawn before valproate therapy, after 6 weeks of therapy, after more than 6 weeks and after longer than 6 months of valproate therapy from 23 children newly treated with valproate. Two children developed thrombocytopenia, and six children with initial normal von Willebrand factor showed acquired von Willebrand's disease. Fibrinogen levels dropped below the lower limit in 12 patients and subnormal factor XIII plasma levels were observed in 17% of patients. No patient developed signs of hemorrhage. Eight percent of patients developed valproate-induced thrombocytopenia. Reduction in platelets did not reach statistic significance. Thrombelastography showed a 47% incidence of altered platelet function. We found a statistically significant, positive correlation between clotting time of collagen extrinsic pathway inhibitor and, accordingly, adenosindiphosphate and valproate level. Plasmatic coagulation investigations showed a significant decrease of prothrombin time. Activated partial thromboplastin time measurements also showed significant prolongation with valproate. Activity of von Willebrand factor antigen and von Willebrand factor ristocetin cofactor significantly decreased. Factor XIII activity significantly decreased after valproate therapy for longer than 6 months (17% of children). Fibrinogen was significantly reduced. In the coagulatory system a decrease in the main antiprotease antithrombin III activity was observed. Blood coagulation disturbances are common in patients with valproate, but rarely become clinically symptomatic. Acquired von Willebrand's disease and hypofibrinogenemia may become relevant in patients with surgery or trauma. Particular attention should be paid to factor-XIII deficiency, which is especially seen with valproate therapy."}
{"id": "18600084", "title": "Activity of recombinant factor VIIa under different conditions in vitro: effect of temperature, pH, and haemodilution.", "content": "Activity of recombinant factor VIIa under different conditions in vitro: effect of temperature, pH, and haemodilution. Recombinant activated factor VII (NovoSeven; Novo Nordisk A/S, M\u00e5l\u00f8v, Denmark) is an effective drug for treatment of bleeding in patients with haemophilia A or B and inhibitors. Little is known about physiological conditions influencing the efficacy of recombinant activated factor VII. We investigated the in-vitro effects of pH, temperature, and haemodilution on the activity of recombinant activated factor VII. Samples from eight healthy volunteers were spiked with recombinant activated factor VII (final concentration 1.7 microg/ml) and adjusted to pH 6.0, 6.5, 7.0, and 7.4 or analysed at 30, 33, 37, and 40 degrees C, or diluted 0, 10, 20, 40, and 60% with dextran before analysis. Samples were analysed as rotational thromboelastometry in whole blood (clotting time, clot formation time, and maximum clot firmness) with and without Innovin (tissue factor), and as factor VII coagulant activity in plasma. Significant effects of pH were observed for clotting time, clot formation time, maximum clot firmness, and factor VII coagulant activity in the direction of longer clot formation times and less firm clots with decreasing pH. Temperature had significant effects on clotting time, clot formation time, and factor VII coagulant activity, but no effects on maximum clot firmness indicating that lower temperatures increase clot formation times without affecting clot firmness. Haemodilution had significant effects on clot formation time, maximum clot firmness, and factor VII coagulant activity, but no effects on clotting time indicating that haemodilution does not affect clot formation, but the clot formed at high haemodilution may not be so firm. In conclusion, the activity of recombinant activated factor VII was affected in vitro by pH, temperature, and haemodilution. Additional studies are necessary to demonstrate that these conditions also affect the efficacy of recombinant activated factor VII therapy in vivo."}
{"id": "18600082", "title": "Whole blood coagulation assessment using rotation thrombelastogram thromboelastometry in patients with acute deep vein thrombosis.", "content": "Whole blood coagulation assessment using rotation thrombelastogram thromboelastometry in patients with acute deep vein thrombosis. Common tests for the assessment of blood coagulation in the acute phase of deep vein thrombosis are of limited value for the evaluation of the associated hypercoagulability. The new rotation thromboelastometry by rotation thrombelastogram has the potential to provide information on whole blood clot formation and prothrombotic state in patients with acute deep vein thrombosis. Rotation thrombelastogram parameters were evaluated in whole blood of 30 patients with a first episode of acute deep vein thrombosis and 40 healthy controls. The effect of factor VIII and fibrinogen levels on rotation thrombelastogram assays was also assessed in the study population and in a model of blood supplemented by increasing amounts of fibrinogen. All assays performed were consistent with a remarkable hypercoagulable profile in deep vein thrombosis patients as compared with controls. In particular, maximum clot firmness and the area under curve values, which are expected to better correlate with the hypercoagulable state in the acute phase of deep vein thrombosis, were significantly higher in patients than in controls. As expected, fibrinogen was shown to be one of the main determinants of the hypercoagulability in rotation thrombelastogram assays. In a small subset of acute deep vein thrombosis patients, inherited thrombophilia had no influence on rotation thrombelastogram parameters. The new rotation thrombelastogram thromboelastometry is a useful tool to detect acute deep vein thrombosis-related hypercoagulability. Prospective studies are needed to define the potential applications of rotation thrombelastogram in the management of deep vein thrombosis patients."}
{"id": "18583193", "title": "Transfusion packages for massively bleeding patients: the effect on clot formation and stability as evaluated by Thrombelastograph (TEG).", "content": "Transfusion packages for massively bleeding patients: the effect on clot formation and stability as evaluated by Thrombelastograph (TEG). We investigated the effect of administering a transfusion package encompassing 5 red blood cells (RBC), 5 fresh frozen plasma (FFP), and 2 platelet concentrates (PC) on clot formation and stability as evaluated by Thrombelastograph (TEG) in 10 patients presenting with massive bleeding. Blood was obtained before and after administering the transfusion packages. Six patients were hypocoagulable before administration of the transfusion package, whereas none of the patients were hypocoagulable after transfusion of up to 7 transfusion packages (p=0.01). In 8 patients damage control surgery was successful and 6 of these patients survived. The result indicates that an early balanced transfusion strategy maintains haemostatic competence in massively bleeding patients."}
{"id": "18581079", "title": "[Platelet function analysis with point-of-care methods].", "content": "[Platelet function analysis with point-of-care methods]. More and more patients are treated with antiplatelet drugs today. In this context a sufficient inhibition of platelet aggregation, on the one hand, is of essential importance to the efficiency of prophylaxis of myocardial and cerebral infarction and to avoiding thrombosis of drug-eluting stents. On the other hand, this medication can result in an increased risk of perioperative bleeding. In both situations control of the efficiency of therapy or rather the assessment of the impairment of hemostasis is of vital importance. Platelet function analyzer (PFA-100), multiple platelet function analyzer (Multiplate), and rotational thrombelastometry (ROTEM) are reliable and easy to use point-of-care (POC) devices. Since these three analyzers monitor different aspects of platelet function and have different limitations, the selection of the right test system depends on the right question. PFA-100 enables a sensitive detection of von Willebrand's syndrome. Multiplate is apt to control efficiency of platelet inhibiton with acetylsalicylic acid, clopidogrel and glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists. ROTEM analysis offers the opportunity to assess hemostasis as a holistic system. Thereby, ROTEM analysis particularly detects hyperfibrinolysis, heparin effects, and fibrinogen-platelet interaction. Due to their easy handling the described POC devices are applicable to perioperative coagulation management as well as during and after coronary intervention or to monitoring of platelet function in cardiologic practice. They enable a quick assessment of platelet function and an individually guided therapy."}
{"id": "18580197", "title": "Low plasma fibrinogen levels with the Clauss method during anticoagulation with bivalirudin.", "content": "Low plasma fibrinogen levels with the Clauss method during anticoagulation with bivalirudin."}
{"id": "18579398", "title": "Using reagent-supported thromboelastometry (ROTEM) to monitor haemostatic changes in congenital heart surgery employing deep hypothermic circulatory arrest.", "content": "Using reagent-supported thromboelastometry (ROTEM) to monitor haemostatic changes in congenital heart surgery employing deep hypothermic circulatory arrest. Cardiac surgery employing cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and deep hypothermic circulatory arrest (DHCA) can induce coagulation disturbances and bleeding complications that may be especially severe in infants. A better understanding of the coagulopathy and a quick method for its evaluation would be helpful in the management of patients exposed to CPB and DHCA. This study aimed to monitor coagulation defects in congenital heart surgery using rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM), standard coagulation tests and platelet flow cytometry. The study comprised 10 infants undergoing surgery for congenital heart disease on CPB and DHCA. Blood was sampled at skin incision, after heparinisation during CPB (directly pre- and directly post-DHCA) and after protamine administration post-CPB. ROTEM using different reagents including a heparinase-containing assay to evaluate coagulation during heparinisation, APTT and INR, and flow cytometry to evaluate platelet activation were performed. During CPB, the ROTEM indicated CPB-induced clotting factor depletion and platelet dysfunction that persisted after CPB and heparin neutralisation. ROTEM results were available within 15 min and therefore much faster than standard tests. ROTEM-guided specific blood product treatment resulted in satisfactory coagulatory function. The highest degree of platelet activation was found directly after DHCA. A major benefit of ROTEM is the quick detection of a developing coagulopathy already during CPB. ROTEM guides quick and specific blood product treatment after CPB, which may decrease bleeding complications in cardiac surgery. The finding of maximal platelet activation directly after DHCA suggests that not only CPB but also hypothermia activates platelets in vivo, thereby contributing to platelet dysfunction."}
{"id": "18565966", "title": "Effect of haemodilution, acidosis, and hypothermia on the activity of recombinant factor VIIa (NovoSeven).", "content": "Effect of haemodilution, acidosis, and hypothermia on the activity of recombinant factor VIIa (NovoSeven). A range of plasma volume expanders is used clinically, often in settings where haemostasis may already be impaired. The haemostatic agent, recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa, NovoSeven), may be used to improve haemostasis but potential interactions with different volume expanders are poorly understood. Clot formation was measured by thromboelastography (TEG) using blood from healthy volunteers. In vitro effects of rFVIIa with haemodilution, acidosis, and hypothermia were examined. Conditions were induced by dilution with NaCl (0.9%), lactated Ringer's solution, albumin 5%, or hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solutions [MW (molecular weight) 130-670 kDa]; by adjusting pH to 6.8 with 1 M HEPES (N-2-hydroxyethylpiperazine-N'-2-ethanesulphonic acid) buffer; or by reducing temperature to 32 degrees C. We also studied the effect of low vs high MW HES (MW 200 vs 600 kDa) and rFVIIa on in vivo bleeding time (BT) in rabbits. Haemodilution progressively altered TEG parameters. rFVIIa improved TEG parameters in the presence of acidosis, hypothermia or 20% haemodilution (P<0.05). At 40% haemodilution, the rFVIIa effect was diminished particularly with high MW HES. In vivo, rFVIIa shortened the BT (P<0.05) with low but not high MW HES. Efficacy of rFVIIa was affected by the degree of haemodilution and type of volume expander, but not by acidosis or hypothermia."}
{"id": "18555151", "title": "Epidural anesthesia? No of course.", "content": "Epidural anesthesia? No of course. Although the contraindications for thoracic epidural anesthesia (TEA) are well defined, the debate continues about whether TEA improves outcomes. Pro and con trials and a metaanalysis in the past have yielded equivocal results; they did not deal with new vascular intervention or drugs. The benefit of TEA in surgery is to provide analgesia. In subgroups, TEA can decrease the mortality and morbidity. In contrast, the cost can increase in the situation of a complication that is opposite to the side effects is rare, but the impairment caused by them is out of proportion to the benefits. Primary or secondary prophylaxis with antithrombotic drugs is increasing in developed countries because of the increasing cardiovascular interventions and aging of the population. The neuroaxial guidelines are useful, but the changing of the coagulation profile after hepatectomy is not included in them. The decision to use TEA in liver surgery must be individualized with steps planned from the beginning. TEA suitability is based on an evaluation of the contraindications, comorbidities, coagulation profiles, hepatic reserve, and balance of benefits and risks. The insertion or withdrawal of the epidural catheter should be made with care according to the neuroaxial guidelines and in the presence of a normal TEG. The decreasing level of prothrombin content and platelet counts after hepatectomy should be closely monitored every 2 to 5 days."}
{"id": "18550478", "title": "Parameters of thromboelastography in healthy newborns.", "content": "Parameters of thromboelastography in healthy newborns. Thromboelastography (TEG) aids in monitoring a patient's global hemostatic system by measuring the rate of clot formation, clot strength, and stability. The usefulness of TEG in pediatric settings, especially with neonates, is limited owing to a lack of neonatal reference values. In this study, neonatal TEG reference intervals were developed and results correlated with other coagulation test parameters. Samples were from women who delivered a neonate after at least 34 weeks of gestation in normal pregnancies. From the recovered placenta, cord blood from the umbilical vein or artery was collected within 30 minutes after delivery and tested. Neonatal TEG reaction time (time clot formation begins), clot firmness (shear elastic modulus strength), and platelet function analysis closure times were significantly lower than those in adult ranges (P< .001). When compared with the values for children, TEG reaction time, angle, coagulation index, clot firmness value, and clot kinetics (time from clot formation to time amplitude reaches 20 mm) were significantly different (P< .001) among neonates. TEG can be used to interpret the data for newborns by using reference values obtained in the present study."}
{"id": "18544683", "title": "Polyphosphate enhances fibrin clot structure.", "content": "Polyphosphate enhances fibrin clot structure. Polyphosphate, a linear polymer of inorganic phosphate, is present in platelet dense granules and is secreted on platelet activation. We recently reported that polyphosphate is a potent hemostatic regulator, serving to activate the contact pathway of blood clotting and accelerate factor V activation. Because polyphosphate did not alter thrombin clotting times, it appeared to exert all its procoagulant actions upstream of thrombin. We now report that polyphosphate enhances fibrin clot structure in a calcium-dependent manner. Fibrin clots formed in the presence of polyphosphate had up to 3-fold higher turbidity, had higher mass-length ratios, and exhibited thicker fibers in scanning electron micrographs. The ability of polyphosphate to enhance fibrin clot turbidity was independent of factor XIIIa activity. When plasmin or a combination of plasminogen and tissue plasminogen activators were included in clotting reactions, fibrin clots formed in the presence of polyphosphate exhibited prolonged clot lysis times. Release of polyphosphate from activated platelets or infectious microorganisms may play an important role in modulating fibrin clot structure and increasing its resistance to fibrinolysis. Polyphosphate may also be useful in enhancing the structure of surgical fibrin sealants."}
{"id": "18534666", "title": "Whole blood rotation thrombelastometry in subjects undergoing vitamin K antagonist treatment: hypo- or hypercoagulable profiles?", "content": "Whole blood rotation thrombelastometry in subjects undergoing vitamin K antagonist treatment: hypo- or hypercoagulable profiles?"}
{"id": "18534067", "title": "Platelet function testing in uraemic patients.", "content": "Platelet function testing in uraemic patients. Chronic renal failure (CRF) is associated with excessive bleeding for a variety of reasons. Platelet dysfunction is probably the most consistent and important feature, particularly platelet-platelet and platelet-vessel wall interactions. The skin bleeding time (SBT) is the best established predictor of bleeding in uraemic patients but suffers from poor reproducibility and accuracy. Several newer rapid assays of platelet function are able to provide a means of assessing primary haemostasis, but have not been specifically assessed in uraemic patients. A single centre, prospective cohort study of patients referred to a tertiary nephrology unit. Patients with both acute and chronic renal impairment were recruited. Laboratory parameters analysed included full blood count, serum creatinine and urea, calculated glomerular filtration rate (GFR) (Cockcroft formulae) APTT PT fibrinogen, SBT, whole blood platelet aggregation (WBPA), platelet function analyzer (PFA-100), thromboelastograph (TEG) and cone platelet analyzer (CPA). This study included 42 patients: nine with CRF (GFR < 30 ml/min) who were not receiving dialysis; 23 with CRF receiving dialysis; seven who presented in acute renal failure; and three assessed with normal renal function but with nephrotic syndrome and who presented prior to renal biopsy. Twenty-two patients were on low-dose aspirin and four patients were on clopidogrel. There was weak correlation between calculated GFR and SBT (r(2) = 0.1564) with even poorer correlation with serum creatinine and no correlation with urea levels. Overall, PFA-100 was a poor predictor of SBT. Seven of 12 patients with SBT <7 min had abnormal WBPA, 24 of 26 had abnormal WBPA if SBT >7 min. Of those with SBT <7 min, five had abnormal CPA, and >7 min, 15 of 21 had abnormal results. Nineteen patients had abnormal TEG tracings. Six patients underwent renal biopsies with one bleeding complication. In this pilot study we found that prolonged SBT was not predicted by serum creatinine or calculated GFR. Within the limitations of this study, an alternative in vitro test to replicate the SBT has not been identified."}
{"id": "18524134", "title": "Molecular weight of hydroxyethyl starch molecules influences coagulation profile measured by thrombelastography.", "content": "Molecular weight of hydroxyethyl starch molecules influences coagulation profile measured by thrombelastography. The consensus about the ideal intravenous fluid in trauma patients remains open. However, hypertonic saline and hydroxyethyl starch (HES) seems to have advantages in terms of immuno-modulatory and haemodynamic effects. Nevertheless clotting abnormalities are frequently reported in association with the use of HES. We investigated the influence of light, medium and heavy molecular weight (MW) hydroxyethyl starch (HES) on coagulation in 29 healthy subjects. Ringer's lactate (RL) served as a control solution. Thrombelastography using Haemoscope's Thrombelastograph (TEG) hemostasis system was used to assess the effect of HES polymers and RL. TEG analysis was performed using recalcified native whole blood both with and without the addition of platelet activating factor IV (PAF IV) before and immediately after infusion of one of the solutions. Infusion of RL or one of the three HES solutions exerts an anticoagulant effect as demonstrated by a increase in clot formation time (R) and a decrease in maximum amplitude (MA), and the angle. The addition of PAF IV reversed these changes. This data indicate clear evidence of platelet activity per se or platelet interaction with the plasmatic coagulation system."}
{"id": "18515082", "title": "Heparin release is insufficient in syringes with platelets as heparin source.", "content": "Heparin release is insufficient in syringes with platelets as heparin source."}
{"id": "18510529", "title": "New approaches in the measurement of coagulation.", "content": "New approaches in the measurement of coagulation. In this session contributors present recent developments in laboratory tools for investigation of haemorrhagic disorders as well as their relative utility in clinical research. In an overview of B. S\u00f8rensen the present knowledge is summarized on the dynamic properties of whole blood fibrin formation as studied by changes in whole blood elasticity on a thrombelastometry system. Additionally, fibrin formation dynamics using simple APTT methods are presented. G. Castaman reviews the pathophysiology of von Willebrand's disease (VWD) and explains which tests are best used in diagnosis and subclassification of VWD accounting for recent developments. This presentation also describes the treatment technologies available today and their implications in clinical management of bleeding episodes in VWD. J. Lloyd addresses the assay discrepancy phenomenon that is found in some of our patients suffering from mild haemophilia A. Assay discrepancy most often means a much lower factor VIII:C value by a two-stage or chromogenic assay for factor VIII:C compared to the activity recorded by the one-stage clotting system for factor VIII:C. In rare cases, the opposite phenomenon exist. The presentation includes data from 16 Australian families with discrepant results. D. Varon reports on an assay for study of platelet function in whole blood under flow conditions. The equipment is described as a cone-and-plate(let) analyser in which the adhesion and aggregation of platelets onto a polystyrene surface is studied under arterial flow conditions. Basically, it is anticipated that proteins such as VWF and fibrinogen of flowing blood is attached to the polystyrene surface where they build up a thrombogenic surface. In the study of the author platelets were pre-activated with agonists and platelet deposits were determined after passage of whole blood for a pre-set time interval. Data presented suggest that the assay is sensitive to platelet numbers as well as qualitative changes in platelets themselves, and several examples of disorders characterized by enhanced as well as reduced platelet aggregating activities illustrates the sensitivity of the method."}
{"id": "18510527", "title": "New assays for monitoring haemophilia treatment.", "content": "New assays for monitoring haemophilia treatment. Precise measurements of factor VIII (FVIII) or factor IX (FIX) activity are believed to be essential for clinical management in haemophilia, although discrepancies between factor levels and clinical severity have been recognized. Clot wave form analysis has demonstrated that different wave form patterns may be evident in severe haemophilia A patients with levels of FVIII activity <1 IU dL(-1), and this might explain, in part, the phenotypic heterogeneity seen in these patients. In addition, the relatively new technique of computer-assisted thrombelastography (TEG), in which coagulation is initiated by tissue factor, has revealed a considerable degree of variability in different patients in the presence FVIII levels, which are sufficient to normalize TEG parameters. In contrast, a global thrombin generation test (TGT) has been proposed as a sensitive and reliable method for assessing overall clotting function in haemophilia patients. Several studies have demonstrated a significant correlation between TGT and FVIII/FIX levels, and these measurements also appear to correlate with the clinical phenotype. The TGT may be very useful, therefore, for evaluating overall haemostasis in different clinical situations, although substantial inter-assay and inter-individual variations have been reported. Both the TEG and TGT have been found to be particularly helpful for monitoring haemostatic therapy with bypassing agents or conventional FVIII or FIX concentrates in patients with inhibitors. These global tests enable the selection of appropriate therapeutic agents in individual circumstances and offer the opportunity to tailor the most effective haemostatic treatment even during severe bleeding or major surgery."}
{"id": "18508379", "title": "The prevalence of a heparin-like effect shown on the thromboelastograph in patients undergoing liver transplantation.", "content": "The prevalence of a heparin-like effect shown on the thromboelastograph in patients undergoing liver transplantation. It has been known for several decades that thromboelastographic analysis of the blood of patients undergoing liver transplantation may show a heparin-like effect (HLE) at the time of reperfusion. However, the prevalence of HLE and the origin of these heparin-like substances remain largely unstudied. The primary aim of this retrospective observational analysis was to determine the prevalence of the HLE in 211 consecutive patients having liver transplantation in our institution at various stages throughout the transplant. One of the secondary aims was to analyze the prevalence of HLE with respect to the various etiologies of liver disease. Paired Thromboelastograph traces (native and heparinase) were examined at 5 stages of the transplant: the baseline stage, dissection stage, anhepatic stage, reperfusion stage, and end of the case. HLE was defined as a reduction in the reaction and coagulation times of greater than 50% by the addition of heparinase to the sample. Thirty-one percent of patients had evidence of an HLE at baseline, and this increased to 75% after reperfusion of the donor graft. This HLE resolved spontaneously in 47% by the end of the case. Patients with fulminant liver failure were more likely to demonstrate HLE at baseline than those with chronic liver disease (45.8% compared to 29%). There was no difference in the prevalence of HLE after reperfusion. In conclusion, prior to transplantation, there is a significant difference in the prevalence of HLE with respect to etiology. However, this difference disappears after reperfusion as the majority of patients then develop HLE. Although it is clear that there are both endogenous and exogenous sources of heparin contributing to the HLE, the clinical significance of these findings remains unclear."}
{"id": "18502361", "title": "Measurement of functional fibrinogen levels using the Thrombelastograph.", "content": "Measurement of functional fibrinogen levels using the Thrombelastograph. To validate a Thromboelastograph (Haemoscope Corporation, Niles, IL) assay for functional fibrinogen. Correlation study of the Thromboelastograph assay with two conventional fibrinogen assays by the standard Clauss method. Research laboratory of a university medical center. Blood samples were obtained from 19 healthy volunteers. Thromboelastograph assays, using heparinized whole blood from 19 healthy donors, indicated that reptilase-XIIIa mixture (Activatorf)-generated clot shear elasticity in dynes per square centimeter (Gf) correlated with fibrinogen (mg/dL). Blood from four donors was used to define the contribution of hematocrit (Hct) to Gf by titration with platelet-rich plasma. The Gf versus Hct gave linear correlations (r2 = 0.746) with Gf = 1258 - 17.8 x % Hct. A commercial collection of 19 normal, 10 borderline, and one deficient for functional fibrinogen-citrated plasmas was assayed for Gf after recalcification using Activatorf. Of the 30 plasma samples, four were from factor X- or factor VII-deficient donors and one was from a coumadin-treated donor. There was a linear correlation of Activatorf Gf with functional fibrinogen (r2 = 0.940) with Gf = -730 + 9.21 x fibrinogen (mg/dL). Thrombelastography with Activatorf may be used to determine fibrinogen levels in whole blood."}
{"id": "18501915", "title": "Purification of human immunoglobulin G by thermoseparating aqueous two-phase systems.", "content": "Purification of human immunoglobulin G by thermoseparating aqueous two-phase systems. The purification of human immunoglobulin G (IgG) from a Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells supernatant was studied using an aqueous two-phase system (ATPS) composed of ethylene oxide/propylene oxide (UCON) and dextran. In UCON/dextran systems IgG partitions preferentially to the less hydrophobic dextran-rich phase (Kp<1). The addition of triethylene glycol-diglutaric acid (TEG-COOH) shifted the IgG partition into the upper phase showing significant improvements in both the recovery yields and purity. The purification of IgG from a CHO cell supernatant with UCON 2000/dextran/TEG-COOH system was optimised using a central composite design. Using an ATPS composed of 8% UCON, 6% dextran and 20% TEG-COOH, IgG was purified, in two steps, with a global yield of 85% and 88% purity. Statistical valid models were obtained to predict the effect of the experimental conditions on the IgG yield and purity, for both extraction and back-extraction steps. A system composed of 10% UCON, 5.5% dextran and 20% TEG-COOH was identified as the best compromise between final purity and yield."}
{"id": "18500941", "title": "Complete correction of hemophilia A with adeno-associated viral vectors containing a full-size expression cassette.", "content": "Complete correction of hemophilia A with adeno-associated viral vectors containing a full-size expression cassette. Hemophilia A is caused by a deficiency in the factor VIII (FVIII) gene. Constrained by limited packaging capacity, even the 4.3-kb B domain-deleted FVIII remained a challenge for delivery by a single adeno-associated viral (AAV) vector. Studies have shown that up to a 6.6-kb vector sequence may be packaged into AAV virions, which suggested an alternative strategy for hemophilia A gene therapy. To explore the usefulness of AAV vectors carrying an oversized FVIII gene, we constructed the AAV-FVIII vector under the control of a beta-actin promoter with a cytomegalovirus enhancer (CB) and a bovine growth hormone (bGH) poly(A) sequence. The CB promoter plus bGH signal was shown to be 3- to 5-fold more potent than the mini-transthyretin (TTR) promoter with a synthetic poly(A) sequence for directing FVIII expression in the liver. Despite the 5.75-kb genome size of pAAV-CB-FVIII, sufficient AAV vectors were produced for in vivo testing. Approximately 3- to 5-fold more FVIII secretion was observed in animals receiving AAV-CB-FVIII vectors than in those receiving standard-sized AAV-TTR-FVIII vectors. Both the activated partial thromboplastin time assay and the whole blood thromboelastographic analysis confirmed that AAV-FVIII vectors fully corrected the bleeding phenotype of hemophilia mice. These results suggest that AAV vectors with an oversized genome should be useful for not only hemophilia A gene therapy but also other diseases with large cDNA such as muscular dystrophy and cystic fibrosis."}
{"id": "18499605", "title": "Delayed inhibition of agonist-induced granulocyte-platelet aggregation after low-dose sevoflurane inhalation in humans.", "content": "Delayed inhibition of agonist-induced granulocyte-platelet aggregation after low-dose sevoflurane inhalation in humans. Sevoflurane can be used as sedative-analgesic drug with endothelial protective properties. We tested whether low-dose sevoflurane inhalation provides sustained inhibition of detrimental granulocyte-platelet aggregation in humans. Ten healthy male volunteers were enrolled in this crossover study. Each subject inhaled sevoflurane for 1 h at 0.5-1 vol % end-tidal concentration in oxygen (50 vol %). Inhaling oxygen (50 vol %) alone served as control. Venous blood samples were collected at baseline before inhalation, immediately after inhalation, and 24 h thereafter, and were used for flow cytometry to determine platelet surface marker (CD41, CD42b, CD62P/P-selectin, and PAC-1) on platelets and granulocytes and for kaolin-induced clot formation, as assessed by thromboelastography. In flow cytometry experiments, platelets were stimulated with arachidonic acid (AA, 30 microM), adenosine diphosphate (ADP, 1 microM), and thrombin receptor agonist peptide-6 (TRAP-6, 6 microM). AA, ADP, and TRAP-6 markedly increased the expression of CD62P on platelets, whereas CD42b (shedding) and PAC-1 (heterotypic conjugates) expression decreased. The amount of granulocyte-platelet aggregates increased upon agonist stimulation. Low-dose sevoflurane inhalation reduced ADP-induced CD62P expression on platelets 24 h after inhalation, and inhibited the formation of granulocyte-platelet aggregates under stimulation with AA and ADP after 1 and 24 h, and with TRAP-6 after 24 h compared with control. Inhibition of granulocyte-platelet aggregates was accompanied by reduced clot firmness 24 h after sevoflurane inhalation compared with control. We demonstrated for the first time that inhaling low-dose sevoflurane (<1 vol % end-tidal) inhibits agonist-induced granulocyte-platelet interactions 24 h after administration and thus counteracts thromboinflammatory processes."}
{"id": "18499589", "title": "Hypothermia and acidosis synergistically impair coagulation in human whole blood.", "content": "Hypothermia and acidosis synergistically impair coagulation in human whole blood. Hypothermia and acidosis were reported to influence coagulopathy in different clinical settings. We evaluated whole blood coagulation to determine the effects of hypothermia and/or acidosis on hemostasis. Whole blood samples (3.000 microL) from 10 healthy volunteers (2 female, 8 male) were acidified by adding 40 microL of hydrochloric acid of increasing molarity to achieve a blood pH (alpha-stat) between 7.0 and 7.37, and coagulation was analyzed by rotational thromboelastometry after an incubation period of 30 min using both intrinsically (InTEM) and extrinsically (ExTEM) activated assays. To assess temperature-dependent effects, all tests were performed at blood/thromboelastometer temperatures of 30, 33, 36, and 39 degrees C, respectively. An additional extrinsically activated test with addition of cytochalasin D was performed to examine clot formation without platelet contribution. Hypothermia at a normal pH produced an increased coagulation time [ExTEM: 65 s +/- 3.6 (36 degrees C) vs 85 +/- 4 (30 degrees C), P < 0.001; coagulation time, InTEM: 181 s +/- 10 (36 degrees C) vs 226 +/- 9, P < 0.001] and clot formation time [ExTEM: 105 s +/- 5 (36 degrees C) vs 187 +/- 6 (30 degrees C), P < 0.001]; clot formation time [InTEM: 101 s +/- 5 (36 degrees C) vs 175 +/- 7, P < 0.001], as well as decreased alpha angle [ExTEM: 65.6 +/- 1.8 (36 degrees C) vs 58 +/- 1.1, P < 0.01, P < 0.01; InTEM: 70.5 +/- 1.8 (36 degrees C) vs 60.2 +/- 1.5, P < 0.001]. Maximum clot firmness was significantly impaired only in InTEM assays [56.9 mm +/- 0.9 (36 degrees C) vs 52.7 +/- 0.9, P < 0.05]. In contrast, acidosis per se had no significant effects during normothermia. Acidosis amplified the effects of hypothermia, and synergistically impaired clotting times, alpha angle, and decreased maximum clot firmness, again in both extrinsically and intrinsically activated assays. Formation of a fibrin clot tested after abolition of platelet function by cytochalasin D was not impaired. Clot lysis decreased under hypothermic and/or acidotic conditions, but increased with hyperthermia. In this in vitro study, hypothermia produced coagulation changes that were worsened by acidosis whereas acidosis without hypothermia has no significant effect on coagulation, as studied by thromboelastometry. This effect was mediated by the inhibition of coagulation factors and platelet function. Thus, thromboelastometry performed at 37 degrees C overestimated integrity of coagulation during hypothermia in particular in combination with acidosis."}
{"id": "18496260", "title": "Does Hextend impair coagulation compared to 6% hetastarch? An ex vivo thromboelastography study.", "content": "Does Hextend impair coagulation compared to 6% hetastarch? An ex vivo thromboelastography study. The objective of this study was to determine if coagulation is different between 6% hetastarch in normal saline (NS) and 6% hetastarch in lactated Ringer's solution (LR), with use of an ex vivo thromboelastography (TEG) model with healthy donated volunteer blood. We simulated hemodilution that occurs during clinical resuscitation of hemorrhagic or hypovolemic shock, using healthy human donor whole blood (WB) ex vivo. Coagulopathy related to low, medium, high, or very high dilution of WB with NS or a high-molecular-weight hetastarch-based plasma expander, 6% hetastarch in NS (HSNS) or 6% hetastarch in lactated Ringer's [Hextend (HSLR)], was analyzed by thromboelastography (TEG). No changes were noted in the TEG profile of undiluted WB controls during the 6-hour period of use (P > 0.95). Dilution with HSNS and HSLR significantly impaired coagulation compared to both WB control and NS. Progressive dilution with NS impaired coagulation but to a lesser extent than colloids (P < 0.01). Low dilution of blood with NS increased clot strength by 12% (not significant; P = 0.097). We conclude that WB containing citrate obtained from healthy donors for TEG analysis yields reproducible data over a minimum of 6 hours. Either hetastarch, when present at concentrations comparable to the manufacturer's maximum recommended dose of 20 mL/kg (equivalent to the high dilution used in these experiments), decreases clot tensile strength to levels associated with an increased risk of bleeding. Substitution of lactated Ringer's for NS in 6% hetastarch appears to offer no advantage in avoiding hemostatic compromise in an in vitro model."}
{"id": "18494689", "title": "New advances in the therapeutic and laboratory management of patients with haemophilia and inhibitors.", "content": "New advances in the therapeutic and laboratory management of patients with haemophilia and inhibitors. The management of haemophilia patients with high inhibitor titres remains a major clinical challenge. In this manuscript, we present the new developments in the treatment and laboratory monitoring of these patients. First, we discuss a general treatment algorithm to control severe bleeding episodes in these patients, established by an international panel of haemophilia specialists. The main features of this algorithm concern (i) the optimal timing of clinical and therapeutic decisions and (ii) the appropriate use of recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) or activated prothrombin complex concentrates. However, until the clinical value of this algorithm is validated in real-world practice, the use of single high doses of rFVIIa should be considered as a valuable therapeutic option. Secondly, we present four laboratory assays, potential surrogate markers for the efficacy of bypassing agents used in haemophilia patients with high titre inhibitors. Preliminary data suggest that some of these tests, notably thromboelastography and the thrombin generation test, may be helpful for predicting the individual bleeding risk and for providing individually tailored treatment regimens. Overall, it may be hoped that these new developments will lead to a marked improvement in the clinical management of haemophilia patients with inhibitors in the near future."}
{"id": "18492116", "title": "Thromboelastography in children with coagulation factor deficiencies.", "content": "Thromboelastography in children with coagulation factor deficiencies. Hemophilia is traditionally classified according to the levels of the deficient coagulation factor as Severe (<1%), Moderate (1-5%) or Mild (>5%). However, it is well known that the factor activity does not necessarily correspond to the clinical bleeding manifestations. As prophylactic therapy is the best method of prevention of serious complications such as hemophilic arthropathy, a test that may predict the bleeding pattern would be extremely beneficial. Thromboelastography (TEG) uses whole blood to determine clot formation characteristics, such as initiation, propagation as well as strength of the clot, and is now being extensively studied in bleeding and thrombophilia. This study attempted to determine the TEG characteristics in 47 children with moderate hemophilia (MH) and severe hemophilia with (SHI) and without inhibitors (SH) and tried to retrospectively correlate them to the clinical bleeding patterns. TEG showed evidence of faster and better clot formation, as evidenced by a higher maximum thrombin/fibrin generation, in those with mild bleeding manifestations compared to those with severe bleeding tendency, in addition to the expected prolongation in time to formation of clot related to factor deficiency. This may be a potentially useful tool to evaluate the bleeding tendency and determine need for prophylaxis in children with hemophilia."}
{"id": "18486204", "title": "Cytotoxicity of the dental composite component TEGDMA and selected metabolic by-products in human pulmonary cells.", "content": "Cytotoxicity of the dental composite component TEGDMA and selected metabolic by-products in human pulmonary cells. The comonomer triethyleneglycoldimethacrylate (TEGDMA) is a commonly used constituent of resin-based dental materials. Upon placement, light-cured dental polymers may release a wide spectrum of residual compounds due to incomplete monomer-conversion during polymerization. Apart from liberating unreacted monomers, additional compound release might occur due to mechanical wear and enzymatic degradation on the salivary surface of resin fillings. Following delivery into the local bio phase, leached compounds may encounter a variety of different enzymes, which might be present in their oral or systemic environment. Metabolic by-products formerly associated with TEGDMA-degradation include triethylene glycol (TEG), methacrylic acid (MA), 2,3-epoxymethacrylic acid (2,3-EMA), and formaldehyde. Cytotoxicitiy of TEGDMA-derived intermediates was measured as mitochondrial dehydrogenase activity assessed by colorimetric measurement of formazan formation as a cleavage-product from the tetrazolium salt XTT by metabolically active A549 cells. EC(50)-values were calculated by using curve fitting software (GraphPad Prism). The following EC(50)-values (mmol/L) (95% confidence interval) were obtained: 2,3-EMA 1.65 (1.28-2.13), TEGDMA 1.83 (1.46-2.30), MA 4.91 (4.22-5.71), and paraformaldehyde (PFA) 5.48 (4.56-6.58). For TEG no cytotoxic effects up to a concentration of 10mM could be found. The epoxy compound 2,3-EMA induced comparable toxic effects as the raw comonomer TEGDMA. It is therefore concluded that the formation of toxic intermediates might significantly contribute to TEGDMA-induced cytotoxicity in human pulmonary cells."}
{"id": "18482390", "title": "Monitoring of bivalirudin anticoagulation during and after cardiopulmonary bypass using an ecarin-activated TEG system.", "content": "Monitoring of bivalirudin anticoagulation during and after cardiopulmonary bypass using an ecarin-activated TEG system."}
{"id": "18469549", "title": "Clot life span model analysis of clot growth and fibrinolysis in normal subjects: role of thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor.", "content": "Clot life span model analysis of clot growth and fibrinolysis in normal subjects: role of thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor. Hypofibrinolysis plays a role in thrombophilic states, and a thrombelastography-based method incorporating tissue-type plasminogen activator to determine vulnerability to fibrinolytic stress has recently been developed. This study proposed to kinetically define fibrinolytic vulnerability and the contribution of thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor to fibrinolytic defenses in normal subjects. Plasma from 30 normal subjects was exposed to tissue factor/kaolin and tissue-type plasminogen activator (100 IU/ml). Prior to activation of coagulation, samples were either not exposed or exposed to potato carboxypeptidase inhibitor (25 microg/ml, a thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor). Data were collected until clot lysis time was observed. In plasma, time to onset of maximum rate of fibrinolysis was 200-1125 s (95% confidence interval), maximum rate of lysis was -2.0--0.8 dynes/cm2 per s, and clot lysis time was 555-1595 s. Thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor's inhibition decreased the time to onset of maximum fibrinolysis by 45%, increased the rate of maximum lysis by 50%, and decreased clot lysis time by 45%. The study established a range of fibrinolytic kinetic values and the contribution of thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor in normal subjects. Study of disease states involving potential hypofibrinolysis (e.g., in-situ ventricular assist device, cancer) could be conducted using this system to link fibrinolytic vulnerability and thrombophilia."}
{"id": "18469548", "title": "Evaluation of thromboelastography for monitoring recombinant activated factor VII ex vivo in haemophilia A and B patients with inhibitors: a multicentre trial.", "content": "Evaluation of thromboelastography for monitoring recombinant activated factor VII ex vivo in haemophilia A and B patients with inhibitors: a multicentre trial. Predicting the clinical effect of bypassing agents such as recombinant activated factor VII in haemophilia patients with inhibitors is hampered by the limited availability of reliable laboratory monitoring tools. This multicentre, open-label trial aimed to explore the dose-response relationship between recombinant activated factor VII concentration and thromboelastography parameters in blood samples from patients with haemophilia A or B with inhibitors in a nonbleeding state. Citrated whole blood samples from 16 patients (>or=16 years) with haemophilia A or B were spiked ex vivo with recombinant activated factor VII (1.2, 1.6, 2.0, 2.6, 3.0, 3.5 microg/ml), corresponding approximately to doses of 90-270 microg/kg. Samples were analysed by Thromboelastograph or Rotation Thromboelastography (three United States and three European centres, respectively) within 30 min (final lipidated recombinant tissue factor 1: 17 000; final CaCl2 15 mM). Thromboelastograph/Rotation Thromboelastography parameters showed large intersubject variation in the baseline profiles. There was a clear effect when recombinant activated factor VII was added; however, a clear concentration-response relationship was only detected for one patient. This is likely due to the fact that the curves were not sufficiently abnormal that led to reduced assay sensitivity. Our preliminary results suggest that thromboelastography may potentially be a clinically useful tool for monitoring changing concentrations of recombinant activated factor VII in haemophilia patients, but only when the baseline curve is significantly abnormal. Thus, test conditions may need to be optimized before Thromboelastograph/Rotation Thromboelastography can be utilized for all inhibitor patients."}
{"id": "18469547", "title": "Race and sex differences in thrombogenicity: risk of ischemic events following coronary stenting.", "content": "Race and sex differences in thrombogenicity: risk of ischemic events following coronary stenting. Race and sex affect thrombogenicity. We have demonstrated that platelet-fibrin clot characteristics can be used to stratify patients for risk of ischemic events following percutaneous coronary intervention. We investigated race and sex differences in thrombogenicty and the relation to ischemic risk in 252 consecutive African-American and Caucasian men and women undergoing elective percutaneous coronary intervention. Platelet-fibrin clot characteristics were measured using the Thrombelastograph Hemostasis System. The incidence of adverse ischemic events was assessed over a 6-month follow-up period. Overall, 40 ischemic events (15.9%) occurred. Adverse events were higher in African-Americans than Caucasians (P = 0.14), and in women than men (P = 0.004). The incidence was highest in African-American women (37.5%) and lowest in African-American men (6.5%). Measured Thrombelastograph parameters were significantly different between ischemic and nonischemic patients (P < 0.05). African-American women in the ischemic group exhibited higher thrombogenicity than the other race and sex groups (P < 0.05). Multivariate logistic regression identified platelet-fibrin mediated clot strength (relative risk 2.52, P = 0.017) and sex (relative risk 2.56, P = 0.009) as significant independent predictors of ischemic events 6 months postpercutaneous coronary intervention. Thrombogenicity is a novel measurable cardiovascular risk factor that varies by race and sex, is highest in African-American women, and independently predicts the frequency of ischemic events following percutaneous coronary intervention. Point-of-service measurements of platelet-fibrin clot characteristics may lead to more intensified antithrombotic therapy and reduced mortality in selected patients."}
{"id": "18451116", "title": "Technical report: analysis of citrated blood with thromboelastography: comparison with fresh blood samples.", "content": "Technical report: analysis of citrated blood with thromboelastography: comparison with fresh blood samples. Thromboelastography (TEG) evaluates the visco-elastic properties of whole blood to assess clot formation and hemostasis. When blood cannot be analyzed immediately, it is stored in citrated tubes to be analyzed after recalcification. In this study, we evaluated the results of TEG analysis performed on citrated blood and compared these results to values obtained from activated (kaolin and tissue factor) and non activated, fresh blood samples, obtained at various time intervals (one, two, and three hours). Four blood samples were collected from each of ten healthy volunteers. The following TEG analyses were performed on each sample: reaction time (r), k time (k), alpha angle (alpha), and maximum amplitude (MA). Studies were done using fresh, non citrated blood, obtained within five minutes of collection, and using citrated blood, one, two, and three hours after collection. Samples were analyzed, with and without activation, using kaolin and tissue factor. Tissue factor activated and non activated, citrated samples had shorter r and k times (P=0.03, P=0.008, P<0.0001, and P<0.0001, respectively) and higher alpha angle and MA values (P<0.0001, P<0.0001, P=0.79, and P=0.03, respectively) compared to fresh, non citrated samples. These findings were consistent with a hypercoagulable state. Conversely, citrated samples, activated with kaolin, yielded results similar to those obtained from fresh, non citrated samples. The TEG measurements were similar among citrated samples stored from one to three hours. Our results demonstrate that TEG measures, performed on citrated blood samples, yield results that are consistent with a hyperocoagulable state. Using kaolin to activate citrated samples, on the other hand, yields results similar to those obtained from non citrated, fresh blood samples."}
{"id": "18449815", "title": "Antiplatelet effects of licking an aspirin tablet can be detected by thrombelastography.", "content": "Antiplatelet effects of licking an aspirin tablet can be detected by thrombelastography. Aspirin is a cornerstone of treatment in cardiovascular disease. However, individual responses vary and hyporesponsiveness has been associated with poor outcomes following percutaneous intervention. Point of care assays for detecting the effects of aspirin in individual patients would therefore be useful. Thrombelastography has been shown to correlate with optical aggregation in the assessment of antiplatelet therapies and is suitable for use as a point of care assay. We demonstrate the ability of thrombelastography to detect the profound effects of even the tiny doses of aspirin obtained by licking an aspirin tablet."}
{"id": "18445011", "title": "Thrombelastographic monitoring of recombinant factor VIIa in acquired haemophilia.", "content": "Thrombelastographic monitoring of recombinant factor VIIa in acquired haemophilia. Monitoring of the global haemostatic capacity is desired to optimize the treatment with bypassing agents in inhibitor patients. Thrombelastographic methods have been used in ex vivo studies and were suggested useful to evaluate the individual response to bypassing agents. This study aimed at assessing changes in thrombelastographic profiles and their association to clinical outcome in patients treated with recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa). Ten patients with acquired haemophilia were treated with rFVIIa for acute bleeding. Thrombelastography was performed after activation with a small amount of tissue factor in samples obtained before and after in vivo administration of rFVIIa. In patients studied before and after a first dose, correction of the thrombelastographic profile was observed but did not predict cessation of bleeding. During steady-state dosing, the median Alpha angle tended to be higher in patients with a good clinical treatment response as compared with patients with a partial or poor response. Similar trends were observed for clotting time and clot formation time. A good clinical treatment response was more frequent in patients with a fully corrected trough-level thrombelastographic profile as compared with patients with an abnormal profile. However, a poor treatment response was observed also in a surgical patient with a normal thrombelastographic profile during steady-state dosing. In conclusion, thrombelastographic monitoring was sensitive to haemostatic changes in response to treatment with rFVIIa. In the limited number of patients studied here, a better clotting profile during steady-state dosing was associated with a better clinical treatment response."}
{"id": "18440953", "title": "Evaluation of rotation thrombelastography for the diagnosis of hyperfibrinolysis in trauma patients.", "content": "Evaluation of rotation thrombelastography for the diagnosis of hyperfibrinolysis in trauma patients. Blood loss and uncontrollable bleeding are major factors affecting survival in trauma patients. Because treatment with antifibrinolytic drugs may be effective, early detection of hyperfibrinolysis with rotation thrombelastography (ROTEM may be beneficial. Eighty-seven trauma patients were included in this prospective observational study. Blood samples were collected at admission. After in vitro activation with tissue factor (EXTEM) and inhibition with aprotinin (APTEM), ROTEM parameters including maximal clot firmness (MCF) and clot lysis index at 30 min (CLI(30)) were determined. Hyperfibrinolysis was defined as a euglobulin lysis time (ELT) <90 min. Threshold for ROTEM parameters were determined with receiver-operating characteristic curves (ROC) analysis according to the ELT results. ELT was determined in a subgroup of 23 patients. In this group of patients, ROC analysis showed that for a threshold of 18 mm (MCF-EXTEM), 71% (CLI(30)) and 7% (increase of MCF-APTEM), sensitivity was, respectively, 100%, 75%, and 80% with a specificity of 100%. With the application of these thresholds to the whole trauma cohort, ROTEM analysis detected hyperfibrinolysis in five patients [6%, 95% confidence interval (CI): 2-13%]. As expected, patients with hyperfibrinolysis were more severely injured (median Injury Severity Score: 75 vs 20, P<0.05), had greater coagulation abnormalities [international normalized ratio (INR): 8.2 vs 1.3, P<0.05; fibrinogen: 0.0 vs 2.2 g litre(-1), P<0.05], and a higher mortality rate (100%, CI: 48-100% vs 11% CI: 5-20%, P<0.05). ROTEM provided rapid and accurate detection of hyperfibrinolysis in severely injured trauma patients."}
{"id": "18440798", "title": "Impact of spacers on the hybridization efficiency of mixed self-assembled DNA/alkanethiol films.", "content": "Impact of spacers on the hybridization efficiency of mixed self-assembled DNA/alkanethiol films. The immobilization of DNA strands is an essential step in the development of any DNA biosensor. Self-assembled mixed DNA/alkanethiol films are often used for coupling DNA probes covalently to the sensor surface. Although this strategy is well accepted, the effect of introducing a spacer molecule to increase the distance between the specific DNA sequence and the surface has rarely been assessed. The major goal of this work was to evaluate a number of such spacers and to assess their impact on for example the sensitivity and the reproducibility. Besides the commonly used mercaptohexyl (C(6)) spacer, a longer mercapto-undecyl (C(11)) spacer was selected. The combination of both spacers with tri(ethylene)glycol (TEG) and hexa(ethylene)glycol (HEG) was studied as well. The effect of the different spacers on the immobilization degree as well as on the consecutive hybridization was studied using surface plasmon resonance (SPR). When using the longer C(11) spacer the mixed DNA/alkanethiol films were found to be more densely packed. Further hybridization studies have indicated that C(11) modified probes improve the sensitivity, the corresponding detection limit as well as the reproducibility. In addition two different immobilization pathways, i.e. flow vs. diffusion controlled, were compared with respect to the hybridization efficiency. These data suggest that a flow-assisted approach is beneficial for DNA immobilization and hybridization events. In conclusion, this work demonstrates the considerable impact of spacers on the biosensor performance but also shows the importance of a flow-assisted immobilization approach."}
{"id": "18437714", "title": "The influence of sex hormones on coagulation and inflammation in the trauma patient.", "content": "The influence of sex hormones on coagulation and inflammation in the trauma patient. Recent clinical studies have shown a sex dimorphism of morbidity and mortality due to shock, trauma, and sepsis, with females tolerating these insults better than males. Experimental animal studies have suggested that sex hormones have a pivotal role in this dimorphism. In the present investigation, a prospective cohort study at a university level-1 trauma center was conducted to evaluate the association between sex hormones and alterations in coagulation and inflammation. Patients with an admission to the intensive care unit, injury severity score (ISS) greater than 4, and obtainable consent were included in the study. In addition to routine clinical laboratories and patient outcomes, plasma TNF-[alpha], IL-6, IL-8, estradiol, progesterone, and testosterone were measured. Sixty-two patients (71% men, 29% women) met criteria for entry. Mean age was 42 +/- 17 years, and mean ISS was 23 +/- 13, with no statistical difference in age or ISS between sexes. Estradiol levels were positively correlated with ISS (P < 0.05) and negatively correlated with TNF-[alpha] (P < 0.01). Initial estradiol levels were higher in patients who developed an infection (P < 0.05). Testosterone was negatively correlated with age (P < 0.01) and was higher in patients who developed acute respiratory distress syndrome (P < 0.05) and in patients who did not survive (P < 0.05). The estradiol-to-progesterone ratio (E2-Pr) was higher in the survivors (P < 0.05). The E2-Pr had positive correlations with fibrinogen levels, rate of fibrin deposition and cross-linking, and overall clot strength (P < 0.05). Estradiol-to-progesterone ratio was negatively correlated with partial thromboplastin times (P < 0.01). In men, the E2-Pr was also negatively correlated with the time to onset of clot formation (P = 0.03). Sex hormone levels (or their ratios) were not correlated to platelet count or international normalized ratios. These findings provide evidence that sex hormone levels in the early posttraumatic period are significantly associated with alterations in the hemostatic and inflammatory response to trauma."}
{"id": "18435639", "title": "Does hemodilution by the crystalloid priming solution derange the efficacy of anticoagulation during cardiopulmonary bypass?", "content": "Does hemodilution by the crystalloid priming solution derange the efficacy of anticoagulation during cardiopulmonary bypass? Recent studies suggest the development of a procoagulant state with hemodilution. We conducted this study to investigate the effect of hemodilution, by the priming solution in a cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) circuit, on \"point of care\" coagulation assays (activated clotting time [ACT] and thromboelastography [TEG]). Twenty patients undergoing cardiac surgery with crystalloid priming of CPB circuit were evaluated. Confounding variables arising from contact activation were eliminated by minor modifications. Ten milliliter per kilogram body weight of priming solution (lactated Ringer's) was infused via the aortic cannula. ACT and TEG were performed, both prior to and immediately after hemodilution. In case of latter, four variables, reaction time (r), coagulation time (k), maximum amplitude (MA), and clot formation rate (angle alpha), were estimated and considered for the results. To see if these results are duplicated \"in vitro,\" prebypass blood samples from eight heparinized patients, diluted (4:1) with priming solution from the venous reservoir, were also analyzed. Falls in ACT, from a mean of 659.7 (+/-260.6) seconds to 251.5 (+/-103.2) seconds (p < 0.01), r time (678.1 [+/-318.1] sec to 468.7 [+/-152.7] sec) (p < 0.01), and k time (211.7 [+/-161.7] sec to 123.8 [+/-32.1] sec) (p < 0.05) on TEG were noted upon hemodilution. Angle alpha and MA increased, but were not statistically significant. Results from the in vitro study closely matched the results from our in vivo analysis. The study suggests that hemodilution by crystalloid priming solution may impair the efficacy of anticoagulation during CPB. The mechanism for this phenomenon remains to be elucidated."}
{"id": "18420889", "title": "Which hemostatic changes determine clinical outcome?", "content": "Which hemostatic changes determine clinical outcome?"}
{"id": "18420846", "title": "Coagulation monitoring: current techniques and clinical use of viscoelastic point-of-care coagulation devices.", "content": "Coagulation monitoring: current techniques and clinical use of viscoelastic point-of-care coagulation devices. Perioperative monitoring of blood coagulation is critical to better understand causes of hemorrhage, to guide hemostatic therapies, and to predict the risk of bleeding during the consecutive anesthetic or surgical procedures. Point-of-care (POC) coagulation monitoring devices assessing the viscoelastic properties of whole blood, i.e., thrombelastography, rotation thrombelastometry, and Sonoclot analysis, may overcome several limitations of routine coagulation tests in the perioperative setting. The advantage of these techniques is that they have the potential to measure the clotting process, starting with fibrin formation and continue through to clot retraction and fibrinolysis at the bedside, with minimal delays. Furthermore, the coagulation status of patients is assessed in whole blood, allowing the plasmatic coagulation system to interact with platelets and red cells, and thereby providing useful additional information on platelet function. Viscoelastic POC coagulation devices are increasingly being used in clinical practice, especially in the management of patients undergoing cardiac and liver surgery. Furthermore, they provide useful information in a large variety of clinical scenarios, e.g., massive hemorrhage, assessment of hypo- and hypercoagulable states, guiding pro- and anticoagulant therapies, and in diagnosing of a surgical bleeding. A surgical etiology of bleeding has to be considered when viscoelastic test results are normal. In summary, viscoelastic POC coagulation devices may help identify the cause of bleeding and guide pro- and anticoagulant therapies. To ensure optimal accuracy and performance, standardized procedures for blood sampling and handling, strict quality controls and trained personnel are required."}
{"id": "18420845", "title": "The in vitro effects of fibrinogen concentrate, factor XIII and fresh frozen plasma on impaired clot formation after 60% dilution.", "content": "The in vitro effects of fibrinogen concentrate, factor XIII and fresh frozen plasma on impaired clot formation after 60% dilution. Previous investigations have shown that increasing fibrinogen concentration improves dilution-dependent impairment of clot formation. We conducted an in vitro study to explore whether substitution with fibrin-stabilizing factor XIII (FXIII) combined with fibrinogen promotes further improvement of clot formation, and whether fibrinogen administration as concentrate or fresh frozen plasma (FFP) results in comparable effects. Blood from six healthy donors was diluted by 60% using lactated Ringer's solution. Aliquots of diluted blood samples were incubated with two different doses of fibrinogen concentrate, FXIII concentrate, the combination of both, or with two different doses of FFP. Using thrombelastometry (ROTEM) blood samples were analyzed at baseline (undiluted), after dilution and after supplementation. Variables were analyzed for changes from baseline, and effects of fibrinogen concentrate alone or combined with FXIII were compared with effects observed with corresponding FFP doses. After 60% in vitro dilution of blood all ROTEM parameters and global coagulation tests changed significantly. Among the substitutes tested FXIII alone had no effect, the combination with fibrinogen improved coagulation time, alpha angle and fibrinogen/fibrin polymerization significantly more than did small-dose fibrinogen alone. After substituting fibrinogen, median values of all ROTEM variables were within the normal range, thereby showing dose dependency but also significant differences (P = 0.027) from corresponding FFP doses (EXTEM MCF FFP small dose [38 (35, 40.3) mm)], which enabled only coagulation time to be shortened to baseline levels. Supplementation of fibrinogen restored all ROTEM parameters after dilution. This effect was partially enhanced by adding FXIII and was significantly stronger than for FFP substitution."}
{"id": "18400638", "title": "[Thromboelastography and its use in cardiac surgery].", "content": "[Thromboelastography and its use in cardiac surgery]. Thromboelastography is an alternative method to conventional coagulation tests for the general evaluation of hemostatic system. Cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass is accomplished by complex alterations of hemostasis, including acquired dysfunction of platelets, consumption coagulopathy and increased fibrinolysis. Despite major advances in blood conservation methods and perioperative care of the patients, transfusion rates in cardiac surgery remain high. Thromboelastography has an ability to assess almost all components of haemostatic system globally. Currently, thromboelastography is used with standard coagulation tests to decrease the microvascular bleeding and homologous blood transfusion in cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass. In this review, we aimed to discuss thromboelastography technology and its usage in cardiac surgery."}
{"id": "18400144", "title": "Pitfall in interpretation of TEG results.", "content": "Pitfall in interpretation of TEG results."}
{"id": "18393980", "title": "Enhancement of factor VIIa haemostatic efficacy by formulation with PEGylated liposomes.", "content": "Enhancement of factor VIIa haemostatic efficacy by formulation with PEGylated liposomes. Recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) is an effective treatment of the haemophilia patient with inhibitors and acquired haemophilia. However, on account of its relatively short half-life (HL), achieving therapeutic efficacy with FVIIa requires repeated injections. The development of a long-acting FVIIa product would therefore be beneficial. The formulation of factor VIII with PEGylated liposomes (PEGLip) was previously shown to extend the bleeding-free period in haemophilia patients. We report here an enhancement of haemostatic efficacy by similarly formulating FVIIa with PEGLip. Surface plasmon resonance analysis indicated that FVIIa binds non-covalently but with high affinity and specificity to PEGLip. A one-stage clotting assay demonstrated that formulation of FVIIa with PEGLip does not affect FVIIa activity and stability. A pharmacokinetic study in rats demonstrated that PEGLip formulation of FVIIa extends circulation time and results in higher FVIIa levels several hours after injection. Thromboelastography experiments indicated that PEGLip-FVIIa induces faster clot formation and higher clot stability than standard formulated FVIIa. These results suggest that formulation of FVIIa with PEGLip may lead to a safe and effective long-acting FVIIa that improves the care of haemophilic patients with inhibitors and acquired haemophilia."}
{"id": "18393146", "title": "Can we predict bleeding?", "content": "Can we predict bleeding? The prior identification of subjects who are likely to bleed excessively when subjected to operative surgery and other invasive procedures is desirable. Frequently, reliance is placed on laboratory-based screening tests of blood coagulation for this purpose. However, published evidence does not support this approach as the tests are not fit for purpose, and their sensitivity and specificity are low. Some more global assays may have use in the diagnostic workup in subjects with hemorrhage, but none has been established to date as an efficient method for prediction of bleeding in unselected populations. There is renewed interest in the use of the clinical history for the prediction of bleeding. Recent reports suggest that when a structured questionnaire is employed to derive a bleeding score, the positive predictive value of the approach for the detection of bleeding disorders is high."}
{"id": "18392323", "title": "Prolonged in-vivo half-life of factor VIIa by fusion to albumin.", "content": "Prolonged in-vivo half-life of factor VIIa by fusion to albumin. For the treatment of haemophilia patients with inhibitors, recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) is available as a therapeutic option to control bleeding episodes with a good balance of safety and efficacy. However, the short in-vivo half-life of approximately 2.5 hours makes multiple injections necessary, which is inconvenient for both physicians and patients. Here we describe the generation of a recombinant FVIIa molecule with an extended half-life based on genetic fusion to human albumin. The recombinant FVII albumin fusion protein (rVII-FP) was expressed in mammalian cells and upon activation displayed a FVII activity close to that of wild type FVIIa. Pharmacokinetic studies in rats demonstrated that the half-life of the activated recombinant FVII albumin fusion protein (rVIIa-FP) was extended six- to seven-fold compared with wild type rFVIIa. The in-vitro and in-vivo efficacy was evaluated and was found to be comparable to a commercially available rFVIIa (NovoSeven((R))). The results of this study demonstrate that it is feasible to develop a half-life extended FVIIa molecule with haemostatic properties very similar to the wild-type factor."}
{"id": "18388502", "title": "Whole blood coagulation measured by modified thrombelastography (ROTEM) is impaired in infants with congenital heart diseases.", "content": "Whole blood coagulation measured by modified thrombelastography (ROTEM) is impaired in infants with congenital heart diseases. Patients with congenital heart disease (CHD) often do have a variety of coagulation abnormalities that results in bleeding diathesis. Our study aimed to determine the impact of cyanosis and CHD on modified thrombelastography parameters, compared with children without CHD. Preoperative blood samples were taken for TEM analyses from a total of 51 infants scheduled for surgery. The following groups were examined: normal patients without CHD, acyanotic patients with acyanotic CHD, and cyanotic patients with CHD and with preoperative hemoglobin values higher than 15 g dl(-1). Mean values of all patient groups as well as all individual values of normal patients were within their normal ranges. Within these limits, however, clots were significantly inferior in cyanotic patients (worse mean values of eight out of 10 measured TEM parameters representing the intrinsic, extrinsic, and plasmatic pathways of coagulation) and in acyanotic patients (two out of 10 TEM parameters). Individually, pathological TEM parameters were found in seven (41%) cyanotic patients (P=0.003; vs. normal patients) and in three (17%) acyanotic patients (P=0.01). More than one abnormal TEM coagulation parameter was found in four patients, all of them cyanotic patients. Hyperfibrinolysis was detected in one patient, a cyanotic patient. The present investigation confirms previous findings that in patients with CHD the heart defect itself compromises coagulation monitored with TEM, but in addition, we demonstrate that cyanosis and/or polycythemia exert the essential negative impact on hemostasis. Preoperative hyperfibrinolysis detected with TEM seems to play no important role."}
{"id": "18388501", "title": "The value of rotation thromboelastometry to monitor disturbed perioperative haemostasis and bleeding risk in patients with cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "The value of rotation thromboelastometry to monitor disturbed perioperative haemostasis and bleeding risk in patients with cardiopulmonary bypass. Rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM) performed on whole-blood samples provides information on the contribution of fibrinogen and platelets to clot formation. Such measurements are believed superior to classical plasma coagulation measurements as a means of monitoring disturbed haemostasis. On-pump cardiac surgery is associated with high bleeding risk. The study objective was to obtain information on the frequency of abnormal values of ROTEM variables and to assess their value in estimating bleeding risk in such patients. We studied 150 patients undergoing elective on-pump cardiac surgery. We found a significant surgery-induced decrease in haemostatic potential, with more abnormal ROTEM values in intrinsically activated coagulation (up to 50%) than in extrinsically activated coagulation (up to 27%) or the maximum clot firmness in FIBTEM (10%), a test measuring the contribution of fibrinogen. All ROTEM variables tend to normalize within 14-18 h postoperatively. Best positive predictive values and specificity for a postoperative blood loss above 600 ml were found for the clot formation time in extrinsically activated coagulation (71%/94%) and the maximum clot firmness in FIBTEM (73%/95%); these values were superior to the activated partial thromboplastin time or prothrombin time (56%/72% and 43%/5%, respectively). There was no relation between preoperative or early postoperative ROTEM values and intraoperative bleeding. ROTEM recorded a benefit of administration of platelet concentrates or fresh-frozen plasma, particularly when given postoperatively, on haemostasis. In contrast, intraoperative administration of red blood cells impaired haemostasis. ROTEM can provide a more detailed diagnostic basis enabling a focused therapy to cardiac surgery patients with high bleeding risk."}
{"id": "18384352", "title": "Recombinant factor VIIa to prevent surgical bleeding in factor XI deficiency.", "content": "Recombinant factor VIIa to prevent surgical bleeding in factor XI deficiency. Factor XI (FXI) deficiency is associated with bleeding after invasive procedures. Risks of human plasma-derived FXI replacement products include transfusion transmitted infection, thrombosis and fluid overload. This study was designed to test the hypothesis that recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) is an effective haemostatic agent in patients with FXI deficiency undergoing surgery. Fourteen FXI deficient patients [five severely deficient (FXI:C <20 U dL(-1)) and nine partially deficient (FXI:C 20-70 U dL(-1)] received rFVIIa to prevent surgical bleeding during five major, four minor and six dental procedures. Minor surgical and dental procedures were covered with two doses of rFVIIa (90 microg kg(-1) i.v.), the first pre-operatively and the second 4 h postoperatively. Major surgery was covered with 90 microg kg(-1) i.v. two hourly for the first 24 h and four hourly for the second 24 h. Oral tranexamic acid was given for 7 days postoperatively. Effective haemostasis was observed in all cases and no alternative haemostatic agents or blood transfusions were required. Three adverse events were recorded; an acute cerebrovascular accident in a patient with a history of cardiovascular disease, an allergic reaction and local phlebitis. In this study, rFVIIa was an effective alternative to plasma-derived FXI replacement for the prevention of surgical bleeding in FXI deficient patients but rFVIIa may not be suitable for patients with pre-existing risk factors for thrombosis."}
{"id": "18376283", "title": "Clot strength: a comparison between cord and adult blood by means of thrombelastometry.", "content": "Clot strength: a comparison between cord and adult blood by means of thrombelastometry. To evaluate the clot strength in cord versus adult blood. Thrombelastometry (TEM) was the method of choice as it provides information on the clot strength in terms of the maximum clot firmness (MCF) and on the fibrin polymerization process in terms of the clot formation time and the alpha angle. The MCFs were significantly lower in cord versus adult platelet rich plasma (PRP, 63.0+/-3.8 vs. 67.0+/-3.9 mm, P=0.006) and in cord versus adult whole blood (WB, 55.3+/-3.8 vs. 59.3+/-3.6 mm, P=0.001) employing the thrombelastometry with extrinsic activator assay. We suggest that the diminished clot strength in cord versus adult blood and plasma samples is attributable to an impaired polymerization of neonatal fibrin: (i) the thrombelastometry with extrinsic activator and inactivated platelets (FIBTEM) assay revealed significantly lower MCFs in cord versus adult PRP (23.0+/-3.1 mm vs. 27.3+/-3.9 mm, P=0.002) and in cord versus adult WB (11.6+/-2.3 mm vs. 15.3+/-3.3 mm, P<0.001); (ii) the alpha angle in the FIBTEM assay was significantly lower in cord versus adult WB (39.0+/-12.8 degrees vs. 55.5+/-12.3 degrees, P=0.02); (iii) the clot formation times in the FIBTEM assay were significantly longer in cord versus adult PRP (248.0+/-143.5 s vs. 81.5+/-39.8 s, P=0.001). Neonatal fibrin shows impaired polymerization properties under our experimental conditions resulting in reduced clot strength compared with fibrin of adult origin."}
{"id": "18376174", "title": "A reduction in clot formation rate and strength assessed by thrombelastography is indicative of transfusion requirements in patients with penetrating injuries.", "content": "A reduction in clot formation rate and strength assessed by thrombelastography is indicative of transfusion requirements in patients with penetrating injuries. Bleeding is a major cause of death in patients with traumatic injuries. Recently, thrombelastography (TEG) has been suggested as an additional means of evaluating coagulation in trauma patients. We hypothesized that TEG data would aid in defining the coagulopathy of trauma in patients with penetrating traumatic injuries. A retrospective study was performed of patients (n = 44) with penetrating injuries admitted to a combat support hospital during a 2-month period in 2004. Recorded data included standard laboratory data, TEG parameters, and blood product use in the first 24 hours after admission. Values were compared with clinically accepted ranges and those obtained from the Haemoscope Corporation. At admission, International Normalization Ratio, prothrombin time, and partial thromboplastin time were increased in 39% (>or=1.5), 31% (>16 seconds), and 37% (>40 seconds) of patients, respectively, suggesting hypocoagulation, but these variables did not correlate with the use of blood products (p > 0.05). TEG values obtained within 24 hours of admission (6 hours +/- 5.7 hours; median of 4.5 hours) demonstrated hypocoagulation based on delayed propagation of the clot (increased K time and reduced alpha-angle) and decreased clot strength (reduced maximal amplitude [MA]). MA correlated (r = 0.57, p < 0.01) with blood product use as well as platelet count (r = 0.61, p < 0.01). Patients with reduced MA (n = 23) used more blood products and had reduced platelet counts and hematocrit. Thrombelastography was a more accurate indicator of blood product requirements in our patient population than prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, and International Normalization Ratio. Thrombelastography enhanced by platelet count and hematocrit can guide blood transfusion requirements."}
{"id": "18376164", "title": "Combining early coagulation and inflammatory status improves prediction of mortality in burned and nonburned trauma patients.", "content": "Combining early coagulation and inflammatory status improves prediction of mortality in burned and nonburned trauma patients. After injury, there is a synergistic response between inflammation and coagulation systems. We hypothesized that combining markers of these processes and standard clinical indices would improve early prediction of in- hospital mortality in burned and nonburned trauma patients. Patients admitted to the surgical or burn intensive care unit within 24 hours of injury with an anticipated stay >or=3 days were enrolled during a one year period. Upon admission, blood was drawn for thromboelastography, plasma-based clotting assays, and cytokine levels. Clinical indices and multiple organ dysfunction syndrome (MODS) scores were recorded. Candidate variables evaluated included age, percentage third degree burns, inhalation injury, percentage total body surface area burns, interleukin-6, tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin-8, prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time (PTT), maximal amplitude reflective of clot strength, group (burn or nonburn) and admission MODS. Multiple logistic regression with stepwise selection and likelihood ratio test was performed to identify predictors for mortality. A receiver operating characteristic (ROC) curve was constructed to assess the diagnostic performance of identified predictors. Validation of the model with an additional cohort was performed. For model development, we enrolled 25 burned and 33 nonburned trauma patients (20 blunt and 13 penetrating injuries). Fifteen deaths occurred. Multiple logistic regression analysis identified six independent risk factors for death: age, percentage third degree burns, inhalation injury, tumor necrosis factor alpha level, maximal amplitude, and MODS score with an area under ROC curve of 0.961 (95% confidence interval: 0.891, 1.000, p < 0.05). The area under the ROC curve for the validation cohort (n = 66) was 0.936 (95% confidence interval: 0.875, 0.997, p < 0.001). Our model improves prediction of in-hospital mortality in comparison to previous methods for burn and nonburn trauma patients. Furthermore, our model is equally applicable to all patients regardless of type of traumatic injury (nonburn or burn). This improvement is because of the inclusion of patient's early coagulation and inflammatory status in addition to standard clinical indices. These data provide a baseline within which to measure incremental improvements in care."}
{"id": "18375137", "title": "Guideline on antiplatelet and anticoagulation management in cardiac surgery.", "content": "Guideline on antiplatelet and anticoagulation management in cardiac surgery. This document presents a professional view of evidence-based recommendations around the issues of antiplatelet and anticoagulation management in cardiac surgery. It was prepared by the Audit and Guidelines Committee of the European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery (EACTS). We review the following topics: evidence for aspirin, clopidogrel and warfarin cessation prior to cardiac surgery; perioperative interventions to reduce bleeding including the use of aprotinin and tranexamic acid; the use of thromboelastography to guide blood product usage; protamine reversal of heparin; the use of factor VIIa to control severe bleeding; anticoagulation after mechanical, tissue valve replacement and mitral valve repair; the use of antiplatelets and clopidogrel after cardiac surgery to improve graft patency and reduce thromboembolic complications and thromboprophylaxis in the postoperative period. This guideline is subject to continuous informal review, and when new evidence becomes available. The formal review date will be at 5 years from publication (September 2013)."}
{"id": "18360062", "title": "Postoperative blood loss in coronary surgery. No real impact of fibrinolysis detected by thromboelastography and D-dimers. A prospective, randomized study.", "content": "Postoperative blood loss in coronary surgery. No real impact of fibrinolysis detected by thromboelastography and D-dimers. A prospective, randomized study. Although in many cardiac surgery centers pharmacological strategies based on fibrinolytic inhibitors are used on a routine basis, detailed knowledge of fibrinolysis during various settings of coronary surgery is still limited. Sixty-five patients scheduled for coronary surgery were randomized into 3 groups: group A--conventional coronary artery bypass grafting, group B--off-pump surgery, and group C--coronary artery bypass grafting with modified, rheoparin coated cardiopulmonary bypass with the avoidance of reinfusion of cardiotomy blood into the circuit. The sampling time points for rotation thromboelastographic evaluations were as follows: preoperatively, 15 minutes after sternotomy, on the completion of peripheral bypass anastomoses, at the end of the procedures, and 24 hours after the end of surgery. D-dimer levels were evaluated before surgery, at the end of procedures, and 24 hours after surgery. Thromboelastographic signs of fibrinolysis (evaluated by Lysis Onset Time-intergroup differences at 60 and 150 minutes of assessment: P = 0.003 and P < 0.001, respectively) were clearly detectable during cardiopulmonary bypass in group A, but not at any time in groups B and C. At the other sampling times all thromboelastographic parameters were similar in all groups. In group A, no exceptional bleeding tendency (during 24 hours), as compared to groups B and C (geometric means and 95% confidence intervals: group A: 686.7 [570.8; 826.1] mL, group B: 555.3 [441.3; 698.9] mL, group C: 775.6 [645.1; 932.3] mL, P = 0.157), and no significant correlations between Lysis Onset Time, postoperative blood loss, and D-dimer levels were found. No significant differences in postoperative blood loss related to cardiac surgeons and assistant surgeons were detected. Thromboelastographic signs of increased fibrinolysis were detectable in the important proportion of coronary surgery patients operated on with the use of conventional cardio-pulmonary bypass, but not in off-pump patients and those operated on with the biocompatible surface-modified circuit without reinfusion of cardiotomy suction blood. These signs resolved spontaneously at the end of surgery and were not associated with increased postoperative bleeding. No significant correlation with D-dimer levels was found."}
{"id": "18358383", "title": "Comprehensive preoperative evaluation of platelet function in total knee arthroplasty patients taking diclofenac.", "content": "Comprehensive preoperative evaluation of platelet function in total knee arthroplasty patients taking diclofenac. The severity and variability of platelet dysfunction in preoperative arthritic patients taking nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) have not been well studied previously. We evaluate 30 preoperative patients taking diclofenac (group D) by routine coagulation screen, platelet count, fibrinogen concentration, thrombelastography, and PFA-100 (Dade Behring, Inc, Deerfield, IL)) platelet function analyzer. Ten patients (group P) and 30 healthy volunteers (group N) not taking NSAIDs serve as control. Diclofenac causes significant prolongation of mean PFA-100 closure times (P < .0001). However, the prolongation is highly variable; and up to 33% of patients are still having normal platelet function despite diclofenac consumption. Low body weight is a significant predictor of more severe platelet dysfunction (P < .01). Other tests are not useful. We conclude that not all patients taking NSAIDs have similar platelet dysfunction and that preoperative monitoring with PFA-100 is preferable."}
{"id": "18355556", "title": "Hemostasis management in pediatric mechanical circulatory support.", "content": "Hemostasis management in pediatric mechanical circulatory support. In a 9-year-old boy, bridging to transplantation was successful with an external biventricular device, the Berlin Heart Excor (Berlin Heart, Berlin, Germany), during a 7-month period. Main long-term complications consisted of infection and hypercoagulability with clotting inside the chambers necessitating six pump exchanges, but without thromboembolic events. This report reviews hemostasis monitoring and management of long-term mechanical circulatory support."}
{"id": "18346016", "title": "A comparison of hemolysis and red cell mechanical fragility in blood collected with different cell salvage suction devices.", "content": "A comparison of hemolysis and red cell mechanical fragility in blood collected with different cell salvage suction devices. Suction pressure is one variable that can affect the efficiency of red blood cell (RBC) recovery for intraoperative autotransfusion. This study compared a constant-suction-pressure system with a device that is expected to minimize hemolysis by automatically varying the suction pressure. Twenty-two 50-mL reconstituted whole-blood samples were collected from a flat surface with either a constant-pressure suction device (BRAT 2 autologous blood recovery system, COBE Cardiovascular) set to a pressure of -200 mmHg or a variable-pressure suction device (SmartSuction Harmony surgical suction pump, Haemonetics, Inc.). Time of blood collection was recorded and plasma free hemoglobin (PFHb) was spectroscopically measured in the aspirated blood. Postcollection blood was subjected to RBC mechanical fragility test to characterize potential sublethal blood trauma. Relative hemolysis and the mean fragility index (MFI) were calculated. Hemolysis was significantly reduced with the variable-pressure suction compared to the constant-pressure suction (2.17% vs. 3.20%, respectively; p < 0.001). There was no significant difference between both suction devices in either the MFI of RBCs (0.632 vs. 0.673, respectively; p > 0.05) or the collection time at -200 mmHg (54.2 seconds vs. 52.8 seconds, respectively; p > 0.05). Although the variable-pressure device produced a significant reduction in hemolysis during one-pass blood collection, the clinical significance of this reduction is not clear. In relative terms, the variable-pressure device would recover an extra 10 mL of RBCs for every liter of salvaged RBCs, which is negligible compared to the blood loss in major surgery."}
{"id": "18339213", "title": "Fibrinolysis or hypercoagulation during radical prostatectomy? An evaluation of thrombelastographic parameters and standard laboratory tests.", "content": "Fibrinolysis or hypercoagulation during radical prostatectomy? An evaluation of thrombelastographic parameters and standard laboratory tests. Radical prostatectomy is at high risk for intraoperative and postoperative bleeding due to surgical trauma, release of urokinase and tissue type plasminogen activator. We conducted this prospective, observational multi-centre study to assess the degree of systemic fibrinolysis or hypercoagulation in the perioperative period. We studied serial changes in standard laboratory values and in thrombelastographic (TEG; Haemoscope Corporation, Skokie, IL, USA) parameters including lysis at 30 and 60 min (LY-30, LY-60), alpha-angle (alpha) and maximum amplitude. In all, 49 patients undergoing radical retropubic prostatectomy in five Italian University Hospitals were included. Blood samples were taken before surgery (T1), at the removal of the prostate (T2), 4 h after surgery (T3) and then 1 day after surgery (T4). Native blood samples were analysed using a thrombelastograph Haemoscope 5000 (Haemoscope Corporation). We did not see any relevant activation of fibrinolysis during any stage. Intraoperatively, we showed even more activated blood coagulation with consumption of fibrinogen and a reduced TEG percentage clot lysis. Only at the first postoperative sample point we saw a trend towards a more fibrinolytic state indicated by increasing partial thromboplastin time, LY-30 and LY-60 values, and a peak of the fibrin degradation product D-dimers. This is consistent with a normal reaction to the hypercoagulable state before and is unlikely to be due to an intraoperative tissue type plasminogen activator release. We found no evidence of an uncontrolled activation of fibrinolysis on the day after surgery. On the contrary, alpha-values which indicate the rate of clot formation and which increase during hypercoagulation showed the tendency to rise slightly compared with the preoperative value. Neither standard coagulation parameters nor TEG values showed any significant activation of fibrinolysis or of hypercoagulation in the preoperative period. Nevertheless, hypercoagulation seems to have a substantial clinical impact as it has been shown that cardiovascular complications and pulmonary embolism were the most common causes of death after retropubic prostatectomy."}
{"id": "18338137", "title": "[Thrombelastometric detection of factor XIII deficiency].", "content": "[Thrombelastometric detection of factor XIII deficiency]. While undergoing Whipple's operation (pancreaticoduodenectomy) a patient developed diffuse bleeding and an unexpectedly high blood loss. An intraoperatively performed thrombelastometry with ROTEM (Pentapharm, Munich, Germany) showed an aprotonin-resistant mild fibrinolysis and suggested the presence of an isolated deficiency of coagulation factor XIII. This was confirmed by a second thrombelastometry, where no lysis was seen after in vitro substitution of factor XIII. After administration of 1250 IU factor XIII concentrate the diffuse bleeding ceased and further substitution of coagulation factor concentrates or fresh frozen plasma was not necessary. A postoperatively performed analysis confirmed the factor XIII deficiency (52%)."}
{"id": "18334781", "title": "Studies of whole blood coagulation by oscillatory shear, thromboelastography and free oscillation rheometry.", "content": "Studies of whole blood coagulation by oscillatory shear, thromboelastography and free oscillation rheometry. We report studies of the coagulation of samples of whole human blood by oscillatory shear techniques, including Fourier Transform Mechanical Spectroscopy (FTMS). These techniques are used herein to identify the Gel Point of coagulating blood in terms of the Chambon-Winter Gel Point criterion which provides a rheometrical basis for detecting the establishment of an incipient clot. A comparison of the results of FTMS with those obtained from measurements involving a Thromboelastograph (TEG) and a Free Oscillation Rheometer (FOR) indicate that the latter techniques are not capable of detecting the incipient clot, whose establishment occurs several minutes prior to TEG or FOR-based assessments of clot formation time. The results of the present study suggest that FTMS is a useful tool in blood clotting research, being capable of providing a global coagulation profile in addition to detecting the instant of incipient clot formation."}
{"id": "18328667", "title": "Endogenous heparin activity is decreased in peripheral arterial occlusive disease.", "content": "Endogenous heparin activity is decreased in peripheral arterial occlusive disease. Naturally occurring heparin-like activity in the form of endogenous heparin and heparin sulfate proteoglycans has been shown in normal human plasma. Exogenous low-dose heparin improves pain-free walking distance and maximum walking distance in peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAOD). Is reduced endogenous heparin activity responsible for some of the problems found in PAOD? This study compared heparin-like activity in patients with PAOD with that in healthy subjects and explored its relationship to disease severity. In part 1, native and heparinase-modified thromboelastography was performed on peripheral venous blood samples in three groups of patients to measure heparin-like anticoagulant activity. Group 1: 15 control subjects (median age, 60 years; range, 49-74 years; ankle-brachial pressure index [ABPI] >0.9); group 2: 14 patients with intermittent claudication (median age, 66 years; range, 56-80; ABPI, 0.69 [SD, 0.09]); group 3: 14 patients with rest pain (median age, 67.5 years; range, 54-84 years; ABPI, 0.45 [SD, 0.08]). In part 2, heparin equivalent to that in normal plasma was added to blood samples from 15 patients with short-distance claudication (n = 4) or rest pain (n = 11), and baseline (without heparinase) thromboelastography was performed to exclude lack of antithrombin as a cause of diminished heparin-like activity. In part 1, all patients with PAOD had a significant increase in coagulability compared with controls. Heparinase-modified thromboelastography in controls showed a significant decrease in the latent period between placing the sample in the analyser, where it is recalcified, to the initial fibrin formation (DeltaR time; P = .002) compared with native TEG, confirming endogenous heparin-like activity. Using DeltaR time as a measure of heparin-like activity, a significant reduction was found in patients with claudication (0.33 minutes; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.004-0.65; P = .02) and in those with rest pain (0.25 minutes; 95% CI, -0.02 to 0.52; P = .02) compared with that in controls (0.78 minutes; 95% CI, 0.39-1.16). The DeltaR time also correlated with the ABPI (r = 0.35, P = .02), suggesting declining heparin-like activity with increasing ischemia. In part 2, exogenous heparin restored the thromboelastography in PAOD patients to normal, suggesting that lack of endogenous heparin-like compounds rather than reduced antithrombin levels was responsible for changes in coagulation. Patients with PAOD have reduced endogenous heparin-like activity that correlates with disease severity."}
{"id": "18322882", "title": "Treatment of massive cecal bleeding in a 28-Year-old patient with homozygous factor V deficiency with activated factor VII.", "content": "Treatment of massive cecal bleeding in a 28-Year-old patient with homozygous factor V deficiency with activated factor VII. Factor V deficiency is usually accompanied with recurrent epistaxis, menorrhagia and haemorrhages after trauma. So far, gastrointestinal bleeding has not been reported. We describe here the first case of severe cecal bleeding in a 28-year-old woman with homozygous factor V deficiency. As a reasonable alternative to large amounts of fresh frozen plasma, we indicated recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa), as supra-physiological concentrations directly activate factor X and prothrombin on the surface of activated platelets. With this regimen, the bleeding immediately stopped and the patient was discharged three days later. Rotation thromboelastometry studies showed a marked improvement in clot generation after rFVIIa infusion. We conclude that massive cecal mucosal bleeding is a possible manifestation of homozygous factor V deficiency and rFVIIa could be a successful therapy."}
{"id": "18319729", "title": "Aspirin resistance is more common in lacunar strokes than embolic strokes and is related to stroke severity.", "content": "Aspirin resistance is more common in lacunar strokes than embolic strokes and is related to stroke severity. The aim of this study was to investigate the relationship between aspirin resistance, ischaemic stroke subtype, stroke severity, and inflammatory cytokines. Aspirin resistance was assessed by thrombelastography in 45 people with ischaemic stroke and 25 controls. Plasma interleukin (IL)-6 was measured. Stroke severity was assessed using the modified Rankin scale and National Institute of Health Stroke Score within 72 h of stroke. Aspirin resistance was more common in the stroke than the control group (67% versus 40%, P=0.028), and within the stroke group the aspirin-resistant group had a higher Rankin score (4.0 versus 2.0, P=0.013). Aspirin resistance was greater in lacunar than embolic strokes (platelet activation 79% versus 59%, P=0.020). The stroke aspirin-resistant group had higher levels of IL-6 than the stroke aspirin-sensitive group (2.4+/-1 versus 1.8+/-0.9 ng/mL, P=0.037). Using multivariate analysis, we examined the interrelationships between aspirin resistance, IL-6, and stroke severity. These analyses showed that IL-6 was independently associated with stroke severity as the outcome (B=3.738, P=0.036), and aspirin resistance was independently associated with IL-6 (B=0.765, P=0.005) as the outcome. In conclusion, aspirin resistance is related to stroke severity and aspirin resistance is more common in lacunar strokes than embolic strokes."}
{"id": "18292410", "title": "Improved clot formation by combined administration of activated factor VII (NovoSeven) and fibrinogen (Haemocomplettan P).", "content": "Improved clot formation by combined administration of activated factor VII (NovoSeven) and fibrinogen (Haemocomplettan P). Recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) is increasingly used for treating refractory bleeding after cardiac surgery. However, hemostasis also depends on coagulation factors, including fibrinogen, which stabilizes platelet plugs at sites of vascular injury. We compared the hemostatic effects of rFVIIa, fibrinogen, or their combination. Blood samples were obtained from 12 volunteers and from 7 patients after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). The in vitro effects of rFVIIa (1.5 microg/mL), fibrinogen (100 mg/dL), and the combination were evaluated under simulated coagulopathy in volunteer plasma using heparin (0.1 U/mL) or tissue plasminogen activator (0.1 microg/mL). Hemostatic interventions were compared using thromboelastometry, which measures clotting time (CT, s), angle of thrombus formation, and maximal clot firmness (MCF, mm). The Thrombinoscope was used to quantitate thrombin generation after addition of fibrinogen and/or rFVIIa. In heparinized volunteer plasma, rFVIIa shortened CT (1st and 3rd quartiles) from 663 (522-736) to 435 (397-531) s, but it did not affect MCF. Fibrinogen increased MCF from 26.0 (24.4-26.7) to 30.5 (26.3-31.5) mm without affecting CT. The combination of rFVIIa and fibrinogen in heparinized samples was most effective in improving CT to 359 (324-522) s and MCF to 29 (27.8-31.0) mm. In tissue plasminogen activator-treated volunteer plasma, fibrinolysis increased by more than 45% by the addition of rFVIIa. After CPB, both CT and MCF were most improved with coadministration of rFVIIa and fibrinogen. Thrombinoscope evaluation demonstrated that rFVIIa decreased the lag time and increased peak thrombin generation, whereas fibrinogen had no effect. The onset of fibrin formation and thrombin generation were shortened after rFVIIa addition, but fibrin clot strength was only increased after fibrinogen supplementation. In vitro clot formation was most improved by using both rFVIIa and fibrinogen in whole blood after CPB."}
{"id": "18292409", "title": "Fibrinogen in craniosynostosis surgery.", "content": "Fibrinogen in craniosynostosis surgery. During craniosynostosis repair, massive blood loss, consumption and dilution of clotting factors often result in coagulopathy, for which cryoprecipitate, fresh frozen plasma (FFP), and platelets are recommended for treatment. However, cryoprecipitate is not available in most European countries, and the efficacy of FFP in correcting fibrinogen deficiency is limited. We report our experience with human fibrinogen concentrate (Hemocomplettan) used to improve impaired fibrinogen polymerization in children. Results of routine coagulation tests, thrombelastometry (ROTEM), transfusion requirements, administration of fibrinogen concentrate, and data on the postoperative course of nine consecutive children undergoing major craniofacial surgery were retrospectively collected from anesthesia protocols, medical charts, laboratory and ROTEM databases. The nine children aged 12 (8, 22) mo (median [25th, 75th percentile]), weighing 9.5 (9, 10) kg had a calculated blood loss of 80 (49, 92)% of calculated blood volume during the surgery lasting 6.4 (4.5, 7.2) h. Impaired fibrinogen polymerization detected by ROTEM was the main problem underlying dilutional coagulopathy. In all cases, sufficient hemostasis was achieved without adverse effects by administering (if necessary), repeated doses of fibrinogen concentrates (each single dose 30 mg/kg) without FFP or platelet transfusions. All children were successfully weaned from mechanical ventilation within a few hours and were able to be discharged early from the Intensive Care Unit. Administration of fibrinogen concentrate effectively improves fibrinogen polymerization and total clot strength, which were the main underlying problems of dilutional coagulopathy in children undergoing craniosynostosis surgery."}
{"id": "18292408", "title": "Antithrombin affects hemostatic response to recombinant activated factor VII in factor VIII deficient plasma.", "content": "Antithrombin affects hemostatic response to recombinant activated factor VII in factor VIII deficient plasma. Thromboembolic complications can occur with recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) treatment in trauma and surgical patients but they are infrequent in hemophiliacs. Bleeding diathesis in these conditions is often attributed to reduced thrombin generation, which may be improved with rFVIIa. Normally, thrombin that diffuses from local vascular injury sites is quickly inactivated by antithrombin (AT). Evaluating the influence of AT levels on thrombin generation in hypocoagulable FVIII-deficient plasma would be a simple approach to better understand how procoagulant stimuli, such as rFVIIa, might result in postoperative thrombotic complications. We hypothesize that reduced AT concentrations would increase the procoagulant effects of rFVIIa in FVIII-deficient plasma. Thrombin generation was evaluated in vitro in FVIII-deficient and AT/FVIII-deficient plasma using thrombelastography and a thrombin generation assay (Thrombinoscope). The effect of added rFVIIa on these variables was evaluated. Delayed thrombus formation based on thrombelastography in FVIII-deficient plasma was predictably reversed by rFVIIa. Improved thrombus formation and responses to rFVIIa were observed when AT levels were 20%-50% of normal. Thrombin generation in FVIII-deficient plasma increased in an inverse relationship to AT levels. Supplemental rFVIIa decreased the lag time of thrombin generation but not the amount of thrombin generated. Using FVIII-deficient plasma as a model of reduced thrombin generation, we demonstrate that low AT levels enhance in vitro hemostatic responses to rFVIIa. Reduced AT levels in trauma and surgical patients with normal or increased FVIII levels may be considered potentially prothrombotic. Monitoring of AT levels during rFVIIa therapy may thus reduce thrombotic complications in nonhemophiliacs."}
{"id": "18289301", "title": "Evaluation of human recombinant tissue factor-activated thromboelastography in 49 dogs with neoplasia.", "content": "Evaluation of human recombinant tissue factor-activated thromboelastography in 49 dogs with neoplasia. Abnormal routine coagulation assay results have been reported to be common in veterinary patients with neoplasia, but the overall hemostatic functional state, including hypercoagulability, has not been described. The overall hemostatic functional state, including hypercoagulability, can be assessed in dogs with neoplasia by tissue factor (TF)-activated thromboelastography (TEG). Thirty-six dogs with malignant neoplasia and 13 dogs with benign neoplasia presented to the Small Animal Veterinary Teaching Hospital, The University of Copenhagen, Frederiksberg, Denmark. Prospective study evaluating the overall hemostatic functional state in dogs with neoplasia by a newly validated TF-activated TEG assay and routine coagulation parameters activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), prothrombin time (PT), platelet count, and D-dimer concentration. Hemostatic dysfunction was observed in 28/49 (57%) dogs with neoplasia. Twenty-four were dogs with malignant neoplasia, the majority of which 18/36 (50%) were hypercoagulable, whereas 6/36 (17%) were hypocoagulable. All hypocoagulable dogs had metastatic disease. The proportion of dogs with altered hemostasis was significantly different between dogs with malignant and benign neoplasia. TF-activated TEG detected hypercoagulable and hypocoagulable states in this population of dogs with neoplasia. The most common hemostatic abnormality in dogs with malignant neoplasia was hypercoagulability. These findings suggest that this novel hemostatic function test may be of value as a cage side method for the assessment of overall hemostatic function in dogs with cancer, including the detection of both hyper- and hypocoagulable states as well as mixed disorders."}
{"id": "18289228", "title": "Coagulation and biochemical effects of balanced salt-based high molecular weight vs saline-based low molecular weight hydroxyethyl starch solutions during the anhepatic period of liver transplantation.", "content": "Coagulation and biochemical effects of balanced salt-based high molecular weight vs saline-based low molecular weight hydroxyethyl starch solutions during the anhepatic period of liver transplantation. The anhepatic period of liver transplantation is generally marked by a decrease in preload, and the infusion of hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solution is often an effective way to restore volume deficits in non-anaemic patients. However, the infusion of even limited amounts of HES solution during the anhepatic period may result in a worsening coagulopathy. Moreover, lactate-containing HES solution may cause some degree of biochemical derangements in compromised recipients. Therefore, we compared two different types of HES solutions: a balanced salt-based high molecular weight HES solution (670/0.75; high MW group) and a saline-based low molecular weight HES solution (130/0.4; low MW group) with respect to coagulation and biochemical profiles. First, in an in vitro study (n = 48), thromboelastography was performed to determine the effects of two HES solutions on coagulation after diluting (11%) the recipient's blood sample with each HES solution. Second, in an in vivo study, 500 ml of one of the two 6% HES solution was administered to 74 recipients (n = 37, each group) for 30 min after starting the anhepatic period. The coagulation profiles, including thromboelastography, and biochemical profiles were measured before and 30 min after the end of infusion. Less impairment in the thromboelastography profiles and aPTT was observed in the high MW group. A higher calcium concentration and less reduction in platelet count were noted in the high MW group, but lactate accumulation was greater. In conclusion, a balanced salt-based high molecular weight HES solution is a more effective volume replacement during the anhepatic period of liver transplantation with respect to coagulation than a saline-based low molecular weight HES solution, although lactate accumulation is a possible concern."}
{"id": "18277134", "title": "Effects of recombinant activated factor VII on thrombin-mediated feedback activation of coagulation.", "content": "Effects of recombinant activated factor VII on thrombin-mediated feedback activation of coagulation. Thrombin is a key hemostatic enzyme, which propagates its own generation by activating factors V, VIII, and XI. Sustained thrombin generation also activates thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI), which stabilizes fibrin clot against fibrinolysis. Recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) is considered a novel hemostatic intervention for refractory bleeding, but rebleeding episodes related to fibrinolysis still occur. The present study aimed to investigate the antifibrinolytic effects of rFVIIa in relation to thrombin generation. Using thrombelastography, the effects of rFVIIa on thrombin-activated fibrin formation and on fibrinolysis induced by tissue plasminogen activator were evaluated in various factor-deficient plasma samples. A Thrombinoscope was used to quantitate thrombin generation. Thrombin increased antifibrinolytic activity in a concentration-dependent manner as demonstrated by a longer clot lysis time. In plasma deficient in factors V, VIII, IX, X, or XI, clot lysis occurred early (< 20 min), and rFVIIa addition had minimal effect, except for improved antifibrinolytic effect in factor-XI-deficient plasma. A normal clot lysis time was observed in factor-XIII-deficient or dual antithrombin/factor-VIII-deficient plasma. Inhibition of TAFI increased the rate of fibrinolysis. Thrombin generation was delayed or decreased in single factor-deficient plasma except for factor XIII deficiency. After rFVIIa addition, the peak thrombin generation reached over 100 nmol/l in factor-XI-deficient plasma, but not in plasma deficient in factors V, VIII, IX, or X. Thrombin generation and subsequent activation of TAFI were important for clot stability. We conclude that rFVIIa therapy does not compensate for increased susceptibility to fibrinolysis due to lack of factor(s) necessary for the formation of tenase and prothrombinase."}
{"id": "18266780", "title": "The dynamics of clot formation in fresh-frozen plasma.", "content": "The dynamics of clot formation in fresh-frozen plasma. Factor VIII (FVIII) levels are used as a quality marker of fresh-frozen plasma (FFP); however, other clotting factors are not routinely measured. We assessed additional haemostatic parameters and the dynamics of coagulation using Thrombelastography (TEG) and a thrombin generation test (TGT). FFP was prepared on the day of donation (Day 0) or after overnight hold at 4 degrees C (Day 1). Factor VIII in Day 1 FFP was 18% lower than in Day 0. TEG parameters in Day 1 FFP were consistent with increased coagulability and did not correlate with altered levels of clotting factors, but were consistent with the increased levels of microparticles seen in the Day 1 samples. TGT studies exhibited increased lag time, time to peak and reduced peak thrombin generation, but no change in endogenous thrombin potential (ETP) on Day 1. There was a weak association between FVIII level and both ETP and peak thrombin (ETP r(s)> or = 0.22, P< or = 0.003; peak thrombin r(s)> or = 0.48, P< or = 0.0001), which was influenced by ABO group, with the lowest levels in group O. We conclude that levels of FVIII do not predict the haemostatic potential of FFP and that there may be a role for alternative technologies in monitoring the quality of FFP."}
{"id": "18249330", "title": "A comparison of activated coagulation time-based techniques for anticoagulation during cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "A comparison of activated coagulation time-based techniques for anticoagulation during cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass. The inadequacy of heparinization during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) can lead to hemostatic activation with increases in postoperative blood loss and blood product requirements after cardiac surgery. Because activated coagulation time (ACT) measurements may not be accurate during CPB, the use of a heparin management system (HMS) has been advocated. This study compared the efficacy of a modified ACT-based system versus an HMS (Hepcon; Medtronic Inc, Minneapolis, MN) for CPB anticoagulation. Randomized controlled trial. Regional cardiac surgery center. Adult elective cardiac surgical patients. Patients allocated to the HMS group (HC) received individualized heparin doses as indicated by the Hepcon system. Patients in the modified ACT group (C) received a standard weight-based heparin bolus with further doses as dictated by the ACT (Max-ACT, Helena Labs, Sunderland, UK). In addition, group C received supplemental heparin, independent of the ACT, as dictated by the volume of crystalloid added to the extracorporeal circuit. Outcome measures examined were hemostatic activation, postoperative chest tube loss, and blood product requirements. This study showed no significant difference in efficacy between the modified ACT and HMS heparinization strategies. Although the HC group received significantly greater amounts of heparin, this did not reduce hemostatic activation, postoperative blood loss, or transfusion requirements. ACT-based heparinization was found to be as efficacious as the Hepcon HMS system."}
{"id": "18249329", "title": "Evaluation of a new platelet function analyzer in cardiac surgery: a comparison of modified thromboelastography and whole-blood aggregometry.", "content": "Evaluation of a new platelet function analyzer in cardiac surgery: a comparison of modified thromboelastography and whole-blood aggregometry. Impaired hemostasis of multiple etiologies are often present in patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) surgery. Platelet dysfunction is considered to be important in the early postoperative period. Therefore, a new whole-blood platelet function analyzer was compared with thromboelastography in predicting postoperative hemostatic outcomes as measured by blood loss and blood product use. Prospective study. Teaching hospital. The study enrolled 54 patients scheduled for coronary artery bypass surgery with CPB. Coagulation and platelet function were assessed preoperatively, after CPB, at 3 hours, and at 24 hours after surgery by using thromboelastography and impedance aggregometry. Patients were divided into a transfused and nontransfused group on the basis of postoperative transfusion requirements. Postoperative blood loss and requirements of blood transfusions were documented until 24 hours postoperatively. Twenty-five patients (46%) received postoperative blood transfusions. Impaired hemostasis occurred after CPB detected by thromboelastography (p < 0.01) and impedance aggregometry (p < 0.01). In contrast to thromboelastography, preoperative adenosine diphosphate-mediated aggregometry correlated with postoperative requirements for blood transfusion (Spearman r = -0.302, p < 0.05) and was significantly lower in patients receiving allogeneic blood transfusion compared with nontransfused patients (p < 0.05). Neither aggregometry nor thromboelastography was correlated with postoperative blood loss. Impedance aggregometry as well as thromboelastography are able to detect impaired hemostasis after CPB. In contrast to thromboelastography, aggregometry using a new whole-blood aggregometer identified patients with a reduced risk for postoperative transfusion requirements."}
{"id": "18249328", "title": "Does OxyVita, a new-generation hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier, or oxyglobin acutely interfere with coagulation compared with normal saline or 6% hetastarch? An ex vivo thromboelastography study.", "content": "Does OxyVita, a new-generation hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier, or oxyglobin acutely interfere with coagulation compared with normal saline or 6% hetastarch? An ex vivo thromboelastography study. Because hetastarches have deleterious effects on coagulation that increase with molecular weight (MWt), risk of coagulopathy associated with a high MWt hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier (HBOC) was studied. Preliminary laboratory study of donor blood using thromboelastography (TEG). University laboratory. Volunteer donor blood. Experiments simulated hemodilution during clinical resuscitation of hemorrhagic shock with varying doses of HBOCs. Coagulopathy related to 1:11, 1:5, 1:2, or 1:1 dilution of whole blood with normal saline, 6% hetastarch (670 kilodaltons [kD]), hemoglobin glutamer-200 (HBOC-200, 200 kD), or OxyVita (OXYVITA Inc, New Windsor, NY) (a new-generation, zero-link polymerized bovine hemoglobin-based oxygen carrier, 33 megadaltons) were analyzed. At 2 lower levels of hemodilution, hetastarch, HBOC-200, and OxyVita produced equivalent reductions in maximum clot strength (TEG-MA and TEG-G) that reached statistical significance compared with whole blood and normal saline. At 2 higher dilutions, OxyVita and HBOC-200 impaired maximum clot strength compared with whole blood, normal saline, and hetastarch. Dilution with hetastarch had a greater effect on clot propagation (K and alpha) than either HBOC. OxyVita and HBOC-200, HBOCs with different MWt, had similar effects on coagulation as measured by TEG. The impairment of coagulation by HBOCs and hetastarch occurred at doses corresponding to 12 mL/kg or a blood volume replacement of 17%. The use of HBOCs at doses corresponding to 23 mL/kg or a blood volume replacement of 33% significantly decreased coagulation to levels associated with increased clinical bleeding in this preliminary study. Minimal coagulopathic effects are expected with use of OxyVita at the manufacturer's anticipated effective dose of 10 g or 2 to 3 mL/kg."}
{"id": "18247491", "title": "Functionalized hydrophobic and hydrophilic self-assembled supramolecular rectangles.", "content": "Functionalized hydrophobic and hydrophilic self-assembled supramolecular rectangles. The synthesis of six new, functionalized 180 degrees pyridyl donor ligands and their coordination-driven self-assembly into supramolecular rectangles is reported. Three of the new donors have been functionalized with hydrophobic straight chain alkane units (C6, C12, and C18) while the remaining three have been functionalized with derivatized di-, tetra-, and hexaethylene glycol hydrophilic units (DEG, TEG, and HEG, respectively). The resulting self-assembled hydrophobic and hydrophilic supramolecular rectangles have been fully characterized by multinuclear NMR and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry. Molecular force field modeling suggests that the functionalized rectangles range in size from roughly 3.0 x 2.9 to 3.0 x 6.0 nm2 in size."}
{"id": "18241127", "title": "Human embryonic stem cells passaged using enzymatic methods retain a normal karyotype and express CD30.", "content": "Human embryonic stem cells passaged using enzymatic methods retain a normal karyotype and express CD30. Human embryonic stem cells (hESCs) are thought to be susceptible to chromosomal rearrangements as a consequence of single cell dissociation. Compared in this study are two methods of dissociation that do not generate single cell suspensions (collagenase and EDTA) with an enzymatic procedure using trypsin combined with the calcium-specific chelator EGTA (TEG), that does generate a single cell suspension, over 10 passages. Cells passaged by single cell dissociation using TEG retained a normal karyotype. However, cells passaged using EDTA, without trypsin, acquired an isochromosome p7 in three replicates of one experiment. In all of the TEG, collagenase and EDTA-treated cultures, cells retained consistent telomere length and potentiality, demonstrating that single cell dissociation can be used to maintain karyotypically and phenotypically normal hESCs. However, competitive genomic hybridization revealed that subkaryotypic deletions and amplifications could accumulate over time, reinforcing that present culture regimes remain suboptimal. In all cultures the cell surface marker CD30, reportedly expressed on embryonal carcinoma but not karyoptically normal ESCs, was expressed on hESCs with both normal and abnormal karyotype, but was upregulated on the latter."}
{"id": "18205897", "title": "Rotational thrombelastometry for the bedside monitoring of recombinant hirudin.", "content": "Rotational thrombelastometry for the bedside monitoring of recombinant hirudin. Recombinant hirudin is used as an alternative anticoagulant, particularly in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia type II. However, bedside monitoring for hirudin is not available. The present study aims to evaluate rotational thrombelastometry regarding its suitability to detect the effects of recombinant hirudin on whole blood coagulation. Hirudin was added to whole blood samples from healthy donors (n=5) and thrombelastometry variables resulting from activation of samples with tissue factor, ellagic acid, and ecarin were determined. Hirudin (0.1-10 microg/ml) was added to citrated blood. Thereafter, rotational thrombelastometry was performed by initiating coagulation via recalcification and addition of tissue factor, ellagic acid, and ecarin, respectively, using the commercially available assays. In the absence of hirudin, clotting times (CT) induced by ellagic acid, tissue factor, and ecarin, respectively, were 141.7+/-18.0, 54.0+/-7.6, and 64.5+/-4.1 s. Increasing concentrations of hirudin led to dose-dependent prolongation of the clotting time with the three activators. All assays were capable to detect hirudin concentrations in the range of 0.5-5 microg/ml. At a final hirudin concentration of 1 microg/ml, clotting time increased to 268.0+/-25.1, 84.0+/-9.3, and 107.5+/-9.9 s, respectively, with the above-mentioned activators. The other thrombelastographic variables, including clot formation time, angle alpha, and maximum clot firmness, were not altered by hirudin at concentrations up to 5 microg/ml. Our study demonstrates the suitability of rotational thrombelastometry to detect anticoagulant effects of recombinant hirudin."}
{"id": "18201612", "title": "Effects of activated and nonactivated platelet-rich plasma on proliferation of human osteoblasts in vitro.", "content": "Effects of activated and nonactivated platelet-rich plasma on proliferation of human osteoblasts in vitro. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of progressively increasing concentrations of activated and nonactivated platelet-rich plasma (PRP) on proliferation of human osteoblasts in vitro. Human osteoblasts (hFOB 1.19) obtained from the American Type Culture Collection (ATCC, Manassas, VA) were used in the experiment. PRP was obtained from a 28-year-old healthy male volunteer by means of a Haemonetics gradient density cell separator (Haemonetics, Munich, Germany). Human thrombin was used to activate PRP. Three independent experiments were conducted. Samples containing 10% (0.38x increase in platelet count), 25% (0.95x increase in platelet count), 50% (1.95x increase in platelet count), and 75% (2.86x increase in platelet count) of activated PRP and nonactivated PRP were prepared including controls. After culture periods of 24, 48, and 72 hours osteoblast proliferation was evaluated by counting the number of cells using a Multisizer 3 Coulter Counter (Beckman Coulter, Inc, Fullerton, CA). After 24, 48, and 72 hours of incubation, the number of cells in the control group (without PRP) was higher than that of cells in samples containing activated or nonactivated PRP. Osteoblasts with 10% activated PRP (0.38x increase in platelet count) had the highest viability of all samples containing PRP. Activated PRP resulted in higher proliferation of osteoblasts compared with nonactivated PRP at concentrations of 10% (0.38x increase in platelet count) and 25% (0.95x increase in platelet count) in culture. This study failed to show significant increases in proliferation of human osteoblasts treated with activated or nonactivated PRP compared with controls in vitro."}
{"id": "18180627", "title": "Warfarin reversal with prothrombin complex concentrate confers better antifibrinolytic activity compared with recombinant activated factor VII.", "content": "Warfarin reversal with prothrombin complex concentrate confers better antifibrinolytic activity compared with recombinant activated factor VII."}
{"id": "18165611", "title": "Thrombelastography in a patient with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia treated with argatroban.", "content": "Thrombelastography in a patient with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia treated with argatroban."}
{"id": "18160593", "title": "Homocysteine activates platelets in vitro.", "content": "Homocysteine activates platelets in vitro. The mechanism of thrombogenicity in hyperhomocysteinemia remains controversial. The authors investigated the association between elevated plasma homocysteine levels, platelet function, and blood coagulation. Blood was collected from healthy subjects and patients with critical limb ischemia. Basal platelet counts and platelet aggregation as well as flow cytometry were performed to assess spontaneous- and agonist-induced platelet aggregation as well as P-selectin and Glycoprotein IIb/IIIa expression at different homocysteine concentrations. Thromboelastography was performed, and platelet shape change was assessed, using a channelyzer, by measuring median platelet volume. Lactate dehydrogenase was measured, to indirectly assess red blood cell membrane integrity, after homocysteine exposure. The study results suggest that platelet activation and hypercoagulability occur after exposure to homocysteine, especially in patients with critical limb ischemia. Homocysteine concentrations of approximately 50 micromol/L appear to be the level at which these changes occur in vitro, and this effect on platelets appears to be indirect."}
{"id": "18158312", "title": "Effects of colloid and crystalloid solutions on endogenous activation of fibrinolysis and resistance of polymerized fibrin to recombinant tissue plasminogen activator added ex vivo.", "content": "Effects of colloid and crystalloid solutions on endogenous activation of fibrinolysis and resistance of polymerized fibrin to recombinant tissue plasminogen activator added ex vivo. The study was conducted to explore the effects of colloid and crystalloid solutions on activation of fibrinolysis during orthopaedic surgery and to determine whether fluids facilitate clot dissolution at a particular fibrinolytic activity. Tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) were measured in plasma samples of 66 orthopaedic patients randomly receiving gelatin solution, hydroxyethyl starch (HES) (130/0.4), or exclusively Ringer's lactate solution. Plasma obtained before induction of anaesthesia (undiluted) and at the end of surgery (diluted) was exposed to recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (r-tPA) in vitro and analysed by modified thrombelastography (ROTEM). There were similar changes in t-PA and PAI-1 concentrations in the gelatin, HES, and Ringer's lactate groups. When compared with the effect of r-tPA on undiluted plasma samples, the presence of colloids prompted faster clot dissolution than did Ringer's lactate solution. Lysis index at 30 min decreased significantly [median (min/max); P vs Ringer's lactate solution] to 43 (1/82)% (P=0.007), 14 (3/70)% (P<0.001), and 91 (34/97)%, lysis onset time decreased to 1269 (1054/1743) s (P=0.007), 972 (490/1565) s (P<0.001), and 1970 (1260/2165) s, and lysis time to 2469 (1586/3303) s (P=0.019), 2002 (1569/3600) s (P=0.006), and 3012 (2017/3600) s in the gelatin, HES, and Ringer's lactate groups, respectively. The type of i.v. fluid used does not influence endogenously occurring fibrinolytic activity in patients undergoing major orthopaedic surgery. However, during hyperfibrinolysis, the presence of HES or gelatin solution facilitates clot disintegration to a greater extent than Ringer's lactate solution, because the weaker clots formed with colloids dissolve faster."}
{"id": "18070065", "title": "Evaluation of rFVIIa (NovoSeven) in Glanzmann patients with thromboelastogram.", "content": "Evaluation of rFVIIa (NovoSeven) in Glanzmann patients with thromboelastogram. Glanzmann thrombasthenia (GT) is a rare platelet function disorder characterized by a defect in fibrinogen binding to platelet membrane glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa. Recombinant FVIIa (rFVIIa) is a haemostatic agent approved for the treatment of haemophilia patients with inhibitors, patients with acquired haemophilia and in EU also for treatment of factor VII (FVII)-deficient patients and GT patients with antibodies to GPIIb-IIIa. The present study was conducted to evaluate the use of the whole blood test system, rotational thrombelastometry (ROTEM), in measuring the overall haemostasis potential of rFVIIa in 28 GT patients treated with rFVIIa. The correlation of administered rFVIIa and time to start fibrin formation and clot dynamic/stability was assessed and correlation to the clinical response was elucidated. Assessments were performed on predose blood samples spiked with four different concentrations of rFVIIa and whole blood samples taken at 10 and 120 min following dosing. ROTEM parameters clotting time (CT), clot formation time (CFT) and maximum clot firmness (MCF) were measured. Both ex vivo and in vivo data showed beneficial effects on CT in the presence of rFVIIa, but no effect of added rFVIIa was seen on CFT and MCF. In conclusion, the use of thrombelastography at least in the modified form of ROTEM seems to be of limited use in predicting an adequate dose of rFVIIa in GT patients. A good clinical haemostatic response was recorded in spite of the limited changes in the ROTEM pattern supporting the conclusion that ROTEM should not be the method of choice for monitoring rFVIIa therapy in Glanzmann patients."}
{"id": "18069872", "title": "Controlled release of chol-TEG-DNA from Nano- and micropatterned SU-8 surfaces by a spreading lipid film.", "content": "Controlled release of chol-TEG-DNA from Nano- and micropatterned SU-8 surfaces by a spreading lipid film. We report the controlled release of immobilized cholesteryl-tetraethyleneglycol-DNA (chol-DNA) from micropatterned SU-8 surfaces by a spreading lipid film. The release of chol-DNA is rapid and on the order of the spreading rate of the lipid film beta = 1-3 microm2/s ( approximately 10(5) molecules of DNA per second). The lipid film serves as a poor solvent for the DNA adduct, which upon contact redistributes into the aqueous phase. Thus, the release of DNA is accompanied by a change in surface hydrophobicity. The method can be used for creating arbitrary concentration profiles of DNA in solution over time or to dynamically change surface properties on demand in, for example, micro- and nanofluidic devices. Examples of DNA release from spiral, comb, meander, and triangular as well as from nanoscale SU-8 lanes are shown."}
{"id": "18067490", "title": "Investigation of the thrombin-generating capacity, evaluated by thrombogram, and clot formation evaluated by thrombelastography of platelets stored in the blood bank for up to 7 days.", "content": "Investigation of the thrombin-generating capacity, evaluated by thrombogram, and clot formation evaluated by thrombelastography of platelets stored in the blood bank for up to 7 days. Transfusion based on the Thrombelastograph (TEG) results reduces transfusion requirements in cardiac surgery and in liver transplantation. Taking the pivotal role of thrombin generation in the coagulation process into consideration, the clinical utility of the TEG may, in part, depend on its reflection of the dynamics of thrombin generation. The kinetics of thrombin generation of platelets stored for 2 and 7 days, respectively, was assessed by calibrated automated thrombogram (CAT) and the lag time (min), time to peak (ttPeak; min), peak (nm thrombin) and endogenous thrombin potential (ETP; nm thrombin*min) were registered. Clot formation was evaluated by TEG and the R time (min), maxial amplitude (MA; mm), time to maximum thrombus generation (TMG; min) and maximum thrombus generation (MTG; dynes cm(-2) s(-1)) and total thrombus generation (TTG; dyne cm(-2)) were registered. Platelets become more procoagulant, evaluated both by TEG and CAT during storage. The reduction in CAT lag time and the ttPeak correlated with a decrease in the TEG R time and TMG (P < 0.0001) as did the CAT peak thrombin generation and the TEG MTG (P = 0.0035). No correlation between ETP and TTG was found (P = 0.65). The kinetics of thrombin generation, as evaluated by CAT, correlates with the thrombus generation, as evaluated by thrombelastography and this may in part explain the clinical utility of the TEG in identifying clinically relevant coagulopathies, secondary to impaired thrombin generation."}
{"id": "18059338", "title": "p38 MAPK plays an essential role in apoptosis induced by photoactivation of a novel ethylene glycol porphyrin derivative.", "content": "p38 MAPK plays an essential role in apoptosis induced by photoactivation of a novel ethylene glycol porphyrin derivative. In this study, we provide evidence that photostimulation of various cancer cells preloaded with a new photosensitizing compound, tetrakis-meso-(4-ethyleneglycol-2,3,5,6-tetrafluorophenyl) porphyrin (PORF-TEG), results in rapid activation of the cell death machinery. PORF-TEG, although primarily localized in lysosomes, induces mitochondria-driven apoptosis. The induction of apoptosis is accompanied by immediate and sustained activation of p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and transient activation of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK). Conversely, the inhibition of p38 by PD 169316 or SB202190 and by the p38alpha dominant-negative mutant as well as the deletion of the p38alpha gene (MEFs-KO) protected cells from apoptosis, whereas inhibition of JNK did not. Activation of the p38 signaling pathway occurs upstream of caspase activation. In addition, preincubation of cells with scavengers of reactive oxygen species attenuated p38 and caspase activation and increased cell survival, thus connecting reactive oxygen species formation with the activation of the p38 pathway. Later events included degradation of Bcl-2, activation of tBid, and cleavage of Bad and Mcl-1. The data suggest a key role for p38 MAPK in PORF-TEG-photoinduced apoptosis."}
{"id": "18056152", "title": "Heparin induced thrombocytopenia diagnosis in cardiac surgery: is there a role for thromboelastography?", "content": "Heparin induced thrombocytopenia diagnosis in cardiac surgery: is there a role for thromboelastography? The aim of the present protocol is to investigate the potency of thromboelastography (TEG) to screen postcardiac heparin induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) patients suspicious for HIT type II, and to differentiate which of them are subject to suffer thrombotic complications from those who will suffer hemorrhagic complications."}
{"id": "18021304", "title": "The active metabolite of prasugrel inhibits adenosine diphosphate- and collagen-stimulated platelet procoagulant activities.", "content": "The active metabolite of prasugrel inhibits adenosine diphosphate- and collagen-stimulated platelet procoagulant activities. Prasugrel is a novel antiplatelet prodrug of the same thienopyridine class as clopidogrel and ticlopidine. Metabolism of prasugrel generates the active metabolite R-138727, an antagonist of the platelet P2Y(12) adenosine diphosphate (ADP) receptor, leading to inhibition of ADP-mediated platelet activation and aggregation. ADP also enhances the platelet response to collagen, and these two agonists contribute to the generation of platelet procoagulant activity. We therefore examined whether R-138727 inhibits ADP- and collagen-triggered platelet procoagulant activities. As shown by whole blood flow cytometry, R-138727 inhibited surface phosphatidylserine expression on ADP plus collagen-stimulated platelets and tissue factor (TF) expression on ADP-, collagen-, and ADP plus collagen-stimulated monocyte-platelet aggregates. R-138727 reduced monocyte-platelet aggregate formation, thereby further inhibiting TF expression. ADP, collagen, and ADP plus collagen accelerated the kinetics of thrombin generation in recalcified whole blood and R-138727 significantly inhibited this acceleration. Clot strength in a modified thromboelastograph system was also inhibited by R-138727 (IC50 0.7 +/- 0.1 microM). In addition to its previously known inhibitory effects on platelet activation and aggregation, the active metabolite of prasugrel, R-138727, inhibits platelet procoagulant activity in whole blood (as determined by phosphatidylserine expression on platelets and TF expression on monocyte-platelet aggregates), resulting in the functional consequences of delayed thrombin generation and impaired clot development."}
{"id": "18005235", "title": "Intraoperative pulmonary embolism and intracardiac thrombosis complicating liver transplantation: a systematic review.", "content": "Intraoperative pulmonary embolism and intracardiac thrombosis complicating liver transplantation: a systematic review. Pulmonary embolism (PE) and intracardiac thrombosis (ICT) are rare but potentially lethal complications during orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). We aimed to review clinical and pathological correlates of PE and ICT in patients undergoing OLT. A systematic review of the literature was conducted using MEDLINE and ISI Web of Science. Seventy-four cases of intraoperative PE and/or ICT were identified; PE alone in 32 patients (43%) and a combination of PE and ICT in 42 patients (57%). Most frequent clinical symptoms included systemic hypotension and concomitant rising pulmonary artery pressure, often leading to complete circulatory collapse. PE and ICT occurred in every stage of the operation and were reported equally in patients with or without the use of venovenous bypass or antifibrinolytics. A large variety of putative risk factors have been suggested in the literature, including the use of pulmonary artery catheters or certain blood products. Nineteen patients underwent urgent thrombectomy or thrombolysis. Overall mortality was 68% (50/74) and 41 patients (82%) died intraoperatively. Mortality was significantly higher in patients with an isolated PE, compared to patients with a combination of PE and ICT (91% and 50%, respectively; P < 0.001). Intraoperative PE and ICT during OLT appear to have multiple etiologies and may occur unexpectedly at any time during the procedure."}
{"id": "17978172", "title": "Efficacy and safety of a new-class hemostatic drug candidate, AV513, in dogs with hemophilia A.", "content": "Efficacy and safety of a new-class hemostatic drug candidate, AV513, in dogs with hemophilia A. AV513 is a select fucoidan, a sulfated polysaccharide of botanical origin. It inhibits tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI) activity and accelerates clotting of human hemophilia A and B plasma. In prior work, subcutaneous administration of AV513 to mice with hemophilia A improved hemostasis. The current studies were designed to evaluate potential efficacy and safety in dogs with hemophilia A (hemophilia A dogs) with minimally increased hemostasis after adenoassociated viral-FVIII gene transfer and in treatment-naive severe hemophilia A dogs. AV513 administered subcutaneously to low-FVIII dogs for multiple weeks improved hemostasis as exhibited in thromboelastography (TEG) and cuticle bleeding time (CBT) tests. Moreover, AV513 administered orally to AAV-FVIII dogs and treatment-naive severe hemophilia A dogs for a multiweek dose-escalating period yielded correction to normal ranges in both TEG and CBT end points at 5 to 15 mg/kg and 15 to 20 mg/kg dose levels, respectively. In all 3 separate studies, throughout their duration, AV513 was well tolerated by the dogs without any adverse events. Additional pharmacologic characterization of AV513 included intravenous pharmacokinetic analysis in rats. In summary, the combination of safety and efficacy in 2 global tests of hemostasis in the hemophilia A dog model indicate that further evaluation of AV513 as a hemostatic agent in hemophilia A patients is warranted."}
{"id": "17935760", "title": "Beyond cell based models of coagulation: analyses of coagulation with clot \"lifespan\" resistance-time relationships.", "content": "Beyond cell based models of coagulation: analyses of coagulation with clot \"lifespan\" resistance-time relationships. Cell based models of coagulation (CBM) have provided mechanistic insight into numerous hematological issues for nearly two decades. This review discusses another coagulation model system--the clot lifespan model (CLSM)--that has been designed to compliment the CBM-based approach to elucidating the mechanisms responsible for a variety of hemostatic disorders/phenomena. The CLSM is a thrombelastograph-based approach that utilizes a standardized clotting stimulus (e.g., celite, tissue factor) and a fibrinolytic stimulus (e.g., tissue type plasminogen activator) to assess clot growth and disintegration via changes in clot resistance. The CLSM utilizes parametric, elastic modulus-based parameters to document these phenomena. The CLSM has recently been employed to discern the effects of protamine and hydroxyethyl starch on key fibrinolytic-antifibrinolytic protein interactions, as well as demonstrating differences in fibrinolytic kinetics dependent on whether contact pathway proteins or tissue factor is used to initiate coagulation. The CLSM is presently being utilized to investigate the effects of ventricular assist device placement on fibrinolysis, and it is anticipated that this model system will be employed in both basic science and clinical investigations in the future."}
{"id": "17900965", "title": "Rheometry and associated techniques for blood coagulation studies.", "content": "Rheometry and associated techniques for blood coagulation studies. This review considers various rheometrical approaches that have been adopted to study blood coagulation, with special reference to the rheological assessment of clotting time and studies of the evolution of viscoelasticity during the course of fibrin polymerization and cross-linking. The significance of the Gel Point in blood coagulation studies is discussed as a common feature of many of these studies in that they attempt to detect a liquid-to-solid transition during coagulation. Coagulation studies based on various forms of complex shear modulus measurements are considered, the latter being based principally on controlled stress and controlled strain rheometers. Also considered are the long established technique of thromboelastography and several emerging techniques such as wave propagation measurements, free oscillation rheometry, quartz crystal microbalance measurements and surface plasmon resonance."}
{"id": "17894787", "title": "Automated collection of double red blood cell units with a variable-volume separation chamber.", "content": "Automated collection of double red blood cell units with a variable-volume separation chamber. Automated collection of blood components offers multiple advantages and has prompted development of portable devices. This study sought to document the biochemical and hematologic properties and in vivo recovery of red cells (RBCs) collected via a new device that employed a variable-volume centrifugal separation chamber. Normal subjects (n = 153) donated 2 units of RBCs via an automated blood collection system (Cymbal, Haemonetics). Procedures were conducted with wall outlet power (n = 49) or the device's battery source (n = 104). Units were collected with or without leukoreduction filtration and were stored in AS-3 for 42 days. The units were assessed via standard biochemical and hematologic tests before and after storage, and 24 leukoreduced (LR) and 24 non-LR RBCs were radiolabeled on Day 42 with Na(2)(51)CrO(4) for autologous return to determine recovery at 24 hours with concomitant determination of RBC volume via infusion of (99m)Tc-labeled fresh RBCs. Two standard RBC units (targeted to contain 180 mL of RBCs plus 100 mL of AS-3) could be collected in 35.7 +/- 2.0 minutes (n = 30) or 40.3 +/- 2.7 minutes for LR RBCs (n = 92). An additional 31 collections were conducted successfully with intentional filter bypassing. RBC units contained 104 +/- 4.1 percent of their targeted volumes (170-204 mL of RBCs), and LR RBCs contained 92 percent of non-LR RBCs' hemoglobin. All LR RBCs contained less than 1 x 10(6) white blood cells. Mean hemolysis was below 0.8 percent (Day 42) for all configurations. Adenosine triphosphate was well preserved. Mean recovery was 82 +/- 4.9 percent for RBCs and 84 +/- 7.0 percent for LR RBCs. The Cymbal device provided quick and efficient collection of 2 RBC units with properties meeting regulatory requirements and consistent with good clinical utility."}
{"id": "17692903", "title": "Influence of polymorphonuclear leukocytes on the plasma clot formation as evaluated by thromboelastometry (ROTEM).", "content": "Influence of polymorphonuclear leukocytes on the plasma clot formation as evaluated by thromboelastometry (ROTEM). It has been emphasized that polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMN) participate in the regulation of coagulation. However, the mechanisms of action are not clear. Besides a procoagulant activity, anticoagulant or fibrinolytic properties are attributed to these cells. To explore their global effect, we have studied their involvement in the clot formation with thromboelastometry, which gives global view over the clotting process, in particular on the structure of the clot and on the kinetic of its formation. PMN were isolated from healthy blood donors and resuspended into autologous platelet-free plasma. The ROTEM device was used. Coagulation was triggered only by adding calcium chloride. Thromboelastometric profiles of PMN-rich plasma (PMN-RP) were compared with autologous platelet-rich (PRP) and platelet-poor plasma (PPP). The inhibition of both tissue factor and intrinsic pathways was also studied. The procoagulant activity of resting PMN was demonstrated as the initiation of fibrin formation with PMN-RP was significantly faster compared with both PRP and PPP. The kinetic of plasma clotting was remarkably improved with PMN-RP compared with PPP. However, the clot with PMN-RP had the same poor viscoelastical properties as PPP. Thromboelastometry gives a new point of view in the involvement of PMN in coagulation, in the absence of any PMN pre-activation. Their impact was centred on the kinetic and the facilitation of the clot formation."}
{"id": "18405087", "title": "A prospective study of medical students' perspective of teaching-learning media: reiterating the importance of feedback.", "content": "A prospective study of medical students' perspective of teaching-learning media: reiterating the importance of feedback. To enhance successful communication, medical teachers are increasingly using teaching-learning media. To determine medical students' perception of three such media (blackboard, overhead projector, and slides), and to generate recommendations for their optimal use, a prospective questionnaire-based study was carried out among 7th semester medical students of the University College of Medical Sciences and Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Delhi. Students made a forced choice between: (1) The three media on 8 questions regarding their advantages and disadvantages and (2) four aspects of a lecture (teaching-learning media, topic, teacher and time of day) regarding which made the lecture most engaging. Resulting data was analysed by Chi-square and Fisher's exact tests. Chalk and blackboard was rated as best in allowing interaction and helping recall (p<0.001 each). The overhead projector was best in providing information pointwise (p<0.001; 67 students, 89.3%, considered this an advantage). More subject matter could be covered per lecture (p=0.001; 58 students, 77.3%, considered this a disadvantage). Slides were best in imparting clinical details (p=0.004), but were sleep inducing (p<0.001). The teacher's style of instruction was most important in making the lecture engaging (p<0.001). The teacher's role in the learning process is important. Students enjoy the slow pace and interaction allowed by blackboard, pointwise information presented by the overhead projector, and the clinical details a slide can provide. The results suggest that the lecture could best be a combination of two or more teaching-learning media. Students' interaction should be encouraged whatever the media used."}
{"id": "18264612", "title": "The utility of thrombo-elastography in the monitoring of aspirin therapy.", "content": "The utility of thrombo-elastography in the monitoring of aspirin therapy. To assess the utility of the thrombo-elastogram in monitoring of aspirin therapy 25 healthy volunteers were selected and given low-dose aspirin therapy. Thrombo-elastography and platelet aggregometry were conducted at baseline and 1 week later. After 1 week of aspirin therapy, thrombo-elastogram data failed to demonstrate a significant change in the clotting profile. Platelet aggregometry identified significant changes in the clotting profile in response to stimulation with arachidonic acid, adrenaline and ADP. We conclude that thrombo-elastography may not have utility in monitoring of response to aspirin."}
{"id": "18068065", "title": "Platelet mapping and desmopressin reversal of platelet inhibition during emergency carotid endarterectomy.", "content": "Platelet mapping and desmopressin reversal of platelet inhibition during emergency carotid endarterectomy."}
{"id": "18047095", "title": "A polyol-mediated synthesis of titania-based nanoparticles and their electrochemical properties.", "content": "A polyol-mediated synthesis of titania-based nanoparticles and their electrochemical properties. Ti-based nanoparticles were prepared in polyol mediums of EG (ethylene glycol) and TEG (triethylene glycol), with heating treatment. Ti-based materials of dried power and heated samples showed average sizes of 4, 10, 3, and 8 nm with spherical shapes and monodispersed state, respectively. The XRD patterns of TiO2 and Li4Ti5O12 materials of dried powder and heated samples were indexed to anatase phase TiO2 (space group: I4(1)/amd) and the spinel phase (space group: Fd3m) except for the dried powder sample of Li4Ti5O12, which was corresponded with amorphous-like characteristics from the X-ray diffraction and electron diffraction pattern of Field emission-TEM analysis. The TiO2 and Li4Ti5O12 samples after heat-treated at 500 degrees C exhibited excellent high rate capabilities at a current density of 0.4 mA/cm2 during extended cycles due to their electrochemically beneficial highly crystalline characteristics, nano-sized (approximately 10 nm), and uniform distributions state."}
{"id": "18047094", "title": "A new synthesis route to nanocrystalline olivine phosphates and their electrochemical properties.", "content": "A new synthesis route to nanocrystalline olivine phosphates and their electrochemical properties. LiFePO4 nanoparticles were synthesized in various polyol mediums without any further heating. The LiFePO4 samples synthesized in polyol mediums exhibited average sizes of 20, 20, 50, and 50 nm with orthorhombic-like shapes. The XRD patterns were indexed on the basis of an olivine structure (space group : Pnma) except for the sample prepared in EG polyol medium. The LiFePO4 samples prepared in EG, DEG, TEG, and TrEG polyol mediums show the reversible capacity of 120 mA h/g, 144 mA h/g, 159 mA h/g, and 167 mA h/g at current density of 0.1 mA/cm2 with no capacity fading and excellent cycle retentions during extended cycles. Especially, the samples showed the excellent performances at high rate of 30 C and 60 C with high capacity retention. It is a speculation that nanometer size materials (approximately 50 nm) and a uniform size-distribution with highly crystallined phase may affect the excellent performances at high rate current densities."}
{"id": "18042858", "title": "Reference values for kaolin-activated thromboelastography in healthy children.", "content": "Reference values for kaolin-activated thromboelastography in healthy children. The hemostatic system of children changes with age and differs significantly from the hemostatic system of adults. Age-specific reference values are therefore required for most hemostatic variables. Thromboelastography (TEG) is a point-of-care coagulation test that may provide superior evaluation and management of coagulopathies after cardiac surgery, when large-dose unfractionated heparin is administered for cardiopulmonary bypass. In this study, we established reference values for kaolin-activated TEG in healthy children, to facilitate accurate interpretation of pediatric TEG results. Kaolin-activated TEG was performed on 100 healthy children undergoing elective day surgery and 25 healthy adult volunteers. The following TEG variables were recorded: reaction time, coagulation time, alpha angle, maximum amplitude, percentage lysis 30 min after maximum amplitude was reached, and the coagulation index. Differences between age-groups were evaluated using analysis of variance. Age-specific reference values for kaolin-activated TEG in healthy children between 1 mo and 16 yr of age are presented. No significant differences between children and adults were observed. TEG results, from a particular clinical setting, must be compared to age-specific, as well as analyzer- and activator-specific, reference values to allow for correct interpretation of the results. Reference values provided here will be of use in acute clinical situations where a practical monitor of hemostasis is required."}
{"id": "18034766", "title": "Tranexamic acid combined with recombinant factor VIII increases clot resistance to accelerated fibrinolysis in severe hemophilia A.", "content": "Tranexamic acid combined with recombinant factor VIII increases clot resistance to accelerated fibrinolysis in severe hemophilia A. Most patients with severe hemophilia A suffer from a profoundly compromised hemostatic response. In addition to both the delayed and slow development of a clot, previous studies have documented that severe hemophilia A is also associated with reduced clot stability. We examined whether the clot stability in hemophiliacs could be improved by treatment with tranexamic acid (TXA) in combination with recombinant factor VIII (rFVIII). Baseline blood samples were obtained from eight males with severe hemophilia A. Thereafter, a bolus injection of rFVIII was administered to increase the functional level of FVIII to approximately 50%. After 10 min, blood was collected followed by an intravenous injection of TXA. A third blood sample was obtained after a further 10 min. Whole blood clotting profiles were determined by thrombelastography using minimal tissue factor activation. Clot formation was assessed by both clot initiation and clot propagation. At clot termination, the maximum clot firmness and area under the elasticity curve were used to illustrate clot stability. Tissue-plasminogen activator was included in those experiments designed to assess clot stability. As expected, rFVIII increased clot formation, whereas TXA had no effect upon this parameter. Assays including tissue-plasminogen activator revealed that rFVIII increased the maximum clot firmness 3-fold; whereas the presence of TXA induced an additional 4-fold increase. The area under the elasticity curve increased 5-fold after rFVIII and 24-fold after addition of TXA. The study demonstrates that simultaneous treatment with TXA and rFVIII significantly improves the clot stability in patients with hemophilia A."}
{"id": "18020066", "title": "Systemic anticoagulant effect of low-dose subcutaneous unfractionated heparin as determined using thrombelastography.", "content": "Systemic anticoagulant effect of low-dose subcutaneous unfractionated heparin as determined using thrombelastography. In an observational study using heparinase-modified thrombelastography, we investigated the percentage of elective cardiothoracic surgical patients receiving low-dose unfractionated heparin (5000 IU 12 hourly subcutaneously) who had a demonstrable systemic heparin effect. Blood samples were obtained at induction from 40 adult elective cardiothoracic surgical patients who had received 5000 IU unfractionated heparin subcutaneously within six hours. Simultaneous kaolin and heparinase-modified thrombelastographies were run on all samples. Fourteen patients (35%; 95% CI: 20 to 50%) had a demonstrable heparin effect (defined as a kaolin thrombelastography R time >25% longer than the heparinase-modified control). Their mean +/- SD kaolin thrombelastography R time was 13.6 +/- 5.9 minutes (normal range 4 to 8 minutes) vs. 7.1 +/- 2.0 minutes for the heparinase-modified controls. In 10 patients the thrombelastography R times were >50% longer and in four patients >100% longer than their respective heparinase-modified controls. In a post hoc analysis, there was little correlation between the extent of the prolongation and patient age (r = 0.02), weight (r = -0.31), preoperative creatinine (r = -0.17), or time since administration of heparin (r = 0.14). These results indicate that about one third of patients who have received low-dose unfractionated heparin subcutaneously within six hours have a demonstrable heparin effect. The potential for this effect should be considered if central neural blockade is planned."}
{"id": "18001200", "title": "Platelet dysfunction in patients with severe traumatic brain injury.", "content": "Platelet dysfunction in patients with severe traumatic brain injury. Coagulopathy is a common phenomenon in traumatic brain injury (TBI) and a major contributor to a poor outcome. Thrombocytopenia is a strong negative prognostic factor in TBI, but bleeding tendency can be present even with a normal platelet count. We investigated platelet function in patients with TBI by means of modified thromboelastography (i.e., platelet mapping [TEG-PM]). Four groups were studied: (1) patients with severe isolated TBI (n = 20), (2) patients with general trauma without TBI (the ICU group, n = 10), (3) patients with chronic alcohol abuse (n = 7; as alcohol abuse is common in patients with TBI), and (4) healthy volunteers (n = 10). We measured platelet counts in venous blood (Plt), Ivy bleeding time, standard TEG parameters, and platelet responses to arachidonic acid (AA) and adenosindiphosphate (ADP), using TEG-PM. TBI patients had a lower Plt (180 +/- 68 x 10(9) ; mean +/- SD) and a longer bleeding time (674 +/- 230 sec) than healthy controls, (256 +/- 43 x 10(9), p < 0.01) and (320 +/- 95 sec, p < 0.005), respectively. TBI patients had dramatically lower platelet responses to AA (0-86%, mean 22%) compared to healthy controls (57-89%, mean 73%), the ICU group (4-75%, mean 49%), and the alcohol abusers (17-88%, mean 64%; p < 0.001). Responses to ADP did not differ significantly between the groups. Patients with low responsiveness to AA at admittance to the hospital were likely to develop bleeding complications later. Patients with TBI develop platelet dysfunction, which most likely contributes to bleeding complications. The observed platelet dysfunction appears to involve the cyclooxygenase pathway. TEG-PM analysis can be used to identify patients with a high risk of bleeding complications."}
{"id": "17998793", "title": "[Possibilities of platelet function assays].", "content": "[Possibilities of platelet function assays]. The aim of this article is to review various methods used and started to introduce into practice for determining platelet function, their possibilities, advantages, and disadvantages. Nowadays, in platelet function investigations, devices and their systems with unequal possibilities, operating in different principles, are used. However, because of a wide variety of platelets defects, none of them gives the accuracy of 100%. In order to avoid mistakes, several assays are used. Analysis of platelets function testing is represented in two ways: according to its investigation object and investigation methods and according to the most frequently used platelet function assays. The most important criteria are presented in two different tables."}
{"id": "17993954", "title": "In vitro effect of activated recombinant factor VII (rFVIIa) on coagulation properties of human blood at hypothermic temperatures.", "content": "In vitro effect of activated recombinant factor VII (rFVIIa) on coagulation properties of human blood at hypothermic temperatures. Recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) is currently administered off-label to control diffuse coagulopathic bleeding of patients with traumatic injuries. These patients are often cold, acidotic, and coagulopathic upon arrival and each responds differently to rFVIIa therapy. This study investigated the effects of hypothermia on clotting and the potential benefit of rFVIIa administration on blood coagulation at different hypothermic temperatures. Citrated blood samples were collected from eight healthy volunteers (20-45 years old) and incubated at 37 degrees C, 34 degrees C, 31 degrees C, and 28 degrees C for 30 minutes. rFVIIa (1.26 microg/mL equivalent to 90 microg/kg in vivo dose) or vehicle solution (saline) was added to each blood sample, incubated (10 minutes), and analyzed at the respective temperatures by standard coagulation tests and thrombelastography. The clot reaction time of blood samples, measured as prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, and R time (thrombelastography analysis), was significantly prolonged at 31 degrees C or below compared with at 37 degrees C. The clot formation rate ([alpha] angle, maximum clotting velocity [Vmax]) was decreased at all cold temperatures. Maximum clot strength (maximum amplitude) was only affected (reduced) at 28 degrees C. Addition of rFVIIa shortened the prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, and R times at every temperature, surpassing the normal (37 degrees C) temperature values in 31 degrees C and 34 degrees C cold samples. Similarly, clot formation rate parameters (clotting time, [alpha] angle, Vmax) were also improved by rFVIIa addition and normothermic values were restored in 31 degrees C and 34 degrees C cold blood samples. rFVIIa did not affect maximum amplitude at any temperature. Mild to moderate hypothermia delayed the initial clot reaction and reduced clot formation rate without affecting ultimate clot strength. FVIIa effectively compensated for the adverse effects of hypothermia except in severe cases. These results suggest that administration of FVIIa should be beneficial in enhancing hemostasis in hypothermic trauma patients without the need for prior correction of the patient's body temperature."}
{"id": "17990776", "title": "[Application of acute extreme hypervolemic hemodilution in spine surgery].", "content": "[Application of acute extreme hypervolemic hemodilution in spine surgery]. To evaluate the security and validity of the acute extreme hypervolemic hemodilution (AEHH) in spine surgery. Thirteen patients (8 males, 5 females; age, 16-65 years; weight, 50-75 kg) who had undergone major spine operations were enrolled in this study. Eleven of them had undergone anterior decompression, who were given the grafting and the internal fixation for their thoraco-lumber spinal burst fractures; the other 2 patients were given the correction operation for their scoliosis. The baselines of the haematocrit (Hct) were 0.363-0.481 before operation. The patients had no cardiac, pulmonary, hepatic or renal dysfunction or coagulation abnormality. The hemodynamic status and the haematocrit were observed during operation. The parameters of thromboelastography (TEG), arterial blood gas, and electrolytes were measured and observed at the following time points: before AEHH, after AEHH, 60 minutes after AEHH, 120 minutes after AEHH, and the end of the operation. The total fluid volume was recorded. The autologous blood volume was 1 050-1 575 ml (average, 1 419 +/- 198 ml), plasma substitute 2 100-3 150 ml (average, 2 838 +/- 397 ml), blood loss 1 000-3 130 ml (average, 1 747 +/- 743 ml), urine 450-1 270 ml (average, 871 +/- 374 ml), and the net blood transfusion 1 206-2 661 ml (1 863 +/- 598 ml). The homogenous blood of 400 ml was transfused in 1 patient for making up the blood loss of 3 130 ml. There were no statistically significant differences in the hemodynamic measurements, arterial blood gas, and electrolyte variables when compared with the baseline values before the hemodilution (P > 0.05). The reaction time of TEG was longer 60 minutes after AEHH than before AEHH (P < 0.05); the other parameters of TEG had no differences when compared with the baseline values (P > 0.05). The AEHH is safe and efficient in reduction of the perioperative homogenous blood transfusion in spine surgery."}
{"id": "17982319", "title": "Point-of-care platelet function tests: detection of platelet inhibition induced by nonopioid analgesic drugs.", "content": "Point-of-care platelet function tests: detection of platelet inhibition induced by nonopioid analgesic drugs. Detection of platelet inhibition is of clinical relevance in the preinterventional risk-benefit assessment in chronic low-back-pain patients scheduled for invasive pain therapy. We evaluated the sensitivity of various point-of-care platelet function tests for the detection of platelet inhibition induced by nonopioid analgesic drugs. After Institutional Review Board approval and informed consent, citrated whole blood from 40 patients with chronic unspecific low back pain was investigated before and 30 min after intravenous infusion of the study medication consisting of diclofenac 75 mg (plus orphenadrin 30 mg; Neodolpasse; Fresenius Kabi Austria GmbH, Austria), parecoxib 40 mg (Dynastat; Pharmacia Europe EEIG, UK), paracetamol 1 g (Perfalgan; Bieffe Medital S.P.A., Italy), or normal saline in a randomized, cross-over, double-blinded, placebo-controlled study. Platelet function was assessed using the PFA-100 platelet function analyzer and thromboelastometry, as well as impedance aggregometry (in the last 17 patients recruited after it became commercially available). Sensitivity for detecting diclofenac-induced platelet inhibition was 85% for the PFA-100 using epinephrine as agonist and 94% for arachidonic acid-induced impedance aggregometry. ADP-induced platelet function tests, as well as cytochalasin D-modified thromboelastometry were unreliable. All tests had a low incidence of false-positive test results after normal saline. Paracetamol and parecoxib had no significant platelet inhibiting effect. The PFA-100 using epinephrine as agonist and arachidonic acid-induced impedance aggregometry are recommended for the detection of cyclooxygenase-I-inhibiting effects of nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs such as diclofenac. Our findings confirm that a single rescue dose of paracetamol and parecoxib has no antiplatelet effect."}
{"id": "17982317", "title": "Thrombin-activated thrombelastography for evaluation of thrombin interaction with thrombin inhibitors.", "content": "Thrombin-activated thrombelastography for evaluation of thrombin interaction with thrombin inhibitors. For intravenous anticoagulation, heparin has been the mainstay drug, but its use may be contraindicated in heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and thrombosis. Heparin alternatives including direct thrombin inhibitors are available, but clotting assays (e.g. partial thromboplastin time) measure the time required to form fibrin gel when only a small amount of thrombin is generated. It was hypothesized that the extent of thrombin inhibition varies among inhibitors, and thrombin-activated thrombelastography would provide useful data on therapeutic responses to thrombin inhibitors. Thrombin was added (0-100 nmol/l final concentration) to nonrecalcified whole blood to evaluate clot formation on thrombelastography. Effects of direct thrombin inhibitors (argatroban 3.75 microg/ml, bivalirudin 15 microg/ml, and lepirudin 3.0 microg/ml), and heparin cofactor II activator and dermatan disulfate (20 microg/ml) were evaluated in the presence of 100 nmol/l thrombin. The interactions of thrombin and respective inhibitors were also compared by fluorogenic thrombin substrate cleavage. Increasing concentrations of thrombin progressively shortened the lag time and increased viscoelasticity on thrombelastography. Only 20 nmol/l thrombin caused instantaneous clotting, but maximal viscoelastic force was obtained at 50-100 nmol/l thrombin. All thrombin inhibitors prolonged the lag time (lepirudin > bivalirudin > argatroban = dermatan disulfate), but full recovery of thrombelastography viscoelasticity was observed with argatroban and bivalirudin. Lepirudin abrogated clotting, and dermatan disulfate suppressed clot development on thrombelastography. Thrombin substrate cleavage was observed only for bivalirudin, and heparin cofactor II without dermatan disulfate. The modified thrombelastography technique using nonrecalcified whole blood may be useful in evaluating the extent and reversibility of thrombin blockade with direct or indirect thrombin inhibitors."}
{"id": "17976458", "title": "Strategies to reduce intraluminal clot formation in endoscopically harvested saphenous veins.", "content": "Strategies to reduce intraluminal clot formation in endoscopically harvested saphenous veins. Residual clot strands within the excised saphenous vein are an increasingly recognized sequela of endoscopic vein harvest. We hypothesized that endoscopic visualization facilitated by sealed carbon dioxide insufflation causes stagnation of blood within the saphenous vein. In the absence of prior heparin administration, this stasis provokes clot formation. Forty consecutive patients having coronary artery bypass grafting underwent endoscopic vein harvest using sealed (Guidant VasoView, n = 30; Guidant Corp, Minneapolis, Minn) or open (Datascope ClearGlide, n = 10; Datascope Corp, Montvale, NJ) carbon dioxide insufflation followed by ex vivo assessment of intraluminal saphenous vein clot via optical coherence tomography. In the sealed carbon dioxide insufflation groups, clot formation was compared with (preheparinized, n = 20) and without (control, n = 10) heparin administration before endoscopic vein harvest, either at a fixed dose or titrated to an activated clotting time greater than 300 seconds. Risk factors for clot formation were assessed. Residual saphenous vein clot was a universal finding in control veins (sealed carbon dioxide insufflation endoscopic vein harvest without preheparinization). At either dose used, heparin given before endoscopic vein harvest significantly decreased saphenous vein clot burden. A similar reduction in clot was observed when using open carbon dioxide insufflation endoscopic vein harvest without preheparinization. Intraoperative blood loss and blood product requirements were similar in all groups. Patient age and preoperative maximum amplitude of the thrombelastography tracing showed a linear correlation with saphenous vein clot volume. By enabling the quantification of this issue as never before possible, optical coherence tomography screening revealed that intraluminal saphenous vein clot is frequently found after endoscopic vein harvest. Systemic heparinization before harvest or an open carbon dioxide endoscopic vein harvest system are benign changes in practice that can significantly lessen this complication."}
{"id": "17975713", "title": "[Bedside thrombelastography].", "content": "[Bedside thrombelastography]."}
{"id": "17973850", "title": "Correlation of thromboelastographic patterns with clinical presentation and rationale for use of antifibrinolytics in severe haemophilia patients.", "content": "Correlation of thromboelastographic patterns with clinical presentation and rationale for use of antifibrinolytics in severe haemophilia patients. Thromboelastography (TEG) assesses the global pattern of blood coagulation in the whole blood. Present day management of haemophilia is based on replacement therapy with lost factor by parenteral administration of factor concentrates. It is very well known that interaction of cellular components in the blood also affect the thrombin generation which in turn might produce varied TEG patterns that might reflect the clinical severity in haemophilia patients. We evaluated 66 severe haemophilia A and B patients (as assessed by one-stage assay) by TEG and correlated the varied TEG patterns with the clinical severity in the patients. Four distinct TEG patterns were observed; Group A consisted of eight patients with hypercoagulable patterns while group B consisted of two patients showing hyperfibrinolytic patterns. Group C comprised of 17 patients whose TEG tracings did not show the initiation of clot formation at all while group D comprising of 39 patients showed varied clot initiation times ranging from almost normal pattern to a highly prolonged split times. Groups A and D patients were relatively milder clinically while groups B and C were clinically severe as assessed by the number of bleeding episodes, the frequency of transfusion and joint deformity. Subsequently we also evaluated the in vitro efficacy of the antifibrinolytic drug, EACA in normalizing the TEG patterns in 12 patients (group C) who did not show the initiation of clot formation in the TEG tracings to see the contribution of fibrinolysis in producing such patterns. The use of EACA in vitro in this group improved the TEG profile of these patients. In conclusion, the classification of severe haemophilia patients based on TEG patterns correlated well with the clinical severity and the ex vivo use of antifibrinolytics like EACA are effective in improving the TEG profile of all patients who had an abnormal TEG pattern without any clot initiation."}
{"id": "17968522", "title": "Critically ill cancer patients are not consistently hypercoagulable after craniotomy.", "content": "Critically ill cancer patients are not consistently hypercoagulable after craniotomy. Recent reports using thrombelastography have suggested that neurosurgical patients develop a hypercoagulable state in the postoperative period. Since venous thromboembolism is a potentially life threatening complication in these patients, we studied a similar population in our institution. We conducted a prospective pilot study to evaluate postoperative coagulation changes in critically ill cancer patients after craniotomy. Data collected included demographics, diagnoses, severity of illness, all hematological information (coagulation tests included conventional and TEG), therapies, and complications. Analysis included descriptive statistics, and multivariate regression analysis. Eleven patients were included in the study. Mean age was 52 +/- 17 years, BMI 28 +/- 6.5, APACHE II and SOFA scores were 11.18 +/- 5.0 and 3.82 +/- 1.6 respectively. The Coagulation Index (CI), which is derived from the measured values of R, K, MA, and alpha angle was 1.22 +/- 3.5, R 4.2 +/- 1.6, K 2.0 +/- 2.1, MA 60.78 +/- 5.97, and alpha angle 66.88 +/- 14.9; while the Thrombodynamic Potential Index (TPI), which is derived from the measured values of K and MA only was 32.48 +/- 21. The CI correlated significantly with R, K, alpha angle, MA, TMA, TPI, PMA, E, A30 and A60 but not with the PTT, INR, or SOFA and APACHE II scores. One patient was hypocoagulable by CI and TPI values; in contrast, nine patients were hypercoagulable by TPI but only one by CI. There were no cases of VTE. Hypercoagulability as defined by the CI was not a common finding in this study. Although the TPI indicated hypercoagulability in a large number of patients, we do not believe it is a good tool to assess the patient's clotting status or predictor of thrombosis because in contrast to the CI, it does not take into account the enzymatic portions of the clotting cascade. A larger TEG study is warranted to determine the clinical significance of these changes in this and other populations."}
{"id": "17959943", "title": "Garlic at dietary doses does not impair platelet function.", "content": "Garlic at dietary doses does not impair platelet function. In vitro studies suggest that various bioactive constituents of Allium sativum (garlic) inhibit platelet function. The extent, however, to which dietary doses of garlic influence platelet function remains unknown. Therefore, we tested the effect of raw garlic on platelet function using point-of-care monitoring devices sensitive for cyclooxygenase I-inhibition and platelet adhesion. Whole blood from 18 healthy volunteers was investigated before and 5 h after ingestion of the study medication consisting of Greek tsatsiki with 4.2 g raw garlic (verum), or Greek tsatsiki without garlic (placebo), in a randomized, crossover, observer-blinded, placebo-controlled study. The potential long-term effects of garlic were investigated in five volunteers after daily ingestion of 4.2 g of raw garlic over 1 wk. Platelet function was assessed with the Platelet Function Analyzer (PFA-100), impedance aggregometry (Multiplate), and thrombelastographic Platelet Mappingtrade mark. In vitro experiments were performed to prove the sensitivity of the assays to garlic-induced platelet inhibition. Baseline values of platelet function were within normal range in all volunteers. Platelet function was not impaired by single and repeated oral consumption of Greek tsatsiki containing raw garlic in any point-of-care monitoring test used. Platelet function is not impaired by single and repeated oral consumption of a dietary dose of garlic in healthy volunteers. Dishes containing socially acceptable doses of raw garlic are unlikely to increase the risk of perioperative bleeding. Further studies are warranted to determine the potential additive effects of platelet-inhibiting drugs combined with garlic and other herbs."}
{"id": "17958535", "title": "Impairment of the hemostatic potential of platelets during storage as evaluated by flow cytometry, thrombin generation, and thrombelastography under conditions promoting formation of coated platelets.", "content": "Impairment of the hemostatic potential of platelets during storage as evaluated by flow cytometry, thrombin generation, and thrombelastography under conditions promoting formation of coated platelets. The increasing demand for platelet (PLT) transfusions has focused attention on appropriate use. Coated PLTs are a subpopulation of highly procoagulant PLTs formed by simultaneous stimulation by the agonist's collagen and thrombin hypothesized to drive clot formation at the site of vascular injury. Prolonged storage of PLTs may reduce their ability to support optimal hemostasis upon transfusion. PLT concentrates (PCs) stored for 1, 4, 6, and 8 days were costimulated with thrombin and the collagen glycoprotein VI (GPVI) receptor agonist convulxin, and their ability to form coated PLTs was determined by flow cytometry. Further, a plasma-based thrombin generation assay and thrombelastography were used to evaluate the aged PCs' capacity to support thrombin generation and clot formation, respectively. The stored PCs were additionally tested by standard quality control methods. PLT quality as measured by standard analyses was acceptable according to current practice. The hemostatic potential, however, was impaired with increasing storage time. The formation of coated PLTs decreased significantly from approximately 85 to 55 percent with increasing storage time (p<0.05). The velocity of clot formation was significantly increased from Day 4 (p<0.05). The velocity of thrombin generation and resistance against fibrinolysis were significantly reduced on Day 8 compared to Day 1 of storage (p<0.05). Data in the present study suggest that storage significantly reduced the stored PLTs' ability to respond to conditions expected to exist at the site of vascular injury and that storage-induced reduction in PLT activation sensitivity correlated with a loss of hemostatic potential."}
{"id": "17958534", "title": "Warm storage of whole blood for 72 hours.", "content": "Warm storage of whole blood for 72 hours. In field emergency medicine, fresh whole-blood units are stored at room temperature up to 24 hours or occasionally longer. Few data exist on the integrity and in vitro functional properties of whole blood stored warm beyond 24 hours. Ten citrate phosphate dextrose solution whole-blood units were collected and divided into two equal volumes. One-half of each unit was stored at 19 degrees C and the other half was stored at 25 degrees C, encompassing the accepted range for room temperature storage. At 6, 24, 48, and 72 hours, aliquots were collected from each unit and whole blood analyzed for cell counts, gases, and clotting function with thromboelastography, red cells for intracellular analytes, platelet (PLT)-rich plasma for aggregometry, and the supernatant for hemoglobin, potassium, glucose, lactate, and plasma clotting studies. Whole-blood units stored at room temperature maintained cellular counts and coagulation activity for up to 72 hours. Units stored at 19 degrees C demonstrated greater RBC adenosine triphosphate and 2,3-diphosphoglycerate (DPG) content and stronger responses in PLT aggregation studies when compared with 25 degrees C storage. No significant hemolysis was observed, and no bacterial growth was detected. Storage of whole blood at room temperature for 72 hours leads to marked reductions in pH and DPG, but the observed reduction in PLT function and plasma coagulation factor activity was surprisingly modest compared to literature values. These findings should prompt additional investigation, given their potential importance for whole blood processing and field-expedient transfusion."}
{"id": "17957565", "title": "A novel fifteen minute test for assessment of individual time-dependent clotting responses to aspirin and clopidogrel using modified thrombelastography.", "content": "A novel fifteen minute test for assessment of individual time-dependent clotting responses to aspirin and clopidogrel using modified thrombelastography. A rapid, reliable, point of care test reflecting patient specific responses to antiplatelet therapy would be of great clinical value in percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). The aim of this study was to establish whether modified thrombelastography (TEG) can be employed as a 15 minute test of individual patient responses to aspirin and clopidogrel using a novel parameter, percentage clotting inhibition (%CIn). Thirty healthy volunteers and 10 patients undergoing elective PCI were recruited into four groups: 10 volunteers received a single 300 mg dose of aspirin [A1]: 10 volunteers received aspirin 75 mg daily for 7 days [A2]: 10 volunteers received a 600 mg dose of clopidogrel [C1]: 10 patients received a 600 mg loading dose of clopidogrel prior to elective PCI [C2]. In all cases the area under the clotting response curve was measured at 15 minutes (AUC15) and used to calculate a novel parameter, percentage clotting inhibition (%CIn). Large differences were demonstrated in both aspirin and clopidogrel groups in response to therapy as assessed by both the area under the curve at 15 minutes and %CIn. Furthermore, the technique demonstrated important heterogeneity of time-dependent responses between individuals. Modified TEG, employing AUC15 and %CIn, is a promising tool for assessing responses to aspirin and clopidogrel. Further data are now required to assess the potential of this test to optimise individual therapy in PCI patients in order to detect and treat those patients with relative hypo-responsiveness to anti-platelet drugs."}
{"id": "17945536", "title": "Markers of platelet activation and apoptosis in platelet concentrates collected by apheresis.", "content": "Markers of platelet activation and apoptosis in platelet concentrates collected by apheresis. A product with well-preserved haemostatic function of platelets is the ultimate goal of platelet concentrate production. However, platelet activation and apoptosis are induced by both collection and storage of platelet concentrates. Platelet concentrates obtained either by two blood separators with different technology of apheresis (Haemonetics MCS+, Haemonetics Corp. Braintree, USA and Trima Accel, Gambro BCT Inc., Lakewood, USA, respectively) or derived from buffy-coat were compared using evaluation of pH, LDH, lactate, glucose, annexin V, and sP-selectin levels immediately after collecting and at the end of expiration to estimate the differences in the activation and apoptosis of platelets in these products. The lowest degree of platelet activation was found in products obtained by Haemonetics MCS+ apparatus at the time of collection. Platelet concentrates obtained by apheresis revealed higher rise of LDH, annexin V and sP-selectin compared to buffy-coat derived platelets. Products from Haemonetics MCS+ showed higher rise of annexin V in comparison with products from Trima separator. Increase of LDH and sP-selectin in both apheresis products was comparable. On the basis of changes of sP-selectin and annexin V levels it could be concluded that initial platelet activation, which is induced by apheresis, is very likely without any further impact on quality of platelets during storage. Development of platelet storage lesions is influenced especially by storage conditions and platelet concentration in products."}
{"id": "17944649", "title": "A ROTEM-based method of drug assessment developed with human experimentation without consent.", "content": "A ROTEM-based method of drug assessment developed with human experimentation without consent."}
{"id": "17934348", "title": "Tests of platelet function.", "content": "Tests of platelet function. Platelets play a vital role in the normal hemostasis, and derangements of their function can lead to hemorrhage or thrombosis. While we have made progress in elucidating the molecular mechanisms leading to platelet adhesion, aggregation, shape change, and secretion, clinically useful tests of platelet function have lagged behind. The following is a review of some of the currently available tests of platelet function, their advantages and drawbacks, as well as the clinical scenarios in which they are likely to be useful. Attention is now being paid to standardization and optimization of older tests such as platelet aggregometry, in addition to better defining the role of newer tests such as the platelet function analyzer and thromboelastography in diagnosing and managing disorders of primary hemostasis and platelet function. Platelet function is complex and may be disrupted at any of a number of steps, including adhesion, aggregation, shape change and secretion. We are better defining the role of the currently available tests, while identifying gaps in our ability to diagnose disorders of platelet function."}
{"id": "17924901", "title": "Use of thromboelastography to demonstrate persistent anticoagulation after stopping enoxaparin.", "content": "Use of thromboelastography to demonstrate persistent anticoagulation after stopping enoxaparin. Peri-operative guidelines exist for neuraxial anaesthesia and anticoagulant therapy. We describe the use of thromboelastography to assess the coagulation status of a patient with moderate renal impairment who had been receiving enoxaparin and was being managed in accordance with current recommendations. This report demonstrates that current guidelines for discontinuing treatment with enoxaparin may not allow a sufficient safety margin in all patient groups and that thromboelastography is a useful tool in such situations."}
{"id": "17898368", "title": "Thrombin generation assay and viscoelastic coagulation monitors demonstrate differences in the mode of thrombin inhibition between unfractionated heparin and bivalirudin.", "content": "Thrombin generation assay and viscoelastic coagulation monitors demonstrate differences in the mode of thrombin inhibition between unfractionated heparin and bivalirudin. Coagulation tests, such as activated partial thromboplastin time and activated clotting time, are used to monitor the effects of unfractionated heparin and the direct thrombin inhibitor, bivalirudin. These tests reflect only the initial phase of blood clotting, when <5% of thrombin has been formed. In this study, we sought to determine if similar increases in activated partial thromboplastin time or activated clotting time due to heparin or bivalirudin would reflect the same degree of inhibition of thrombin formation. Thrombin formation was evaluated in platelet-poor plasma activated in the presence of heparin (0-5 U/mL) or bivalirudin (0-30 microg/mL) using a thrombin generation assay (Thrombinoscope). Prothrombin activation was measured by prothrombin fragment 1.2 (F1.2) formation. Thrombus formation was further evaluated in kaolin-activated whole blood samples containing heparin (1.5 or 2.5 U/mL) or bivalirudin (12.5 or 25 microg/mL) using Sonoclot and thromboelastography. Based on the Thrombinoscope results, increasing concentrations of bivalirudin and heparin progressively delayed the onset of thrombin formation, but only heparin dose-dependently decreased the amount of thrombin generated. Heparin and bivalirudin delayed the onset of F1.2 formation, but there was no difference in peak F1.2 levels between bivalirudin and non-anticoagulated samples (206 +/- 28.2 vs 182 +/- 23.9 nmol/L, P = 0.09). In heparinized samples, F1.2 levels were significantly lower (75.7 +/- 29.8 nmol/L, P < 0.05) than controls. Heparin and bivalirudin prolonged the onset of clotting on viscoelastic monitors, but only heparin decreased the rate of thrombus formation. Thrombus formation kinetics differs between heparin and bivalirudin despite similar prolongation of clotting test values."}
{"id": "17898365", "title": "Hemostatic changes after crystalloid or colloid fluid administration during major orthopedic surgery: the role of fibrinogen administration.", "content": "Hemostatic changes after crystalloid or colloid fluid administration during major orthopedic surgery: the role of fibrinogen administration. To explore whether disturbed fibrin polymerization is the main problem underlying dilutional coagulopathy and can be reversed by fibrinogen administration, we conducted a prospective study using modified thrombelastography (ROTEM). Sixty-six orthopedic patients randomly received modified gelatin solution, hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4, or exclusively Ringer lactate solution. ROTEM analysis was performed, concentrations of coagulation factors and markers of thrombin generation were measured. Fibrinogen concentrate (Hemocomplettan) was administered (30 mg/kg) when thrombelastographically measured fibrinogen polymerization was critically decreased. The alpha angle, clot firmness, and fibrinogen polymerization (median [min to max]) significantly decreased in the patients receiving hydroxyethyl starch (area under the curve minus baseline (-5 [-9 to -2]), followed by gelatin solution (-3 [-8 to 0]), with the least reductions seen for Ringer lactate solution (-2 [- 4 to 1]) (colloids versus Ringer lactate P < 0.0001). Thirteen patients in the colloid groups but none in the Ringer lactate group needed fibrinogen concentrate to maintain borderline clot firmness. Activity of FVII, FVIII, FIX, and von Willebrand ristocetin activity decreased significantly with colloids. Thrombelastographically measured coagulation time, molecular markers of thrombin generation, and activity of all other coagulation factors were comparable in all groups. Disturbance of fibrinogen/fibrin polymerization is the primary problem triggering dilutional coagulopathy during major orthopedic surgery. The magnitude of clot firmness reduction is determined by the type of fluid used, with hydroxyethyl starch showing the most pronounced effects. These undesirable effects of intravascular volume therapy can be reversed by increasing fibrinogen concentration by administering fibrinogen concentrate, even during continuing blood loss and intravascular volume replacement."}
{"id": "17898364", "title": "Fibrinogen and bleeding: old molecule--new ideas.", "content": "Fibrinogen and bleeding: old molecule--new ideas."}
{"id": "17897274", "title": "Sequential clot strength analyses following diclofenac in pediatric adenotonsillectomy.", "content": "Sequential clot strength analyses following diclofenac in pediatric adenotonsillectomy. Tonsillectomy is a common pediatric surgical procedure resulting in significant postoperative pain. There is ongoing controversy as to the most satisfactory analgesic regimen. Nonsteroidal antiinflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are an alternative to opioids in this setting. NSAID use in tonsillectomy has been shown to be opioid sparing in the recovery period and to have similar analgesic effects to opioids in pediatric patients. Because of their nonspecific action on the enzyme cyclo-oxygenase there is potential for increased bleeding which has led many practitioners to avoid NSAIDs completely in this patient population potentially resulting in suboptimal pain control. Our aim in this study was to assess the effect of preoperatively administered diclofenac on the blood clot strength in children undergoing (adeno-) tonsillectomy. Twenty patients undergoing (adeno-) tonsillectomy were recruited into this prospective observational study. All patients received 2 mg.kg(-1) of diclofenac rectally immediately preoperatively. Blood was taken for thromboelastograph analysis pre-diclofenac and 1 and 4 h post-diclofenac administration. There was a statistically significant increase in maximal clot strength (MA) at 1 and 4 h after diclofenac. Similarly there was a statistically significant reduction in time to initial fibrin formation (R time) post-diclofenac. There was no primary or secondary hemorrhage. Diclofenac when given preoperatively does not adversely affect clot strength in the immediate postoperative period when the risk of primary hemorrhage is greatest."}
{"id": "17890960", "title": "Hemostatic analysis of a 13 year old with antiphospholipid syndrome and restrictive pericarditis.", "content": "Hemostatic analysis of a 13 year old with antiphospholipid syndrome and restrictive pericarditis. Antiphospholipid syndrome is an autoimmune thrombophilic disorder that is uncommon in adults and remarkably rare in children. Thrombotic etiological factors are variable in antiphospholipid syndrome, including antibody-antigen complex-mediated platelet activation, inhibition of anticoagulants, or attenuation of fibrinolysis. We present the case of a child with antiphospholipid syndrome presenting with syncope, constrictive pericarditis and hepatic enlargement that was found to have platelet-mediated hypercoagulability and marked clot lysis via thrombelastography in the preoperative period. Restoration of circulation following pericardectomy and inotropic support was associated with attenuation of hypercoagulability and fibrinolysis. It is concluded that the etiological factors responsible for antiphospholipid syndrome-mediated hemostatic abnormalities and the probable effects of hepatic hypoperfusion on clot lysis in this patient were detected with thrombelastography, and similar thrombelastographic analyses are recommended to compliment standard coagulation assessments of patients with antiphospholipid syndrome."}
{"id": "17890952", "title": "Hydroxyethyl starch enhances fibrinolysis in human plasma by diminishing alpha2-antiplasmin-plasmin interactions.", "content": "Hydroxyethyl starch enhances fibrinolysis in human plasma by diminishing alpha2-antiplasmin-plasmin interactions. Hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solutions are effective volume expanders but are also associated with poorly understood coagulopathy. Enhanced fibrinolysis following dilution with HES has been demonstrated. This investigation sought to identify the interactions of HES with critical fibrinolytic/antifibrinolytic enzymes. Normal plasma or plasmas deficient in factor XIII, thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor or alpha2-antiplasmin were either not diluted or were diluted 20% with 0.9% NaCl, 5% human albumin, high-molecular-weight HES (HES 450) or low-molecular-weight HES (HES 130). Plasma was activated with celite and exposed to 75 IU/ml tissue-type plasminogen activator. Coagulation growth/disintegration kinetics were determined with thrombelastography. Compared with undiluted plasma, diluted plasma had a significant decrease in the clot lysis time and the time to maximum rate of lysis in all plasma types except in alpha2-antiplasmin-deficient plasma. The hierarchy of the decrease in clot lysis time and time to maximum rate of lysis was HES 450 = HES 130 > 5% human albumin = 0.9% NaCl. In conclusion, HES dilution enhances fibrinolysis by diminishing alpha2-antiplasmin-plasmin interactions. Further laboratory and clinical investigation is warranted to better define the mechanisms by which HES enhances clot disintegration and to find new therapeutic roles for HES to either prevent or treat thrombosis."}
{"id": "17886449", "title": "Priming effects of triethylene glycol and triethylene glycol monomethacrylate on dentin bonding.", "content": "Priming effects of triethylene glycol and triethylene glycol monomethacrylate on dentin bonding. The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of triethylene glycol (TEG) and triethylene glycol monomethacrylate (TEGMA) solutions as dentin primers on dentin bonding. To this end, wall-to-wall polymerization contraction gap width of a resin composite in a cylindrical dentin cavity and shear bond strength to a flat dentin surface were measured. Dentin was pretreated with an experimental dentin bonding system - consisting of 0.5 M ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid conditioner, TEG or TEGMA primer, and Clearfil Photo Bond bonding agent - prior to resin composite filling. When the cavity was primed with an aqueous solution of 35 vol% TEG, 35 or 45 vol% TEGMA for a few seconds, contraction gap formation was prevented completely. Then, among these three gap-free groups, there were no significant differences in shear bond strength. It was thus shown that both TEG and TEGMA were highly effective dentin primers, completely preventing contraction gap formation even when they were applied for only a few seconds."}
{"id": "17885339", "title": "Coagulation management in pediatric mechanical circulatory support.", "content": "Coagulation management in pediatric mechanical circulatory support. The anticoagulation treatment of children on pulsatile assist devices was studied. The results of 40 children (group A) on mechanical circulatory support with the formerly used anticoagulation treatment were compared with 32 children (group B) on assist devices treated with a new anticoagulation regime. In groups A and B, respectively, 19 (47.5%) and 12 (38%) had bleeding complications; 14 (35%) and 8 (25%) had chest re-exploration; 2 (5%) and 1 (3%) had cerebral hemorrhage; 9 (23%) and 7 patients (22%) had thromboembolic events; and 6 (15%) and 2 (6%) had strokes. In groups A and B, respectively, mean time of support was 19 days (range, 0 to 111 days) and 57 days (range, 1 to 420 days), with long-term survival of 33% and 78%. The differences in survival were significant (alpha = 0.003). Embolic and bleeding complications were seen in both groups, but the incidence was lower in group B. Since, however, thrombogenicity of the systems continues to be their main problem, further improvement of treatment is required."}
{"id": "17883701", "title": "Citrate anticoagulation and the dynamics of thrombin generation.", "content": "Citrate anticoagulation and the dynamics of thrombin generation. Sodium citrate has been used as an anticoagulant to stabilize blood and blood products for over 100 years, presumably by sequestering Ca(++) ions in vitro. Anticoagulation of blood without chelation can be achieved by inhibition of the contact pathway by corn trypsin inhibitor (CTI). To evaluate the influence of citrate anticoagulation on the performance of blood, platelet-rich and platelet-poor plasma assays. Blood was anticoagulated in three ways: by collection into citrate, CTI and citrate with CTI. Plasma was prepared using each anticoagulation regimen. Functional analyses included calibrated automated thrombography, thromboelastography, plasma clotting, the synthetic coagulation proteome and platelet aggregation. Coagulation reactions were initiated with tissue factor-phospholipid and Ca(++) (when indicated). In all cases, citrate anticoagulation resulted in reaction dynamics significantly altered relative to blood or plasma stabilized with CTI alone. Subsequent experiments showed that calcium citrate itself impairs coagulation dynamics. Coagulation analyses using blood that has been exposed to citrate and recalcified do not yield reliable depictions of the natural dynamics of blood coagulation processes."}
{"id": "17852794", "title": "Higher Thrombelastograph platelet reactivity in cardiac surgery patients than in blood donors.", "content": "Higher Thrombelastograph platelet reactivity in cardiac surgery patients than in blood donors. Platelet reactivity, evaluated by Thrombelastograph (TEG) predicts the recurrence of ischemic events in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). The aim of this study was to investigate the platelet hyperreactivity and the variability in platelet reactivity due to ADP in cardiac surgery patients and donors. Preoperative blood samples from 22 patients undergoing CABG surgery and 43 blood donors were analysed by the TEG Platelet Mapping assay. Maximal platelet reactivity and platelet reactivity response to ADP stimulation (MAADP) were evaluated. Maximal platelet reactivity (MAThrombin) and MAADP was higher in the CABG patients than in the blood donors, p=0.001 for MAThrombin and p<0.0001 for MAADP. Six patients (27.2%) had a MAThrombin above the normal reference range compared to only one (2.3%) of the healthy donors (p=0.005). The identification of a higher subpopulation of CABG patients compared to donors presenting with platelet reactivity above the normal range together with increased platelet responsiveness to ADP may reflect the higher risk for ischemic events in this cohort."}
{"id": "17852789", "title": "Hypercoagulability and platelet inhibition after OPCAB. Randomized intervention with clopidogrel.", "content": "Hypercoagulability and platelet inhibition after OPCAB. Randomized intervention with clopidogrel. Data on graft patency after Off-Pump Coronary Artery Bypass (OPCAB) suggest that the incidence of early graft closure is not increased compared to conventional coronary artery bypass surgery. However, hypercoagulability following OPCAB is still of concern, and acetylsalicylic acid as thromboembolic prophylaxis might be insufficient in the first weeks following OPCAB surgery. Twenty nine patients were randomly assigned to+/- 75 mg of clopidogrel until 30 days after OPCAB surgery. The follow-up time was 2 months including standard blood samples and thrombelastography (TEG) with a specific platelet inhibition assay, which was evaluated as a part of the study. In both groups a significant increase in TEG maximum amplitude was found 5 days after surgery. Platelet inhibition showed great variations but was significantly increased in the clopidogrel group (34.1%) vs. control group (11.0%) after 1 month. Hypercoagulability was seen 5 days after OPCAB and could not be demonstrated after 1 month. No clinical effects of the hypercoagulability were observed, and further research is needed to determine if clopidogrel should be recommended after OPCAB."}
{"id": "17850565", "title": "The effects of vasoactive agents, platelet agonists and anticoagulation on thrombelastography.", "content": "The effects of vasoactive agents, platelet agonists and anticoagulation on thrombelastography. Platelet activation is a critical step in primary hemostasis and clot formation. We tested a hypothesis that platelet stimulating effects of vasoactive agents or platelet agonists could be shown using thrombelastography (TEG) as faster onset or increased clot strength. We further examined if TEG could be modified to evaluate activated platelets as a reversal of anticoagulation in the presence of partial thrombin inhibition. Blood samples were obtained from 126 non-cardiac surgical patients. Effects of vasoactive agents on TEG and aggregometry were examined using epinephrine, norepinephrine, vasopressin, desmopressin acetate, milrinone and olprinone (Experiment I). Platelet agonists (epinephrine, ADP and collagen) were separately tested on TEG (Experiment II). Effects of platelet agonists (ADP and collagen) on TEG under anticoagulation in the absence or presence of abciximab were studied (Experiment III). We also tested antiplatelet effects of milrinone and olprinone in the presence of anticoagulants on TEG (Experiment IV). Neither vasoactive agents nor platelet agonists affected TEG or aggregometry results except for milrinone and olprinone on aggregometry (Experiment I, II). Platelet agonists facilitated clotting in the presence of anticoagulants (Experiment III). Abciximab-treated platelets still exhibited procoagulant effects in the presence of heparin, while not in the presence of argatroban (Experiment III). Platelet inhibition on the modified TEG was more extensive with milrinone than olprinone, and it was dose dependent (Experiment IV). Modified TEG using heparin or argatroban might delineate the procoagulant effects of platelets by adding platelet specific agonist."}
{"id": "17845651", "title": "Effects of albumin 5% and artificial colloids on clot formation in small infants.", "content": "Effects of albumin 5% and artificial colloids on clot formation in small infants. Albumin is often cited in textbooks as the gold standard for fluid replacement in paediatrics, but in practice artificial colloids are more frequently used. Although one concern with the use of artificial colloids is their intrinsic action on haemostasis, the available data in children are inconclusive for 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 (HES) and no data exist for gelatine solution with respect to coagulation. A total of 42 children (3-15 kg) undergoing surgery and needing colloid replacement were randomly assigned to receive 15 mlxkg(-1) of either albumin 5%, 4% modified gelatine solution or 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 solution. Standard coagulation tests and modified thrombelastography (ROTEM) were performed. After colloid administration, routine coagulation test results changed significantly and comparably in all groups, although activated partial thromboplastin time values increased more with gelatine and HES. Coagulation time was unchanged in the children who received albumin or gelatine but other activated modified thrombelastography values were significantly impaired in all groups. After gelatine and after albumin the median clot firmness decreased significantly but remained within the normal range. Following HES, coagulation time increased significantly, and clot formation time, alpha angle, clot firmness, and fibrinogen/fibrin polymerisation were significantly more impaired than for albumin or gelatine, reaching median values below the normal range. From a haemostatic point of view it might be preferable to use gelatine solution as an alternative to albumin; HES showed the greatest effects on the overall coagulation process."}
{"id": "17763150", "title": "Platelet function measured by VerifyNow identifies generalized high platelet reactivity in aspirin treated patients.", "content": "Platelet function measured by VerifyNow identifies generalized high platelet reactivity in aspirin treated patients. Selected aspirin treated patients may exhibit high platelet reactivity to agonists other than arachidonic acid. This study aimed to determine whether the VerifyNow identifies generalized high platelet reactivity supported by correlations with other established methods that stimulate platelets with various agonists. Stable outpatients with coronary artery disease (n = 110) were treated with aspirin in a two 3 x 3 Latin square design (81, 162 and 325 mg/day for 4 weeks each). VerifyNow (arachidonic acid (AA) cartridge); light transmittance aggregometry; thrombelastography; PFA-100; flow cytometry; PlateletWorks; and urinary 11- dehydro thromboxane levels were measured. Multianalyte profiling measured fibrinogen and von Willebrand factor (vWF). Patients with >or=550 ARU by VerifyNow had increased 5 mM AA-, 5 microM ADP-, and 2 microg/mL collagen-induced platelet aggregation compared to patients with <550 ARU (p <or= 0.001). The highest ADP- and collagen-induced aggregation was present in the upper quartile by VerifyNow (p < 0.05). Fibrinogen or vWF levels did not differ between VerifyNow quartiles. Patients with high platelet reactivity to arachidonic acid identified by VerifyNow also exhibit increased reactivity to other important platelet agonists that is independent of fibrinogen and vWF levels. These data suggest that VerifyNow may identify a generalized high platelet reactivity phenotype."}
{"id": "17762538", "title": "Collagen/endogenous thrombin-induced platelet aggregation in whole blood samples.", "content": "Collagen/endogenous thrombin-induced platelet aggregation in whole blood samples. The aim of the study was to investigate the individual and combined effects of collagen (3.5 microg/ml) and endogenously generated thrombin (due to addition of 0.35 pmol/l tissue factor) on platelet aggregation in the physiological environment of whole blood by means of the impedance method. Lag times were significantly shorter when a combination of collagen and endogenous thrombin was used to provoke platelet aggregation (41.9 +/- 16.3 s) compared with collagen (173.8 +/- 52.1 s, P < 0.0001) or endogenous thrombin (94.3 +/- 43.6 s, P < 0.001). Amplitudes and slopes were the lowest in collagen-induced experiments (2.83 +/- 1.59 Omega and 1.79 +/- 0.45 Omega/min, respectively), whereas they were approximately the same in endogenous thrombin-induced experiments whether collagen was present or not (13.7 +/- 3.1 versus 11.2 +/- 4.0 Omega and 6.3 +/- 2.8 versus 5.6 +/- 2.3 Omega/min, respectively). No synergistic effect of collagen and endogenous thrombin on the clot formation process was observed by means of thrombelastometry. Moreover, thrombin potentials in tissue factor-activated plasma samples were approximately the same whether collagen was present or not (834 +/- 67 versus 809 +/- 63 nmol/l.min). In conclusion, endogenously generated thrombin is a potent platelet agonist in whole blood, and a combination of collagen and endogenous thrombin synergistically shortens the lag time until the onset of platelet aggregation."}
{"id": "17762530", "title": "Recombinant activated factor VII effectively reverses the anticoagulant effects of heparin, enoxaparin, fondaparinux, argatroban, and bivalirudin ex vivo as measured using thromboelastography.", "content": "Recombinant activated factor VII effectively reverses the anticoagulant effects of heparin, enoxaparin, fondaparinux, argatroban, and bivalirudin ex vivo as measured using thromboelastography. Bleeding is the major adverse reaction to anticoagulants, leading to significant morbidity and even mortality. Protamine is a specific antidote for heparin yet is only partially effective for enoxaparin, and the activated factor X inhibitor fondaparinux and the direct thrombin inhibitors argatroban and bivalirudin lack specific antidotes. We evaluated the ability of recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa), a general hemostatic agent, to reverse the anticoagulant effects of heparin, enoxaparin, fondaparinux, argatroban, and bivalirudin, as measured by thromboelastography. Whole-blood samples containing each test anticoagulant, with or without rFVIIa 1.5-4.5 microg/ml, were prepared ex vivo (n >or= 48, each anticoagulant) and analyzed by thromboelastography. The thromboelastography parameters of clot initiation, propagation, rigidity and elasticity were compared for the ex-vivo samples for each anticoagulant. The reversal ability of rFVIIa was also assessed using the standard clinical assay used to monitor each anticoagulant. Thromboelastography was performed on blood from eight stably anticoagulated patients, with and without exogenous rFVIIa. For each anticoagulant, rFVIIa significantly improved and, in some cases, completely normalized all thromboelastography parameters (P < 0.001). rFVIIa significantly (P < 0.01) decreased the activated partial thromboplastin time for argatroban-containing, bivalirudin-containing, or heparin-containing blood yet did not affect the anti-activated factor X levels for enoxaparin-containing or fondaparinux-containing blood. By thromboelastography, rFVIIa exerted generally similar reversal effects on the anticoagulated patient samples as on the ex-vivo samples. In conclusion, rFVIIa effectively reverses the anticoagulant effects of heparin, enoxaparin, fondaparinux, argatroban, and bivalirudin, and should be considered for patients with excessive bleeding associated with these anticoagulants."}
{"id": "17717268", "title": "Limitations of in vitro experiments on hydroxyethyl starch solutions.", "content": "Limitations of in vitro experiments on hydroxyethyl starch solutions."}
{"id": "17714415", "title": "Altered processing of thawed red cells to improve the in vitro quality during postthaw storage at 4 degrees C.", "content": "Altered processing of thawed red cells to improve the in vitro quality during postthaw storage at 4 degrees C. The use of a functionally closed system (ACP215, Haemonetics) for the glycerolization and deglycerolization of red blood cell (RBC) units allows for prolonged postthaw storage. In this study, the postthaw quality of previously frozen, deglycerolized RBCs resuspended in saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol (SAGM) or additive solution AS-3 was investigated. Leukoreduced RBC units were frozen with 40 percent glycerol and stored at -80 degrees C for at least 14 days. The thawed units were deglycerolized with the ACP215, resuspended in SAGM or AS-3, and stored at 2 to 6 degrees C for up to 21 days. The mean +/- standard deviation in vitro freeze-thaw-wash recovery was 81 +/- 5 percent. During storage, hemolysis of deglycerolized cells remained below 0.8 percent for 2 days in SAGM and for 14 days in AS-3. This difference was explained by the protective effect of citrate, which is present in AS-3. Cells stored in AS-3 showed a lower glycolytic activity and a faster decline in adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) than cells in SAGM. Increasing the internal pH of cells before storage in AS-3 by use of phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) in the deglycerolization procedure resulted in elevated lactate production and better maintenance of intracellular ATP content. After 3 weeks of storage, the ATP content of PBS-washed cells amounted to 2.5 +/- 0.5 micromol per g of hemoglobin (Hb), whereas for saline/glucose-washed cells this value was decreased to 1.0 +/- 0.3 micromol per g of Hb. Leukoreduced, deglycerolized RBCs can be stored for 48 hours in SAGM. Improved ATP levels during refrigerated storage can be observed with thawed cells, resuspended in AS-3, when PBS is used as a washing solution."}
{"id": "17709365", "title": "Fibrinolysis in coronary artery surgery: detection by thromboelastography.", "content": "Fibrinolysis in coronary artery surgery: detection by thromboelastography. Sixty-five patients scheduled for coronary surgery were randomized into three groups: A - conventional coronary artery bypass grafting, B - off-pump surgery, C - coronary artery bypass grafting with modified, rheoparin coated cardiopulmonary bypass with the avoidance of re-infusion of cardiotomy blood into the circuit. On the completion of peripheral bypass anastomoses, highly significant inter-group differences were found in the thromboelastographic parameter lysis of set time at 60 min of assessment (P=0.003) and at 150 min of assessment (P<0.001), the mean values of these parameters were significantly lower in group A as compared with both groups B and C, which were statistically indistinguishable. Lysis on set time on the completion of peripheral bypass anastomoses <50% was detected in 12 patients (52.2%) originating from group A. At the other sampling times (preoperatively, 15 min after sternotomy, at the end of the procedures, and 24 h later) thromboelastographic parameters were similar in all groups. In group A no significant correlations between lysis on set time, postoperative blood loss and D-dimer levels were found. Based on our results, thromboelastographic signs of fibrinolysis were clearly detectable during cardiopulmonary bypass in group A, but not at any time in groups B and C."}
{"id": "17704742", "title": "Thromboelastographic profiles as a tool for thrombotic risk in digestive tract cancer.", "content": "Thromboelastographic profiles as a tool for thrombotic risk in digestive tract cancer. Quantification of the magnitude of thrombotic risk associated with malignancy and with anti-cancer therapy is indispensable to use anticoagulant drugs which selectively interfere with haemostatic mechanisms protecting patients from venous thromboembolism (VTE) and probably from tumor progression. However, none of activation coagulation markers has any predictive value for the occurrence of the thrombotic events in one individual patient. Current clotting methods can't reveal the overall dynamic clot formation; in contrast thromboelastographic methods specifically assess overall coagulation kinetics and its strength in whole blood. Objective of study was to evaluate if the activation of coagulation as eventually revealed by ROTEM thromboelastometry could assess an hypercoagulable state in surgical neoplastic patients. Fifty consecutive patients with carcinoma of the digestive tract in preoperative period (23 M, 27 F aging 61.5 (45-79 years) and 147 healthy subjects (71 M, 76 F) were studied. A recent thromboelastometric method based on thrombelastography after Hartert was employed. Measurements were performed on ROTEM Coagulation Analyzer. The continuous coagulation data from 50 min course were transformed into dynamic velocity profiles of WB clot formation. Standard parameters (CT, CFT, MCF) of cancer patients were similar to controls. CT (in cancer patients): females 50 s (38.3-58.7), males 50 s (42-71.2) vs 51 s (42-59), p = 0.1210 / 53 s (42-74.8), p = 0.1975 (in controls). CFT (in cancer patients): females 72 s (32- 92.4), males 80 s (50.2- 128.7) vs 78 s (62-100), p = 0.0128 / 80 s (59-124.4), p = 0.9384 (in controls). MCF (in cancer patients): females 70 mm (59.9-82.5), males 63 mm (56-73.7) vs 69 mm (59-95.8), p = 0.9911 / 69 mm (53.6-90), p = 0.0135 (in controls). Females showed a higher MaxVel when compared to males. The MaxVel was increased in cancer patients: females 19 mm /100 s (14.3-49.5) males 18 mm / 100 s (11-27) vs 15 mm 100 s (11.8-22), p < 0.001 / 13 mm / 100 s (10-21.8), p < 0.001 in controls. The t-MaxVel was shortened in cancer patients: females 65s (48.6-112.8), males 81s (50.1-135.9) vs 115s (56.8-166), p < 0.001 / 115 s (59.8-180.8), p = 0.0002 in controls. The AUC was increased in cancer patients: females 6451 mm 100(5511-8148), males 5984 mm 100 (5119-6899) vs 5778 mm 100 (4998-6655), p < 0.001 / 5662 mm 100 (4704-6385), p = 0.0105. Unlike other assays measuring variations in a single component during coagulation, the thrombelastographic method records a profile of real-time continuous WB clot formation, and may provide extensive informations on haemostasis in neoplastic patients before surgery."}
{"id": "17688941", "title": "In vitro biological evaluation of high molecular weight hyperbranched polyglycerols.", "content": "In vitro biological evaluation of high molecular weight hyperbranched polyglycerols. Low molecular weight hyperbranched polyglycerols are highly water soluble and biocompatible polyether polyols, which can be synthesized in a controlled manner with narrow polydispersity. Recently we reported the synthesis and characterization of very high molecular weight (Mn up to 700,000) and narrowly polydispersed polyglycerols which could be potentially used as alternatives to high generation dendrimers which are difficult to make. A detailed biocompatibility testing of these polymers conducted in vitro is reported here. The in vitro studies include hemocompatibility testing for effects on coagulation (prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), plasma recalcification time (PRT), thrombelastograph parameters (TEG)), complement activation, platelet activation, red blood cell aggregation and cytotoxicity. Results from these studies show that these high molecular weight polyglycerols are highly biocompatible and are potential candidates for various applications in nanobiotechnology and in nanomedicine. Moreover these polymers are thermally and oxidatively stable."}
{"id": "17680178", "title": "Heparin anticoagulation in patients undergoing off-pump and on-pump coronary bypass surgery.", "content": "Heparin anticoagulation in patients undergoing off-pump and on-pump coronary bypass surgery. The authors analyzed the coagulation data of patients who underwent on-pump coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) or off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery (OPCAB) in a randomized prospective trial. CABG and OPCAB patients received heparin anticoagulation at 400 U x kg(-1), and 180 U x kg(-1) plus 3000 U every 30 min, respectively. In addition, OPCAB patients received a rectal aspirin, 650 mg, during the procedure. Perioperative coagulation test results (platelet count, fibrinogen, prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time [PTT], activated clotting time [ACT], and thromboelastography [TEG; Haemoscope] were collected from CABG (n = 99) and OPCAB (n = 98) patients. Residual heparin activity after protamine was measured, using an anti-activated factor X (Xa) assay, in 10 patients from each group. Our study showed that the current anticoagulation regimen in the OPCAB patients achieved a peak ACT of 445 +/- 73 s, and it preserved platelet counts and fibrinogen levels. A residual heparin effect was detected, with residual anti-Xa heparin activity of 0.2 U x ml(-1) up to 2 h after surgery in the OPCAB group. Despite the residual anticoagulation, the OPCAB group had a similar TEG index of native blood, postoperative chest tube drainage, and non-erythrocyte transfusion rate as compared with the CABG group. We have shown that the heparin anticoagulation regimen in OPCAB patients does not lead to an immediate hypercoagulable state. Total doses of heparin and protamine were lower in the OPCAB group compared with the CABG group, and there was a residual heparin effect on TEG and PTT in the early postoperative period in the OPCAB group."}
{"id": "17663740", "title": "Changes in fibrinogen and fibrin induced by a peptide analog of fibrinogen gamma365-380.", "content": "Changes in fibrinogen and fibrin induced by a peptide analog of fibrinogen gamma365-380. The effects of synthetic peptides with sequences derived from the gamma-chain of fibrinogen on the functional properties of fibrinogen and fibrin were investigated. Methods included thrombelastography, clot turbidity measurement, clot elasticity measurement, platelet aggregation, and scanning transmission electron microscopy (STEM). Peptide gamma369-380 (NH(2)-WATWKTRWYSMK-COOH) showed the greatest impact on fibrin structure, compared with the 76 other overlapping dodecapeptides. Addition of this peptide, or peptide gamma365-380 (NH(2)-NGIIWATKTREWYSMK-COOH) to a mixture of fibrinogen and thrombin resulted a shorter clotting time, higher clot turbidity, lower clot elastic modulus, a higher degree of D-trimer and D-tetramer formation, and impaired plasmin proteolysis of the clot. In STEM, fibrin formed in the presence of peptide gamma369-380 consisted of a more extensive array of linear fibrils typically consisting of 20 or more molecules. Fibrils were better organized than those from non-peptide containing mixtures. Replacement of the tryptophan residue gamma376 massively reduced the effect of the peptide on fibrin structure. Binding of the peptide to fibrinogen induces conformational changes, which result in accelerated clotting and increased lateral association of fibrin protofibrils. The results imply a relevant functional role of sites interacting with peptide gamma369-380 region in the fibrinogen molecule."}
{"id": "17653302", "title": "The involvement of Na+/K(+)-ATPase in the development of platelet procoagulant response.", "content": "The involvement of Na+/K(+)-ATPase in the development of platelet procoagulant response. In circulation, platelets may come into contact with both exogenous (cardiac glycoside treatment) and endogenously produced inhibitors of Na+/K(+)-ATPase. We examined whether blocking of platelet Na+/K(+)-ATPase by ouabain results in generation of procoagulant activity. It was shown that an in vitro treatment of platelets with ouabain (20-200 microM for 20 to 60 min) is associated with an intracellular accumulation of sodium ([Na+](i)), generation of a weak calcium signal, and expression of procoagulant activity. The ouabain-induced procoagulant response was dose- and time-related, less pronounced than that evoked by collagen and similar to that produced by gramicidin, not affected by EDTA or aspirin, and strongly reduced in the absence of extracellular Na+ or by hyperosmolality. Flow cytometry studies revealed that ouabain treatment results in a unimodal left shift in the forward and side scatter of the entire platelet population indicating morphological changes of the plasma membrane. The shift was dose related, weaker than that evoked by collagen and similar to that produced by gramicidin. Ouabain-treated platelets express phosphatidylserine (PS). The ouabain-evoked PS expression was dose- and time-dependent, weaker than that produced by collagen and similar to that evoked by gramicidin. Electronic cell sizing measurements showed a dose-dependent increase in mean platelet volume upon treatment with ouabain. Hypoosmotically-evoked platelet swelling resulted in the appearance of procoagulant activity. Thromboelastography measurements indicate that, in whole blood, nanomolar (50-1000 nM, 15 min) concentrations of ouabain significantly accelerate the rate of clot formation initiated by contact and high extracellular concentration of calcium. We conclude that inefficiently operating platelet Na+/K(+)-ATPase results in a rise in [Na+](i). An increase in [Na+](i) and the swelling associated with it may produce PS exposure and a rise in membrane curvature leading to the generation of a procoagulant activity."}
{"id": "17651347", "title": "The blood bank: from provider to partner in treatment of massively bleeding patients.", "content": "The blood bank: from provider to partner in treatment of massively bleeding patients. Continued hemorrhage remains a major cause of mortality in massively transfused patients of whom many develop coagulopathy. Reviewing transfusion practice for these patients, we found that at our hospital more than 10 percent received a suboptimal transfusion therapy and that survivors had a higher platelet count than nonsurvivors. We therefore investigated whether the blood bank could improve its service and hence improve the outcome. The blood bank introduced monitoring of the delivery of blood products and contacted the clinician provided there was an imbalance in the transfusion practice. For massively transfused patients, transfusion packages, including five red blood cells, five fresh-frozen plasma, and two platelet concentrates, were introduced to improve hemostatic competence. The Thrombelastograph (TEG) Haemostatic System (Haemoscope Corp., Niles, IL) was implemented, aiding in the diagnosis and treatment of coagulopathy. The fraction of suboptimally transfused patients declined from more than 10 percent to less than 3 percent. The transfusion package administered intraoperatively to patients operated on for a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm resulted in decreased postoperative transfusion requirements and improved 30-day survival (66% vs. 44%) compared with controls. Performing TEG alone in patients with significant bleeding as judged by the anesthetist reduced the number of analyses by approximately 85 percent, while those patients with coagulopathy remained identified. The TEG showed a 97 percent predictability in identifying a surgical cause of bleeding in postoperative patients. Ten percent of the massively bleeding trauma patients had hyperfibrinolysis as the major cause of bleeding, whereas 45 percent were hypercoagulable. The initiative from the blood bank has improved the transfusion practice and, hence, survival in massively transfused patients at our hospital."}
{"id": "17646507", "title": "Liberal versus restrictive fluid management in knee arthroplasty: a randomized, double-blind study.", "content": "Liberal versus restrictive fluid management in knee arthroplasty: a randomized, double-blind study. There are few data describing the relationship between amount of perioperative fluid and organ function. In this study we investigated the effects of two levels of intravascular fluid administration (\"liberal\" versus \"restrictive\") in knee arthroplasty on physiological recovery as the primary outcome variable. In a double-blind study, 48 ASA I-III patients undergoing fast-track elective knee arthroplasty were randomized to restrictive or liberal perioperative intravascular fluid administration. Patients received a fixed rate infusion of Ringer's lactate solution with a standardized volume of colloid. All other aspects of perioperative management (including anesthesia, preoperative fluid status, and postoperative management) were standardized. Primary outcome variables included pulmonary function (spirometry), exercise capacity (\"timed up and go\" test), coagulation (Thrombelastograph), postoperative hypoxemia (nocturnal pulse oximetry), postoperative ileus (defecation), and subjective patient recovery (visual analog scales). Hospital stay and complications were also noted. Fluid guidelines were followed strictly in all patients. Liberal (median 4250 mL, range 3150-5200 mL) compared with restrictive (median 1740 mL, range 1100-2165 mL) intravascular fluid administration led to improved pulmonary function 6 h postoperatively, significant hypercoagulability 24-48 h postoperatively, and reduced incidence of vomiting. There were no overall differences in the other assessed perioperative physiological recovery variables (postoperative hypoxemia, exercise capacity or subjective patient recovery variables). No difference was found in hospital stay (median 4 days in both groups, not significant). A liberal compared to a restrictive intravascular fluid regimen may lead to significant hypercoagulability and a reduction in vomiting, but without differences in other recovery variables or hospital stay after fast-track knee arthroplasty."}
{"id": "17645719", "title": "Simultaneous pancreas--kidney transplantation: to anticoagulate or not? Is that a question?", "content": "Simultaneous pancreas--kidney transplantation: to anticoagulate or not? Is that a question? Pancreas graft loss due to venous thrombosis is the leading non-immunological cause for graft failure following kidney-pancreas transplantation. Thromboelastography (TEG)-directed anticoagulation protocol has shown that approximately one-third of the patients undergoing pancreas transplantation require therapeutic anticoagulation to prevent the occurrence of graft thrombosis. This article presents the argument for individualised anticoagulation in these patients based on their TEG tracings and suggests the use of TEG in patients undergoing pancreas transplantation."}
{"id": "17633882", "title": "[Systemic hemostatic drugs].", "content": "[Systemic hemostatic drugs]. Understanding the haemostatic changes is crucial in developing strategies for the management of haemorrhage syndroma. In recent years, the revised model of coagulation (\"cell based\" model) provided a much more authentic description of the coagulation process. Pharmacological intervention, especially desmopresin, antifibrinolytics (synthetics and nature) and increasingly recombinant activated factor VII are being used in prevention and therapeutically to control bleeding of variety etiologies. Skillfull surgery combined with blood saving methods and careful management of blood coagulation will all help in sucessfull haemorrhage prevention and treatment, and reduce unnecessary blood loss and transfusion requirements and its attendant risks. Among the all avalaible tests, the use of thromboelastography has allowed for more detailed dynamic assessment of the various steps of hemostasis."}
{"id": "17632008", "title": "Can thromboelastography predict which patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia may suffer thrombotic complications of type II?", "content": "Can thromboelastography predict which patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia may suffer thrombotic complications of type II? Despite the existence of several sensitive functional and antigen assays used for the diagnosis of heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT), an additional assessment of the patient's hemostatic status, in order to predict the thrombotic complications of the malevolent HIT type II, has become necessary. Herein below, we present the findings of thromboelastography (TEG) in a post-cardiac-surgery patient with the clinical diagnosis of HIT type II and false negative tests for heparin antibodies. We have reached the conclusion that TEG may prove to be a useful supplementary method to predict those HIT patients who may suffer complications of HIT type II."}
{"id": "17604485", "title": "Diagnosis and treatment of disseminated intravascular coagulation: a case report.", "content": "Diagnosis and treatment of disseminated intravascular coagulation: a case report. Disseminated intravascular coagulation is a pathologic syndrome with different medical disorders. Diagnosis and treatment of this syndrome is one of the difficult managements in medical science. Thromboelastogram is the only guide for early diagnosis and precise management of this syndrome. We describe a patient who developed disseminated intravascular coagulation due to endocarditis and spleen abscess. She was diagnosed by thromboelastography and treated successfully."}
{"id": "17599496", "title": "Cerebrovascular accidents in patients with a ventricular assist device.", "content": "Cerebrovascular accidents in patients with a ventricular assist device. A cerebrovascular accident is a devastating adverse event in a patient with a ventricular assist device. The goal was to clarify the risk factors for cerebrovascular accident. Prospectively collected data, including medical history, ventricular assist device type, white blood cell count, thrombelastogram, and infection, were reviewed retrospectively in 124 patients. Thirty-one patients (25%) had 48 cerebrovascular accidents. The mean ventricular assist device support period was 228 and 89 days in patients with and without cerebrovascular accidents, respectively (P < .0001). Sixty-six percent of cerebrovascular accidents occurred within 4 months after implantation. Actuarial freedom from cerebrovascular accident at 6 months was 75%, 64%, 63%, and 33% with the HeartMate device (Thoratec Corp, Pleasanton, Calif), Thoratec biventricular ventricular assist device (Thoratec Corp), Thoratec left ventricular assist device (Thoratec), and Novacor device (WorldHeart, Oakland, Calif), respectively. Twenty cerebrovascular accidents (42%) occurred in patients with infections. The mean white blood cell count at the cerebrovascular accident was greater than the normal range in patients with infection (12,900/mm3) and without infection (9500/mm3). The mean maximum amplitude of the thrombelastogram in the presence of infection (63.6 mm) was higher than that in the absence of infection (60.7 mm) (P = .0309). The risk of cerebrovascular accident increases with a longer ventricular assist device support period. Infection may activate platelet function and predispose the patient to a cerebrovascular accident. An elevation of the white blood cell count may also exacerbate the risk of cerebrovascular accident even in patients without infection. Selection of device type, prevention of infection, and meticulous control of anticoagulation are key to preventing cerebrovascular accident."}
{"id": "17599487", "title": "Effects of preoperative aspirin and clopidogrel therapy on perioperative blood loss and blood transfusion requirements in patients undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery.", "content": "Effects of preoperative aspirin and clopidogrel therapy on perioperative blood loss and blood transfusion requirements in patients undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Preoperative exposure to clopidogrel and aspirin significantly increases postoperative bleeding in patients undergoing on-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Off-pump coronary bypass grafting has been proposed as an alternative technique to attenuate postoperative bleeding associated with clopidogrel. This study aimed to determine the effects of aspirin and clopidogrel therapy on perioperative blood loss and blood transfusion requirements in off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting. One hundred six patients scheduled for off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting were divided into three groups: aspirin and clopidogrel discontinued more than 6 days before surgery (group 1, n = 35), aspirin and clopidogrel continued until 3 to 5 days before surgery (group 2, n = 51), and both medications continued within 2 days of surgery (group 3, n = 20). Thromboelastographic tracings were analyzed before induction of anesthesia. Routine coagulation profiles were measured before and after surgery. A cell salvage device was used during surgery and salvaged blood was reinfused. Chest tube drainage and blood transfusion requirement were recorded postoperatively. Patient characteristics, operative data, and thromboelastographic tracings were similar among the groups. There were significant decreases in hematocrit level and platelet count and prolongation in prothrombin time postoperatively in all groups without any intergroup differences. The amounts of perioperative blood loss and blood transfusion required were all similar among the groups. Preoperative clopidogrel and aspirin exposure even within 2 days of surgery does not increase perioperative blood loss and blood transfusion requirements in patients undergoing elective off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting."}
{"id": "17581317", "title": "Blood coagulation activation and fibrinolysis during a downhill marathon run.", "content": "Blood coagulation activation and fibrinolysis during a downhill marathon run. Prolonged physical exercise is associated with multiple changes in blood hemostasis. Eccentric muscle activation induces microtrauma of skeletal muscles, inducing an inflammatory response. Since there is a link between inflammation and coagulation we speculated that downhill running strongly activates the coagulation system. Thirteen volunteers participated in the Tyrolean Speed Marathon (42,195 m downhill race, 795 m vertical distance). Venous blood was collected 3 days (T1) and 3 h (T2) before the run, within 30 min after finishing (T3) and 1 day thereafter (T4). We measured the following key parameters: creatine kinase, myoglobin, thrombin-antithrombin complex, prothrombin fragment F1 + 2, D-dimer, plasmin-alpha(2)-antiplasmin complexes, tissue-type plasminogen activator antigen, plasminogen-activator-inhibitor-1 antigen and thrombelastography with ROTEM [intrinsic pathway (InTEM) clotting time, clot formation time, maximum clot firmness, alpha angle]. Thrombin generation was evaluated by the Thrombin Dynamic Test and the Technothrombin TGA test. Creatine kinase and myoglobin were elevated at T3 and further increased at T4. Thrombin-antithrombin complex, prothrombin fragment F1 + 2, D-dimer, plasmin-alpha(2)-antiplasmin complexes, tissue-type plasminogen activator antigen and plasminogen-activator-inhibitor-1 antigen were significantly increased at T3. ROTEM analysis exhibited a shortening of InTEM clotting time and clot formation time after the marathon, and an increase in InTEM maximum clot firmness and alpha angle. Changes in TGA were indicative for thrombin generation after the marathon. We demonstrated that a downhill marathon induces an activation of coagulation, as measured by specific parameters for coagulation, ROTEM and thrombin generation assays. These changes were paralleled by an activation of fibrinolysis indicating a preserved hemostatic balance."}
{"id": "17571601", "title": "[Perioperative changes of blood coagulability evaluated by thromboelastography (TEG) in patients undergoing total knee and total hip arthroplasty].", "content": "[Perioperative changes of blood coagulability evaluated by thromboelastography (TEG) in patients undergoing total knee and total hip arthroplasty]. A large number of studies have examined the incidence of thromboembolic complications after orthopedic surgery of the lower extremity. We investigated the perioperative changes of coagulability following total knee arthroplasty (TKA) or total hip arthroplasty (THA) using thromboelastography (TEG), which could comprehensively assess the coagulation and fibrinolytic system. Thirty patients scheduled for TKA (n= 10), THA (n= 10) and other lower extremity orthopedic surgery (control, n= 10) were studied. TEG was analyzed with K-value, MA-value and coagulation index (CI) before induction of anesthesia and 24 hours after surgery. K-values decreased significantly after TKA and THA compared with the values before the induction of anesthesia. MA-values and CI increased significantly after TKA and THA compared with the values before the induction. There were no significant changes in K-value, MA-value and CI in the control group during the perioperative period. The results suggest that TKA and THA lead blood coagulation to hypercoagulable state at the early postoperative stage."}
{"id": "17568492", "title": "An approach to transfusion and hemorrhage in trauma: current perspectives on restrictive transfusion strategies.", "content": "An approach to transfusion and hemorrhage in trauma: current perspectives on restrictive transfusion strategies. Hemorrhagic shock is a leading cause of death in trauma patients. Surgical control of bleeding and fluid resuscitation with both crystalloid and blood products remain the mainstay of therapy for injured patients with bleeding. However, there has been a recent re-evaluation of transfusion practice. Both the fear of transmissible disease and the costs of transfusing blood products have led to increasingly restrictive transfusion practices. A small percentage of trauma patients require massive transfusion. These patients are complex and difficult to manage, and clinicians must act quickly to save them. There is little evidence to help guide clinical transfusion decisions in these patients. A rational approach to using blood products requires an understanding of the end points of resuscitation. Resuscitation with fluids and red cells is necessary to improve perfusion and oxygen delivery to tissues. Avoiding overtransfusion is key, however, because transfusion is also associated with significant risks. This trend toward reducing allogenic blood exposure will likely continue. New technologies that have the potential of reducing blood loss and transfusion requirements in trauma patients with massive bleeding are being developed, and similar old technologies are being reapplied."}
{"id": "17563672", "title": "High-molecular-weight hydroxyethyl starch accelerates kallikrein-dependent clot initiation.", "content": "High-molecular-weight hydroxyethyl starch accelerates kallikrein-dependent clot initiation. A decrease in reaction time (R; seconds) has been considered a thrombelastographic hallmark of hypercoagulability. However, the cause of changes in R has been influenced by the method of activation (e.g., celite) and the clinical/laboratory setting (e.g., hemodilution). Although antithrombin deficiency has been implicated as a cause of decreased R in unactivated samples after crystalloid dilution, dilution with hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solutions such as Hextend (6% HES solution; average molecular weight 450 kDa) or Voluven (6% HES solution; average molecular weight 130 kDa) has decreased R values in celite-activated samples in vitro and in vivo, with modulation of these R values observed after aprotinin exposure. Thus, this study proposed to define whether HES affects kallikrein-dependent clot initiation. Citrated human plasma was subjected to 0% or 30% dilution with 0.9% NaCl, Hextend, or Voluven, in the absence or presence of aprotinin (200 KIU/mL final concentration). Prekallikrein-deficient (<1% activity) plasma was similarly diluted. After recalcification and celite activation, thrombelastography was performed for determination of R. R in samples without aprotinin diluted with Hextend (mean +/- SD, 132 +/- 6 seconds) was significantly smaller than that in samples with 0% dilution (155 +/- 5 seconds) and 30% dilution with 0.9% NaCl (162 +/- 9 seconds), but was not less than that in Voluven-diluted samples (149 +/- 14 seconds). R significantly increased (28%-68%) in all conditions with aprotinin compared to samples without aprotinin, and Hextend had significantly smaller R compared with that in the other fluids. Lastly, R was not different in experiments with prekallikrein-deficient plasma. These data indicate that Hextend accelerates kallikrein-dependent clot initiation compared with 0.9% NaCl or Voluven."}
{"id": "17562955", "title": "Evaluation of dose-related effects of aspirin on platelet function: results from the Aspirin-Induced Platelet Effect (ASPECT) study.", "content": "Evaluation of dose-related effects of aspirin on platelet function: results from the Aspirin-Induced Platelet Effect (ASPECT) study. The antiplatelet effect of aspirin is attributed to platelet cyclooxygenase-1 inhibition. Controversy exists on the prevalence of platelet resistance to aspirin in patients with coronary artery disease and effects of aspirin dose on inhibition. Our primary aim was to determine the degree of platelet aspirin responsiveness in patients, as measured by commonly used methods, and to study the relation of aspirin dose to platelet inhibition. We prospectively studied the effect of aspirin dosing on platelet function in 125 stable outpatients with coronary artery disease randomized in a double-blind, double-crossover investigation (81, 162, and 325 mg/d for 4 weeks each over a 12-week period). At all doses of aspirin, platelet function was low as indicated by arachidonic acid (AA)-induced light transmittance aggregation, thrombelastography, and VerifyNow. At any 1 dose, resistance to aspirin was 0% to 6% in the overall group when AA was used as the agonist, whereas it was 1% to 27% by other methods [collagen and ADP-induced light transmittance aggregation, platelet function analyzer (PFA-100)]. Platelet response to aspirin as measured by collagen-induced light transmittance aggregation, ADP-induced light transmittance aggregation, PFA-100 (81 mg versus 162 mg, P < or = 0.05), and urinary 11-dehydrothromboxane B2 was dose-related (81 mg versus 325 mg, P = 0.003). No carryover effects were observed. The assessment of aspirin resistance is highly assay-dependent; aspirin is an effective blocker of AA-induced platelet function at all doses, whereas higher estimates of resistance were observed with methods that do not use AA as the stimulus. The observation of dose-dependent effects despite nearly complete inhibition of AA-induced aggregation suggests that aspirin may exert antiplatelet properties through non-cyclooxygenase-1 pathways and deserves further investigation."}
{"id": "17562614", "title": "Factor VIII-mediated global hemostasis in the absence of von Willebrand factor.", "content": "Factor VIII-mediated global hemostasis in the absence of von Willebrand factor. Although the efficacy of recombinant factor VIII (rFVIII) in the treatment of type 3 von Willebrand disease (VWD) has been reported, the mechanisms by which FVIII concentrates devoid of von Willebrand factor (VWF) induce improvements in hemostasis are poorly understood. To address the role of FVIII or intrinsic coagulation in the absence of VWF, we performed a hemostatic analysis. Blood samples were obtained before and after the administration of rFVIII to 2 patients with type 3 VWD. A rotating thromboelastometry assay was performed to examine global interactions in hemostasis. Studies of thrombin-and shear-induced platelet aggregation were also conducted to elucidate the effect on platelet activation. Furthermore, we assessed the rise in the thrombin-induced intracellular concentration of free calcium [Ca2+]i. Addition of rFVIII to preinfusion blood in vitro corrected thromboelastometric parameters and thrombin-induced aggregation. In ex vivo studies, thromboelastometry analysis showed that rFVIII shortened the onset and progression of the coagulation process. Furthermore, rFVIII corrected low shear-induced and thrombin-induced platelet aggregation in platelet-rich plasma. In addition, rFVIII improved thrombin-induced [Ca2+]i flux in washed platelets. Our observations suggested that FVIII is incorporated into platelets to activate them, as well as to act directly in intrinsic coagulation in the absence of VWF. FVIII may play a critical role even in the absence of VWF."}
{"id": "17561860", "title": "Preparation and characterization of human thrombin for use in a fibrin glue.", "content": "Preparation and characterization of human thrombin for use in a fibrin glue. Cryoprecipitate is frequently combined with thrombin to produce a fibrin sealant to enhance haemostasis during surgical procedures. We evaluated the thrombin produced from plasma using the Thrombin Processing Device (TPD)trade mark (Thermogenesis, Rancho Cordova, CA, USA). Plasma (250 mL) was processed in the CryoSeal FS System using the CP-3 disposable to produce cryoprecipitate by automated freezing and thawing. Simultaneously, thrombin was generated using the attached TPD. The cryoprecipitate and thrombin were harvested after approximately 50 min and then frozen and stored at -80 degrees C until analysis of total protein, fibrinogen, factor VIII (FVIII) activity, von Willebrand factor (vWF) and thrombin activity. Sodium dodecyl sulphate (SDS) gel electrophoresis was used to compare thrombin. After combining the thrombin with cryoprecipitate, the rate of clot initiation and strength was measured using a Thromboelastograph (TEG) (Haemoscope Corp, Skokie, IL, USA). Cryoprecipitate was produced, with a fibrinogen concentration of 22 +/- 7.7 g L(-1) (20 +/- 2% recovery), FVIII activity of 14.2 +/- 4.0 IU mL(-1) and vWF of 19.9 +/- 5.2 IU mL(-1). The separate thrombin product had a concentration of 64.3 +/- 16.7 IU mL(-1) of thrombin and a total protein of 0.39 +/- 0.1 g, with SDS gel electrophoresis showing a major band at 37 kD, as did the commercial human thrombin. The TEG curves of cryoprecipitate and TPD-produced or commercial thrombin were compared. The R values (time to clot initiation) were somewhat slower with the TPD-produced thrombin, but the maximum strength (MA) of the clots was similar. In conclusion, human thrombin can be produced during automated cryoprecipitate production. This thrombin is in sufficient concentration to initiate clotting and cross-linking of fibrin from cryoprecipitate to produce an entirely autologous fibrin glue."}
{"id": "17516038", "title": "[Bedside thrombelastography. Cost reduction in cardiac surgery].", "content": "[Bedside thrombelastography. Cost reduction in cardiac surgery]. Demographic changes and aggressive medication with platelet aggregation inhibitors have resulted in a marked increase in blood and coagulation product expenditure and costs in cardiac surgery. We analyzed the bedside coagulation test (ROTEM) in order to verify clot forming quality and to find a cost-effective treatment algorithm. Annual treatment costs of all cardiosurgical patients were retrospectively analyzed before (729 patients) and after (693 patients) implementation of the bedside ROTEM test. Cumulative numbers and costs of platelet concentrates (PltC), fresh frozen plasma (FFP), red blood cell units (RBC), and the coagulation factors prothrombin complex concentrates (PCC), recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa), factor XIII (FXIII), and fibrinogen were assessed. Average monthly numbers and costs were compared. The number of rethoracotomies and early mortality were assessed and compared in both periods. After ROTEM implementation cumulative RBC expenditure showed a 25% decrease and PltC a 50% decrease. FFP expenditure remained unchanged. PCC, FXIII were markedly reduced (-80%) while rFVIIa was entirely omitted. Fibrinogen, however, showed a two-fold increase. Cumulative average monthly costs of all blood products decreased from 66,000 EUR to 45,000 EUR (-32%). Coagulation factor average monthly costs decreased from 60,000 EUR to 30,000 EUR (-50%) yielding combined savings of 44%. In contrast, average monthly costs for ROTEM were 1,580 EUR. The total number of rethoracotomies decreased from 6.6% to 5.5% while early mortality (5.9%; 6.0%) remained stable. Cumulative costs for treatment of perioperative coagulation disorders were reduced by bedside ROTEM analysis to achieve a selective substitution management. Saved costs for blood and coagulation products clearly outweighed the expenses of ROTEM. Adequate differential coagulation management can therefore be cost-effective."}
{"id": "17513645", "title": "The coagulation changes induced by rapid in vivo crystalloid infusion are attenuated when magnesium is kept at the upper limit of normal.", "content": "The coagulation changes induced by rapid in vivo crystalloid infusion are attenuated when magnesium is kept at the upper limit of normal. Rapid crystalloid infusion enhances coagulation, regardless of electrolytes, pH or osmolality, an effect thought to be related to deep vein thrombosis and other clot formations. Altered serum magnesium may play a role in the balance of coagulation. In this in vivo study we investigated the coagulation response to rapid hemodilution when serum magnesium is maintained or partially increased. Twenty-five healthy volunteers were investigated on three occasions, randomly receiving normal saline, Balsol (magnesium 1.5 g/L), and Balsol plus additional magnesium (magnesium 3.0 g/L). Investigators were blinded to the solution's identity. Baseline blood samples were taken measuring hematocrit, serum magnesium, and thrombelastography (TEG), whereafter 14 mL/kg (20% blood volume) was infused over 30 min, followed by a second blood sample. All results were compared to their own baseline values using ANOVA with LSD post hoc significance testing. All groups had a similar postdilutional hematocrit decrease, with significant magnesium reduction in the saline group (0.81 +/- 0.07 to 0.74 +/- 0.07 (approximately -8.6%) (P < 0.003)), no change in the Balsol group and significant increase in the Balsol + magnesium group (0.84 +/- 0.07 to 0.99 +/- 0.06 (approximately 17.9%) (P < 0.001)). Postdilutional TEG results reflected no significant change from control in the Balsol + magnesium group. Both of the other two groups had statistically significant increased clot formation (reaction time to onset of clotting and clotting time shortened; alpha-angle increased). Rapid hemodilution-induced coagulation may be partially due to decreased magnesium, and the effect is attenuated by maintaining magnesium at the upper limit of normal. Crystalloid resuscitation fluids should possibly contain higher magnesium levels, around 3 mmol/L."}
{"id": "17508711", "title": "Design and synthesis of efficient fluorescent dyes for incorporation into DNA backbone and biomolecule detection.", "content": "Design and synthesis of efficient fluorescent dyes for incorporation into DNA backbone and biomolecule detection. We report here the design and synthesis of a series of pi-conjugated fluorescent dyes with D-A-D (D, donor; A, acceptor), D-pi-D, A-pi-A, and D-pi-A for applications as the signaling motif in biological-synthetic hybrid foldamers for DNA detection. The Horner-Wadsworth-Emmons (HWE) reaction and Knoevenagel condensation were demonstrated as the optimum ways for construction of long pi-conjugated systems. Such rodlike chromophores have distinct advantages, as their fluorescence properties are not quenched by the presence of DNA. To be incorporated into the backbone of DNA, the chromophores need to be reasonably soluble in organic solvent for solid-phase synthesis, and therefore a strategy of using flexible tetraethylene glycol (TEG) linkers at either end of these rodlike dyes was developed. The presence of TEG facilitates the protection of the chain-growing hydroxyl group with DMTrCl (dimethoxytrityl chloride) as well as the activation of the coupling step with phosphoramidite chemistry on an automated DNA synthesizer. To form fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) pairs, six synthetic chromophores with blue to red fluorescence have been developed, and those with orthogonal fluorescent emission were chosen for incorporation into DNA-chromophore hybrid foldamers."}
{"id": "17498072", "title": "Sequential therapy with activated prothrombin complex concentrates and recombinant FVIIa in patients with severe haemophilia and inhibitors: update of our previous experience.", "content": "Sequential therapy with activated prothrombin complex concentrates and recombinant FVIIa in patients with severe haemophilia and inhibitors: update of our previous experience. Haemophilia patients with inhibitors can develop bleeding episodes, which are refractory to monotherapy with either recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) or activated prothrombin complex concentrates (APCC). Management of such bleeds is often difficult. We previously reported the safety of using a combination of rFVIIa and APCC given in sequential fashion. In this report, we update our experience with sequential therapy. A retrospective review of medical records was conducted including all reports of sequential therapy defined as receiving both rFVIIa and APCC within 6 h. Data extracted included demographic data, treatment prior to and following hospital admission, clinical data including type and location of bleed, response to therapy, physical examination and laboratory data. In addition, for some patients, thromboelastography was performed to document the effect of sequential therapy on clot formation characteristics. Four patients comprising 35 admissions, 209 hospital days and 115 days of sequential therapy were included in the updated dataset. No patient developed thrombosis or overt disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) although elevations in the D-dimer above 5 microg mL(-1) were noted in 42% of the courses that lasted >3 days. Efficacy is suggested by the fact that patients had resolution of their bleeds after a median of 3 days of sequential therapy after failing to respond to a median of 3 days of monotherapy. Thromboelastography demonstrated an additive effect. Sequential therapy is a safe, potentially efficacious approach in the management of refractory bleeding episodes in patients with haemophilia and inhibitors."}
{"id": "17491250", "title": "[The use of thrombelastography in evaluation of coagulation in females with physiological or pathological gravidity].", "content": "[The use of thrombelastography in evaluation of coagulation in females with physiological or pathological gravidity]. During gravidity changes in coagulation develop, however different norms for pregnant women and prevailing population are rarely used. Pathological gravidity can be accompanied with more significant coagulopathies. Thrombelastography is more and more frequently used for evaluation of coagulation parameters of pregnant women. The aim of the study was to compare thrombelastographic coagulation parameters in females with physiological or pathological gravidity and with norms for prevailing population. 60 women in the 3rd trimester of physiological gravidity (group ZDRAVE) and 50 women with pathological gravidity (women with preeclampsia or with a dead fetus, group PATOL) were examined. Both groups were of the comparable age. Average values of studied parameters in the group ZDRAVE were found at the level of \"procoagulation\" limits for prevailing population. In the group PATOL, average values were even more \"procoagulative\", however, differences to the ZDRAVE group were nor significant: time r 4.7 (SD 1.7) vs. 4.4 (SD 2.0) p = 0.461 (norm for prevailing population 4-8 min), time to 1.5 (0.5) vs. 1.3 (0.4) p = 0.030 (norm 1-4 min), angle alpha 69.6 (5.5) vs. 71.0 (7.7) p = 0.324 (norm 47-74 degrees), maximal amplitude 71.3 (4.5) vs. 73.1 (4.7) p = 0.079 (norm 55-73 mm), coagulation index 2.7 (1.8) vs. 3.2 (1.8) p = 0.219 (norm (-3)-(+3)). In the group PATOL higher variability than in the group ZDRAVE was found. On the basis of the group ZDRAVE selection percentiles, new norms of thrombelastographic coagulation parameters for pregnant women were elaborated. Coagulation during pregnancy differs significantly from that of prevailing population. That is why the new thrombelastographic norms for pregnant women are submitted. Coagulation changes in pathological pregnancies are more difficult to anticipate than in healthy gestations."}
{"id": "17483700", "title": "High availability of intravascular tissue factor in neonates.", "content": "High availability of intravascular tissue factor in neonates. In the present study, we compared the levels of intravascular tissue factor (TF) present in cord versus adult whole blood (WB) prior and after lipopolysaccharide (LPS) stimulation. High levels of intravascular TF might help to explain the clinically observed efficient clotting of cord blood despite low levels of procoagulatory factors. Quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed same (basal) TF mRNA expression levels in both native cord and adult WB, and approximately same increase in TF mRNA expression owing to LPS incubation in both cord and adult WB (normalized to the housekeeping gene beta-actin). Flow-cytometric (fluorescence activated cell sorting) analysis revealed significantly higher surface TF antigen exposure on the neonatal monocyte membrane in native WB samples, and approximately same ability of neonatal and adult monocytes to express TF upon LPS-stimulation. Thrombelastography revealed significantly shorter clotting times of native cord versus adult WB (527+/-41 vs. 592+/-23 s, P<0.05). Moreover, shortening of clotting times owing to LPS-stimulation was significantly more pronounced in cord versus adult WB (29.65+/-3.35% vs. 12.03+/-6.23%, P<0.05). Because both quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction and fluorescence activated cell sorting analysis revealed same capability of both neonatal and adult monocytes to express TF upon LPS-stimulation, this efficient shortening effect in cord WB might be explained by the constitutively high number of monocytes present in neonates. We suggest that the high levels of intravascular TF present in neonates (prior and after LPS-stimulation) might help to explain the clinically observed efficient clotting of cord blood despite low levels of procoagulatory factors."}
{"id": "17483274", "title": "Inhibition of Escherichia coli biofilm formation by self-assembled monolayers of functional alkanethiols on gold.", "content": "Inhibition of Escherichia coli biofilm formation by self-assembled monolayers of functional alkanethiols on gold. Bacterial biofilms cause serious problems, such as antibiotic resistance and medical device-related infections. To further understand bacterium-surface interactions and to develop efficient control strategies, self-assembled monolayers (SAMs) of alkanethiols presenting different functional groups on gold films were analyzed to determine their resistance to biofilm formation. Escherichia coli was labeled with green florescence protein, and its biofilm formation on SAM-modified surfaces was monitored by confocal laser scanning microscopy. The three-dimensional structures of biofilms were analyzed with the COMSTAT software to obtain information about biofilm thickness and surface coverage. SAMs presenting methyl, L-gulonamide (a sugar alcohol tethered with an amide bond), and tri(ethylene glycol) (TEG) groups were tested. Among these, the TEG-terminated SAM was the most resistant to E. coli biofilm formation; e.g., it repressed biofilm formation by E. coli DH5alpha by 99.5% +/- 0.1% for 1 day compared to the biofilm formation on a bare gold surface. When surfaces were patterned with regions consisting of methyl-terminated SAMs surrounded by TEG-terminated SAMs, E. coli formed biofilms only on methyl-terminated patterns. Addition of TEG as a free molecule to growth medium at concentrations of 0.1 and 1.0% also inhibited biofilm formation, while TEG at concentrations up to 1.5% did not have any noticeable effects on cell growth. The results of this study suggest that the reduction in biofilm formation on surfaces modified with TEG-terminated SAMs is a result of multiple factors, including the solvent structure at the interface, the chemorepellent nature of TEG, and the inhibitory effect of TEG on cell motility."}
{"id": "17473575", "title": "Efficacy of anticoagulants and platelet inhibitors in cancer-induced thrombosis.", "content": "Efficacy of anticoagulants and platelet inhibitors in cancer-induced thrombosis. The efficacy of anticoagulants, low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWHs), the antiplatelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonist, or combinations on cancer-activated thrombosis was determined using thromboelastography. The LMWHs tinzaparin and enoxaparin (0.179, 1.79, 17.9 microg) were incubated in human citrated whole blood (n = 4) and then activated by calcium chloride (11 mmol/l) or Colo205 (cell count 10). Concentrations of 9.9, 17.9 and 179 microg glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonist, XV454, and combinations with each LMWH were carried out and activated under the same conditions. The experiment was repeated with tissue factor substituting for the Colo205 to induce platelet/fibrin clot formation. Parameters tested in the thrombelastography analysis included clotting time, rate of clot formation due to fibrin formation, clot kinetics, and clot strength related to platelet count (maximum amplitude). Tinzaparin (1.79 microg), enoxaparin (1.79 microg), and XV454 (17.9 microg) significantly reduced the angle by 64, 26 and 27%, respectively, in cancer-induced clotting. Significant reductions in the maximum amplitude occurred in tinzaparin 1.79 microg (31%), enoxaparin 1.79 microg (11%), and XV454 17.9 microg (59%). An overall antithrombotic additive effect occurred when each LMWH (1.79 microg) was combined with XV454 (17.9 microg). The results between cancer-activated and tissue factor-activated blood were similar. The study concludes that an additive effect is present between LMWHs and a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonist in reducing cancer-mediated thrombosis."}
{"id": "17466081", "title": "Thrombelastography and sepsis.", "content": "Thrombelastography and sepsis."}
{"id": "17459320", "title": "Label-free immunosensing for alpha-fetoprotein in human plasma using surface plasmon resonance.", "content": "Label-free immunosensing for alpha-fetoprotein in human plasma using surface plasmon resonance. In this study, we attempted to develop a surface plasmon resonance (SPR)-based immunoassay sensor to detect alpha-fetoprotein (AFP) in human plasma at the nanogram level, as is required for clinical diagnosis of hepatocellular tumors. A self-assembled monolayer (SAM) surface of tri(ethylene glycol) (TEG) and carboxyl group-terminated hexa(ethylene glycol) (HEG) was employed to suppress the nonspecific adsorption of plasma components onto the sensor surface. AFP was detected by a sandwich-type immunoassay using two kinds of antibodies, primary and secondary, in this system. The SPR signal shift was further enhanced by applying an antibody (polyclonal) against the second antibody. With this method, the SPR signals were highly intensified, and so nanogram levels (ng/ml) of AFP could be easily detected with a high signal/noise ratio, as is necessary for clinical diagnosis. It is expected that our SPR-based immunoassay method can also be applicable to the detection of several other tumor markers that are present in low concentrations in human blood."}
{"id": "17457867", "title": "Perioperative coagulation management in a patient with afibrinogenemia undergoing liver transplantation.", "content": "Perioperative coagulation management in a patient with afibrinogenemia undergoing liver transplantation. Afibrinogenemia is a rare hereditary coagulation disorder characterized by a propensity toward bleeding. A 21-year-old Hispanic woman with afibrinogenemia developed ascites, a distended abdomen, an enlarged liver, scleral icterus, and umbilical vein and abdominal wall vein distension. Computed tomography (CT) scan showed occlusion of the hepatic veins and the infrahepatic vena cava consistent with Budd-Chiari syndrome. These developments led to her evaluation for, and placement on, the liver transplantation waiting list. The patient's unmeasurable international normalized ratio (INR) artifactually increased her Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score to 40. Immediately before transplant surgery, an initial thrombelastogram (TEG) showed a flat line, indicating a complete lack of fibrin clot formation. Preoperatively, 20 units of cryoprecipitate were infused. The first intraoperative TEG demonstrated a tracing consistent with normal clot formation. Coagulation studies normalized with the newly functioning liver. The liver transplantation appears to have corrected the fibrinogen deficiency, presumably limiting the chance of recurrent Budd-Chiari syndrome. This case report discusses the essential role of fibrinogen in the coagulation cascade, as visualized by thrombelastography, and exposes the interplay between plasma fibrinogen and thrombin levels, which determine coagulation or fibrinolysis."}
{"id": "17432889", "title": "Direct immobilization of cholesteryl-TEG-modified oligonucleotides onto hydrophobic SU-8 surfaces.", "content": "Direct immobilization of cholesteryl-TEG-modified oligonucleotides onto hydrophobic SU-8 surfaces. We introduce a rapid, simple one-step procedure for the high-yield immobilization of cholesteryl-tetraethyleneglycol-modified oligonucleotides (chol-DNA) at hydrophobic sites made of SU-8 photoresist. Topographic structures of SU-8 were microfabricated on microscope glass coverslips sputtered with a Ti/Au layer. Upon application, chol-DNA adsorbed to the SU-8 structures from solution, leaving the surrounding gold surface free of chol-DNA. chol-DNA immobilization is complete within 15 min and yields a surface coverage in the range of 20-95 pmol/cm(2), which corresponds to a film density of 10(12)-10(13) molecules/cm(2). chol-DNA immobilization is stable and can be sustained despite rinsing, drying, dry storage for several hours, and rehydration of chips. Furthermore, complementary DNA in solution hybridizes efficiently to immobilized chol-DNA."}
{"id": "17430464", "title": "Processing of stored packed red blood cells using autotransfusion devices decreases potassium and microaggregates: a prospective, randomized, single-blinded in vitro study.", "content": "Processing of stored packed red blood cells using autotransfusion devices decreases potassium and microaggregates: a prospective, randomized, single-blinded in vitro study. The aim of the study was to compare the potential of autotransfusion devices to reduce non-infectious complications related to transfusion of long-stored packed red blood cells (PRBC; n= 57), such as changes in electrolytes, blood cells and the load of free microaggregates. Following a baseline measurement, a blood pool of three PRBC was divided into three equal volumes and washed with either the Haemonetics Cell Saver (HCS) or the continuous autotransfusion system (C.A.T.S), using the quality (CATS(quality)) and emergency (CATS(emergency)) mode. After the washing procedure, measurements for electrolytes, blood cells and free microaggregates were repeated (n= 19 each). Compared with baseline, the investigated autotransfusion devices reduced the median load of potassium (baseline: 52 mEq L(-1); HCS: 4 mEq L(-1); CATS(quality): 4 mEq L(-1); CATS(emergency): 17 mEq L(-1); each P < 0.001), restored a physiologic electrolyte balance and significantly decreased the load of leucocytes, glucose and protein. Whereas the quantity of microaggregates was not reduced by HCS, CATS(emergency) decreased the load of cell fragments below 7.8 microm (P < 0.05 vs. baseline). Using CATS(quality) decreased the load of cell fragments not only to a diameter below 7.8 microm (P < 0.001 vs. baseline) but also of microaggregates between 7.8 and 17.6 microm (P < 0.05 vs. baseline). In situations where long-stored PRBC have to be transfused, the procedure described here may be feasible to reduce clinically relevant side effects, i.e. hyperkalaemia and microvascular obstruction secondary to free cell fragments. This approach could be especially useful in patients undergoing massive transfusion and/or suffering from renal failure."}
{"id": "17430330", "title": "Perioperative use of modified thrombelastography in factor XI deficiency: a helpful method to assess drug effects.", "content": "Perioperative use of modified thrombelastography in factor XI deficiency: a helpful method to assess drug effects. Factor XI deficiency is a rare, hereditary bleeding disorder associated with a trauma-related bleeding tendency, caused by insufficient generation of the thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI) evoking increased fibrinolysis. We present the case of a five year old girl with homozygote, severe factor XI deficiency presenting for surgery on two occasions. Modified thrombelastography (ROTEM) was used to assess effects of factor XI deficiency on coagulation, endogenous fibrinolysis, and potential effects of tranexamic acid, aprotinin and recombinant, activated Factor VII in an in vitro model of hyperfibrinolysis. According to our data and in consideration of the mechanisms of factor XI deficiency we decided on prophylactic use of tranexamic acid."}
{"id": "17427058", "title": "Emerging technologies and quality assurance: the United Kingdom National External Quality Assessment Scheme perspective.", "content": "Emerging technologies and quality assurance: the United Kingdom National External Quality Assessment Scheme perspective. The pattern of tests employed and technologies developed within hemostasis laboratories has changed considerably within the last 10 years. These changes have presented challenges to external quality assessment (EQA) providers, including the United Kingdom National External Quality Assessment Scheme (NEQAS). EQA for point-of-care devices used for monitoring oral anticoagulant therapy has focused on provision of suitable material to assess performance of devices designed for capillary blood testing, and on education of a user group not usually trained in laboratory quality control procedures. Development of novel therapeutic agents for hemophilia has presented challenges regarding standardization of assays for monitoring treatment, whereas advances related to laboratory testing and automation have not always been accompanied by improved accuracy and precision. EQA provision has also been shown to be of value in molecular genetic screening tests for thrombophilia, and in highlighting standardization issues related to D-dimer measurement in the exclusion of deep vein thrombosis. The increasing prevalence of screening tests of global hemostasis, such as thrombin generation tests and thromboelastography, presents additional challenges to EQA providers in the attempt to standardize these new and potentially beneficial technologies."}
{"id": "17427056", "title": "Emerging technologies in hemostasis diagnostics: a report from the Australasian Society of Thrombosis and Haemostasis Emerging Technologies Group.", "content": "Emerging technologies in hemostasis diagnostics: a report from the Australasian Society of Thrombosis and Haemostasis Emerging Technologies Group. Technology in hemostasis laboratories has evolved enormously during the last 30 years. Although many scientists and clinicians will remember the traditional tilt-tube techniques to screen for coagulation abnormalities and to monitor anticoagulant therapy, the hemostasis laboratory today uses a variety of modern technologies. These include flow cytometry, chromogenic assays, molecular typing (e.g., polymerase chain reaction), immunologic assays (e.g., enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays), functional assays of specific coagulation proteins, and platelet function analyzers. Although these advances in technology have resulted in greater capability, productivity, sensitivity, specificity, and ultimately, improvement in the clinical care of patients, controversies and limitations remain. This article highlights new and emerging technologies in hemostasis and discusses whether they have improved or are likely to improve laboratory diagnostics by specifically addressing the following: (1) Can new technologies help predict likelihood of thrombosis recurrence? (2) Has an understanding of the role of A Disintegrin-like And Metalloprotease with Thrombo Spondin type 1 motifs (ADAMTS13) in microangiopathy resulted in improved diagnostic methods for this disorder? (3) Does thrombelastography allow better definition of bleeding risk than conventional hemostasis assays, especially in settings of acute hemostatic pathology?"}
{"id": "17426904", "title": "Coagulopathy: its pathophysiology and treatment in the injured patient.", "content": "Coagulopathy: its pathophysiology and treatment in the injured patient. Hemorrhage continues to be one of the leading causes of death following trauma. Trauma patients are susceptible to the early development of coagulopathy and the most severely injured patients are coagulopathic on hospital admission. Hypothermia, acidosis, and dilution from standard resuscitation can worsen the presenting coagulopathy and perpetuate bleeding. Early identification of coagulopathy is dependent on clinical awareness and point of care laboratory values. Routinely used laboratory coagulation parameters fail to adequately describe this state. Thrombelastography is a test that can be done at the bedside and uses whole blood to provide a functional evaluation of coagulation. Rapid diagnosis of coagulopathy, followed by prevention or correction of hypothermia and acidosis should be a priority during the initial evaluation and resuscitation. Judicious use of resuscitation fluids and early replacement of coagulation factors will help prevent iatrogenic hemodilution. This review covers the pathophysiology as well as the clinical and laboratory diagnosis of coagulopathy. Prevention and treatment strategies are discussed, including early transfusion of coagulation factors during massive transfusion and the use of recombinant factor VIIa. Damage control resuscitation is briefly discussed, and it involves the combination of hypotensive resuscitation and hemostatic resuscitation. Finally, a description of the use of fresh whole blood in the military setting is included. Its use has been proven to be safe and beneficial in this setting and warrants further investigation as an adjunct to the management of civilian trauma patients."}
{"id": "17413761", "title": "A comparison of the Thrombelastograph and the ROTEM.", "content": "A comparison of the Thrombelastograph and the ROTEM. Elastic modulus-based assessment of hemostasis in clinical and research settings has been conducted for nearly 60 years. Two systems utilizing this technology include the Thrombelastograph (Haemoscope Corporation, Niles, Illinois, USA) and the ROTEM (Pentapharm GmbH, Munich, Germany). The study goal was to compare the Thrombelastograph and the ROTEM to determine whether differences in data could be detected. Plasma (n = 8 per condition) was not activated (native); was celite-activated, hypocoagulable by dilution with hydroxyethyl starch; was celite-activated, normal; and was celite-activated, hypercoagulable by addition of fibrinogen. Equivalent ratios of plasma mixture to CaCl2 were maintained between the Thrombelastograph and ROTEM systems. Data collected included the reaction time, angle, maximum amplitude and maximum elastic modulus. The ROTEM system generated significantly (P<0.05) smaller reaction time (mean +/- SD, 459 +/- 39 versus 788 +/- 94 s) and greater angle (60.1 +/- 5.3 versus 46.4 +/- 4.6 degrees ), maximum amplitude (27.6 +/- 1.6 versus 24.4 +/- 1.4 mm) and maximum elastic modulus (1911 +/- 152 versus 1616 +/- 121 dynes/cm2) values with native plasma compared with the Thrombelastograph. Celite-activation tended to attenuate differences between the two systems. In conclusion, a comparison of the Thrombelastograph and the ROTEM with similar samples demonstrated clinically significant differences in the data generated without exogenous activation. Given these data and the differences in proprietary activator, divergent results are expected, perhaps affecting clinical decision-making."}
{"id": "17413758", "title": "The effects of glycosaminoglycans on coagulation: a thromboelastographic study.", "content": "The effects of glycosaminoglycans on coagulation: a thromboelastographic study. Endogenous heparinoids impair coagulation, evidenced by thrombelastography in cirrhotic patients with bacterial infection, but it is not clear which glycosaminoglycans can be detected by native and heparinase-modified thrombelastography. To assess the effects of different glycosaminoglycans on thrombelastography parameters and the reversibility of these effects by heparinase-I-modified thrombelastography. Twenty volunteers were enrolled. Solutions of heparan sulphate, dermatan sulphate, and chondroitin-4-sulphate were prepared at 'equivalent' concentrations, based on the composition and anticoagulant activity of danaparoid. Serial dilutions of each glycosaminoglycan were prepared to achieve 1.0, 0.5, 0.1, and 0.05 U/ml. Native and heparinase-modified thrombelastography, anti-activated factor X activity and heparin cofactor II activity were evaluated at each concentration. A statistically significant heparin-like effect was seen with 1 and 0.5 U/ml heparan sulphate, and 1 and 0.5 U/ml dermatan sulphate, which was completely reversed by heparinase-modified thrombelastography. Anti-activated factor X activity was significantly increased in samples containing heparan and dermatan sulphates. The heparin cofactor II activity decreased with 1.0 and 0.5 U/ml dermatan sulphate and chondroitin-4-sulphate, but not with heparan sulphate. Heparan and dermatan sulphates affect haemostasis when added to whole blood in vitro, detectable by native thrombelastography and completely reversed by heparinase-I-modified thrombelastography. They may therefore be responsible for the heparin-like effect seen by thrombelastography in patients with cirrhosis and bacterial infection."}
{"id": "17398108", "title": "Cost reduction of perioperative coagulation management in cardiac surgery: value of \"bedside\" thrombelastography (ROTEM).", "content": "Cost reduction of perioperative coagulation management in cardiac surgery: value of \"bedside\" thrombelastography (ROTEM). Demographic changes and aggressive platelet inhibition have resulted in a marked increase in blood- and coagulation product expenditure and costs in cardiac surgery. We analyzed \"bedside\" coagulation test (ROTEM) in order to verify clot forming quality for the purpose of finding a cost-effective treatment path. Annual treatment costs of all cardiosurgical patients were analyzed before (729 patients) and after (693 patients) implementation of \"bedside\" ROTEM. Cumulative numbers and costs of platelet concentrates (PltC), fresh frozen plasma (FFP), red blood cell units (RBC), and coagulation factors: pooled coagulation concentrates (PCC), recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa), factor XIII (FXIII), and fibrinogen were assessed. Average monthly numbers and costs were compared. Number of resternotomies and early mortality was assessed and compared in both periods. After ROTEM implementation cumulative RBC expenditure showed 25% decrease while PltC exhibited 50% decrease. FFP expenditure remained unchanged. PCC, FXIII were markedly reduced (-80%) while rFVIIa were entirely omitted. Fibrinogen, however, increased two-fold. Cumulative average monthly costs of all blood products decreased from 66,000 euro to 45,000 euro (-32%). Coagulation factor average monthly costs decreased from 60,000 euro to 30,000 euro (-50%) yielding combined savings of 44%. In contrast, average monthly costs for ROTEM were 1.580 euro. Total number of resternotomies decreased from 6.6% to 5.5% while early mortality (5.9%; 6.0%) remained stable. Cumulative costs for treatment of perioperative coagulation disorders can be reduced by \"bedside\" ROTEM analysis to achieve a selective substitution management. Saved costs for blood- and coagulation products clearly outweighed the expenses of ROTEM. Adequate differential coagulation management can therefore be cost-effective."}
{"id": "17393033", "title": "Haemophilia patients exhibit prolonged coagulation time but normal lag time of thrombin generation test: are these results really discordant?", "content": "Haemophilia patients exhibit prolonged coagulation time but normal lag time of thrombin generation test: are these results really discordant?"}
{"id": "17393017", "title": "Haemostatic changes related to fibrin formation and fibrinolysis during the first trimester in normal pregnancy and in recurrent miscarriage.", "content": "Haemostatic changes related to fibrin formation and fibrinolysis during the first trimester in normal pregnancy and in recurrent miscarriage. We have studied some biophysical properties of the fibrin network during the normal state of pregnancy and in patients with recurrent miscarriage (RM), in the first trimester of pregnancy. The fibrin polymerization process, followed by turbidity, showed that the rate of fibrin monomer assembly and the final turbidity was increased in the pregnant group (normal and with history of RM) compared to non-pregnant women (normal and RM), which is consistent with the increased fibrinogen concentration during pregnancy. No changes were observed in the Darcy constant (Ks) of RM clots, pregnant or not; however, in pregnant control subjects the Ks increased (p = 0.03). The fibrin lysis rate was increased in pregnant women compared to non-pregnant, being faster in women with RM. The rheological properties of the fibrin network in the non-pregnant group (control and RM patients) were similar; in the pregnant state, the fibrin network of the control group was 1.3 times stiffer compared to the control non-pregnant women, and almost unchanged in RM patients. In this study we have found changes in the clot structure that seem to be related to normal pregnancy and an increased rate of the fibrin lysis process in the RM patients, which may have clinical relevance."}
{"id": "17391496", "title": "Factor VIIa analogue (V158D/E296V/M298Q-FVIIa) normalises clot formation in whole blood from patients with severe haemophilia A.", "content": "Factor VIIa analogue (V158D/E296V/M298Q-FVIIa) normalises clot formation in whole blood from patients with severe haemophilia A. This study evaluated and compared the haemostatic potential of a recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) analogue (V158D/E296V/M298Q-FVIIa, NN1731, Novo Nordisk, Denmark) with rFVIIa (NovoSeven, Novo Nordisk). In vitro studies were performed using freshly drawn whole blood (WB) from 14 patients with severe haemophilia A and two patients with inhibitory antibodies to FVIII, comparing NN1731 and rFVIIa against a buffer control. Fourteen healthy males served as controls. Dynamic WB coagulation profiles were recorded, quantitatively illustrating the initiation [clotting time = CT (s)], propagation [maximum velocity = MaxVel (mm*100/s)] and termination [maximum clot firmness = MCF (mm*100)] as determined by thromboelastography with minute amounts of tissue factor (TF, Innovin - final dilution 1:50 000, c. 0.12 pM) serving as activator. WB clot stability was assessed using a separate set-up including TF plus tissue plasminogen activator (final concentration 2 nmol/l), evaluating the MCF as well as the area under the elasticity curve (AUEC) after 60 min (mm*100*s). NN1731 shortened the CT more markedly than rFVIIa. At the dose tested, NN1731 even shortened CT in haemophilia below the value of healthy males. NN1731 accelerated MaxVel giving a value indistinguishable from that in healthy males. Furthermore, NN1731 increased clot stability more markedly than rFVIIa. Altogether, these in vitro studies on WB revealed a favourable haemostatic potential of NN1731 compared with rFVIIa in severe haemophilia A, both in the absence and presence of enhanced fibrinolytic activity."}
{"id": "17381628", "title": "In vitro quality of red blood cells (RBCs) collected by multicomponent apheresis compared to manually collected RBCs during 49 days of storage.", "content": "In vitro quality of red blood cells (RBCs) collected by multicomponent apheresis compared to manually collected RBCs during 49 days of storage. New technologic developments enable automated collection and preparation of red blood cells (RBCs). This study's aim was to evaluate quality of apheresis-derived RBCs (ARBCs) collected as single units along with platelets (RBC-Ps) or double units (2-RBCs) with four different apheresis systems. Sixty-six donors with similar baseline variables underwent RBC apheresis collection with various machines (Amicus [15 RBC-Ps] and Alyx [15 2-RBCs], Baxter; the Trima Accel [9 RBC-Ps, 8 2-RBCs], Gambro, and the MCS+[9 RBC-Ps, 10 2-RBCs], Haemonetics Corp.). In vitro properties were analyzed during 49 days of storage and compared to manual RBCs (MRBCs, n = 14). All units but one, Alyx, demonstrated white blood cell counts of less than 1 x 10(6). ARBCs showed lower variability in volume compared to MRBCs. All units met international requirements (European, AABB) for hematocrit (50%-70%), hemoglobin (>40 g/unit), and RBC mass (>or=153 mL). pH values remained similar between study groups without reaching critical limits in any unit. MRBCs had slight advantages for hemolysis at the end of storage and were significantly superior in energy maintenance as indicated by less ATP degradation and potassium leak most likely due to more pronounced anoxidative glycolysis particularly during the first half of storage. Owing to more declining oxidative glucose metabolism, ARBCs demonstrated higher methemoglobin formation and subsequent oxygen release until the end of storage. ARBCs exhibited better predictability in volume and absolute RBC mass than MRBCs and demonstrated sufficient in vitro quality throughout storage, even though lower ATP preservation and higher methemoglobin formation were observed compared to MRBCs probably due to differences in glucose metabolism."}
{"id": "17381627", "title": "Successful in vivo recovery and extended storage of additive solution (AS)-5 red blood cells after deglycerolization and resuspension in AS-3 for 15 days with an automated closed system.", "content": "Successful in vivo recovery and extended storage of additive solution (AS)-5 red blood cells after deglycerolization and resuspension in AS-3 for 15 days with an automated closed system. Previously, cryopreserved red blood cell (RBC) units derived from CPD/AS-5 whole-blood (WB) collections have been limited to 24 hours postthaw storage (1-6 degrees C). Sixty-four leukoreduced (LR) and 54 nonleukoreduced (NLR) AS-5 (n = 118) RBC units from 500-mL WB collections were stored for 6 days, glycerolized, frozen (-70 +/- 5 degrees C) for at least 14 days, thawed, deglycerolized, and stored (1-6 degrees C) for 15 days resuspended in AS-3, using an automated closed-system cell processor (ACP 215, Haemonetics). Frozen units were stored in either ethylene vinyl acetate (EVA) or polyvinylchloride (PVC) bags. In vitro parameters were tested in all units 15 days after deglycerolization. In vivo 24-hour recovery was measured in 77 of 118 donors. Postdeglycerolization in vitro RBC mass recoveries (mean +/- SD) were 96.8 +/- 5.7 and 94.7 +/- 5.6% for EVA LR and NLR units, respectively, and 97.3 +/- 6.2 and 94.7 +/- 6.2% for PVC LR and NLR units, based on unit weight and hematocrit after sampling for in vitro testing, immediately before glycerolization. Hemoglobin content (g/unit, mean +/- SD) after deglycerolization was 40.4 +/- 5.6 and 42.6 +/- 6.0 for EVA LR and NLR units, respectively, and 40.7 +/- 4.8 and 43.0 +/- 7.7 for PVC LR and NLR units. Hemolysis was 0.61 +/- 0.23 and 0.54 +/- 0.16% for EVA LR and NLR units, and 0.47 +/- 0.14 and 0.43 +/- 0.12% for PVC LR and NLR units. In vivo 24-hour recoveries on Day 15 were 83.0 +/- 6.7% (PVC NLR) up to 86.2 +/- 5.7% (EVA NLR). With processing on the ACP 215 system, CPD/AS-5 LR and NLR thawed RBC units can be stored for up to 14 days after frozen storage at -65 degrees C or colder in EVA or PVC bags with acceptable in vivo and in vitro RBC quality."}
{"id": "17380100", "title": "Management of massive operative blood loss.", "content": "Management of massive operative blood loss. Coagulopathy associated with massive operative blood loss is an intricate, multicellular and multifactorial event. Massive bleeding can either be anticipated (during major surgery with high risk of bleeding) or unexpected. Management requires preoperative risk evaluation and preoperative optimization (discontinuation or modification of anticoagulant drugs, prophylactic coagulation therapy). Intraoperatively, the causal diagnosis of the complex pathophysiology of massive bleeding requiring rapid and specific coagulation management is critical for the patient's outcome. Treatment and transfusion algorithms, based on repeated and timely point-of-care coagulation testing and on the clinical judgment, are to be encouraged. The time lapse for reporting results and insufficient identification of the hemostatic defect are obstacles for conventional laboratory coagulation tests. The evidence is growing that rotational thrombelastometry or modified thrombelastography are superior to routine laboratory tests in guiding intraoperative coagulation management. Specific platelet function tests may be of value in platelet-dependent bleeding associated e.g. with extracorporeal circulation, antiplatelet therapy, inherited or acquired platelet defects. Therapeutic approaches include the use of blood products (red cell concentrates, platelets, plasma), coagulation factor concentrates (fibrinogen, prothrombin complex, von Willebrand factor), pharmacological agents (antifibrinolytic drugs, desmopressin), and local factors (fibrin glue). The importance of normothermia, normovolemia, and homeostasis for hemostasis must not be overlooked. The present article reviews pathomechanisms of coagulopathy in massive bleeding, as well as routine laboratory tests and viscoelastic point-of-care hemostasis monitoring as the diagnostic basis for therapeutic interventions."}
{"id": "17379979", "title": "Off-pump versus on-pump coronary artery surgery.", "content": "Off-pump versus on-pump coronary artery surgery. The aim of this preliminary, prospective, randomized study was to compare rotation thromboelastography (roTEG) results and D-dimer levels in off-pump versus on-pump coronary surgery in order to identify the activation of fibrinolysis. Twenty patients scheduled for coronary bypass grafting were assessed (off-pump group A, n = 10; on-pump group B, n = 10). Blood samples for roTEG examination were taken preoperatively (t0), 15 minutes after sternotomy (t1), on the completion of peripheral bypass anastomoses (t2), and at the end of procedures (t3). The time points for D-dimer levels analyses were before operation, at the end of procedures, and 24 hours later. A certain degree of roTEG signs of fibrinolysis was noticed at time t2 in both groups and in group B these marks were quite widely, but not significantly expressed (P for intergroup differences for Lysis on Set Time at 60 and 150 minutes were P = 0.190 and P = 0.122, respectively), borderline differences were found for Maximum Clot Firmness (P = 0.082) with a lower mean value for group B (arithmetic means [95% confidence intervals]--57.7 [54.2; 61.2] mm). Completely expressed roTEG signs of hyperfibrinolysis were observed in 2 patients from group B. In group B also the highest geometric means of D-dimers (1326.0 [943.5; 1863.6] ng mL(-1)) and thus a dramatic intergroup difference (P < 0.001) were observed at the end of surgery; 24 hours later the significantly elevated D-dimer levels in both groups (A: 1070.0 [723.5; 1582.6] versus B: 1093.3 [732.0; 1632.9] ng mL(-1)) were equalized (P = 0.932). Our roTEG results display a slightly greater, but fairly subtle activation of fibrinolysis during the course of cardiopulmonary bypass, compared to off-pump cardiac surgery."}
{"id": "17376744", "title": "Use of supernatant osmolality and supernatant refraction to assess the glycerol concentration in glycerolized and deglycerolized previously frozen RBC.", "content": "Use of supernatant osmolality and supernatant refraction to assess the glycerol concentration in glycerolized and deglycerolized previously frozen RBC. Human RBC are frozen at a mean temperature of -80 degrees C (with a range of -65 degrees C to -90 degrees C) with a mean concentration of 40% w/v glycerol (with a range from 36% w/v to 45% w/v) for at least 10 years. After thawing and deglycerolization the RBC should have a residual glycerol concentration of about 1%. We conducted three studies to measure the supernatant osmolality and supernatant refraction in RBC frozen with 40% w/v glycerol and stored at -80 degrees C for as long as 16 years. The measurements were made before and after deglycerolization. In the first study, one hundred and three (103) units of RBC were glycerolized to achieve a concentration of 40% w/v glycerol in an open system and frozen at -80 degrees C for as long as 16 years. In the second study, 106 units of RBC were glycerolized to achieve a concentration of 40% w/v glycerol and in an open system and frozen at -80 degrees C for a mean of 14 years. In the second study, the RBC were deglycerolized using the Haemonetics ACP215 instrument before being stored at 4 degrees C in the AS-1 or AS-3 additive solution. In the third study, fifty-five (55) units of RBC were glycerolized to achieve a 40% w/v glycerol concentration in the functionally closed system of the Haemonetics ACP215 instrument containing the high separation bowl and frozen at -80 degrees C for at least 2 months. These RBC also were deglycerolized using the Haemonetics ACP215 and were stored at 4 degrees C in the AS-3 additive solution. Before and after deglycerolization, measurements also were made of the freeze-thaw recovery and the freeze-thaw-wash recovery values, the percent hemolysis, supernatant hemoglobin level, supernatant osmolality and supernatant refraction. The supernatant osmolality provided an accurate estimate of the glycerol concentration in the thawed RBC before deglycerolization but the supernatant refraction did not. However, after deglycerolization, both the supernatant osmolality and the supernatant refraction gave accurate estimates of the glycerol concentration in the RBC. The osmolality measured in the osmometer of the thawed supernatant of the glycerolized RBC provided an accurate estimate of the glycerol concentration but the percent refraction measured in the Palm Abbe refractometer did not. Both the osmolality and percent refraction in the deglycerolized washed RBC provided accurate estimates of the residual glycerol."}
{"id": "17334509", "title": "Platelet activation via PAR4 is involved in the initiation of thrombin generation and in clot elasticity development.", "content": "Platelet activation via PAR4 is involved in the initiation of thrombin generation and in clot elasticity development. Thrombin is a pivotal enzyme formed in the coagulation cascade and an important and potent platelet activator. The two protease-activated thrombin receptors on human platelets are denoted PAR1 and PAR4. The physiological relevance of PAR4 is still unclear, as both aggregation and secretion can be accomplished by PAR1 activation alone. In the present study we have investigated the role of PARs in platelet activation, blood coagulation, clot elasticity and fibrinolysis. Flow cytometry, free oscillation rheometry and thrombin generation measurements were used to analyze blood or platelet-rich plasma from healthy individuals. Maximum PAR1 activation with the peptide SFLLRN gave fewer fibrinogen-binding platelets with lower mean fluorescent intensity than maximum PAR4 activation with AYPGKF. Inhibition of any of the receptors prolonged clotting times. However, PAR1 is more important for fibrinolysis; inhibition of this receptor prolonged all the steps in the fibrinolytic process. Clot elasticity decreased significantly when the PAR4 receptor was inhibited. In the thrombin generation measurements, PAR4 inhibition delayed the thrombin generation start and peak, but did not affect the total amount of thrombin generated. PAR1 inhibition had no significant impact on thrombin generation. We found that PAR4 is most likely activated by low concentrations of thrombin during the initial phase of thrombin generation and is of importance to the clotting time. Furthermore, we suggest that the PAR4 receptor may have a physiological role in the stabilisation of the coagulum."}
{"id": "17331930", "title": "The effect of colloid and crystalloid preloading on thromboelastography prior to Cesarean delivery.", "content": "The effect of colloid and crystalloid preloading on thromboelastography prior to Cesarean delivery. Fluid preloading with colloids reduces hypotension after spinal anesthesia for Cesarean delivery more effectively than crystalloids. However, the effects of fluid preloading regimens on coagulation in pregnant patients remain unresolved. The aim of this study was to compare the effects on coagulation of fluid preloading with 6% hydroxyethyl starch (HES) and lactated Ringer's (LR) solution using thromboelastography (TEG) with kaolin-activated whole blood in healthy pregnant patients prior to spinal anesthesia for Cesarean delivery. After obtaining Ethics committee approval, 30 parturients were prospectively randomized prior to spinal anesthesia for elective Cesarean delivery to receive fluid preloading with either 1500 mL LR or 500 mL 6% HES over 30 min. Thromboelastography was performed immediately prior to and after fluid preloading. Standard TEG parameters were analyzed in terms of r time (min), k time (min), alpha angle (degrees) and maximum amplitude (mm). Group HES had statistically significant longer reaction times (r) and clot formation times (k) after fluid loading compared to baseline values (P < 0.05 respectively), although these post-fluid loading TEG parameters remained within a normal reference range. No significant differences in TEG values were seen after preloading within the LR group. Fluid preloading with 500 mL 6% HES in healthy parturients produced mild coagulation effects, as measured with TEG, prior to spinal anesthesia for Cesarean delivery. No significant effects on coagulation with TEG were observed following preloading with 1500 mL LR."}
{"id": "17331267", "title": "Antithrombin and hypercoagulability in sepsis: insights from thrombelastography?", "content": "Antithrombin and hypercoagulability in sepsis: insights from thrombelastography? Antithrombin (AT) has been used for over 25 years to successfully treat disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). A four-day AT therapy in patients with DIC in the KyberSept trial has been related to a clear survival benefit in patients not receiving concomitant heparin. Gonano and coworkers performed thrombelastography (TEG) measurements in patients with severe sepsis and clearly showed hypercoagulability, as defined by five TEG parameters, compared to healthy controls. In the AT group they found a trend towards normalization of TEG parameters after treatment, although this did not reach statistical significance. This first clinical evaluation of hypercoagulability during AT treatment could not provide evidence for an attenuation of coagulopathy, an effect that might be due to high inter-individual variability."}
{"id": "17299811", "title": "Triethylene glycol HO(CH2CH2O)3H.", "content": "Triethylene glycol HO(CH2CH2O)3H. TEG is a liquid higher glycol of very low vapor pressure with uses that are primarily industrial. It has a very low order of acute toxicity by i.v., i.p., peroral, percutaneous and inhalation (vapor and aerosol) routes of exposure. It does not produce primary skin irritation. Acute eye contact with the liquid causes mild local transient irritation (conjunctival hyperemia and slight chemosis) but does not induce corneal injury. Animal maximization and human volunteer repeated insult patch tests studies have shown that TEG does not cause skin sensitization. A study with Swiss-Webster mice demonstrated that TEG aerosol has properties of a peripheral chemosensory irritant material and caused a depression of breathing rate with an RD(50) of 5140 mg m(-3). Continuous subchronic peroral dosing of TEG in the diet of rats did not produce any systemic cumulative or long-term toxicity. The effects seen were dose-related increased relative kidney weight, increased urine volume and decreased urine pH, probably a result of the renal excretion of TEG and metabolites following the absorption of large doses of TEG. There was also decreased hemoglobin concentration, decreased hematocrit and increased mean corpuscular volume, probably due to hemodilution following absorption of TEG. The NOAEL was 20 000 ppm TEG in diet. Short-term repeated aerosol exposure studies in the rat demonstrated that, by nose-only exposure, the threshold for effects by respiratory tract exposure was 1036 mg m(-3). Neither high dosage acute nor repeated exposures to TEG produce hepatorenal injury characteristic of that caused by the lower glycol homologues. Elimination studies with acute peroral doses of TEG given to rats and rabbits showed high recoveries (91-98% over 5 days), with the major fraction appearing in urine (84-94%) and only 1% as CO(2). TEG in urine is present in unchanged and oxidized forms, but only negligible amounts as oxalic acid. Developmental toxicity studies with undiluted TEG given by gavage produced maternal toxicity in rats (body weight, food consumption, water consumption, and relative kidney weight) with a NOEL of 1126 mg kg(-1) day(-1), and mice (relative kidney weight) with a NOEL of 5630 mg kg(-1) day(-1). Developmental toxicity, expressed as fetotoxicity, had a NOEL of 5630 mg kg(-1) day(-1) with the rat and 563 mg kg(-1) day(-1) with mice. Neither species showed any evidence of embryotoxicity or teratogenicity. There was no evidence for reproductive toxicity with mice given up to 3% TEG in drinking water in a continuous breeding study. TEG did not produce mutagenic or clastogenic effects in the following in vitro genetic toxicology studies: Salmonella typhimurium reverse mutation test, SOS-chromotest in E. coli, CHO forward gene mutation test (HGPRT locus), CHO sister chromatid exchange test, and a chromosome aberration test with CHO cells. The use patterns suggest that exposure to TEG is mainly occupational, with limited exposures by consumers. Exposure is normally by skin and eye contact. Local and systemic adverse health effects by cutaneous exposure are likely not to occur, and eye contact will produce transient irritation without corneal injury. The very low vapor pressure of TEG makes it unlikely that significant vapor exposure will occur. Aerosol exposure is not a usual exposure mode, and acute aerosol exposures are unlikely to be harmful, although a peripheral sensory irritant effect may develop. However, repeated exposures to a TEG aerosol may result in respiratory tract irritation, with cough, shortness of breath and tightness of the chest. Recommended protective and precautionary measures include protective gloves, goggles or safety glasses and mechanical room ventilation. LC(50) data to various fish, aquatic invertebrates and algae, indicate that TEG is essentially nontoxic to aquatic organisms. Also, sustained exposure studies have demonstrated that TEG is of a low order of chronic aquatic toxicity. The bioconcentration potential, environmental hydrolysis, and photolysis rates are low, and soil mobility high. In the atmosphere TEG is degraded by reacting with photochemically produced hydroxyl radicals. These considerations indicate that the potential for ecotoxicological effects with TEG is low."}
{"id": "17291930", "title": "Increased risk in patients with high platelet aggregation receiving chronic clopidogrel therapy undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention: is the current antiplatelet therapy adequate?", "content": "Increased risk in patients with high platelet aggregation receiving chronic clopidogrel therapy undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention: is the current antiplatelet therapy adequate? We sought to determine whether patients receiving chronic clopidogrel therapy undergoing nonemergent stenting who display high on-treatment preprocedural platelet aggregation measured by standard light transmittance aggregometry and thrombelastography (TEG) will be at increased risk for poststenting ischemic events. Patients exhibiting heightened platelet reactivity to adenosine diphosphate (ADP) might be at increased risk for recurrent ischemic events after coronary stenting. A total of 100 consecutive patients receiving chronic antiplatelet therapy consisting of aspirin (325 mg qd) and clopidogrel (75 mg qd) were studied before undergoing nonemergent stenting. Patients were followed for 1 year after coronary stenting for the occurrence of death, myocardial infarction, stent thrombosis, stroke, or ischemia requiring a hospital stay. All patients were aspirin responsive. Patients with ischemic events (23 of 100, 23%) within 1 year had greater on-treatment prestent ADP-induced platelet aggregation than patients without ischemic events by aggregometry and TEG (p < 0.001 for both measurements). Of patients with an ischemic event, 70% and 87% displayed high on-treatment platelet reactivity at baseline by aggregometry and TEG, respectively. High on-treatment platelet reactivity as measured by aggregometry and TEG were the only variables significantly related to ischemic events (p < 0.001 for both assays). The administration of eptifibatide reduced periprocedural elevation in platelet reactivity, with no significant differences in bleeding events. Patients receiving chronic clopidogrel therapy undergoing nonemergent percutaneous coronary intervention who exhibit high on-treatment ADP-induced platelet aggregation are at increased risk for postprocedural ischemic events. These findings might have implications for the alteration in clopidogrel maintenance dose and use of glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors in selected patients."}
{"id": "17287631", "title": "Thrombelastographic method to quantify the contribution of factor XIII to coagulation kinetics.", "content": "Thrombelastographic method to quantify the contribution of factor XIII to coagulation kinetics. Factor XIII (FXIII) plays a critical role in clot strength, and FXIII deficiency or excess is associated with hemorrhage or thrombosis, respectively. Our goal was to design a thrombelastography-based method to characterize the effects of FXIII on plasma clot strength. Normal human plasma was exposed to 0 or 200 mug/ml anti-FXIII antibodies for 20 min prior to celite activation and calcium addition. Other plasma had addition of fibrinogen (625 mg/dl)/FXIII (2 U/ml) or 30% dilution with hydroxyethyl starch before exposure to 0 or 200 mug/ml anti-FXIII antibodies. Thromboelastography was performed and data were collected until stable clot strength was observed. The exposure of normal plasma to anti-FXIII antibodies resulted in a significant (P < 0.05) decrease in clot strength (63%) compared with plasma without antibodies. Further samples exposed to anti-FXIII antibodies had clot strength no different from FXIII-deficient plasma. The FXIII-mediated clot strength varied between 44 and 50% in hypercoagulable and hypocoagulable plasma, respectively. In conclusion, the present investigation successfully demonstrated a novel method to detect the impact of FXIII activity in plasma samples. Further actuarial investigation will be required to determine the utility of this approach in the diagnosis and treatment of patients with either acquired FXIII deficiency or excess and concordant coagulopathy."}
{"id": "17287627", "title": "A functional clotting assay to monitor the hirudin dosage.", "content": "A functional clotting assay to monitor the hirudin dosage. Hirudin, a direct thrombin inhibitor, has potential advantages over indirect thrombin inhibitors and is increasingly used in clinical settings. There are, however, large variations in individual responses to this drug and no recognized clinical laboratory tests used to monitor its anticoagulant effects. We evaluated the use of the thromboelastograph, a common clinical coagulation instrument, to monitor the effects of hirudin in vitro. We developed a novel, whole blood clotting assay that utilizes the tissue factor stimulating properties of mercuric ion to measure the anticoagulant potential of therapeutic doses of hirudin. At doses equivalent to those found in the therapeutic range, the thromboelastograph was capable of showing significant changes when compared with control and different concentrations of hirudin (P < 0.05). A linear relationship was observed between increasing concentrations of recombinant hirudin and clotting times. In conclusion, the use of this test system warrants further investigation for monitoring hirudin."}
{"id": "17287624", "title": "Differential effects of direct thrombin inhibitors and antithrombin-dependent anticoagulants on the dynamics of clot formation.", "content": "Differential effects of direct thrombin inhibitors and antithrombin-dependent anticoagulants on the dynamics of clot formation. New anticoagulants, including the direct thrombin inhibitors (DTIs) and fondaparinux, are increasingly replacing unfractionated heparin and enoxaparin. We examined the effects of argatroban (n = 60), bivalirudin (n = 44), heparin (n = 14), enoxaparin (n = 22), and fondaparinux (n = 24) on clot formation utilizing thromboelastography. Blood samples containing anticoagulants at clinically relevant concentrations were prepared ex vivo and analyzed using kaolin or tissue factor activation. Thromboelastography parameters of clot initiation (R), clot propagation (K and angle), clot rigidity (maximum amplitude) and clot elasticity (G) were compared between anticoagulants. Thromboelastography was also performed on blood from eight patients receiving anticoagulants. Each anticoagulant exerted significant concentration-dependent effects on R, K and angle. Only heparin, enoxaparin, and fondaparinux significantly affected maximum amplitude and G. Significant differences existed for all parameters between heparin and each anticoagulant and between fondaparinux and each DTI (P < 0.001), and for angle, maximum amplitude, and G between enoxaparin and each DTI (P < 0.008). Thromboelastography responses in ex-vivo samples and patient samples were comparable. In conclusion, whereas argatroban, bivalirudin, heparin, enoxaparin and fondaparinux each delay clot formation, the DTIs do not alter clot rigidity or elasticity. The reduced bleeding reported with DTIs versus heparin may relate to the fact that clots form with normal rigidity and elasticity."}
{"id": "17277998", "title": "Response to aspirin and clopidogrel in patients scheduled to undergo cardiovascular surgery.", "content": "Response to aspirin and clopidogrel in patients scheduled to undergo cardiovascular surgery. Recent data indicate that among patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention low platelet response to aspirin is associated with clopidogrel low response. It is unclear whether these findings extend to other patient populations. We, therefore, aimed to evaluate the relation between response to aspirin and clopidogrel among patients scheduled to undergo cardiac or vascular surgery. Patients who were scheduled for cardiac or vascular surgery and had taken aspirin 81-325 mg daily for at least a week and clopidogrel 75 mg daily for at least 3 days underwent blood testing for platelet function. One hundred patients were included in the current analysis. Platelet function was evaluated by the modified TEG platelet mapping assay with addition of ADP or arachidonic acid (AA), and by the PFA-100 assay with collagen-epinephrine (CEPI) or collagen-ADP (CADP) cartridges. Low response to aspirin or clopidogrel was defined as inhibition < or =20% for TEG-AA or TEG-ADP, respectively. Thirteen patients (13%) were low responders to aspirin and 34 (34%) were low responders to clopidogrel. Eight patients were low responders to both drugs. There were no differences in clinical characteristics between drug low responders versus sensitive patients. Aspirin low responders had lower TEG-ADP inhibition (19.5 +/- 6 vs. 35.8 +/- 3%, P = 0.03) and tended to have lower PFA-CADP time (84.7 +/- 7 vs. 105.6 +/- 5 s, P = 0.1) than aspirin sensitive patients. Clopidogrel low responders had lower TEG-AA inhibition (58 +/- 6 vs. 75.1 +/- 4%, P = 0.01) and PFA-CEPI time (168 +/- 13 vs. 200.4 +/- 10 s, P = 0.07) than clopidogrel sensitive patients. In patients scheduled to undergo cardiovascular surgery low response to aspirin is associated with low response to clopidogrel."}
{"id": "17265055", "title": "[Procedure for critical nonsurgical bleeding].", "content": "[Procedure for critical nonsurgical bleeding]. The improvement of surgical and nonsurgical approaches to control bleeding offers new strategies for overcoming coagulopathy. Massive hemorrhage is usually caused by a combination of surgical and coagulopathic bleeding. Coagulopathy is multifactorial and results from the dilution and consumption of both platelets and coagulation factors and dysfunction of the coagulation system. Blood component therapy continues to be a mainstay for this coagulopathy-related bleeding. However, the transfusion of red blood cells has been shown to be associated with post-injury infection and multiple organ failure. Therefore it is crucial to develop a clear strategy for correcting coagulopathy, preventing exsanguination, and minimizing the need for blood transfusion."}
{"id": "17264960", "title": "Recombinant human activated factor VII is thrombogenic in a rabbit model of cyclic flow reduction and does not reduce intra-abdominal bleeding.", "content": "Recombinant human activated factor VII is thrombogenic in a rabbit model of cyclic flow reduction and does not reduce intra-abdominal bleeding. Recombinant human activated factor VII (rHuFVIIa) can reduce bleeding but may be associated with arterial thrombosis. We hypothesized that rHuFVIIa would increase the occurrence of cyclic flow reductions (CFR) and reduce intra-abdominal bleeding in an experimental model. An adapted Folts' model of carotid artery lesion and stenosis was used. Twenty four rabbits were randomized to receive rHuFVIIa (group F) or placebo (group P) in a double-blind fashion. A standardized injury to the common carotid artery resulted in CFR and/or thrombosis. Hematological values, coagulation and thromboelastographic (TEG) variables were compared. Intra-abdominal bleeding was evaluated by measuring blood loss from standardized hepatosplenic lesions. The median number (range) of spontaneous CFR [group P: 6 (0-15); group F: 8 (0-16)] was comparable between groups. The number of induced CFR (by \"shaking\" of the artery) needed to avert thrombosis (group F: 2; group P: 0; p < 0.05) and the incidence of complete carotid artery thrombosis (group F: 3; group P: 0; p < 0.05) were higher in group F. Intra-abdominal bleeding was similar in both groups. TEG analysis demonstrated a hypercoagulable state in both groups but the magnitude of the change was statistically more important in group F. rHuFVIIa increases thrombosis in a rabbit model of carotid artery injury. The bleeding from hepatic and splenic lesions is not reduced by administration of rHuFVIIa despite a hypercoagulable state confirmed by standard TEG analysis."}
{"id": "17258118", "title": "Platelet inhibitors and monitoring platelet function: implications for bleeding.", "content": "Platelet inhibitors and monitoring platelet function: implications for bleeding. Cardiovascular disease is prevalent in our medical and surgical. Patients who have atherosclerotic heart disease suffer from endothelial disorders that predispose them to plaque and thrombus formation in diseased arteries. As our knowledge of platelet physiology improves, we can understand the contribution of platelet activation to arterial disease and we can specifically inhibit that activation with platelet-inhibitory drugs. The recent increase in the number of coronary interventional procedures performed has spawned the increasing use of antiplatelet medication as prophylaxis against thrombus formation in the instrumented artery."}
{"id": "17242103", "title": "A new plasma-adapted hydroxyethylstarch preparation: in vitro coagulation studies using thrombelastography and whole blood aggregometry.", "content": "A new plasma-adapted hydroxyethylstarch preparation: in vitro coagulation studies using thrombelastography and whole blood aggregometry. The lack of acceptance of hydroxyethylstarch (HES) for intravascular volume replacement is most likely due to reports of abnormal coagulation. In a blinded in vitro study, we compared the effects on hemostasis of a new HES, prepared in a balanced solution, with a conventional HES preparation and Ringer's lactate solution. Blood was taken from 10 healthy young male volunteers. Blood was diluted by 10%, 30%, and 50% using either 6% HES 130/0.42 prepared in a balanced solution, a conventional nonbalanced 6% HES 130/0.4 or Ringer's lactate solution. Rotation thrombelastography, was performed after adding two activators (thromboplastin-phospholipid to monitor the intrinsic system; tissue factor to monitor the extrinsic system). Whole blood aggregometry adding adenosine diphosphate, collagen, and thrombin receptor-activating protein was used to assess changes of platelet function. Dilution of blood (30% and 50%) resulted in clot formation time that was significantly more prolonged in the nonbalanced than in the balanced HES group. In the 50% diluted sample using the unbalanced HES, maximum clot firmness was significantly more reduced than by 50% dilution using the balanced HES. In the 50% diluent using the nonbalanced HES, adenosine diphosphate-, collagen-, and thrombin receptor activating protein-induced aggregometry was more reduced than in the balanced HES group. A balanced HES preparation showed fewer negative effects on thrombelastographic data and platelet aggregation than a nonbalanced HES preparation, especially when using higher degrees of dilution. Future clinical studies may show a decreased influence of balanced HES solutions on coagulation."}
{"id": "17242101", "title": "Hemostatic function in healthy pregnant and preeclamptic women: an assessment using the platelet function analyzer (PFA-100) and thromboelastograph.", "content": "Hemostatic function in healthy pregnant and preeclamptic women: an assessment using the platelet function analyzer (PFA-100) and thromboelastograph. The PFA-100 is a point-of-care platelet function analyzer which measures the speed of formation of a platelet plug in vitro, expressed as closure time (CT) in seconds. This device could potentially be used to assess primary hemostasis prior to regional anesthesia. In this prospective, observational study we sought to establish 95% reference intervals for PFA-100 and Thromboelastograph (TEG) values for our normal pregnant population, before comparing the PFA and TEG in measuring platelet function in preeclamptic and healthy pregnant women at term, using confidence interval analysis and analysis of variance. Routine hematologic and coagulation tests were performed along with von Willebrand Factor, CT, and TEG measurements. Results are expressed as mean (sd). Increased severity of preeclampsia was associated with increasing prolongation of CT, even in the presence of normal platelet counts. In severe preeclampsia, the PFA-100 CT (mean (sd): 155 (65) s) exceeded the 95% reference interval of the control group (70-139 s). In contrast, TEG maximum amplitude (MA) in severe preeclampsia (mean (sd): 71 (8) mm) remained within the 95% reference interval for MA in normal pregnancy (64-82 mm). We conclude that impairment of primary hemostatic function with increasing severity of preeclampsia was recorded by the PFA-100 but not the TEG."}
{"id": "17240196", "title": "Double dose plateletpheresis by continuous and intermittent flow devices increases platelet-neutrophil complex formation in healthy donors without noticeable neutrophil activation.", "content": "Double dose plateletpheresis by continuous and intermittent flow devices increases platelet-neutrophil complex formation in healthy donors without noticeable neutrophil activation. Several reports have demonstrated that during a single plateletpheresis procedure, platelets may form heterotypic aggregates which may predispose certain donors to thrombotic complications. In this study, changes in the expression of neutrophil adhesion molecules (CD11b/CD18, CD50/54, CD62L) and platelet-neutrophil complex (PNC) formation were investigated by a flow cytometric method in healthy donors following a double dose plateletpheresis (DDP) procedure. Our results show that DDP which are carried out by the Fresenius AS.TEC 204 and Haemonetics MCS+ cause a significant increase in PNC formation in donors. Additionally, the Fresenius AS.TEC 204 device caused a decrease in CD62L expression which is a sign of mild neutrophil activation. Although the clinical significance of these laboratory changes is not clear, the occurrence of neutrophil activation and increased PNC formation might predispose certain donors to thrombotic complications following DDP."}
{"id": "17215700", "title": "The anticoagulated parturient.", "content": "The anticoagulated parturient."}
{"id": "17200777", "title": "Inhibition of clot formation process by treatment with the low-molecular-weight heparin nadroparin in patients with carotid artery disease undergoing angioplasty and stenting. A thromboelastography study on whole blood.", "content": "Inhibition of clot formation process by treatment with the low-molecular-weight heparin nadroparin in patients with carotid artery disease undergoing angioplasty and stenting. A thromboelastography study on whole blood. Low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWHs) have become the corner stone of antithrombotic treatment but their administration protocol needs to be optimized for certain groups of patients. In this paper, we studied the influence of nadroparin treatment on clot formation process assessed by thromboelastography in patients with carotid artery disease undergoing angioplasty and stenting. Standard thromboelastography assays (in-TEM and ex-TEM) and minimal TF-triggered thromboelastography assay in citrated whole blood were performed in normal volunteers (n = 20), in patients with carotid artery disease receiving only antiplatelet treatment (n = 30), and in patients undergoing angioplasty receiving nadroparin 5750 anti-Xa IU s.c. twice daily (n = 60). Blood samples were collected four hours after a second injection of nadroparin. In a subgroup of LMWH-patients (n = 18) blood samples were also obtained prior to first injection of LMWH. Antiplatelet treatment had no effect on any parameter of the thromboelastographic pattern. Nadroparin treatment resulted in significant prolongation of clotting time (CT) and clot formation time (CFT) and significantly reduced a -angle in minimal TF-triggered thromboelastography and 30 - 38% of nadroparin treated patients had thromboelastographic parameters beyond the normal maximum limit. In-TEM test revealed a significant prolongation of clotting time while ex-TEM was not modified, and 20 to 30% of the patients had thromboelastographic parameters beyond the normal maximum limit. Anti factor-Xa activity in platelet-poor plasma (PPP) was also measured, and statistical analysis showed that prolongation of CFT of minimal TF-triggered TEM was significantly correlated to the levels of anti-Xa activity in patients ' plasma (p = 0.04; r (2) = 0.7). There was no statistical correlation for any other parameter in all tests. In conclusion, the present study shows that nadroparin treatment in patients with carotid artery disease undergoing endovascular procedures induces significant modification of the thrombus kinetics assessed by minimal TF-triggered whole blood thromboelastography. The clinical relevance of these findings has to be evaluated in future studies."}
{"id": "17181588", "title": "Sterilization method of platelet storage containers affects in vitro parameters.", "content": "Sterilization method of platelet storage containers affects in vitro parameters. Four butyryl trihexyl phthalate plasticized polyvinyl chloride (BTHC-PVC) containers were compared for storage of leukoreduced platelet concentrates (LR-PC): three ethylene oxide (EtO) sterilized (Gambro, Haemonetics, Fresenius), and one steam-sterilized (Fresenius). LR-PCs were made from 5 buffy coats and 300 ml Composol additive solution, and leukoreduced by filtration. Four LR-PCs were pooled and subsequently divided over the 4 BTHC-PVC bags to prevent donor-dependent differences, and sampled for in vitro analysis on day 1, 2, 5, 7 and 9. The pH values on day 9 were (mean +/- SD, n = 10): 7.12 +/- 0.03 (Gambro), 7.12 +/- 0.04 (Haemonetics), and 7.07 +/- 0.09 (Fresenius, EtO-sterilized) (not significantly different), vs. 6.91 +/- 0.12 (Fresenius, steam-sterilized; P < 0.001 vs. all EtO-sterilized bags). LR-PCs stored in the steam-sterilized bag exhibited significantly higher glucose consumption and lactate production (P < 0.001 vs. all EtO-sterilized bags). All BTHC-PVC containers allow storage of LR-PCs for up to 9 days with good in vitro parameters. However, the method of sterilization affects the storage conditions of the LR-PCs in these bags."}
{"id": "17179828", "title": "In-vitro efficacy of different platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists and thrombolytics on platelet/fibrin-mediated clot dynamics in human whole blood using thrombelastography.", "content": "In-vitro efficacy of different platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists and thrombolytics on platelet/fibrin-mediated clot dynamics in human whole blood using thrombelastography. Suppressing platelet activation improves efficacy of thrombolytic therapy for stroke and acute myocardial infarction. Combination treatment with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (r-tPA) and glycoprotein IIb/IIIa (GPIIb/IIIa) inhibitor that binds with high affinity to platelets may therefore improve the efficacy of thrombolytic therapy. The effect of platelet GPIIb/IIIa antagonists and/or r-tPA on the dynamics of platelet/fibrin clot formation, strength, and lysis was determined using thrombelastography in human blood under thrombin or tissue factor stimulation. The study utilized platelet GPIIb/IIIa antagonists with high affinity and slow off-rate (Class I) from resting and activated platelets in comparison with Class II antagonists (lower affinity and fast off-rate from platelet GPIIb/IIIa receptors). The combination of the active form of roxifiban (XV459; Class I) or the active form of orbofiban (Class II) with a subeffective concentration of r-tPA resulted in a synergistic effect in clot lysis with roxifiban active form XV459 but not with that of orbofiban at therapeutically achievable concentrations that inhibit human platelet aggregation. These data indicate differential enhanced thrombolysis of low levels of r-tPA with high-affinity Class I but not with low-affinity Class II GPIIb/IIIa antagonists in the absence of anticoagulants."}
{"id": "17179827", "title": "Hydroxyethyl starch enhances argatroban-mediated decreases in clot propagation and strength by diminishing thrombin-fibrinogen interactions.", "content": "Hydroxyethyl starch enhances argatroban-mediated decreases in clot propagation and strength by diminishing thrombin-fibrinogen interactions. Direct thrombin inhibitors (DTIs) have been administered for anticoagulation during cardiopulmonary bypass for patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. While DTIs prolonged clot initiation and decreased clot propagation, clot strength did not change. Hydroxyethyl starches (HES), however, significantly decreased clot propagation and strength. We hypothesized that DTI with HES could significantly decrease hemostasis more than DTI alone. Plasma was exposed to 0 or 5 microg/ml argatroban with 0 or 30% dilution with 0.9% NaCl, 10% pentastarch or 6% Voluven. Additional argatroban-exposed samples diluted with HES had addition of alpha-thrombin (0.25 U/ml) and fibrinogen (150 mg/ml). Clot kinetics were determined via thrombelastography. While dilution with 0.9% NaCl significantly (P < 0.05) decreased the clot strength by 17% compared with samples only exposed to argatroban, dilution with pentastarch and Voluven significantly (P < 0.05) markedly decreased clot strength (53 and 78%, respectively). Voluven dilution significantly increased the time to clot initiation and decreased the velocity of clot propagation compared with samples only exposed to argatroban. Addition of alpha-thrombin/fibrinogen restored clot strength. DTI/HES administration diminished hemostasis to a greater extent than DTI exposure alone. Further investigation is warranted to determine whether this therapeutic approach can improve the safety of anticoagulation during cardiopulmonary bypass in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia."}
{"id": "17179826", "title": "Thrombelastographic measures of clot propagation: a comparison of alpha with the maximum rate of thrombus generation.", "content": "Thrombelastographic measures of clot propagation: a comparison of alpha with the maximum rate of thrombus generation. The alpha angle alpha (degrees) is a thrombelastographic measure of clot propagation. A parametric measurement of clot propagation [maximum rate of thrombus generation (MRTG), dynes/cm2 per s], however, has recently been utilized. Thus, the relationship of changes in alpha with changes in MRTG were determined. alpha and MRTG values obtained from 859 thrombelastograms was collected from nine studies. Data were analyzed and the relationship between alpha and MRTG defined with commercially available software. Additional comparisons were made retrospectively from whole-blood and plasma data obtained from 33 normal individuals. Data from the nine studies demonstrated that MRTG increased in an exponential fashion compared with increases in alpha (R2 = 0.88, P < 0.001). Whole-blood alpha values were in the range 66.7-74.7 whereas MRTG values were 5.5-10.8, and plasma alpha values were 65.1-77.9 with corresponding MRTG values of 3.5-12.0. Assessment of clot propagation utilizing MRTG provides a more parametric evaluation than the determination of alpha. While normal alpha values may vary by only 12-20%, MRTG values vary by approximately 200-300%. The MRTG should be progressively utilized to a greater extent in both laboratory and clinical settings to parametrically quantify clot growth kinetics with thrombelastography."}
{"id": "17179824", "title": "Epsilon-aminocaproic acid inhibition of fibrinolysis in vitro: should the 'therapeutic' concentration be reconsidered?", "content": "Epsilon-aminocaproic acid inhibition of fibrinolysis in vitro: should the 'therapeutic' concentration be reconsidered? The therapeutic concentration of epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA) has been 130 microg/ml or greater for nearly 50 years. We tested the effects on clot growth/disintegration of EACA with a plasmatic model of hyperfibrinolysis in vitro. Human plasma was exposed to 1000 U/ml tissue-type plasminogen activator containing 0, 13, 65 or 130 microg/ml EACA, with clot growth/disintegration kinetics quantified via thrombelastography. Data were analyzed with one-way analysis of variance or Kruskal-Wallis analysis of variance as appropriate. Exposure of plasma to 1000 U/ml tissue-type plasminogen activator resulted in a brief-lived clot, lasting 2 min. EACA at all concentrations tested significantly increased the rate of clot growth compared with samples with 0 microg/ml EACA. Clot strength was significantly increased by EACA in a concentration-dependent fashion. Similarly, EACA significantly prolonged the time of onset of clot lysis and decreased the rate of lysis. Samples with 130 microg/ml EACA had no sign of lysis present for 30 min. Subtherapeutic to therapeutic concentrations of EACA significantly attenuated or abolished fibrinolysis in the presence of a concentration of tissue-type plasminogen activator more than 2000-fold that encountered systemically during cardiopulmonary bypass. Further clinical investigation is warranted to determine whether smaller concentrations of EACA could provide a reduction in bleeding with a concomitant decrease in thrombotic complications."}
{"id": "17179823", "title": "Quantification of the effects of thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor and alpha2-antiplasmin on fibrinolysis in normal human plasma.", "content": "Quantification of the effects of thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor and alpha2-antiplasmin on fibrinolysis in normal human plasma. Two major proteins that inhibit fibrinolysis include thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI) and alpha2-antiplasmin. Our goal was to quantify the contribution of TAFI and alpha2-antiplasmin to antifibrinolytic defenses with thrombelastography. Plasma activated with tissue factor/kaolin was subjected to fibrinolysis with tissue-type plasminogen activator (100 U/ml). Prior to activation, TAFI activity was inhibited with either potato carboxypeptidase inhibitor (25 microg/ml) or an anti-TAFI antibody, and alpha2-antiplasmin activity was inhibited with an anti-alpha2-antiplasmin antibody. Data were collected for 30 min, with the time of onset and rate of fibrinolysis determined. Compared with uninhibited samples, TAFI inhibition significantly (P < 0.05) decreased the time of onset of fibrinolysis by 70% and increased the rate of lysis by 70%. There was no difference between potato carboxypeptidase inhibitor and anti-TAFI antibody inhibition. Inhibition of alpha2-antiplasmin resulted in a significantly (P < 0.05) decreased time of onset (85%) and increased the rate of lysis (557%) compared with uninhibited samples. Inhibition of alpha2-antiplasmin activity resulted in a significantly (P < 0.05) greater fibrinolytic response than TAFI inhibition. In conclusion, utilization of standard inhibitors and thrombelastography permitted quantification of the effects of TAFI and alpha2-antiplasmin on fibrinolysis in plasma. Future investigation of diseases involving hypofibrinolysis (e.g. left ventricular assist devices) could be conducted using this assay system."}
{"id": "17179819", "title": "Heparin-induced inhibitory effects of a prothrombin complex concentrate on global tests of haemostasis.", "content": "Heparin-induced inhibitory effects of a prothrombin complex concentrate on global tests of haemostasis. Prothrombin complex concentrates (PCC) have been used as bypassing agents for the treatment of haemophilia A patients with inhibitor as well as for replacement therapy in congenital and acquired deficiencies of vitamin-K-dependent clotting factors. The efficacy of PCC is variable, however, especially during long-term and high-dose use, and all currently available products of this nature contain heparin. We have examined the haemostatic properties of PCC using reconstituted whole blood made by mixing coagulation-factor-deficient plasma and washed blood cells. In rotation thromboelastometry (ROTEM), the recommended therapeutic dose of Proplex ST corrected the abnormal patterns. At higher concentrations, however, the ROTEM patterns regressed. In addition, specific assays of coagulation factors appeared unreliable in the presence of 2.5 U/ml Proplex ST; the abnormalities were corrected when protamine sulfate was added. The findings suggest that the presence of heparin in PCC might have a greater effect on global haemostasis. Careful attention to the anticoagulant effect as well as thrombogenicity of PCC is required. Monitoring therapy using such as ROTEM analysis could be highly informative."}
{"id": "17179243", "title": "Qualitative thrombelastographic detection of tissue factor in human plasma.", "content": "Qualitative thrombelastographic detection of tissue factor in human plasma. Tissue factor (TF) is the principal in vivo initiator of coagulation, with normal circulating TF concentrations reported to be approximately 23-158 pg/mL. However, patients with atherosclerosis or cancer have been reported to have TF concentrations ranging between 800 and 9000 pg/mL. Of interest, thrombelastographic (TEG)-based measures of clot initiation and propagation have demonstrated hypercoagulability in such patients at risk for thromboembolic events. Thus, our goal in the present investigation was to establish a concentration-response relationship of the effect of TF on TEG variables, and determine specificity of TF-mediated events with a monoclonal TF antibody. Thrombelastography was performed on normal human plasma exposed to 0, 500, 1000, or 2000 pg/mL TF. Additional experiments with plasma exposed to 0 or 750 pg/mL TF in the presence or absence of a monoclonal TF antibody (1:360 dilution, 10 min incubation) were also performed. Clot initiation time (R) and the speed of clot propagation (MRTG, maximum rate of thrombus generation) were determined. The addition of TF to normal plasma resulted in a significant, concentration-dependent decrease in R and increase MRTG values. The addition of TF antibody to samples with TF significantly increased R and decreased MRTG values compared to samples with TF addition. In conclusion, changes in TEG variables in conjunction with use of a TF antibody can detect pathological concentrations of TF in human plasma in vitro. Further investigation is warranted to determine if TEG(R)-based monitoring could assist in the detection and prevention of TF-initiated thromboembolic events."}
{"id": "17150243", "title": "Thrombelastography monitoring of resistance to enoxaparin anticoagulation in thrombophilic pregnancy patients.", "content": "Thrombelastography monitoring of resistance to enoxaparin anticoagulation in thrombophilic pregnancy patients. The anticoagulant effect of enoxaparin is readily observed by Thrombelastography (TEG), particularly on the reaction time (R) to form a clot, and is completely reversed by heparinase. In this study, recalcified citrated whole blood with heparinase (CNHR) and without (CNR), along with TEG R time, was used to derive a delta R (CNR-CNHR). This delta R (DeltaR) was then used to measure enoxaparin anticoagulation, which was correlated by linear regression (r(2)=0.806) with plasma anti-Xa in 48 thrombophilic pregnancy patients. In a follow up study whole blood from 15 thrombophilic and 15 normal pregnancy subjects was titrated ex vivo with enoxaparin and TEG DeltaR determined. Linear dose responses (all r(2)>0.9) of DeltaR versus plasma enoxaparin concentration were obtained for each subject. A large variation in slope was observed for both thrombophilic (>7 fold, 217 to 1,588 s DeltaR/unit anti-Xa) and normal (>3 fold, 788 to 2,758) pregnancy subjects. The average slope for the thrombophilic group (710 s DeltaR/unit anti-Xa) was significantly (P=0.002) lower than the normal pregnancy group (1,354 s), indicating resistance to enoxaparin anticoagulation in the thrombophilic group. This technique may help gauge the appropriate dose of enoxaparin for each individual, check for residual anticoagulation before invasive procedures, and perhaps help screen for thrombophilic subjects."}
{"id": "17137616", "title": "The platelet inhibiting effect of a clopidogrel bolus dose in patients on long-term acetylsalicylic acid treatment.", "content": "The platelet inhibiting effect of a clopidogrel bolus dose in patients on long-term acetylsalicylic acid treatment. Addition of clopidogrel to patients treated with ASA has been shown to decrease the incidence of in-stent thrombosis after percutaneous coronary interventions. However, it has also been reported that up to 30% of patients do not achieve adequate platelet inhibition from standard dosages of ASA and clopidogrel. There is a demand for reliable methods to measure the individual platelet inhibiting effect of this combination therapy. The primary aim of the present investigation was to compare three methods for evaluation of the platelet inhibiting effect of a clopidogrel bolus dose in patients on long-term acetylsalicylic acid treatment. Thirty patients presenting for coronary angiography/PCI were included. Two patients were excluded due to technical problems. All patients were on 75-100 mg ASA/day for at least 8 days. Blood samples were analysed before and 16 h after a 300 mg clopidogrel bolus dose. The platelet inhibiting effect was measured with (1) Whole blood flow cytometry (17 patients); (2) a bed-side test, Platelet Mapping assay for the thrombelastograph (28 patients); and (3) PFA (Platelet function analyser) -100 (26 patients). With flow cytometry, the percentage of platelets expressing P-selectin (p=0.03) on their surface decreased significantly after the bolus dose of clopidogrel. There was also a reduction of platelets binding fibrinogen when stimulated with ADP. A significantly (p=0.002) increased platelet inhibition could also be demonstrated with Platelet Mapping. PFA-100 could not measure any significant platelet inhibiting effect of clopidogrel. A significant platelet inhibition could be demonstrated with flow cytometry and the Platelet Mapping assay, but not with PFA-100. However, levels of response for the individual patient with these three methods were inconsistent. Further studies are needed to evaluate how the results correlate to the clinical risk of thrombosis and bleeding."}
{"id": "17119964", "title": "Whole blood laboratory model of thrombocytopenia for use in evaluation of hemostatic interventions.", "content": "Whole blood laboratory model of thrombocytopenia for use in evaluation of hemostatic interventions. This study describes a laboratory model of whole blood (WB) thrombocytopenia established with blood from healthy volunteers. We obtained a mean platelet count of 16 x 10(9)/l (95% confidence interval, 10-22) in WB by repeatedly replacing the platelet-rich supernatant with autologous platelet-poor plasma from the same individual. Thrombelastographic profiles of WB clot formation and WB clot stability were performed in parallel with measurements of WB platelet aggregation response. Thrombocytopenia reduced the maximum rate of WB clot formation, while ex vivo addition of platelets reversed the coagulopathy of thrombocytopenia. Control experiments revealed minimal changes in coagulation factors, distribution of bloods cells, and platelet activation capabilities. The WB model appears useful in research, development, and evaluation of the effects of hemostatic interventions in thrombocytopenia."}
{"id": "17111420", "title": "Comparison of plateletpheresis on the Fresenius AS.TEC 204 and Haemonetics MCS 3p.", "content": "Comparison of plateletpheresis on the Fresenius AS.TEC 204 and Haemonetics MCS 3p. This is an attempt at comparing two cell separators for plateletpheresis, namely the Fresenius AS.TEC 204 and Haemonetics MCS 3p, at a tertiary care center in India. Donors who weighed between 55-75 kg, who had a hematocrit of 41-43%, and platelet counts of 250x10(3)-400x10(3)/microl were selected for the study. The comparability of the donors who donated on the two cell separators were analysed by t-test independent samples and no significant differences were found (P>0.05). The features compared were time taken for the procedure, volume processed on the separators, adverse reactions of the donors, quality control of the product, separation efficiency of the separators, platelet loss in the donors after the procedure, and the predictor versus the actual yield of platelets given by the cell separator. The volume processed to get a target yield of >3x10(11) was equal to 2.8-3.2 l and equal in both the cell separators. Symptoms of citrate toxicity were seen in 4 and 2.5% of donors who donated on the MCS 3p and the AS.TEC 204, respectively, and 3 and 1% of donors, respectively, had vasovagal reactions. All the platelet products collected had a platelet count of >3x10(11); 90% of the platelet products collected on the AS.TEC 204 attained the predicted yield that was set on the cell separator where as 75% of the platelet products collected on the MCS 3p attained the target yield. Quality control of the platelets collected on both the cell separators complied with the standards except that 3% of the platelets collected on the MCS 3p had a visible red cell contamination. The separation efficiency of the MCS 3p was higher, 50-52% as compared to the 40-45% on the AS.TEC 204. A provision of double venous access, less adverse reactions, negligible RBC contamination with a better predictor yield of platelets makes the AS.TEC 204 a safer and more reliable alternative than the widely used Haemonetics MCS 3p."}
{"id": "17109736", "title": "Diagnosis of early coagulation abnormalities in trauma patients by rotation thrombelastography.", "content": "Diagnosis of early coagulation abnormalities in trauma patients by rotation thrombelastography. Reagent-supported thromboelastometry with the rotation thrombelastography (e.g. ROTEM) is a whole blood assay that evaluates the visco-elastic properties during blood clot formation and clot lysis. A hemostatic monitor capable of rapid and accurate detection of clinical coagulopathy within the resuscitation room could improve management of bleeding after trauma. The goals of this study were to establish whether ROTEM correlated with standard coagulation parameters to rapidly detect bleeding disorders and whether it can help to guide transfusion. Ninety trauma patients were included in the study. At admission, standard coagulation assays were performed and ROTEM parameters such as clot formation time (CFT) and clot amplitude (CA) were obtained at 15 min (CA(15)) with two activated tests (INTEM, EXTEM) and at 10 min (CA(10)) with a test analyzing specifically the fibrin component of coagulation (FIBTEM). Trauma induced significant modifications of coagulation as assessed by standard assays and ROTEM. A significant correlation was found between prothrombin time (PT) and CA(15)-EXTEM (r = 0.66, P < 0.0001), between activated partial thromboplastin time and CFT-INTEM (r = 0.91, P < 0.0001), between fibrinogen level and CA(10)-FIBTEM (r = 0.85, P < 0.0001), and between platelet count and CA(15)-INTEM (r = 0.57, P < 0.0001). A cutoff value of CA(15)-EXTEM at 32 mm and CA(10)-FIBTEM at 5 mm presented a good sensitivity (87% and 91%) and specificity (100% and 85%) to detect a PT > 1.5 of control value and a fibrinogen less than 1 g L(-1), respectively. ROTEM is a point-of-care device that rapidly detects systemic changes of in vivo coagulation in trauma patients, and it might be a helpful device in guiding transfusion."}
{"id": "17096671", "title": "Moderate superficial hypothermia prolongs bleeding time in humans.", "content": "Moderate superficial hypothermia prolongs bleeding time in humans. In vitro and in vivo studies have shown that mild systemic hypothermia influences platelet adhesion and aggregation and coagulation reactions. We wanted to test the hypothesis that mild local hypothermia in healthy volunteers with preserved core temperature increased bleeding time. A secondary aim was to evaluate if local cooling influenced whole blood coagulation measured by thrombelastograph (TEG) in the same setting. Bleeding time was measured at the left volar forearm at a baseline skin temperature of 32 degrees C and after cooling to 30 degrees C and 28 degrees C in a water bath. Skin temperature was continuously measured by contact thermistors. Measurements of coagulation by TEG were performed at baseline skin temperature before cooling and after cooling to 28 degrees C skin temperature. Tympanic membrane temperature was continuously measured. Compared with baseline, bleeding time was significantly prolonged at 30 degrees C skin temperature and further prolonged at 28 degrees C skin temperature. No significant differences were measured in any of the TEG parameters. During the procedure, tympanic membrane temperature did not change. Lowering the skin temperature from 32 degrees C to 30 degrees C and 28 degrees C with a preserved core temperature more than doubled the bleeding time. Whole blood coagulation measured by TEG was not influenced by the local cooling. In addition to core temperature, local temperature may offer information in understanding the surgical site of bleeding."}
{"id": "17087845", "title": "Effects of storing blood in citrated silicone-coated glass tubes vs. citrated plastic tubes on thromboelastograph variables.", "content": "Effects of storing blood in citrated silicone-coated glass tubes vs. citrated plastic tubes on thromboelastograph variables."}
{"id": "17061082", "title": "[Perioperative coagulation management controlled by thrombelastography. Clinical implementation illustrated by reference to a case of acquired coagulopathy following aortic stab injury].", "content": "[Perioperative coagulation management controlled by thrombelastography. Clinical implementation illustrated by reference to a case of acquired coagulopathy following aortic stab injury]. Uncontrolled bleeding is one of the main reasons for a lethal outcome of severe trauma. Loss, consumption and dilution of clotting factors and platelets induce a complex acquired coagulopathy. Beside surgical control of bleeding, early and precise coagulation therapy is essential for successful treatment. We report on a patient whose life-threatening bleeding and perioperative coagulopathy after a knife injury to the aorta was successfully treated by surgical control of the bleeding and subsequent targeted coagulation therapy with factor concentrates and fresh-frozen plasma. The coagulopathy was diagnosed and managed by means of bed-side thrombelastography."}
{"id": "17059431", "title": "Disulfide bond-stabilized factor VIII has prolonged factor VIIIa activity and improved potency in whole blood clotting assays.", "content": "Disulfide bond-stabilized factor VIII has prolonged factor VIIIa activity and improved potency in whole blood clotting assays. Genetically engineered disulfide bonds in B-domain-deleted factor (F) VIII variants (C662-C1828 FVIII and C664-C1826 FVIII) improve FVIIIa stability by blocking A2 domain dissociation because the new disulfide covalently links the A2 and A3 domains in FVIIIa. The aim of this study was to assess the hypothesis that these variants have physiologically relevant properties because of prolonged thrombin generation and improved clot formation in whole blood. Clot-formation properties in whole blood were measured in thromboelastogram assays. The thrombin generation capabilities of the wild-type (WT) FVIII and FVIII variants were determined, and half-lives of FVIIIa variants were determined in fresh whole blood serum. Thromboelastogram assays were performed with fresh, severe hemophilia whole blood reconstituted with variant and WT FVIII. The two disulfide bond-stabilized FVIII variants and WT FVIII had comparable clotting times at all studied concentrations. However, when compared with WT FVIII at low concentrations, the two FVIII variants required only 10% as much FVIII to achieve comparable clot-formation rates, clot-formation times and clot firmness values. The differences between WT and FVIII variants were quite pronounced at low FVIII concentrations. Measurement of the endogenous thrombin potential in FVIII-deficient plasma supplemented with these FVIII variants confirmed that the disulfide bond-stabilized variants supported high levels of thrombin generation at lower concentrations than did WT FVIII. During the course of clot generation in whole blood, the disulfide bond-stabilized FVIIIa variants had approximately 5-fold increased half-lives relative to WT FVIIIa. C662-C1828 FVIII and C664-C1826 FVIII have physiologically relevant superior clot-forming properties in a whole blood environment, most likely due to the increased half-life of these FVIIIa variants in whole blood."}
{"id": "17054812", "title": "A total balanced volume replacement strategy using a new balanced hydoxyethyl starch preparation (6% HES 130/0.42) in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery.", "content": "A total balanced volume replacement strategy using a new balanced hydoxyethyl starch preparation (6% HES 130/0.42) in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery. The kind of fluid for correcting hypovolaemia is still a focus of debate. In a prospective, randomized, controlled and double-blind study in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery, a total balanced volume replacement strategy including a new balanced hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solution was compared with a conventional, non-balanced fluid regimen. In Group A (n = 15), a new balanced 6% HES 130/0.42 was given along with a balanced crystalloid solution; in Group B (n = 15), an unbalanced conventional HES 130/0.42 plus an unbalanced crystalloid (saline solution) were administered. Volume was given when mean arterial pressure (MAP) was <65 mmHg and central venous pressure (CVP) minus positive end-expiratoric pressure (PEEP) level was <10 mmHg. Haemodynamics, acid-base status, coagulation (thrombelastography (TEG)) and kidney function (including kidney-specific proteins, N-acetyl-beta-d-glucosaminidase (beta-NAG) and alpha-1-microglobulin) were measured after induction of anaesthesia, at the end of surgery, 5 and 24 h after surgery. Group A received 3533 +/- 1302 mL of HES and 5333 +/- 1063 mL of crystalloids, in Group B, 3866 +/- 1674 mL of HES and 5966 +/- 1202 mL of crystalloids were given. Haemodynamics, laboratory data, TEG data and kidney function were without significant differences between the groups. Cl- concentration and base excess (-5 +/- 2.4 mmol L-1 vs. 0.4 +/- 2.4 mmol L-1) were significantly higher in patients of Group B than of Group A. A complete balanced volume replacement strategy including a new balanced HES preparation resulted in significantly less derangement in acid-base status compared with a non-balanced volume replacement regimen. The new HES preparation showed no negative effects on coagulation and kidney function."}
{"id": "17038662", "title": "Unique uptake of acid-prepared mesoporous spheres by lung epithelial and mesothelioma cells.", "content": "Unique uptake of acid-prepared mesoporous spheres by lung epithelial and mesothelioma cells. Lung cancers, malignant mesotheliomas (MM), and fibrosis are devastating diseases with limited treatment strategies, in part due to poorly-effective drug delivery to affected areas of lung. We hypothesized that acid-prepared mesoporous spheres (APMS) (1-2 microm diameter, 40 A pore size) might be effective vehicles for pulmonary chemotherapeutic drug delivery. To assess this, APMS, chemically modified with different surface molecules (lipid, a linker having a terminal amine group, a thiol group, or tetraethylene glycol [TEG]), were evaluated for uptake and possible cytotoxic effects after in vitro administration to murine alveolar epithelial Type II (C10) and human mesothelioma (MM) cells and after intrapleural or intranasal administration to C57Bl/6 mice. APMS coated with TEG (APMS-TEG) were most efficiently taken up by C10 and MM cells. The mechanism of cell uptake was rapid, actin-dependent, and did not involve clathrin- or caveolae-mediated mechanisms nor fusion of membrane-bound APMS with lysosomes. When injected intrapleurally in mice, APMS-TEG were taken up by both CD45-positive and -negative cells of the diaphragm, lung, and spleen, whereas APMS administered by the intranasal route were predominantly in lung epithelial cells and alveolar macrophages. After intrapleural or intranasal administration, APMS were nonimmunogenic and nontoxic as evaluated by differential cell counts and lactate dehydrogenase levels in bronchoalveolar and pleural lavage fluids. In the treatment of lung and pleural diseases, APMS-TEG may be useful tools to deliver chemotherapeutic drugs or molecular constructs."}
{"id": "17010149", "title": "The effect of levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system use on menstrual blood loss and the hemostatic, fibrinolytic/inhibitor systems in women with menorrhagia.", "content": "The effect of levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system use on menstrual blood loss and the hemostatic, fibrinolytic/inhibitor systems in women with menorrhagia. Menorrhagia is known to be associated with uterine fibroids, adenomyosis, pelvic infections, endometrial polyps and clotting defects. A viable alternative therapy to hysterectomy should alleviate heavy menstrual blood flow and consequently improve the quality-of-life measures in women presenting with menorrhagia. The levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system (LNG-IUS) ranks higher than medical treatments in terms of efficacy, comparable improvements in quality of life and psychological well-being. The purpose of the study was to determine the effects of 6 months of LNG-IUS use on menstrual blood loss and the hemostatic, fibrinolytic/inhibitor systems in blood and the endometrium in women with menorrhagia with known pathologic causes. Samples from 41 women were analyzed. Hemoglobin, hematocrit, thrombelastography, tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA), urokinase plasminogen activator (u-PA), u-PA receptor (u-PAR), plasminogen activator inhibitor-1/2 (PAI-1/2), D-dimer and von Willebrand factor (VWF) were determined, and t-PA, u-PA and PAI-1/2 were also determined in endometrial tissue extracts. Menorrhagia was reduced in 89% of women by 3 months; by 6 months all women had no menorrhagia, and 39% of women had become amenorrhoeic. Hemoglobin and hematocrit levels showed improvement, and reached normal reference levels by 6 months. There were no systemic changes in the fibrinolytic/inhibitor systems and VWF, except for a decreased u-PAR level. However, in the endometrium, significant elevations in PAI-1/2 together with u-PAR levels were seen at 6 months. The slow levonorgestrel-release intrauterine device use results in high expression of fibrinolytic inhibitors (PAI-1/2) and upregulated u-PAR expression in the endometrium. Systemic hemostasis was not significantly altered. The study demonstrated that LNG-IUS is highly effective in the treatment of menorrhagia with known pathologic causes."}
{"id": "17001651", "title": "Hemostatic properties of glucosamine-based materials.", "content": "Hemostatic properties of glucosamine-based materials. Glucosamine- and N-acetyl glucosamine-containing polymers are being used in an increasing number of biomedical applications, including in products for surface (topical) hemostasis. The studies presented here investigate the relationship between the structure (conformation) and function (activation of hemostasis) of glucosamine-based materials. Several polymer systems were studied, including fibers isolated from a microalgal source containing poly-N-acetyl glucosamine polymers that are organized in a parallel, hydrogen-bonded tertiary structure and can be chemically modified to an antiparallel orientation; and gel formulation derivatives of the microalgal fibers consisting of partially deacetylated (F2 gel) and fully deacetylated (F3 gel) polymers. Comparison of the properties of the poly-N-acetyl glucosamine fiber-derived materials with chitin, chitosan, and commercial chitosan-based products are presented. Several studies were performed with the glucosamine-based materials, including (1) an analysis of the ability of materials to activate platelets and turnover of the intrinsic coagulation cascade, (2) an examination of the viscoelastic properties of mixtures of platelet-rich plasma and the glucosamine-based materials via thromboelastography, and (3) scanning electron microscopic studies to examine the morphology of the glucosamine-based materials. The results presented demonstrate that hemostatic responses to the glucosamine-based materials studied are highly dependent on their chemical nature and tertiary/quaternary structure. The unique natural microalgal fibers were found to have strongly prohemostatic activity compared to the other materials studied."}
{"id": "16806409", "title": "Delayed thrombin-induced platelet-fibrin clot generation by clopidogrel: a new dose-related effect demonstrated by thrombelastography in patients undergoing coronary artery stenting.", "content": "Delayed thrombin-induced platelet-fibrin clot generation by clopidogrel: a new dose-related effect demonstrated by thrombelastography in patients undergoing coronary artery stenting. We have previously demonstrated that clopidogrel reduces platelet activation and aggregation in patients undergoing stenting. However, the effect of the clopidogrel loading dose on the rate of thrombin-induced platelet-fibrin clot formation is unknown in this patient population. Using thrombelastography (TEG) we measured the time to platelet-fibrin clot formation (R), a marker of the speed of thrombin generation, in 120 patients undergoing elective coronary artery stenting treated with standard and high loading doses of clopidogrel. Platelet reactivity to adenosine diphosphate (ADP) by light transmittance aggregometry (LTA) was determined simultaneously. Measurements were made immediately before and at 24 h after clopidogrel treatment. Clopidogrel produced a prolongation in R (4.4+/-1.4 min pre vs. 5.4+/-1.7 min post, p<0.001) that directly correlated with the change in platelet aggregation (r=0.65, p<0.0001). Prolongation in R was greatest in patients treated with a high loading dose (p=0.004). Delayed thrombin-induced platelet-fibrin clot formation as measured by TEG is a newly reported dose-related effect of clopidogrel that may contribute to the overall antithrombotic properties of the drug in patients undergoing stenting. This effect was more marked in patients loaded with 600 mg, lending further mechanistic support for this dose of clopidogrel as a more effective antithrombotic regimen than the standard 300 mg dose. Measurement of R may serve as a new indicator of clopidogrel responsiveness."}
{"id": "16630648", "title": "Changes in blood coagulation of arm and leg veins during a simulated long-haul flight.", "content": "Changes in blood coagulation of arm and leg veins during a simulated long-haul flight. Long-haul flights are associated with an increased incidence for venous thromboembolic events. At present, markers of coagulation and fibrinolysis were only analyzed from arm veins after long distance travel. Respective data from leg veins are missing. Here, we measured these parameters in healthy volunteers (n=12) before and after 10 h sitting in modern aircraft chairs under normobaric hypoxia (corresponding to 2400 m altitude). Blood was collected from arm and leg veins before, immediately after and 1 day after sitting in the hypoxic chamber. We did not find any evidence for a significant intravasal thrombin and fibrin formation and a changed fibrinolytic activity, neither in arm nor in leg vein blood. TAT, PAP, and PAI-1 remained unchanged, and the increases of F1+2 in arm veins and of d-dimer in leg veins were within the upper reference limits. Moreover, there was no evidence of activation of coagulation as measured by thrombelastography (ROTEM(R)) and the new Thrombin Dynamic Test at both locations. There was no evidence of arm or leg hemoconcentration. In healthy volunteers, prolonged sitting in ergonomically superior aircraft seats does not induce significant changes in blood coagulation and fibrinolysis in venous blood of arm or leg. Since this study was performed under moderate hypoxia, reduction in oxygen pressure seems not to be a crucial factor for venous thrombosis at long-haul flights."}
{"id": "17299655", "title": "Transfusion dependency of cardiac surgery--update 2006.", "content": "Transfusion dependency of cardiac surgery--update 2006. In developed countries perioperative blood transfusion requirements for red blood cell concentrates (RBC), platelet concentrates (PC), fresh frozen plasma (FFP) and stable plasma derivatives have now levelled off with more patients requiring less or no products whilst fewer patients need the larger proportion of donations. This text explores the reasons for such a development in patients undergoing cardiovascular surgery where the transfusion requirement has drastically declined in recent years. A reduced requirement of a mean of 2 RBCs is now the need per patient in most centers. Such a reduction is possible through various recent perioperative improvements: (i) thorough preoperative haematological checks in order to equip the patient for blood loss, surgical trauma and extracorporeal circulation (ECC) in which heparinized blood is pumped at high speed through an oxygenator, heat exchanger, reservoirs, tubings and connectors. (ii) Peroperative administration of inhibitors of fibrinolysis (aprotinin, epsilon-aminocaproic acid) reduce profuse haemorrhagic tendency. Successful attempts to minimise ECCs, including foamless aspiration of wound blood, refined surgical technology, tissue glue, and point-of-care laboratory testing (POCT) in the operating theatre all contribute to a reduced transfusion requirement. A substantial proportion of patients can now be operated on without ECC. New thrombelastography analysis allows for real-time monitoring of haemorrhagic/thrombogenic risk. Modern blood product quality contributes to limiting blood product usage. (iii) During the postoperative recovery phase, anaemia can be corrected by i.v.iron and recombinant human erythropoietin. Such measures allow the transfusion trigger, based on haemoglobin concentration, to be set as low as 70 g/l in suitable patients."}
{"id": "17225328", "title": "[A comment to the editorial: \"Thrombelastography--should it be done and when?\"].", "content": "[A comment to the editorial: \"Thrombelastography--should it be done and when?\"]."}
{"id": "17138085", "title": "Calcium supplementation of saline-based colloids does not produce equivalent coagulation profiles to similarly balanced salt preparations.", "content": "Calcium supplementation of saline-based colloids does not produce equivalent coagulation profiles to similarly balanced salt preparations. The primary objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that calcium alone does not account for the observed coagulation differences between saline-based and balanced electrolyte IV fluid preparations. Controlled, nonblinded, in vitro observational study. University-based anesthesia research laboratory. Ten healthy volunteers. The volunteers donated fresh blood for in vitro 40% and 60% dilution with 6 intravenous fluid preparations (lactated Ringer's solution, human albumin solution, and 4 hydroxyethyl starch preparations). All saline-based fluids were supplemented with calcium chloride to obtain ionized concentrations >or=1.0 mmol/L. After dilution of the fresh blood with the study fluids, samples were analyzed by using the Thrombelastograph. Three colloid preparations produced minimal coagulation derangement, even at 60% dilution (human albumin solution, tetrastarch in saline, and pentastarch in balanced electrolyte solution), whereas pentastarch in saline and hetastarch in balanced electrolyte produced a mildly hypocoagulable state at 60% dilution. The different coagulation profiles between the 2 pentastarch preparations, as well as similar profiles of pentastarch in saline and hetastarch in balanced electrolyte solution, suggest that calcium is not solely responsible for previously observed effects."}
{"id": "17127479", "title": "Thrombelastography: current clinical applications and its potential role in interventional cardiology.", "content": "Thrombelastography: current clinical applications and its potential role in interventional cardiology. Thrombelastography is a bedside blood test used to assess patients' haemostatic status. It has a well-established role in hepatobiliary and cardiac surgery and is also used in obstetrics and trauma medicine to assess coagulation and identify the causes of post-operative bleeding. It is not routinely used in the diagnosis or treatment of thrombosis although recently it has been shown to predict thrombotic events post-operatively and after percutaneous intervention (PCI). In cardiovascular medicine the importance of the platelet in the pathophysiology of vascular events is increasingly apparent. As a result antiplatelet therapy is a cornerstone of the treatment for coronary disease, particularly in the setting of acute coronary syndromes. The increasing utilization of stents, particularly drug-eluting devices, in PCI has also necessitated widespread use of antiplatelet agents to minimize the risk of stent thrombosis. A quick, accurate and reliable test to measure the effect of platelet inhibition by antiplatelet agents on clotting in an individual patient would be of profound clinical value. The results from such a test could provide prognostic information, allow treatment with antiplatelet agents to be tailored to the individual and identify resistance to one or more of these agents. Optimization and tailoring of anti-platelet therapy in patients with cardiovascular disease, particularly those undergoing PCI, using such a test may reduce morbidity and mortality from thrombotic and haemorrhagic complications. Current methods of assessing platelet activity measure platelet count and function in isolation. Optical aggregation is the most widely used method for assessing platelet function but it is relatively time consuming, measures platelet function in isolation rather than in the context of clot formation and is not a bedside test. By contrast the modified thrombelastograph platelet mapping kit marketed by Haemoscope can be used to assess the effects of antiplatelet agents on ex vivo blood clotting, thus giving a measurement more relevant to in vivo responses. This represents a potentially powerful tool to assess response of individual patients to antiplatelet therapy, particularly in the context of PCI."}
{"id": "17123394", "title": "Basic aspects of bypassing agents.", "content": "Basic aspects of bypassing agents. Bypassing agents consist of activated prothrombin complex concentrates (aPCC) and recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa). Their main utilization is for prevention and treatment of bleeding complications, which may occur in inhibitor-developing haemophiliacs, although new indications for rFVIIa (e.g. trauma-related and cerebral bleeds) are now under evaluation in clinical trials. The mechanisms of action for these agents are still not fully understood. The relative complexity of the composition of aPCC suggests the possibility of multiple modes of action for achieving haemostasis. Among those possibilities, the contributions of activated factor X and prothrombin have been demonstrated in recent years both in vitro and in animal models for the only aPCC which remains on the market. rFVIIa also exhibits a complex mode of action, improving coagulation through both tissue factor-dependent and -independent pathways. The various mechanisms that occur at the cellular surfaces, particularly on the outer leaflet of the platelet membrane, primarily contribute to Xase complex formation and thrombin generation. The ways in which these agents affect the complex kinetics of fibrin formation at the site of vascular damage need further clarification, although significant progress has been achieved in the last 10 years. In addition, the ex vivo monitoring that would reflect achievement of haemostasis in vivo is still not standardized, although several attempts using thromboelastography, thrombin generation and the kinetics of fibrin formation have been initiated."}
{"id": "17122253", "title": "Prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time in patients with antiphospholipid antibody syndrome.", "content": "Prolonged activated partial thromboplastin time in patients with antiphospholipid antibody syndrome."}
{"id": "17122237", "title": "The hemostatic profiles of patients with Type O and non-O blood after acute normovolemic hemodilution with 6% hydroxyethyl starch (130/0.4).", "content": "The hemostatic profiles of patients with Type O and non-O blood after acute normovolemic hemodilution with 6% hydroxyethyl starch (130/0.4). Individuals with Type O blood have been reported to have a tendency toward reduced Factor VIII and von Willebrand Factor (vWF) levels. If this is true, patients with Type O blood might be vulnerable to coagulopathy during acute normovolemic hemodilution using hydroxyethyl starch (HES), both from hemodilution as well as HES-related coagulopathy. Thirty non-O and 15 type O ASA 1 or 2 patients scheduled for spinal surgery involving more than two spinal levels were enrolled for the study. After anesthesia induction, 30% of the estimated blood volume was removed, and the volume was simultaneously replaced with 6% HES (130/0.4). Coagulation profiles were measured before (T0) and 30 min after acute normovolemic hemodilution (T30). Factor VIII activity, vWF antigen levels (vWF:ag), and vWF ristocetin cofactor activity (vWF:RCof) were lower in the O group than in the non-O group before and after acute normovolemic hemodilution, and decreased below the normal range in the O group after acute normovolemic hemodilution. The decrease was beyond that expected from hemodilution alone. Maximum amplitude and coagulation index of the thromboelastogram decreased below the normal range in the O group after acute normovolemic hemodilution. The decrease in vWF:ag was related to the degree of blood loss, and was greater in patients in the O group. Patients with Type O blood may have increased coagulation compromise, and greater dilution of Factor VIII activity, vWF:ag, and vWF:RCof after acute normovolemic hemodilution with HES."}
{"id": "17117062", "title": "Subcutaneous low molecular weight heparin for management of anticoagulation in infants on excor ventricular assist device.", "content": "Subcutaneous low molecular weight heparin for management of anticoagulation in infants on excor ventricular assist device. Anticoagulation in infants and children on a ventricular assist device presents particular challenges. Unfractionated heparin has poor bioavailability; it can be difficult to achieve a stable anticoagulant effect; and, in the long-term, there is a risk of osteopenia. Long-term warfarin can be difficult to manage in infants on formula milk with vitamin K supplementation. We review our recent experience with subcutaneous low molecular weight heparin. Two patients received a left ventricular assist device (Excor, Berlin Heart AG) as a bridge to transplantation. Initial anticoagulation consisted of unfractionated heparin infusion beginning 6 hours after implantation to maintain an activated partial thromboplastin time of 70 seconds, checked every 4 to 6 hours. Platelet count (aim >80,000/microl) and thromboelastography were assessed daily. Antithrombin required substitution to maintain levels >70 IU/dl. To optimize anticoagulation, both infants were switched to subcutaneous low molecular weight heparin twice daily aiming for an anti-Xa activity between 0.5 and 1.0 IU/ml. Aspirin was added on day 4, checking platelet aggregation every 2 to 4 days, aiming at arachidonic acid stimulated aggregation 10% to 30% of baseline, collagen 100% of baseline. Dipyridamole was added once stability was reached if platelets count exceeded 150,000/microl. There were no clinical thromboembolic or bleeding events. Both patients had successful transplantation."}
{"id": "17107615", "title": "Four-day antithrombin therapy does not seem to attenuate hypercoagulability in patients suffering from sepsis.", "content": "Four-day antithrombin therapy does not seem to attenuate hypercoagulability in patients suffering from sepsis. Sepsis activates the coagulation system and frequently causes hypercoagulability, which is not detected by routine coagulation tests. A reliable method to evaluate hypercoagulability is thromboelastography (TEG), but this has not so far been used to investigate sepsis-induced hypercoagulability. Antithrombin (AT) in plasma of septic patients is decreased, and administration of AT may therefore reduce the acquired hypercoagulability. Not clear, however, is to what extent supraphysiologic plasma levels of AT decrease the acute hypercoagulability in septic patients. The present study investigates the coagulation profile of septic patients before and during four day high-dose AT therapy. Patients with severe sepsis were randomly assigned to receive either 6,000 IU AT as a bolus infusion followed by a maintenance dose of 250 IU/hour over four days (n = 17) or placebo (n = 16). TEG, platelet count, plasma fibrinogen levels, prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time were assessed at baseline and daily during AT therapy. TEG showed a hypercoagulability in both groups at baseline, which was neither reversed by bolus or by maintenance doses of AT. The hypercoagulability was mainly caused by increased plasma fibrinogen, and to a lesser extent by platelets. Plasmatic coagulation as assessed by the prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time was similar in both groups, and did not change during the study period. The current study shows a distinct hypercoagulability in patients suffering from severe sepsis, which was not reversed by high-dose AT treatment over four days. This finding supports recent data showing that modulation of coagulatory activation in septic patients by AT does not occur before one week of therapy."}
{"id": "17102653", "title": "Ethanol impairs coagulation and fibrinolysis in whole blood: a study performed with rotational thromboelastometry.", "content": "Ethanol impairs coagulation and fibrinolysis in whole blood: a study performed with rotational thromboelastometry. The objective was to study the effects of ethanol on coagulation and fibrinolysis in whole blood. Blood samples from healthy volunteers were analyzed before and after in-vitro addition of ethanol in order to achieve ethanol concentrations of 0, 1, 2 and 4 per thousand, respectively (0, 22, 44 and 88 mmol/l). Coagulation and fibrinolysis were then assessed using rotational thromboelastometry. We found that increasing ethanol levels increasingly impaired coagulation as evaluated with rotational thromboelastometry, with a maximum prolongation of the clot formation time of 118% at an ethanol level of 4 per thousand (P < 0.000001). We also found a very strong impairment of fibrinolysis already at an ethanol level of 1 per thousand. This is the first study assessing the effects of ethanol on coagulation and fibrinolysis in a whole blood model. The impairment of coagulation is similar in nature to the impairment found in patients suffering from hypothermia. The impairment is at a level that may be of clinical importance (e.g. in patients suffering from trauma). The inhibition of fibrinolysis is obvious already at an ethanol level of 1 per thousand and it may be a contributing factor to the increased amount of coronary and cerebrovascular ischemic events after binge drinking."}
{"id": "17102650", "title": "Tranexamic acid does not correct the haemostatic impairment caused by hydroxyethyl starch (200 kDa/0.5) after cardiac surgery.", "content": "Tranexamic acid does not correct the haemostatic impairment caused by hydroxyethyl starch (200 kDa/0.5) after cardiac surgery. We investigated the effect of intravenous tranexamic acid on hydroxyethyl starch (HES)-induced clot strength impairment after cardiac surgery. Patients were randomized to receive either 1 g tranexamic acid or the same volume of 0.9% saline after administration of 15 ml/kg of 6% HES (molecular weight, 200 kDa; degree of substitution, 0.5) in the immediate postoperative period. Modified thromboelastometry (ROTEM) using different activators [intrinsic ROTEM (InTEM), extrinsic ROTEM (ExTEM), fibrinogen ROTEM (FibTEM)] was carried out to evaluate clot formation and lysis. The clot formation time was prolonged, and the maximum clot firmness (MCF) and shear elastic modulus [G = 5000 x MCF / (100-MCF), dynes/cm(2)] decreased (all activators of ROTEM) after completion of HES (P < 0.001, two-factor analysis of variance). These abnormalities in blood coagulation persisted despite tranexamic acid. Maximal lysis (FibTEM), indicative of fibrinolytic activity, was increased after HES but no effect of tranexamic acid was observed. The cumulative chest tube drainage until the first postoperative morning was not different between the groups (1008 +/- 251 and 1081 +/- 654 ml, P = 0.698, respectively). We conclude that after cardiopulmonary bypass, HES-induced impairment in clot formation and strength, or increased fibrinolytic capacity, is not reversed by the administration of tranexamic acid."}
{"id": "17097924", "title": "New methods showing in vitro changes of platelets.", "content": "New methods showing in vitro changes of platelets. In vitro methods for assessing stored platelets are time consuming and variably correlate with in vivo survival. We used the ADVIA 120 and the Thromboelastogram (TEG) to assess changes during storage to determine a correlation of the results with those of other commonly used measures. Platelet concentrates were tested at 1 and 5 days of storage. In vitro test included platelet count, aggregation response, the hypotonic shock response (HSR), The Kunicki morphology score (KMS) and platelet activation using CD62. The ADVIA was used to measure the platelet density and the granule content. The TEG measured the kinetics of clot formation. The platelet count and HRS did not change during storage. Aggregation decreased 50% by day 5. The KMS dropped from 307 at day 2-170. The MPC fell below 200g/l. There was slight platelet activation; the rate of clot formation decreased. Standard measures of in vitro platelet function indicated alterations during storage. A MPC of less than 200 corresponded to a Kunicki morphology score of less than 200. The TEG results correlated will with the KMS. These measurements may prove useful in predicting platelet survival and recovery."}
{"id": "17097499", "title": "Hemodilution modulates the time of onset and rate of fibrinolysis in human and rabbit plasma.", "content": "Hemodilution modulates the time of onset and rate of fibrinolysis in human and rabbit plasma. Fibrinolysis has a critical role in the development of bleeding after insertion of a ventricular assist device (VAD). However, chronically, VAD-mediated fibrinolysis may also diminish thromboembolic events. Management of VADs involves fluid administration. It was hypothesized that the fluid administered could modulate fibrinolysis. Human plasma was diluted (0% to 30%) with 0.9% NaCl, 5% albumin or Voluven (6% hydroxyethyl-starch [HES], mean molecular weight 130 kD) and exposed to tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA). Plasma obtained from rabbits just before and after 30% dilution with PentaLyte (6% HES, 220 kD), Voluven or Hextend (6% HES, 450 kD) were exposed to tPA. Thrombelastographic clot strength and onset/rate of fibrinolysis were determined. In human plasma, 0.9% NaCl significantly decreased clot strength, but either prolonged or maintained the onset of fibrinolysis, with the rate of fibrinolysis significantly increased only at 30% dilution. Five percent albumin significantly decreased clot strength and did not affect the onset of fibrinolysis, but it did decrease the rate of fibrinolysis. Voluven significantly decreased clot strength to the greatest extent compared with the other fluids, and decreased the time of onset of fibrinolysis. Rabbit plasma after hemodilution demonstrated significantly decreased clot strength and decreased time of onset of fibrinolysis as compared with Voluven in human plasma. Compared with crystalloid or albumin, HES solutions enhance fibrinolysis by decreasing clot strength and decreasing the time of onset of fibrinolysis. Further studies are warranted to determine whether the fluid administered to patients with VADs can impact hemorrhagic and thrombotic morbidity."}
{"id": "17097417", "title": "Current options in platelet function testing.", "content": "Current options in platelet function testing. The variable response to antiplatelet therapy has led to the use of platelet function tests to monitor the effects of antiplatelet drugs in cardiovascular diseases. The goal is to guide antiplatelet therapy to the optimal dose for the prevention or treatment of thrombosis while minimizing hemorrhagic side effects. The bleeding time is no longer recommended for use because of its nonspecificity and lack of clinical correlations. The current de facto \"gold standard\" test of platelet function is turbidometric platelet aggregometry. Although this method has been successful in measuring the aggregation of platelets in a glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa (integrin alpha(IIb)beta(3))-dependent manner, it has several limitations, including poor reproducibility, high sample volume, requirement for sample preparation, length of assay time, requirement for a skilled technician, and cost. Therefore, new options for platelet function testing have been developed to address these disadvantages and to meet the need for point-of-care testing that can be performed at or near a patient's bedside without requiring a high degree of technical expertise. The new tests include VerifyNow (Accumetrics, San Diego, CA); Plateletworks (Helena Laboratories, Beaumont, TX); Thrombelastograph PlateletMapping System (Haemoscope Corporation, Niles, IL); Impact cone and plate(let) analyzer (DiaMed, Cressier, Switzerland); and Platelet Function Analyzer 100 (PFA-100; Dade Behring, Newark, DE). In patients treated with antiplatelet drugs, the degree of platelet inhibition, as determined by several of these new platelet function assays, has been shown to predict major adverse cardiac events."}
{"id": "17097350", "title": "Prospective evaluation of double RBC collection using three different apheresis systems.", "content": "Prospective evaluation of double RBC collection using three different apheresis systems. Automated component collection systems offer the possibility of increasing blood supply and improving transfusion safety. 30 blood donors were randomly assigned to double RBC collection with either the Baxter Alyx (AX), the Haemonetics MCS Plus (MCS+), or the Gambro Trima Accel (TA). Procedures were prospectively evaluated focussing on yield, time, efficiency, citrate donor load, and in vitro quality. All units showed sufficient in vitro quality throughout 42 days of storage and complied with international requirements. Donor reactions were limited to mild citrate reactions. AX was the fastest and most efficient system* * (* *p approximately 0.001) attaining the highest yield* * from similar amounts of whole blood. The drawbacks were a higher RBC loss* (*p < 0.05) and accelerated citrate infusion* *. Due to lower collection rates* * * (* * *p < 0.001), MCS+ was slower than TA* * * but compensated with lower citrate load * * *. Double RBC apheresis was performed safely and efficiently with all three instruments. AX had advantages for most parameters evaluated."}
{"id": "17089513", "title": "Dose titration of recombinant factor VIIa using thromboelastograph monitoring in a child with hemophilia and high titer inhibitors to factor VIII: a case report and brief review.", "content": "Dose titration of recombinant factor VIIa using thromboelastograph monitoring in a child with hemophilia and high titer inhibitors to factor VIII: a case report and brief review. The administration of recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) is complicated by a wide inter-subject variation in response, a short half-life, evolving indications for use, and the absence of a test that has been shown to correlate with clinical effect. This report describes a method used to titrate rFVIIa to thromboelastography (TEG) parameters in a difficult to manage hemophilic patient with high titer inhibition to factor VIII. The current concepts of monitoring rFVIla administration in hemophiliacs and uncontrolled hemorrhage in cardiac surgery are briefly reviewed."}
{"id": "17089510", "title": "Quantitative and qualitative analysis of platelet-rich plasma collection using the Haemonetics Cell Saver 5 in open heart surgery.", "content": "Quantitative and qualitative analysis of platelet-rich plasma collection using the Haemonetics Cell Saver 5 in open heart surgery. Many traditional autologous blood recovery systems (ABRSs) have undergone modifications to enable them to collect platelet-rich plasma (PRP). Because of the growing demand for autologous platelet gel (APG) in cardiac surgery, many open heart teams are faced with the choice of using their existing ABRS or purchasing a dedicated PRP device. This study was conducted to address the issues we had about our use of the Haemonetics Cell Saver 5 (CS5) to collect PRP during open heart surgery at our institution. PRP and platelet-poor plasma (PPP) were collected on 20 \"first-time\" elective open heart surgical patients. Baseline, PRP, and PPP platelet counts, as well as modified thrombelastograms (TEGs), were performed on all study patients. The mean baseline, PRP, and PPP platelet counts were 232,450, 1,348,850, and 18,100/mm3, respectively. We found a strong positive correlation (r = +0.7142) between the maximum amplitude (MA) of our modified PRP TEG and the platelet count of the PRP. Using the CS5, we achieved a mean platelet multiple of greater than six times baseline, which compares favorably with the multiple produced using dedicated PRP devices. These data support the conclusion that we achieved a high platelet multiple with the CS5, and our use of a modified TEG showed that platelet function of the collected PRP was preserved."}
{"id": "17083509", "title": "Individualization of bypassing agent treatment for haemophilic patients with inhibitors utilizing thromboelastography.", "content": "Individualization of bypassing agent treatment for haemophilic patients with inhibitors utilizing thromboelastography. The treatment of bleeding for haemophilic patients with inhibitors relies on the use of the bypassing agents, recombinant factor VIIa and factor eight inhibitor bypass activity (FEIBA). While both therapies are effective in the majority of bleeding episodes, there is a significant amount of interindividual variability when it comes to the response to therapy. As of yet, there is no reliable laboratory parameter that can predict the response to therapy in the same manner that factor VIII and factor IX levels predict response in non-inhibitor patients. Developing such a laboratory parameter is vital in order to maximize the clinical efficacy of these agents. Thromboelastography (TEG) is a device, which assesses clot formation over time in whole blood and has several characteristics which suggest it may be an effective way to monitor bypass agent therapy. We studied the ability of TEG to individualize the treatment regimens of three patients with high titre inhibitors assessing the response to recombinant factor VIIa, FEIBA, and when both were used sequentially. The TEG allowed for individualization of treatment for each of the three patients and resulted in more effective, convenient and less expensive treatment regimens. We thus believe that TEG is a promising device for monitoring of bypass agent therapy and should be studied further."}
{"id": "17061631", "title": "The effect of excess protamine on thrombelastography in vitro.", "content": "The effect of excess protamine on thrombelastography in vitro. The aim of the current study was to assess the direct effect of protamine on conventional thrombelastography in vitro. Protamine was added to blood samples collected from 25 adult cardiac surgical patients prior to the induction of anaesthesia and after separation from cardiopulmonary bypass. The final protamine concentrations were 0 (control), 0.05 mg/ml, 0.1 mg/ml and 0.2 mg/ml (i.e. sufficient to reverse heparin 0, 5, 10 and 20 IU/ml respectively, assuming a 1:1 reversal ratio). In the pre-induction samples, protamine was associated with increases in r time and reductions in maximum amplitude (P<0.01). After bypass, the control samples demonstrated a heparin effect as expected, which was corrected by the addition of protamine 0.05 mg/ml. However, the higher concentrations of protamine were again associated with increases in r time and reductions in maximum amplitude (P<0.01). The results indicate that protamine has a direct anticoagulant effect on conventional thrombelastography in vitro. This effect occurs whether protamine is present alone, or whether protamine is present in excess after neutralization of heparin. Unless this effect is taken into account, excess protamine may confound the interpretation of conventional thrombelastography in cardiac surgical patients."}
{"id": "17059810", "title": "[Uncontrollable bleeding in a patient with head trauma treated with blood component therapy guided by thromboelastography].", "content": "[Uncontrollable bleeding in a patient with head trauma treated with blood component therapy guided by thromboelastography]. This is a case report concerning a patient with traumatic uncontrolled bleeding. The patient was admitted with a severe head injury and facial fractures. During neurosurgery, the bleeding became life-threatening and there was a request for recombinant factor VIIa therapy (NovoSeven). Before the treatment, thromboelastography was performed. This showed platelet insufficiency, and after infusion of platelets, the bleeding was under control and there was no longer a need for recombinant factor VIIa therapy. We therefore recommend thromboelastography to evaluate coagulation status before treatment with recombinant factor VIIa."}
{"id": "17059800", "title": "[Thrombelastography--should it be done and when?].", "content": "[Thrombelastography--should it be done and when?]."}
{"id": "17059771", "title": "[Effects of preoperative acute hypervolemic hemodilution on hypercoagulability of patients with colon cancer].", "content": "[Effects of preoperative acute hypervolemic hemodilution on hypercoagulability of patients with colon cancer]. Cancer patients have an increased risk of thrombosis after operation because of a hypercoagulable status. Therefore, anticoagulant treatment is necessary for patients with hypercoagulability during perioperative period. This study was to investigate the effect of acute hypervolemic hemodilution (AHHD) with 6% hydroxyethyl starch (HES), or 4% succinylated gelatin (GEL), or lactated Ringer's (RL) solution before operation on the hypercoagulable status and the occurrence of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) of patients with colon cancer. Sixty colon cancer patients with hypercoagulable status underwent operation were randomized into HES, GEL, and RL groups; each group contained 20 patients. The patients were infused with HES, GEL, or RL solution respectively at a dose of 15 ml/kg within 30 min before operation. Preoperative coagulation function was assessed by thrombelastography (TEG). DVT was diagnosed by the color Doppler ultrasonic system. Acute hypervolemic hemodilution with HES solution led to a significant decrease of coagulation index (CI) at 30 min and 2 h after starting operation and 1 h after operation as compared with the prehemodilution value (P<0.01). At 1 h after operation, CI was significantly lower in HES group than in GEL group (P<0.05). At 30 min and 2 h after starting operation and 1 h after operation, CI was significantly lower in HES group than in RL group (P<0.05). Hemodilution with GEL solution lessened CI at 30 min and 2 h after starting operation significantly as compared with the prehemodilution value (P<0.01). At 30 min and 2 h after starting operation, CI was significantly lower in GEL group than in RL group (P<0.05). After operation, DVT in occurred 2 (10%) patients in HES group, 3 (15%) in GEL group, and 10 (50%) in RL group (P<0.05). Acute hypervolemic hemodilution with HES solution and GEL solution can alleviate the hypercoagulability of colon cancer patients during perioperative period and decrease the occurrence of DVT."}
{"id": "17045938", "title": "Contact activation prolongs clot lysis time in human plasma: role of thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor and Factor XIII.", "content": "Contact activation prolongs clot lysis time in human plasma: role of thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor and Factor XIII. Contact activation system proteins (e.g., Factor XII, kallikrein) have been implicated as direct or indirect activators of plasminogen. However, contact activation and Factor XI have enhanced thrombin-activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor (TAFI) activation and decreased fibrinolysis, and Factor XIII (FXIII) also delays fibrinolysis via alpha(2)-anti-plasmin deposition on fibrin polymers. Thus, the goals of this study were to define how fibrinolysis is modulated in human plasma by contact or tissue factor (TF) activation, and what role TAFI and FXIII plays in this system. Normal, TAFI-deficient and TAFI-deficient/FXIII-supplemented plasma was exposed to tissue-type plasminogen activator and activated with either celite or TF. Clot growth/disintegration kinetics were documented with thrombelastography. Normal plasma activated with celite had significantly prolonged onset and duration of clot lysis compared with samples activated with TF. TAFI-deficient plasma activated with celite was noted to have a duration of clot lysis not different from samples activated with TF, but a significant difference in time to onset of lysis persisted. Celite activation of TAFI-deficient/FXIII-supplemented plasma showed significantly prolonged onset and duration of clot lysis compared with samples activated with TF. Primarily TAFI, and to a lesser extent FXIII, contributed to contact system protein-mediated attenuation of fibrinolysis. Clinical investigation of these phenomena is warranted in clinical settings involving contact activation (e.g., intra-aortic balloon pumps and ventricular assist devices) to determine whether these devices modulate fibrinolysis and perhaps contribute to thromboembolic morbidity."}
{"id": "17035090", "title": "Salvaging of liquid-preserved O-positive and O-negative red blood cells by rejuvenation and freezing.", "content": "Salvaging of liquid-preserved O-positive and O-negative red blood cells by rejuvenation and freezing. The RBC inventory is subject to seasonal highs and lows. When the inventory is high, units may be lost due to outdating and when the inventory is low, elective surgical procedures may have to be postponed until sufficient blood is available. This study was done to determine if universal donor O-positive and O-negative RBC subjected to various methods of transportation could subsequently be rejuvenated and frozen to be used for inventory control with satisfactory results. Units of blood were collected at two different military facilities and processed as whole blood (WB) or packed RBC. The liquid stored WB or RBC units were subjected to transportation, with or without air dropping, as part of a military exercise. The units were kept at 4 degrees C with wet ice during transportation to the NBRL for evaluation. The quality of the liquid preserved RBC was evaluated before rejuvenation and freezing and after the freeze-thaw-wash procedure. Following frozen storage at -80 degrees C, the RBC were thawed and deglycerolized using the Haemonetics 115 cell washer. In addition to measurements of freeze-thaw and freeze-thaw-wash recovery, other in vitro assessments of RBC quality were made. The results demonstrate acceptable quality for RBC subjected to transportation, with or without air dropping, following rejuvenation and freezing. We consider it a prudent practice for liquid preserved O-negative and O-positive RBC collected at various blood collection sites to be sent to a specific facility where the universal donor RBC can be rejuvenated and frozen as a stockpile for inventory control."}
{"id": "17013513", "title": "Impact of blood salvage during liver transplantation on reduction in transfusion requirements.", "content": "Impact of blood salvage during liver transplantation on reduction in transfusion requirements. The aim of this study was to analyse the changes in transfusion requirements, in patients submitted to orthotopic liver transplantation from cadaveric donors, with the use of intraoperative red blood cell salvage (Cell Saver). Data from 41 transplants were analysed. Intraoperative blood loss was calculated from the cell salvage, suction and the swabs. The autologous and heterologous transfusions were recorded The red blood salvage was performed using the Cell Saver 5 System (Haemonetics). For analysis the patients were divided in two groups: one that used the Cell Saver and another that didn't. The median age of the patients was 50 years and the main indication for liver transplantation was cirrhosis (35 cases-85.3%). The median blood loss was 8362+3994 ml (with the Cell Saver) and 10824+7002 ml (without the Cell Saver) and the median transfusion of heterologous packed red blood cells was 9.6+8 units (with the Cell Saver) compared to 22.3+21 units (without the Cell Saver). The Cells Saver has the potential to reduce the need for heterologous blood transfusion reducing the risks of transmissible diseases."}
{"id": "17010048", "title": "Global tests of haemostasis in critically ill patients with severe sepsis syndrome compared to controls.", "content": "Global tests of haemostasis in critically ill patients with severe sepsis syndrome compared to controls. Haemostatic changes in septic patients are complex, with both procoagulant and anticoagulant changes. Thirty-eight patients with severe sepsis and 32 controls were investigated by coagulation screens, individual factor assays, calibrated automated thrombography (CAT), whole blood low-dose-tissue factor activated (LD-TFA) Rotem and LD-TFA waveform analysis. Thirty-six of 38 patients had an abnormal coagulation screen. The mean levels of factors II, V (P < 0.05), VII, X, XI and XII, antithrombin and protein C (P < 0.01) was decreased in sepsis compared with controls. The mean factor VIII and fibrinogen level (P < 0.001) was increased. CAT in platelet rich and poor plasma showed a prolonged lag time (P < 0.02), decreased peak thrombin (P < 0.02) and delayed time to peak thrombin (P < 0.001) in sepsis patients, however, the endogenous thrombin potential was equivalent in sepsis and controls. In LD-TFA Rotem, septic patients had delayed clot times (P = 0.04) but an increased maximum velocity of clot formation (P < 0.01) and area under the clot elasticity curve (P < 0.01). LD-TFA waveform analysis showed a delayed onset time but an increased rate of clot formation (P < 0.005). In conclusion, global tests of haemostasis suggest that in this patient group, activation of haemostasis is delayed but once initiated thrombin generation and clot formation are normal or enhanced."}
{"id": "17006064", "title": "Quantifying the effect of antiplatelet therapy: a comparison of the platelet function analyzer (PFA-100) and modified thromboelastography (mTEG) with light transmission platelet aggregometry.", "content": "Quantifying the effect of antiplatelet therapy: a comparison of the platelet function analyzer (PFA-100) and modified thromboelastography (mTEG) with light transmission platelet aggregometry. Antiplatelet therapy with aspirin and clopidogrel is known to confer protection against ischemic events. Increasing numbers of patients are presenting for surgery while taking these drugs. This may lead to an increase in perioperative blood loss, particularly in those who have a heightened response to the drugs. Identifying these patients preoperatively would allow us to plan appropriate management. The antiplatelet effect of aspirin and/or clopidogrel was measured using two point-of-care monitors: the platelet function analyzer (PFA-100; Dade, Miami, FL) and the modified thromboelastograph (mTEG; Haemoscope Corp., Niles, IL). This was compared with optical light transmission aggregometry. All people taking aspirin displayed a definitive aspirin effect on aggregometry (n = 20). Ninety percent of these were identified by modified thromboelastography (n = 18). Seventy percent were identified by the platelet function analyzer (n = 14). Fifty percent of people taking clopidogrel displayed a definitive response to the drug on aggregometry. Seventy percent of these were identified on modified thromboelastography (n = 7). None were identified by the platelet function analyzer. There was good agreement between the results of the aggregometry and modified thromboelastography in clopidogrel patients (kappa = 0.81). The search for a point-of-care monitor of platelet function has been the focus of much research. This study has shown that the modified thromboelastograph can be used for monitoring the effect of clopidogrel as well as aspirin. It potentially has a wide scope to be used for the monitoring of effectiveness of therapy as well as a possible predictor of perioperative bleeding."}
{"id": "17003921", "title": "A direct thrombin inhibitor studied by dynamic whole blood clot formation. Haemostatic response to ex-vivo addition of recombinant factor VIIa or activated prothrombin complex concentrate.", "content": "A direct thrombin inhibitor studied by dynamic whole blood clot formation. Haemostatic response to ex-vivo addition of recombinant factor VIIa or activated prothrombin complex concentrate. Direct thrombin inhibitors have proven efficacious in prevention of venous thromboembolism. Bleeding complications are rare, but in case of acute serious bleeding, an effective and instant haemostatic intervention may be required. In the present study it was demonstrated that the direct thrombin inhibitor melagatran induces dose-dependent abnormalities in whole blood (WB) clotting profiles as recorded by a recently described modified thrombelastographic model, and that rFVIIa or APCC are capable of improving the haemostatic capacity. Experiments were performed using WB from 30 healthy males. In-vitro titration experiments (n = 10) with addition of melagatran to WB corresponding to plasma concentrations ranging from 0 to 5.0 microM (12 steps) showed a dose-dependent prolongation of the clot initiation and characteristic decrease of the maximum rate of clot propagation. In-vitro intervention studies (n = 20) were completed with four different concentrations of melagatran as well as addition of four different levels of rFVIIa or APCC. At all tested concentrations of melagatran, rFVIIa significantly shortened the melagatran-induced prolonged clot initiation but induced only minor improvements of the reduced clot propagation. In contrast, APCC significantly and dose-dependently shortened the clot initiation and accelerated the clot propagation. In conclusion, our thrombelastographic model appears useful for evaluating the effect of direct thrombin inhibitors on dynamicWB clot formation and rFVIIa, but especially APCC significantly improved theWB clot formation. The pronounced stabilizing effect of APCC may be caused by its content of prothrombin and activated coagulation factors."}
{"id": "17002633", "title": "Viability and function of 8-day-stored apheresis platelets.", "content": "Viability and function of 8-day-stored apheresis platelets. Methods of bacterial detection and pathogen inactivation of platelets (PLTs) may allow extended storage of PLTs as long as PLT quality is maintained. Twenty normal volunteers had their PLTs collected with an apheresis machine (Haemonetics Corp.). A variety of in vitro PLT function and metabolic assays were performed both on Day 0 and after 8 days of storage. On Day 8, a small blood sample was drawn from each donor to obtain fresh PLTs. The fresh and stored autologous PLTs were labeled with either (51)Cr or (111)In, and the radiolabeled PLTs were transfused. Posttransfusion serial blood samples were drawn to determine the relative posttransfusion recoveries and survivals of the fresh versus the stored PLTs. Although the in vitro assays showed some differences between the two trial sites, the results were generally within the ranges expected for fresh and stored PLTs. Overall, PLT recoveries averaged 66 +/- 16 percent versus 53 +/- 20 percent and survivals averaged 8.5 +/- 1.6 days versus 5.6 +/- 1.6 days, respectively, for fresh compared to 8-day-stored PLTs. There were no significant differences in the in vivo PLT data between the trial sites or based on the radiolabel used for the measurements. After 8 days of storage, the in vivo posttransfusion recovery and survival of autologous Haemonetics apheresis PLTs meet the proposed standards for poststorage PLT quality."}
{"id": "17000790", "title": "The impact of tissue factor pathway inhibitor on coagulation kinetics determined by thrombelastography.", "content": "The impact of tissue factor pathway inhibitor on coagulation kinetics determined by thrombelastography. Tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI) is a 40-kDa, endogenous protein that inhibits tissue factor (TF)-initiated coagulation by bonding with activated factor X (FXa). The TFPI/FXa complex then subsequently binds with TF/activated factor VII (FVIIa) complex, ultimately inhibiting thrombin generation. Heparin administration causes endothelial release of TFPI concentrations up to sixfold normal values. Thrombelastography (TEG) is often used to monitor hemostasis in the perioperative period, and TFPI could potentially affect the diagnostic interpretation of TEG-based data, given its inhibition of both common and TF coagulation pathways. Thus, in this study we characterized the effect of TFPI on coagulation kinetics via TEG. Whole blood, Factor VII-deficient plasma, and normal plasma were exposed in vitro to various concentrations of TFPI, after which unmodified, celite-activated, and TF-activated TEG were performed. The addition of 87.5 ng/mL TFPI (twice normal concentration) was required to prolong clot propagation in whole blood, with propagation and strength only significantly affected by the addition of 175 ng/mL concentrations. Experiments with Factor VII-deficient plasma demonstrated that TFPI-mediated suppression of coagulation kinetics at these concentrations was secondary to FXa inhibition. Celite activation markedly attenuated TFPI-mediated effects on coagulation kinetics, whereas TF activation accentuated TFPI-mediated prolongation of clot initiation and diminution of propagation. In settings involving heparin administration (e.g., cardiopulmonary bypass), TFPI-mediated inhibition of coagulation should be considered during TEG-based hemostatic monitoring."}
{"id": "16988549", "title": "Global assessment of the coagulation status in type 2 diabetes mellitus using rotation thromboelastography.", "content": "Global assessment of the coagulation status in type 2 diabetes mellitus using rotation thromboelastography. Clinical and epidemiologic observations have led to the concept of a procoagulant state in type 2 diabetes. This study aimed to determine the coagulation status in type 2 diabetic patients using rotation thromboelastography (ROTEM), which measures the interactive dynamic coagulation process. For this purpose, 51 (30 women, 21 men) type 2 diabetic patients (mean age, 56.1 years) and 40 age-matched, sex-matched and body-mass-index-matched healthy individuals were enrolled. Twenty-seven of the diabetic group had diabetic vascular complications. ROTEM using different activators for the intrinsic and extrinsic systems of coagulation cascade (intrinsic TEM-INTEM, extrinsic TEM-EXTEM, FIBTEM) was used to measure the coagulation time (CT), clot formation time (CFT), alpha angle (alpha) and maximum clot firmness (MCF). No significant difference was found in the prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, thrombin time, fibrinogen and platelet count between the two groups. INTEM-CT and INTEM-CFT and EXTEM-MCF were significantly higher in the diabetic group compared with controls (P = 0.012, P = 0.007 and P = 0.029, respectively). INTEM alpha in the diabetic group was significantly lower than the controls (P = 0.001). All other parameters, including INTEM-MCF, EXTEM-CT, EXTEM-CFT, EXTEM-alpha, FIBTEM-CT, FIBTEM-CFT, FIBTEM-MCF and FIBTEM-alpha, were similar between the two groups. Taking into account these data, we conclude that there is subtle activation of the extrinsic pathway with a concomitant decrement in the intrinsic pathway of the coagulation cascade in type 2 diabetes. The exact underlying mechanisms leading to these changes, and their consequences with regard to diabetic complications, remain to be determined."}
{"id": "16973498", "title": "Platelet-dependent coagulation assays for factor VIII efficacy measurement after substitution therapy in patients with haemophilia A.", "content": "Platelet-dependent coagulation assays for factor VIII efficacy measurement after substitution therapy in patients with haemophilia A. FVIII therapy for haemophilia A is safe and effective, with the problem of individually sufficient efficacy unsettled. Routine one-stage clotting assays and tests employing chromogenic substrates poorly detect individual haemostatic effects of FVIII due to artificial test conditions. In particular, the use of cell-free and diluted plasma samples neglect the crucial role of platelets for thrombin and fibrin formation. To optimize FVIII substitution therapy, we measured in 40 patients with severe to mild haemophilia A before and after FVIII substitution the FVIII activity in cell-free plasma samples using a one-stage clotting assay as well a chromogenic substrate assay and compared the data with those obtained with cell-based coagulation tests, i.e. thrombin generation in platelet-rich plasma (PRP) and thromboelastography (TEG) in samples of citrated whole blood (WB). To determine the maximum ex vivo haemostatic effect we added 1 unit/ml of FVIII to samples of PRP and WB and measured the maximum thrombin generation in the thrombin generation test (TGT) and the maximum clot firmness (MCF) in TEG. After FVIII substitution we observed a nearly linear relation between the individual FVIII activities administered to the patients and the activities measured in the plasma samples. However, data obtained with TGT and TEG revealed a high inter-individual variation and a very poor correlation to the administered FVIII activity. Actually, it could be shown that FVIII substitution yielding in a FVIII plasma activity of about 30% is sufficient to get an ex vivo haemostatic effect of more that 90% as measured by maximum thrombin generation and MCF. FVIII substitution up to a plasma activity of more than 90% did not further enhance the haemostatic effect. Our data clearly demonstrate that the haemostatic effect of FVIII is not only dependent on the activity that is measured in plasma but also depends on the interplay between coagulation and blood cells, in particular with platelets. The use of cell-based coagulation tests such us TGT or TEG may help to optimize FVIII therapy by determining the individual FVIII dosage that produces a maximum haemostatic effect."}
{"id": "16973499", "title": "Thromboelastography: potential bedside tool to assess the effects of antiplatelet therapy?", "content": "Thromboelastography: potential bedside tool to assess the effects of antiplatelet therapy? Modified thrombelastography (TEG) is a simple point of care test that provides an overall assessment of ex vivo clot formation and currently has limited clinical application. We evaluated the ability of TEG to assess the effects of antiplatelet therapy on clot formation using a novel assessment parameter (the area under curve). Forty healthy volunteers were divided into four groups of 10. Group A took aspirin 75 mg once daily for 7 days followed by aspirin 75 mg and clopidogrel 75 mg once daily in combination for 7 more days. Blood samples were taken for analysis at day 0 and days 7 and 14. Group B took a single 300 mg dose of aspirin. Group C took 600 mg of clopidogrel only. Group D took 300 mg of aspirin and 600 mg of clopidogrel at the same time. For groups B, C and D blood was taken prior to drug administration and at 2, 6 and 24 h afterwards. Each sample was tested by TEG in four channels following activation using (1) kaolin, (2) activator F (Act F), a direct activator of fibrin, (3) Act F + arachidonic acid (AA) and (4) Act F + adenosine diphosphate (ADP). Parameters measured included the maximum amplitude (MA) of the clot and the area under the TEG-generated curve at 1 h. Significant, time-dependent reductions in MA and area were seen in the AA-activated samples following administration of aspirin in all groups as compared to baseline. By contrast, there were no significant differences in MA or area in the AA-activated samples with clopidogrel alone. Significant reductions were also seen in MA and area in ADP-activated samples from volunteers treated with clopidogrel as compared to baseline. Three out of 10 subjects receiving 600 mg clopidogrel had a reduction in their responses of 30% or less, thus identifying them as relatively resistant to the drug. This study identifies a rapid, reliable method for assessing the time-dependent effects of antiplatelet therapy on clotting using a novel parameter of area of the TEG trace, which could have an important clinical application as a point of care test of efficacy, particularly in the context of acute coronary syndromes and percutaneous coronary intervention."}
{"id": "16966998", "title": "Acidosis impairs the coagulation: A thromboelastographic study.", "content": "Acidosis impairs the coagulation: A thromboelastographic study. Coagulopathy is a contributor to and predictor of death in bleeding patients. Acidosis is known to be a predictor of worse outcome in trauma patients and to be a coexisting factor in coagulopathic patients, but it has not been studied if it is a causal factor in the development of coagulopathy. We have adjusted the pH level in blood samples from healthy volunteers to different levels between 7.4 and 6.8 by the use of hydrochloric acid. Thereafter we have studied the coagulation at the different pH levels by the use of thromboelastography. We found a strong correlation between pH levels and impairment of the coagulation, where the clot strength is increased much slower at pH levels below 7.4 even though the initiation of the clotting seems to be normal. The clot formation time was increased by 168% at pH 6.8 as compared with pH 7.4 (p < 0.00001, r = 0.89) whereas the clotting time was left unaffected. Acidosis causes a strong impairment of the coagulation as measured with thromboelastography. The impairment found when lowering pH from 7.4 to 7.15 was almost identical to the impairment seen in another study by Kettner et al. when the temperature was lowered from 36 degrees C to 32 degrees C."}
{"id": "16965590", "title": "Prospective comparison of high-dose plateletpheresis with the latest apheresis systems on the same donors.", "content": "Prospective comparison of high-dose plateletpheresis with the latest apheresis systems on the same donors. To improve productivity of automated platelet (PLT) collection, the industry has introduced new instruments or modifications to existing equipment. With the same 8 donors for double (DDC) and triple-dose PLT collection (TDC), the Baxter Amicus (AM), the Haemonetics MCS Plus (MCS+), and the Gambro Trima Accel (TA) were evaluated focusing on yield, duration, and citrate donor load. Target endpoints were set at 5.5 x 10(11) to 6.0 x 10(11) PLTs (DDC) and 7.5 x 10(11) to 8.0 x 10(11) PLTs (TDC) in up to 100 and 120 minutes' donation time, respectively. TA was the most efficient system (74.5 +/- 3.9%) with significant differences from AM (71.1 +/- 3.9%; p = 0.028) and MCS+ (64.0 +/- 7.7%; p = 0.002). TA had advantages over AM for collection rate (10.9 x 10(9) +/- 2.2 x 10(9) vs. 10.1 x 10(9) +/- 1.5 x 10(9) PLTs/min; p = 0.382), whole blood processed (3928 +/- 611 mL vs. 4219 +/- 727 mL; p = 0.382), and time to obtain an established standard dose (TSD 2.5(EU), 30.2 +/- 5.6 vs. 37.7 +/- 5.5 min; TSD 3.5(US), 42.2 +/- 7.8 min vs. 52.7 +/- 7.7 min; p = 0.015), whereas AM was slightly superior in PLT yield (2.81 x 10(11) +/- 0.21 x 10(11) vs. 2.76 x 10(11) +/- 0.31 x 10(11)/unit; p = 0.645). Owing to the lowest draw (42.3 +/- 3.2 mL/min; p < 0.001) and collection rates (6.0 x 10(11) +/- 1.5 x 10(11)/min; p = 0.021), MCS+ was the slowest significantly (p < 0.001) but compensated with fewer citrate reactions owing to lower citrate infusion rates (0.78 +/- 0.11 mL/min/L; p = 0.028). High-dose plateletpheresis was performed efficiently and safely with all three instruments. AM had advantages in PLT yield, and MCS+, in donor comfort. TA was the fastest in obtaining an established standard dose and, because of this advantage, the machine with the highest practical impact in routine use."}
{"id": "16961583", "title": "A novel missense mutation responsible for factor VII deficiency in research Beagle colonies.", "content": "A novel missense mutation responsible for factor VII deficiency in research Beagle colonies. Canine factor VII (cFVII) deficiency, an autosomal recessive trait originally identified in research Beagles, is associated with a mild to moderate bleeding tendency. Our aim was to identify and characterize the mutation causing cFVII deficiency. In order to sequence the coding regions of the cFVII gene, we cloned the cFVII cDNA. Genomic DNA and plasma from FVII-deficient Beagles and obligate carriers were utilized. In all FVII-deficient dogs, we identified a single causative G to A missense mutation in exon 5, encoding the second epidermal growth factor-like domain, resulting in substitution of glycine 96 by glutamic acid, with plasma FVII coagulant activity of <or = 4% in affected Beagles. In vitro expression indicated that the majority (96%) of cFVII-G96E protein was retained intracellularly. In addition, analysis of purified recombinant wild-type and mutant cFVII proteins demonstrated reduced activity of the mutant (< 2%) compared with wild-type. Rotational thromboelastometry revealed a severe impairment of clotting activity in affected Beagles, and heterozygotes also exhibited changes in coagulation-based assays. Using a mutation-specific polymerase chain reaction/restriction digest that allows rapid identification of the G96E mutation, we surveyed a US research Beagle colony and identified a mutant allelic frequency of 31%. We have identified a single causative mutation for cFVII deficiency that may have implications for pharmacotoxicologic research, because reduced FVII coagulant activity may alter hemostatic and/or cardiovascular endpoints in this commonly used animal species."}
{"id": "16958838", "title": "The contribution of platelets in the production of cryoprecipitates for use in a fibrin glue.", "content": "The contribution of platelets in the production of cryoprecipitates for use in a fibrin glue. Cryoprecipitate has a wide application for use as a fibrin glue. In some situations, platelets are added to the preparation in order to enhance the fibrin glue. Fresh plasma was collected by apheresis from the same donor to produce 250 ml of platelet-rich plasma (PRP) or platelet-poor plasma (PPP) (n = 12 each). Cryoprecipitate was then produced following the standards of the American Association of Blood Banks and resuspended to a total volume of 8 ml, from which aliquots were removed and assayed. Clot formation was measured using the thromboelastogram. The protein content of the two preparations was identical for PRP and PPP. Results for fibrinogen (PPP 475 +/- 220 mg; PRP 399 +/- 215 mg), Factor VIII (PPP 186 +/- 67 IU; PRP 175 +/- 70 IU) and von Willebrand Factor (PPP 260 +/- 104 IU; PRP 221 +/- 88 IU) were not significantly different. The concentration of platelet-derived growth factor was markedly higher (a 100-fold increase at 3778 +/- 1036 ng) when platelets were added to the plasma. There was a small, but not statistically significant, difference in the rate of clot formation (R = 2.3 for PPP and 3.8 for PRP) and clot strength (MA = 63.4 for PPP and 56.6 for PRP) between PPP and PRP cryoprecipitates when measured using the thromboelastogram. Platelets do not significantly increase the concentration of the usual constituents of cryoprecipitate; however, the levels of platelet-derived growth factor are markedly enhanced. Therefore, there are advantages for using PRP to enhance the growth of new tissue."}
{"id": "16958595", "title": "Point-of-care testing in the cardiovascular operating theatre.", "content": "Point-of-care testing in the cardiovascular operating theatre. Point-of-care testing (POCT) remains under scrutiny by healthcare professionals because of its ill-tried, young history. POCT methods are being developed by a few major equipment companies based on rapid progress in informatics and nanotechnology. Issues as POCT quality control, comparability with standard laboratory procedures, standardisation, traceability and round robin testing are being left to hospitals. As a result, the clinical and operational benefits of POCT were first evident for patients on the operating table. For the management of cardiovascular surgery patients, POCT technology is an indispensable aid. Improvement of the technology has meant that clinical laboratory pathologists now recognise the need for POCT beyond their high-throughput areas."}
{"id": "16953313", "title": "Optimization of DNA-tagged liposomes for use in microtiter plate analyses.", "content": "Optimization of DNA-tagged liposomes for use in microtiter plate analyses. Dye-encapsulating unilamellar DNA oligonucleotide-tagged liposomes were prepared and characterized for use as signal-enhancing reagents in a microtiter plate sandwich-hybridization analyses of single-stranded RNA or DNA sequences. The liposomes were synthesized using the reversed-phase evaporation method and tagged with DNA oligonucleotides by adding cholesteryl-modified DNA reporter probes to the initial lipid mixture. Liposomes were prepared using probe coverages of 0.0013-0.103 mol% of the total lipid input, several hydrophobic and poly(ethylene glycol)-based spacers between the cholesteryl anchor and the probe, and liposome diameters ranging from 200 nm to 335 nm. Their signal enhancement functionality was compared by using them in microtiter plate sandwich-hybridization assays for the detection of single-stranded DNA sequences. In these assays, an optimal reporter probe concentration of 0.103 mol%, a liposome diameter of 274 nm, and a phospholipid concentration of 0.3 mM were found. The length between the cholesteryl anchor and the probe was optimal when a spacer composed of TEG+(CH2O)3 was used. Under optimal conditions, a detection limit of 0.5 nM for a truncated synthetic DNA sequence was found with a coefficient of variation of 4.4%. A 500-fold lower limit of detection using fluorescence was found using lysed dye-encapsulating liposomes versus a single fluorescein-labeled probe. Finally, when this method was applied to the detection of atxA RNA extracted from E.coli SG12036-pIu121 and amplified using NASBA, a minimum extracted concentration of RNA of 1.1x10(-7) microg/microL was found."}
{"id": "16953295", "title": "[Coagulation management during liver transplantation].", "content": "[Coagulation management during liver transplantation]. In the course of liver transplantation many patients develop coagulation and bleeding disorders. On the other hand, some patients suffer thromboembolic events in the perioperative period with sometimes fatal outcome. For this reason, in 1999 we changed our coagulation management for liver transplantation and abolished the routine prophylaxis with antifibrinolytic drugs. In this context we implemented the ROTEM system (Pentapharm GmbH, Munich) in our perioperative point-of-care coagulation management. From 2000 to 2005, we analysed more than 18,000 ROTEM measurements in the context of 642 liver transplantations. Prophylactic administration of antifibrinolytic drugs was only done in patients with fulminant liver failure or if MCF in ExTEM<or=35 mm at the beginning of surgery. In the other patients hyperfibrinolysis was detected in 60% during the operation. However, therapy with an antifibrinolytic drug only was necessary in 40% of the patients. Our experience is summarised in an algorithm for ROTEM-based perioperative coagulation management for liver transplantation."}
{"id": "16953289", "title": "[Perioperative management of coagulation].", "content": "[Perioperative management of coagulation]. Guidelines of official societies for diagnosis and therapy of intraoperatively occurring hypocoagulability rely mainly on data of patients receiving whole blood transfusions. They recommend--provided that laboratory evaluation shows deficiency (values>1.5 fold normal)--administration of fresh frozen plasma, cryoprecipitate and platelet concentrates (platelet count<50,000 or <100,000/microl). This article describes the pathogenesis of coagulopathy in the light of the special intraoperative setting, emphasizes recent changes of blood component preparation, transfusion triggers, effects of volume therapy and challenges standard laboratory assays as reliable guide for intraoperative hemostatic therapy. The role of thrombelastographic monitoring is discussed as well as an alternative strategy to compensate deficiencies by the use of coagulation factor concentrates instead of or in addition to transfusion of FFP, a new concept which is illustrated by the presentation of an actual case report."}
{"id": "16953288", "title": "[Possibilities and limitations of thrombelastometry/-graphy].", "content": "[Possibilities and limitations of thrombelastometry/-graphy]. Thrombelastometry/-graphy provides information about clot strength and stability. Modified thrombelastometry/-graphy improved standardisation and diagnostic information using this system. Heparinase modified thrombelastometry/-graphy allows estimation of heparin. The introduction of FIBTEM on the ROTEM first allows a clear estimation of the plasmatic and the platelet component of clot strength, which may be of interest in managing haemostasis in perioperative setting. In this context the meaning of fibrinogen should be evaluated. As our clinical data show there is no predictive value of elevated D-dimers to hyperfibrinolysis in perioperative setting. However, thrombelastometry/-graphy do not deteckt disturbances in primary haemostasis such as von Willebrand Syndrom. The effect of acetylsalicylacid and clopidogrel do not have any influence on thrombelastometry/-graphy, as well. GPIIb/IIIa-Antagonists such as ReoPro may reduce clot strength at high dosis. A similar effect may be expected in severe M. Glanzmann. The correlation between coagulation time in thrombelastometry/-graphy (CT/r-value) to conventional coagulation may be low because of different activators used. The introduction of rotationthrombelastometry (ROTEM) provides a stable system suitable for bedside-monitoring."}
{"id": "16953287", "title": "[Dilutional coagulopathy: development, diagnostic options and management].", "content": "[Dilutional coagulopathy: development, diagnostic options and management]. When no fresh frozen plasma is available, acute major blood loss is compensated above all with crystalloids, colloids and red blood cell concentrates, meaning that all plasma clotting factors are diluted. Consumption coagulopathy is almost always accompanied by dilutional coagulopathy. Formulas for calculating critical blood loss and standard coagulation tests are often not helpful in the case of massive transfusion. On the other hand, systems suitable for point of care, such as thrombelastography, have important advantages. In the case of consumption and dilutional coagulopathy plasma coagulation is disturbed and critical values are first seen for fibrinogen. Not only is fibrin polymerization impaired by the bleeding-induced loss and dilution of fibrinogen, but also by interaction with artificial colloids, particularly hydroxyethyl starch preparations. Therapy of consumption and dilutional coagulopathy calls for fresh frozen plasma. If this is not available in sufficient quantity or within a reasonable time, coagulation factor concentrates must be used. Neither fresh frozen plasma therapy nor treatment with coagulation factor concentrates has been the subject of detailed clinical study. Further studies are needed to work out guidelines for coagulation management in the case of massive blood loss."}
{"id": "16945586", "title": "In vitro testing of platelets using the thromboelastogram, platelet function analyzer, and the clot signature analyzer to predict the bleeding time.", "content": "In vitro testing of platelets using the thromboelastogram, platelet function analyzer, and the clot signature analyzer to predict the bleeding time. Platelet aggregation, thromboxane A2 production and platelet annexin V binding are in vitro tests used to assess platelet function. This study was done to evaluate the clot signature analyzer (CSA), platelet function analyzer (PFA), and thromboelastogram (TE) as in vitro tests to predict the template bleeding time (BT). Twelve normal volunteers were studied before and after removal of 2 units of RBC. Seven females were reinfused their RBC and 5 males were not. Samples were collected prior to and at 24, 48, and 72 h and 7 days after the RBC removal whether or not reinfusion of RBC was performed for measurement of TE, CSA, PFA and template BT. BT increased significantly following the removal of 2 units of RBC and BT decreased significantly after the reinfusion of the 2 units of RBC in the 7 female volunteers. BT decreased during the 7-day period in the 5 male volunteers not reinfused their RBC. No significant correlations were observed between BT and platelet hemostatic time (PHT) and clotting time (CT) in the CSA and between the bleeding time and the closure time (CT) in the platelet function analyzer (PFA). Significant correlations were observed between BT and K time, the MA, and the angle recorded in the thromboelastogram. In this study in vitro testing using the clot signature analyzer, platelet function analyzer and the thromboelastogram could not be used to predict the template bleeding time."}
{"id": "16935126", "title": "Failure of surface-modified bypass circuits to improve platelet function during pediatric cardiac surgery.", "content": "Failure of surface-modified bypass circuits to improve platelet function during pediatric cardiac surgery. Surface-modified cardiopulmonary bypass circuits have been shown to improve platelet function and decrease postoperative bleeding after heart surgery in adults. Two surface-modified cardiopulmonary bypass circuits are approved and commercially available for pediatric cardiac surgery. There have been few studies demonstrating the efficacy of these modifications for children. We performed a prospective, randomized trial comparing surface-modified cardiopulmonary bypass circuits to a standard unmodified circuit in pediatric cardiac surgery. Sixty-nine children (median 6 months old) undergoing first-time cardiac surgery were enrolled and randomized to an uncoated circuit or one of the two commercially available surface modified circuits for their operation. Blood samples were collected at baseline, on cardiopulmonary bypass, at the end of rewarming, after protamine, and at 18 to 24 postoperative hours. Platelet count, beta-thromboglobulin, and thromboelastography with and without abciximab were measured. Postoperative chest tube outputs and blood product utilization were also analyzed. The platelet counts, beta-thromboglobulin levels, thromboelastographic measures of platelet function, and postoperative bleeding were not significantly different between the surface-modified cardiopulmonary bypass circuit groups and the control group. Currently available surface-modified cardiopulmonary bypass circuits do not significantly improve platelet function or clinical outcomes after routine pediatric cardiac surgery."}
{"id": "16931713", "title": "Thromboelastographic evaluation of recombinant factor VIIa in a child with Glanzmann's thrombasthenia.", "content": "Thromboelastographic evaluation of recombinant factor VIIa in a child with Glanzmann's thrombasthenia."}
{"id": "16921692", "title": "Use of thromboelastograph and factor VII for the treatment of postoperative bleeding in a pediatric patient on ECMO after cardiac surgery.", "content": "Use of thromboelastograph and factor VII for the treatment of postoperative bleeding in a pediatric patient on ECMO after cardiac surgery. This report describes a case of possibly fatal bleeding treated successfully with an \"overdose\" of recombinant factor VII (rFVII; Novo7). A 3.5-year-old boy had surgery for aortic stenosis and aortic arch repair and was placed on extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) after a prolonged cardiopulmonary bypass time (CPB); there was subsequent failure to wean from CPB because of right ventricular failure. Subsequently, a severe coagulopathy developed, and despite large volume transfusions with blood and blood products, this was unresolved. Thromboelastograph (TEG) measurements were obtained, and on the advice of the Hematology Department, Novo7 (recommended dose: 15-30 microg/kg) was administered at a dose of 200 microg/kg because of the severity of the bleeding. TEG was repeated, and a further dose of Novo7 was administered at 500 microg/kg; a further TEG after 15 minutes showed normalization, and the remaining bleeding was treated surgically. The patient was weaned from ECMO 48 hours later and was subsequently discharged home with no further problems. Novo7 in an \"overdose\" can apparently correct major coagulopathy even in patients on ECMO support with no dire effects on the ECMO circuit or the patient in a life-threatening scenario."}
{"id": "16909941", "title": "Synthesis of trimethoxy- or triethoxysilane-endcapped polylactones via a bismuth(III)hexanoate-catalyzed one-pot-procedure.", "content": "Synthesis of trimethoxy- or triethoxysilane-endcapped polylactones via a bismuth(III)hexanoate-catalyzed one-pot-procedure. It was shown that bismuth(III)hexanoate (Bi(OHex)3) efficiently and selectively catalyzes the addition of tetra(ethylene glycol) (TEG) onto the isocyanate group of 3-isocyanatopropyl triethoxysilane, IPTES. delta-Valerolactone (deltaVL), epsilon-caprolactone (epsilonCL) and D,L-lactide were polymerized by initiation with TEG/Bi(OHex)3. The resulting telechelic polyesters were in situ functionalized with IPTES or with 3-isocyanatopropyl trimethoxysilane, IPTMS. Using pentaerythritol as co-initiator of Bi(OHex)3 and epsilonCL as monomer, star-shaped polylactones having triethylsilyl end-groups were synthesized in a one-pot-procedure. All functionalized polyesters were characterized by 1H-NMR and 13C-NMR spectroscopy and by MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. Bi(OHex)3 is a remarkable initiator and catalyst, because of its extraordinary low toxicity."}
{"id": "16907879", "title": "Monitoring survival and function of transfused platelets in Glanzmann thrombasthenia by flow cytometry and thrombelastography.", "content": "Monitoring survival and function of transfused platelets in Glanzmann thrombasthenia by flow cytometry and thrombelastography. Patients with Glanzmann thrombasthenia (GT) may form isoantibodies which induce refractoriness or inhibition of function of transfused platelets. We monitored the survival and function of transfused platelets by flow cytometry and thrombelastography in a patient with GT. Gating on CD42a+ allowed identification of even a few transfused platelets. Only by gating on these CD41+ CD42a+ cells were we able to demonstrate their capability to bind fibrinogen and PAC-1 upon activation. Platelets were rapidly cleared from the circulation as a result of boosted isoantibodies. The contribution of transfused platelets to clot formation was also demonstrated by thrombelastography by blocking their function with abciximab."}
{"id": "16899915", "title": "Rheometrical and computational studies of blood viscoelasticity during coagulation.", "content": "Rheometrical and computational studies of blood viscoelasticity during coagulation. The rheological behaviour of coagulating human blood has been measured using multiple strain wave frequencies. The results indicate that coagulating blood, prior to the point of incipient clot formation, can be modelled by a modified form of the Gross-Marvin 'ladder' model, and the benefits of such modeling for blood coagulation are discussed."}
{"id": "16886976", "title": "Valproate-associated coagulopathies are frequent and variable in children.", "content": "Valproate-associated coagulopathies are frequent and variable in children. Valproic acid (VPA) is an antiepileptic drug (AED) commonly used for generalized and focal epilepsies. The clinical relevance of coagulopathies, known as side effects of VPA therapy, especially thrombocytopenia, von Willebrand disease, and a decrease of factor XIII, is still unclear. In our institute, we noticed a high incidence of clinically relevant coagulation problems related to VPA in eight patients within 1 year only and a further seven children with significant coagulopathy were identified in the context of planned surgery. We provide an overview of these patients and all six VPA-induced coagulopathies. At this time, it cannot be recommended to control all hemostatic parameters in every patient. Whenever an increased bleeding tendency is observed, or before surgical procedures, a platelet count, thrombelastography, prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, TT, fibrinogen, von Willebrand factor, and factor XIII should be examined. With 385 VPA-treated patients per year and 15 cases of coagulation disorders in this period, we estimate the incidence of coagulation disorders related to VPA in children to be nearly 4%."}
{"id": "16884987", "title": "Transfusion triggers in orthotopic liver transplantation: a comparison of the thromboelastometry analyzer, the thromboelastogram, and conventional coagulation tests.", "content": "Transfusion triggers in orthotopic liver transplantation: a comparison of the thromboelastometry analyzer, the thromboelastogram, and conventional coagulation tests. The Thromboelastogram (TEG; Haemoscope Corporation, Niles, IL) and the ROTEM thromboelastometry analyzer (Pentapharm GmbH, Munich, Germany) are coagulation monitors that measure the viscoelastic changes accompanying whole-blood coagulation generation and lysis. It is not clear whether TEG and ROTEM transfusion algorithms suggest similar blood component intervention. This study aims to report the extent to which administration of platelets, fresh frozen plasma, and cryoprecipitate would be indicated using protocol-dictated interventions by the Rotem, TEG, and conventional coagulation screens during orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). Prospective observational study. University hospital. Twenty patients undergoing orthotopic liver transplantation. Coagulation was managed with native TEG protocols. Additional samples for kaolin TEG, kaolin heparinase TEG, Rotem in-TEM, Rotem hep-TEM, Rotem fib-TEM, full blood count, prothrombin time, and Clauss fibrinogen assays were taken at 5 fixed operative stages. Results were reviewed and protocol-indicated interventions recorded. There was moderate agreement between Clauss fibrinogen and Rotem fib-TEM assays about fulfilling fibrinogen transfusion criteria (kappa = 0.42, p < or = 0.05). Agreement between TEG and Rotem to transfuse platelets was fair (Rotem in-TEM/native heparinase TEG, kappa = 0.33, Rotem in-TEM/kaolin heparinase TEG, kappa = 0.28). There was moderate agreement between Rotem in-TEM and prothrombin time (kappa = 0.42), and poor agreement between other tests about the point to administer fresh frozen plasma. Transfusion practice is likely to differ according to the method of coagulation monitoring used. A prospective case-matched study using the viscoelastic tests used in this study would be beneficial in determining the optimal therapy. Rotem fib-TEM monitoring may improve hemostasis management."}
{"id": "16884984", "title": "The kaolin-activated Thrombelastograph predicts bleeding after cardiac surgery.", "content": "The kaolin-activated Thrombelastograph predicts bleeding after cardiac surgery. The objective of this study was to determine the relationship of the kaolin-activated Thrombelastograph (TEG) with postoperative bleeding and laboratory tests of coagulation in the setting of cardiac surgery with the routine use of -aminocaproic acid. Prospective observational study. An adult heart center at a tertiary referral, university hospital. Thirty adult cardiac surgical patients. The kaolin-activated TEG, platelet counts, prothrombin times, activated partial thromboplastin times, and fibrinogen levels were measured before induction of anesthesia, during cardiopulmonary bypass, and on arrival in the intensive care unit. Mediastinal and thoracostomy drainage were measured every hour for 4 hours after arrival in the intensive care unit. Correlation and multivariate linear regression modeling were used to describe relationships among coagulation tests, TEG parameters, and early postoperative bleeding. The TEG maximum amplitude (MA) parameter correlated well with postoperative bleeding (r = -0.6, p = 0.0018), more so than platelet count (r = -0.45, p = 0.02), fibrinogen level (r = -0.40, p = 0.06), or prothrombin time (r = 0.43, p = 0.02). The receiver operating characteristic curve c-index describing MA as a predictor for postoperative bleeding is 0.78. Abnormalities in all the laboratory test results were associated with an abnormal MA. In conclusion, the kaolin-activated TEG is associated with early coagulopathic bleeding. It may reflect the severity of a global coagulopathy affecting both platelets and coagulation factors and be a guide to incremental prohemostatic therapy in this setting."}
{"id": "16873390", "title": "Activated thrombelastogram in neonates and infants with complex congenital heart disease in comparison with healthy children.", "content": "Activated thrombelastogram in neonates and infants with complex congenital heart disease in comparison with healthy children. The goal of the study was to determine activated thrombelastographic (TEG(R)) parameters with the rotational TEG(R) (ROTEG or ROTEM) device (Pentapharm GmbH, Munich, Germany) in neonates and infants <1 yr with complex congenital heart disease (CCHD) and to compare them with those of healthy children. A total of 59 children were included: Group I (Gr I) 24 children, ASA I, scheduled for minor surgery; and Group II (Gr II) 35 children with CCHD, ASA III-IV, scheduled for cardiac surgery. Each group was subdivided into four age groups. Blood samples were obtained before the surgical procedure. Statistically significant differences (two-way anova analysis) between Gr I and Gr II [mean (SD); P-value] were found in INTEG-CT [Gr I 175(19), Gr II 271(162); P=0.049], EXTEG-MCF [Gr I 63(8), Gr II 56(8); P=0.013], EXTEG-MCE [Gr I 186(65), Gr II 137(41); P=0.003], FIBTEG-MCF [Gr I 24(7), Gr II 19(5); P=0.012], FIBTEG-MCE [Gr I 32(13), Gr II 24(8); P=0.012] and EXTEG-MCE-FIBTEG-MCE [Gr I 155(55), Gr II 113(37); P=0.003]. Clotting time via contact activation was prolonged in Gr II and varied widely, mainly in the age group 0-1 month and to a lesser extent in 1-3 months, and maximum clot firmness was reduced in the same age groups. In comparison with Gr II, the healthy children showed relatively homogenous TEG values with a tendency to hypercoagulability; the maximum was found in age group 1-3 months, decreasing towards adult values in the course of the first year of life. These preliminary TEG results indicate that the coagulation-fibrinolytic system in CCHD patients <1 yr is functionally intact and balanced but at a lower level than in healthy children. This could be interpreted as a reduction in the haemostatic potential with less reserve."}
{"id": "16862976", "title": "[Recent progress in evaluation methods of hemostasis].", "content": "[Recent progress in evaluation methods of hemostasis]."}
{"id": "16836565", "title": "In vitro variables of red blood cell components collected by apheresis and frozen 6 and 14 days after collection.", "content": "In vitro variables of red blood cell components collected by apheresis and frozen 6 and 14 days after collection. An automated cell processing system (ACP 215, Haemonetics Corp.) can be used for the glycerolization and deglycerolization of RBC components, but the components must be 6 or fewer days old. Depending on the anticoagulant (CP2D)/additive solution (AS) used, deglycerolized RBCs can be stored at 1 to 6 degrees C for up to 14 days. This study evaluated in vitro variables of apheresis RBC stored for 6 and 14 days at 1 to 6 degrees C before glycerolization and 14 days after deglycerolization. Two units of CP2D/AS-3 leukoreduced RBCs were collected by apheresis from seven donors. One unit was glycerolized and frozen 6 days and the other 14 days after collection. All units were deglycerolized with the ACP 215 and stored at 1 to 6 degrees C for 14 days in AS-3. Several in vitro variables were evaluated during postdeglycerolization storage. All components had postdeglycerolization RBC recoveries greater than 81 percent and osmolalities of less than 400 mOsm per kg. No significant differences were noted in potassium and supernatant hemoglobin after 14 days of postdeglycerolization storage between RBCs frozen at 6 and 14 days after collection. After 14 days of postdeglycerolization storage, however, the pH, lactate, and ATP levels were slightly lower in RBCs frozen after 14 days. The ACP 215 can be used to glycerolize and deglycerolize apheresis RBC components that are up to 14 days of age. It is likely that apheresis components glycerolized at 14 days of age or less can be stored up to 14 days in AS-3 after deglycerolization, but this should be confirmed with in vivo survival studies."}
{"id": "16816975", "title": "[Coagulation monitoring of lung embolism using thrombelastography. Resuscitation--Thrombolysis--Massive haemorrhaging].", "content": "[Coagulation monitoring of lung embolism using thrombelastography. Resuscitation--Thrombolysis--Massive haemorrhaging]. Thrombelastography (TEG) is a bedside method used to determine coagulation parameters such as clot formation, stabilization and lysis. This report describes a case of cardiopulmonary arrest due to fulminant pulmonary embolism in a 42-year-old postpartum patient. We discuss the dynamics of coagulation parameters during CPR and thrombolysis complicated by bleeding, as assessed by TEG."}
{"id": "16810462", "title": "Thromboelastographic changes following nonionic contrast medium injection during transfemoral angiography in patients with peripheral arterial occlusive disease.", "content": "Thromboelastographic changes following nonionic contrast medium injection during transfemoral angiography in patients with peripheral arterial occlusive disease. Patients with peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAOD) are known to be systemically hypercoagulable and there is concern that exposing them to contrast media during angiography may exacerbate that thrombotic tendency. Many in vitro studies in which blood is exposed to contrast media suggest that nonionic contrast medium (NICM) has a weaker anticoagulant effect than ionic contrast medium (ICM) and some studies suggest that NICM can lead to activation of coagulation thus increasing the risk of thrombotic events where it is employed. We have looked at the changes in coagulation adjacent to the site of contrast injection/potential angioplasty to determine the magnitude of change locally. We measured changes in the coagulability of aortic blood samples immediately before and within 2 min after injection of the last bolus of iohexol (NICM) prior to any intervention procedure in 30 patients with PAOD. Samples were analyzed using thromboelastography (TEG) to identify changes in the coagulability of the aortic blood samples. TEG tracings of samples taken from the aorta after injection of NICM showed a significant increase in R time (time to fibrin formation) (p = 0.036) and in k time (dynamics of clot formation) (p = 0.028) and a reduction in Angle (decreased acceleration of fibrin build-up) (p = 0.013), Maximal amplitude (MA) (reduced ultimate clot strength) (p = 0.018) and Coagulation Index (CI) (p = 0.032). These changes in TEG parameters show that the local effect of NICM is a reduction in coagulation activity rather than the activation suggested by some previous studies."}
{"id": "16802788", "title": "Oxide hemostatic activity.", "content": "Oxide hemostatic activity. The tunable in vitro blood clotting activity of high-surface-area hemostatic bioactive glass is evaluated by Thromboelastograph, a clinical instrument for quantifying changes in blood during coagulation. The hemostatic trends associated with hemostatic bioactive glass and a new preparation of spherical hemostatic bioactive glass, along with similar Si- and Ca-containing oxides, are described and related to Si:Ca ratios, Ca2+ availability and coordination environment, porosity, DeltaHHydration, and surface area. Hemostatic bioactive glass is a new material with an excellent efficacy for inducing hemostasis and is chemically distinct from the traditional bioglass employed for bone growth."}
{"id": "16799348", "title": "Increased lactate levels impair the coagulation system--a potential contributing factor to progressive hemorrhage after traumatic brain injury.", "content": "Increased lactate levels impair the coagulation system--a potential contributing factor to progressive hemorrhage after traumatic brain injury. Progressive intracerebral contusions are a major problem in the management of patients with severe traumatic brain injury that is also linked to worse outcome. Microdialysis studies have revealed that lactate levels are very high inside contusions, corresponding to significant acidosis. The current study was performed in an effort to investigate whether the lactate accumulation inside cerebral contusions may be a contributing factor to the prolonged bleeding inside contusions. We have investigated the effects of lactic acidosis on the coagulation system with rotational thromboelastometry. It was a laboratory study involving 6 healthy volunteers. Blood was drawn and the pH was adjusted by addition of lactic acid in vitro. The pH levels studied were 7.4, 7.2, 7.0, and 6.8. The pH was also readjusted to 7.4 by addition the buffer THAM to blood initially adjusted to a pH of 6.8 to study the reversibility of potential adverse effects induced by the lactic acidosis. We found the coagulation to be significantly impaired by lactic acidosis (P = 0.000l). The impairment found was reversible after correction of the acidosis by a buffer. In conclusion, we found that lactic acidosis impaired the coagulation system. The impairment caused by lactic acidosis may be one factor causing the progressive hemorrhage in posttraumatic cerebral contusions, known to have high levels of lactate and correspondingly low pH. It may also be important to consider in bleeding trauma patients."}
{"id": "16790652", "title": "The value of an albumin-based intravascular volume replacement strategy in elderly patients undergoing major abdominal surgery.", "content": "The value of an albumin-based intravascular volume replacement strategy in elderly patients undergoing major abdominal surgery. The value of human albumin (HA) for treating hypovolemia is controversial. Less expensive alternatives such as hydroxyethyl starch (HES) are sometimes refused because of unwanted side effects. We prospectively randomized 50 patients older than 70 years old undergoing major abdominal surgery to receive either 5% HA (n = 25) or a third generation HES preparation (6% HES 130/0.4; n = 25) when mean arterial blood pressure was <60 mm Hg and central venous pressure was <10 mm Hg. Hemodynamics, inflammation (interleukin-6), endothelial activation-integrity (adhesion molecules), coagulation (thrombelastography), and renal function (including kidney-specific proteins) were monitored after the induction of anesthesia, after surgery, 5 h in the intensive care unit, and on the first postoperative day. HA patients received 3960 +/- 590 mL of HA and 5070 +/- 1030 mL of Ringer's lactate solution, and HES patients received 3500 +/- 530 mL of HES and 4550 +/- 880 mL of Ringer's lactate solution. Total protein remained normal only in the HA-treated patients. No significant differences (P > 0.1) between the groups were seen with regard to hemodynamics, coagulation, and kidney function. Plasma levels of interleukin-6 and soluble adhesion molecules were significantly (P < 0.05) higher in the HA- than in the HES-treated patients. We conclude that HA in elderly patients undergoing major abdominal surgery can easily be replaced by a modern HES preparation. Because of the decreased inflammatory response and endothelial activation-injury, HES 130/0.4 seems to be the more appropriate fluid strategy for these patients."}
{"id": "16788320", "title": "Resistance of porcine blood clots to lysis relates to poor activation of porcine plasminogen by tissue plasminogen activator.", "content": "Resistance of porcine blood clots to lysis relates to poor activation of porcine plasminogen by tissue plasminogen activator. In-vitro experimentation was performed on porcine and human blood to determine their comparative responsiveness to a novel fibrinolytic inhibitor and thereby assess whether the pig is a suitable animal model for subsequent in-vivo testing of this inhibitor. Thromboelastography showed the clots formed from porcine whole blood to be highly resistant to tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA)-catalyzed lysis, and this communication offers the resistance of porcine plasminogen to activation by t-PA as an explanation. Porcine blood containing 100 and 1500 IU/ml added t-PA lysed very slowly, having LY30 values of 1.9 +/- 1.4 and 2.9 +/- 1.9%, respectively. In contrast, the LY30 values for the human clots containing 100 and 1500 IU/ml t-PA were 77.1 +/- 6.3 and 93.3 +/- 1.3%, respectively. Moreover, purified porcine plasminogen was activated very slowly by added t-PA in the presence of both human and porcine fibrin. Activation of plasminogen by the endogenous activators, as measured by the euglobulin clot lysis time, was greatly prolonged for the pig (22 +/- 3 h) compared with the human (3.5 +/- 1.5 h). These results suggest caution in using the pig as an experimental model when studying the effects of various agents on fibrinolysis."}
{"id": "16787830", "title": "Effects of cardiac surgery on hemostasis.", "content": "Effects of cardiac surgery on hemostasis. Cardiac surgery affects both coagulation and platelet function. Revision of surgery due to bleeding has to be performed in 2% to 6% of patients undergoing cardiac surgery and is generally associated with a marked deterioration in prognosis. Factors contributing to acquired hemostatic abnormalities in cardiac surgery include the use of anticoagulants as well as the activation and consumption of coagulation factors and platelets induced by the extracorporeal circulation. Prophylactic use of antifibrinolytic agents such as aprotinin and tranexamic acid has been demonstrated to reduce the blood loss by half. Adequacy of heparin-induced anticoagulation in the perioperative setting is commonly controlled by the activated clotting time. This method also indicates the correct reversal of the heparin effect by protamine. In recent years, thrombelastography has proved to be valuable for diagnosis of coagulopathy associated with cardiac surgery. In addition, the use of thrombelastography-based algorithms has been shown to reduce transfusion requirements. In contrast to point of care methods, laboratory assessment of hemostasis is more time-consuming and, thus, often not as rapidly available as required. At this time, the therapy for perioperative hemostatic abnormalities is based mainly on the administration of blood components (fresh frozen plasma and platelet concentrates). In the future, recombinant activated factor VIIa might prove to be a therapeutic option in patients with otherwise untractable bleeding, but the efficacy of recombinant activated factor VIIa has yet to be defined for this indication."}
{"id": "16777761", "title": "Whole blood thrombelastographic coagulation profiles using minimal tissue factor activation can display hypercoagulation in thrombosis-prone patients.", "content": "Whole blood thrombelastographic coagulation profiles using minimal tissue factor activation can display hypercoagulation in thrombosis-prone patients. Recently, our laboratory devised a dynamic whole blood (WB) thrombelastographic coagulation model employing activation with minute amounts of tissue factor. A series of studies were conducted to validate the feasibility of the model to illustrate hypocoagulation in various bleeding disorders and its usefulness in detecting the haemostatic effect of pro-coagulants by ex vivo titration experiments. In this context, the present study hypothesized that the thrombelastographic model also can reveal hypercoagulation. Hence, the objective of the present study was to record dynamic WB coagulation profiles in a series of patients (n=76) who had previously suffered from a venous (n=34) or arterial (n=42) thrombo-embolic event and to compare the results with those of a group of healthy reference subjects (n=60). Patients receiving vitamin K antagonist treatment were not enrolled in the study. Forty-four of the patients had no known thrombophilia risk factor and 32 patients had at least one thrombophilia risk factor. The most commonly found risk factors were mild hyperhomocysteinaemia and heterozygosity for the factor V Leiden polymorphism. The data showed that, as compared with the healthy controls, patients with a history of venous or arterial thromboembolism had a significantly greater hypercoagulant WB coagulation clot signature as defined by a shortened clotting time together with an accelerated maximum velocity of clot propagation. In future studies with ex vivo dose titration assessment of pro-coagulant components mixed with blood from a patient suffering from compromised haemostasis, observation of a significantly shortened clot initiation concomitant with a distinctly accelerated clot propagation is likely to indicate an increased risk of thrombosis."}
{"id": "16757291", "title": "Analysis of cardiovascular, acid-base status, electrolyte, and coagulation changes during small bowel transplantation.", "content": "Analysis of cardiovascular, acid-base status, electrolyte, and coagulation changes during small bowel transplantation. The analysis of intraoperative hemodynamic, metabolic, and coagulation disorders of the recipients in relation to the newly reperfused organ during intestinal transplantation is necessary for an optimal patient management during small bowel transplantation (SBT). The interaction may be minor or may lead to postreperfusion syndrome, producing intense hemodynamic instability, important metabolic changes, and coagulation disorders. This research is based upon experience with 27 patients who underwent SBT. We observed significant decreases in PAM and IRVS after reperfusion in accordance with minor changes of mean pulmonary artery pressure, central venous pressure, and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure. The fall in pH upon revascularization was associated with a concomitant rise in partial carbon dioxide pressure probably due to the increased metabolic activity of the new organ. We found a significant increase in K levels, a rise that may be due to the output of metabolic products by the donor intestine. Patients displayed an hypocoagulative pattern, a derangement that did not seem to depend on ischemia time. It is possible that the same factors supporting the initial TEG pattern endure throughout the surgical procedure. The important and significant maximum amplitude indicator variation between the initial value and that after reperfusion may relate to the release of hypocoagulative factors superimposed on background abnormalities. These interesting metabolic disorders presumably reflected graft function and may provide predictive indices for a good outcome."}
{"id": "16756607", "title": "Successful treatment of premature rupture of membranes after genetic amniocentesis by intra-amniotic injection of platelets and cryoprecipitate (amniopatch): a case report.", "content": "Successful treatment of premature rupture of membranes after genetic amniocentesis by intra-amniotic injection of platelets and cryoprecipitate (amniopatch): a case report. Iatrogenic premature rupture of membranes (PROM) occurs in approximately 1% of patients after genetic amniocentesis. If membranes do not seal spontaneously, fluid leakage through the vagina may cause infection and pregnancy loss. Intra-amniotic infusion of a platelet concentrate followed by a cryoprecipitate (amniopatch) is a possible therapeutic approach to restore the amnio-corial link and to facilitate the amniotic repair process. The autologeous platelet concentrate was produced by apheresis (MCS+, Haemonetics) and contained a total amount of 48 x 10(9) platelets in a volume of 30 ml. The concentration of fibrinogen in our cryoprecipitate (20 ml) was 680 mg/dl. An amniocentesis was performed to apply the amniopatch. The platelet concentrate was administered first followed by the cryoprecipitate. We report the successful treatment of a 38-year-old woman with ruptured membranes after genetic amniocentesis in the 16th gestational week. Ten days after placement of the amniopatch we found a complete closure of the rupture, and in the 36th week of gestation the patient delivered a healthy infant by Caesarean section. Intra-amniotic injection of platelets and cryoprecipitate was a successful and safe therapy for PROM in this patient. Knowledge of the site of rupture is not necessary for the amniopatch, as platelets seem to find their way to the defect and seal it. We consider that amniopatch therapy for iatrogenic PROM is a possible therapeutic alternative for prolonging and preserving pregnancy and improving the fetal outcome."}
{"id": "16756601", "title": "Evaluation of concurrent collection of in-line filtered platelets and packed red blood cells by multicomponent apheresis with three last-generation apparatuses.", "content": "Evaluation of concurrent collection of in-line filtered platelets and packed red blood cells by multicomponent apheresis with three last-generation apparatuses. Multicomponent apheresis enables the collection and procession of different blood products in a single donation. Different apparatuses vary in terms of principle and efficiency. Knowledge of them is essential to analyse cost effectiveness. A total of 30 donors, well matched for baseline parameters, were randomly assigned to the concurrent collection of red blood cells (RBCs) and platelets (PLTs) with the Baxter Amicus (AM), the Haemonetics MCS plus (MCS+), and the Gambro Trima Accel (TA). The procedures were prospectively evaluated, focusing on yield, time, efficiency, citrate donor load and in vitro quality. PLT yield (x 10(11)/unit; mean +/- standard deviation) was 3.09 +/- 0.34 (AM), 2.53 +/- 0.35 (MCS+), 2.51 +/- 0.32 (TA). Absolute RBC mass (ml/unit; mean +/- standard deviation) was 177.4 +/- 2.7 (AM), 161.5 +/- 0.7 (MCS+), and 163.7 +/- 5.4 (TA). The programmed RBC collection target of 160-180 ml was reached by all instruments, whereas the programmed PLT yield of 3.0 x 10(11) was met satisfactorily by AM only. All units contained < 1 x 10(6) WBCs. In vitro RBC quality was equivalent among the systems. No significant differences were noted with collection efficiency, processed whole blood or citrate donor load. Owing to high collection and draw rates, the TA was the fastest of all the systems. The MCS+ had the longest donation/needle time and the highest PLT activation, but compensated with significantly lower draw and citrate infusion rates. The overall processing time was longest with the AM, as a result of manual procedures from donor disconnection to the final products. Multicomponent apheresis was performed safely and efficiently with all three instruments. There was no 'magic apparatus' as each system combined advantages and pitfalls for the diverse parameters evaluated."}
{"id": "16730571", "title": "Argatroban, bivalirudin, and lepirudin do not decrease clot propagation and strength as effectively as heparin-activated antithrombin in vitro.", "content": "Argatroban, bivalirudin, and lepirudin do not decrease clot propagation and strength as effectively as heparin-activated antithrombin in vitro. Heparin-induced thrombocytopenia is a potentially limb- and life-threatening response to heparin exposure. Direct thrombin inhibitors (DTIs) have been reported to provide anti-coagulation for cardiopulmonary bypass; however, clot formation within the cardiopulmonary bypass circuit has been reported after the administration of DTIs. We present a case of thrombosis of the cardiopulmonary bypass circuit and, ultimately, death after argatroban administration. An in vitro thrombelastographic assessment of the effects of DTIs on clot kinetics was consequently performed to determine potential causes for this complication. Normal human plasma was unmodified or exposed to heparin (1, 2, 3 U/ml), argatroban (5, 10, 50 microg/ml), bivalirudin (12, 20, 120 microg/ml), or lepirudin (3, 6, 10 microg/ml) before activation with tissue factor/kaolin in a thrombelastograph. Clot initiation (R, reaction time), propagation (MTG, maximum thrombus generation), and strength (MG, maximum elastic modulus) were determined. Analysis of variance was performed, with p < 0.05 considered significant. Compared with unmodified plasma, heparin significantly prolonged R and essentially reduced MTG and MG to the limits of detection in an activity-dependent fashion. In general, the DTIs tested prolonged R in a concentration-dependent fashion but did not diminish MTG or MG nearly as well as heparin. The only exception was 10 microg/ml lepirudin, which eliminated coagulation. DTIs demonstrated a significant prolongation of clot initiation but poor attenuation of propagation and strength. Further in vitro and clinical investigations to design a heparin-equivalent regimen to provide anti-coagulation for patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia are indicated."}
{"id": "16715418", "title": "Bacteriological evaluation of the cardiac surgery environment accompanying hospital relocation.", "content": "Bacteriological evaluation of the cardiac surgery environment accompanying hospital relocation. Airborne bacteria in the environment are thought to be a cause of postoperative infection. With the relocation of our hospital, the operating room we had used for 35 years was replaced, changing the surgical environment for cardiac operation completely. We conducted this study to evaluate the bacteriological change in the surgical environment between the new and old operating rooms. Airborne contaminants in the operating rooms were collected on blood agar plates, and samples of intraoperative salvaged blood from cardiac surgery were drawn from salvaged bags produced by Cell Saver 5 (Haemonetics, Braintree, MA, USA) in both the old (group O) and the new operating rooms (group N). These samples were cultured and evaluated bacteriologically. We collected nine samples of airborne contaminants from both group O and group N. The mean number of isolated bacteria colonies was 5.0 +/- 1.2 in group O, and 2.0 +/- 0.94 in group N (P < 0.001). Bacterial growth was detected in 85% of the salvaged blood samples from group O (n = 20) versus 60% from group N (n = 15) (P = 0.09). The mean bacteria count was 1.9 +/- 2.7 colony-forming units (cfu)/ml in group O versus 0.4 +/- 0.5 cfu/ml in group N (P = 0.032). Hospital relocation resulted in an improved operating room environment with less bacterial contamination of intraoperative salvaged blood."}
{"id": "16689763", "title": "Insights into abnormal hemostasis in the Quebec platelet disorder from analyses of clot lysis.", "content": "Insights into abnormal hemostasis in the Quebec platelet disorder from analyses of clot lysis. The Quebec platelet disorder (QPD) is inherited and characterized by delayed-onset bleeding following hemostatic challenge. Other characteristics include increased expression and storage of active urokinase-type plasminogen activator (u-PA) in platelets in the setting of normal to increased u-PA in plasma. There is also consumption of platelet plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 and increased generation of plasmin in platelets accompanied by proteolysis of stored alpha-granule proteins, including Factor V. Although fibrinolysis has been proposed to contribute to QPD bleeding, the effects of QPD blood and platelets on clot lysis have not been evaluated. We used thromboelastography (TEG), biochemical evaluations of whole blood clot lysis, assessments of clot ultrastructure, and perfusion of blood over preformed fibrin to gain insights into the disturbed hemostasis in the QPD. Thromboelastography was not sensitive to the increased u-PA in QPD blood. However, there was abnormal plasmin generation in QPD whole blood clots, generated at low shear, with biochemical evidence of increased fibrinolysis. The incorporation of QPD platelets into a forming clot led to progressive disruption of fibrin and platelet aggregates unless drugs were added to inhibit plasmin. In whole blood perfusion studies, QPD platelets showed normal adherence to fibrin, but their adhesion was followed by accelerated fibrinolysis. The QPD is associated with \"gain-of-function\" abnormalities that increase the lysis of forming or preformed clots. These findings suggest accelerated fibrinolysis is an important contributor to QPD bleeding."}
{"id": "16684000", "title": "New approaches for measuring coagulation.", "content": "New approaches for measuring coagulation. Although specific assays of coagulation factors are essential for diagnostic purposes they only give partial information about an individual's haemostatic state. This can be better assessed by various global tests, and recent developments and evaluations of five such tests are described in this symposium: the PFA-100; waveform analysis; thrombin generation; overall haemostasis potential; thrombelastography. Each test has advantages in various applications, but the thrombin generation test and waveform analysis have been found most useful in haemophilia, whilst the PFA-100 is helpful in von Willebrand's disease."}
{"id": "16676074", "title": "The influence of fibrin polymerization and platelet-mediated contractile forces on citrated whole blood thromboelastography profile.", "content": "The influence of fibrin polymerization and platelet-mediated contractile forces on citrated whole blood thromboelastography profile. Thromboelastography analysis providing a global assessment of coagulation is gaining new interest in clinical practice. MinimalTF triggered whole blood thromboelastography provides a valuable tool for studying the kinetics of clot formation (expressed by the parameters R, K and alpha-angle) and the physical characteristics of the clot, such as its firmness and the elastic modulus shear (expressed by the parameters maximal amplitude MA and G). We studied the influence of fibrin polymerization and platelet functional status on each parameter of thromboelastographic trace obtained by minimalTF activation inWB by employing increasing concentrations of a fibrin polymerization inhibitors (the tetrapeptide Gly-Pro-Arg-Pro-OH.AcOH; Pefabloc-FG) and an inhibitor of actin polymerization (Cytochalasin D). Pefabloc-FG at concentrations higher than 5 mg/ml prolonged the R and K times and decreased the alpha-angle in a concentration-dependent manner but it did not modify MA and G parameters. At the concentration of 5 mg/ml, Pefabloc-FG completely inhibited clot formation. Cytochalasin D had no effect on R time but decreased the alpha-angle, MA and G parameters by reaching a plateau at the concentration of 5 microM. The effect of cytochalasin D was more pronounced on MA and G than on the alpha-angle. A combination of both Pefabloc-FG (0.5 mg/ml) and cytochalasin D (50 microM) significantly decreased alpha-angle compared to control as well as their single effect. However, G value was dramatically reduced in the presence of cytochalasin D exposure, without any additional effect when both inhibitors were combined. This study confirms the importance of fibrin polymerisation on the kinetics of thrombus formation and demonstrates the close association between the quality of the thrombus and the functional status of platelets. Normal platelet contractile forces are of major importance for the maximum amplitude of TEG which is related to the strength and elastic modulus of the thrombus."}
{"id": "16647483", "title": "Intraoperative coagulation monitoring and small bowel transplantation: a way to explore.", "content": "Intraoperative coagulation monitoring and small bowel transplantation: a way to explore. The existence of coagulation disorders during intestinal transplantation is getting more important for a correct anesthetic management. Both a condition of hypocoagulation and hypercoagulation can happen during the intraoperative course. Thromboelastography (TEG), a test on whole blood coagulation, allows measurement of different phases of coagulation function. The aims of our study were to evaluate coagulation derangements during bowel transplantation using TEG. We measured cold ischemia time in 19 patients who underwent general anesthesia for intestinal transplantation. We measured five TEG indicators (R, K, angle, MA, CL50) at defined intervals: dissection phase (T1), vascular anastomosis phase (T2), 30' (T3) and 120' (T4) after reperfusion during the intestinal reconstruction. We found a statistically significant difference between MA measured at T1 versus T3 and T4. There was no significant relation between MA derangements and ischemia time. Patients showed hypocoagulation pattern during all periods. MA indicator variation between the initial value and the value after reperfusion may relate to release of hypocoagulation factors. We observed important coagulation derangements during small bowel transplantation, particularly on platelet function after graft reperfusion. The derangements did not depend on ischemia time."}
{"id": "16647482", "title": "Intraoperative coagulation evaluation of ischemia-reperfusion injury in small bowel transplantation: a way to explore.", "content": "Intraoperative coagulation evaluation of ischemia-reperfusion injury in small bowel transplantation: a way to explore. The success of intestinal transplantation is affected by the extreme susceptibility of the small bowel to ischemia-reperfusion (I/R) injury. Platelet aggregation decreases after reperfusion in small intestinal ischemia and liver transplantation. Thromboelastography (TEG) is a coagulation test performed whole on blood. The aims of this study were to assess coagulation derangements during bowel transplantation to define appropriate modalities of intraoperative coagulation monitoring. A secondary endpoint was to determine whether measurements of coagulation derangements were useful to estimate small intestinal I/R injury. We recruited 19 patients who had undergone elective small bowel transplantation for primary short-gut syndrome. We divided our patients into two groups depending on their reperfusion injury as evaluated with a biopsy after reperfusion: group A composed of eight patients who had a reperfusion injury: group B composed of 11 patients who did not experience this problem. We measured five thromboelastogram indicators (r, k, angle, MA, CL30) at defined intervals: dissection phase (T1), vascular anastomoses phase (T2) as well as 30 minutes (T3) and 120 minutes (T4) after reperfusion during the intestinal reconstruction phase. We did not observe any significant difference between intraoperative blood loss, core temperature, or volume of fluid fresh frozen plasma, or platelet administration. Angle and MA were decreased significantly among patients with reperfusion injury. Patients showed a hypocoagulation pattern during all the manipulations. This derangement did not depend on the ischemia time. In patients with I/R injury the angle and MA did not change during ischemia, but did change significantly upon reperfusion. Several mechanisms may cause coagulation derangements. During the ischemic period, there may be damage to the vascular bed of the ischemic organ. When arterial blood passes through the damaged vascular bed after reperfusion, platelet activation occurs to varying degrees, resulting in reduced platelet function. Further studies are needed to confirm this preliminary work, which was limited by the low number of patients, in order to elucidate relevant mechanisms and develop predictive algorithms."}
{"id": "16647480", "title": "Monitoring intraoperative coagulation.", "content": "Monitoring intraoperative coagulation."}
{"id": "16637031", "title": "Ionic liquid-derived blood-compatible composite membranes for kidney dialysis.", "content": "Ionic liquid-derived blood-compatible composite membranes for kidney dialysis. A novel heparin- and cellulose-based biocomposite is fabricated by exploiting the enhanced dissolution of polysaccharides in room temperature ionic liquids (RTILs). This represents the first reported example of using a new class of solvents, RTILs, to fabricate blood-compatible biomaterials. Using this approach, it is possible to fabricate the biomaterials in any form, such as films or membranes, fibers (nanometer- or micron-sized), spheres (nanometer- or micron-sized), or any shape using templates. In this work, we have evaluated a membrane film of this composite. Surface morphological studies on this biocomposite film showed the uniformly distributed presence of heparin throughout the cellulose matrix. Activated partial thromboplastin time and thromboelastography demonstrate that this composite is superior to other existing heparinized biomaterials in preventing clot formation in human blood plasma and in human whole blood. Membranes made of these composites allow the passage of urea while retaining albumin, representing a promising blood-compatible biomaterial for renal dialysis, with a possibility of eliminating the systemic administration of heparin to the patients undergoing renal dialysis."}
{"id": "16636044", "title": "Thromboelastographic monitoring of the efficacy of recombinant factor VIIa administration in a parturient with factor VII deficiency.", "content": "Thromboelastographic monitoring of the efficacy of recombinant factor VIIa administration in a parturient with factor VII deficiency."}
{"id": "16632802", "title": "Measurement of patients' bivalirudin plasma levels by a thrombelastograph ecarin clotting time assay: a comparison to a standard activated clotting time.", "content": "Measurement of patients' bivalirudin plasma levels by a thrombelastograph ecarin clotting time assay: a comparison to a standard activated clotting time. Standard activated clotting time (ACT) tests have a poor correlation to bivalirudin levels, leading to uncertainty regarding adequate anticoagulation in percutaneous coronary intervention patients. We tested a Thrombelastograph (TEG) ecarin clotting time (ECT) assay for sensitivity to bivalirudin using blood from 80 patients undergoing interventional cardiology procedures with bivalirudin anticoagulation. This was compared to a standard Hemochron ACT assay using diatomaceous earth. With the TEG assay, the direct thrombin activator, ecarin, was used to initiate coagulation and measured as the reaction time. Plasma samples were evaluated for bivalirudin by a chromogenic assay at an independent hematological laboratory. Linear regression of the standard ACT versus bivalirudin level gave an r = 0.306 whereas the TEG ECT gave a much higher r2 = 0.746 (both P < 0.0001). The TEG ECT should prove more useful than the standard ACT for monitoring bivalirudin anticoagulation across the clinically therapeutic range."}
{"id": "16631662", "title": "Protamine enhances fibrinolysis by decreasing clot strength: role of tissue factor-initiated thrombin generation.", "content": "Protamine enhances fibrinolysis by decreasing clot strength: role of tissue factor-initiated thrombin generation. Excessive protamine administration to neutralize heparin after cardiopulmonary bypass has been implicated as a cause of postoperative hemorrhage. Protamine directly inhibits thrombin and tissue factor (TF)-mediated activation of factor VII. However, the half-life of protamine is only 4.5 minutes; thus the purpose of this study was to determine if protamine could enhance fibrinolysis, explaining the delayed, protamine-associated hemorrhage observed in the postoperative period. Human plasma containing 0, 6.25, 12.5, or 25 microg/mL of protamine (n = 6 per condition) was exposed to 0.01% tissue factor and tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA, 100 U/mL) for 30 minutes, with clot growth and disintegration measured by Thromboelastograph (Haemoscope Corp, Skokie, IL). The TF was increased to 0.1% in additional experiments with plasma containing protamine (25 microg/mL) and tPA. Protamine significantly (p < 0.05) delayed the time to clot initiation, decreased the speed of clot propagation, and diminished clot strength in a concentration-dependent fashion. The onset of fibrinolysis was significantly (p < 0.05) increased only in samples with 25 microg/mL of protamine, and the rate of clot lysis was not different among the conditions. The clot duration time (from initiation to disintegration) was significantly (p < 0.05) decreased in a concentration-dependent manner by protamine. Increased TF concentration (0.1%) significantly improved clot growth kinetics and prolonged clot duration in samples with 25 microg/mL of protamine compared with samples activated with 0.01% TF. Protamine enhanced fibrinolysis by decreasing clot strength by diminishing TF-initiated thrombin generation. Additional, clinical investigation is warranted to mechanistically implicate protamine-mediated enhancement of fibrinolysis to delayed bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass."}
{"id": "16614469", "title": "The relationship between coagulation and the extend of surgery and postoperative infection in surgical infants below 6 months of age.", "content": "The relationship between coagulation and the extend of surgery and postoperative infection in surgical infants below 6 months of age. First to assess coagulation changes after surgery in children below 6 months of age. Second to detect differences attributable to the extent of surgery and postoperative infection. Blood counts, haemoglobin concentration (Hb), haematocrit (Ht), prothrombine time (PT), activated partial thromboplastine time (aPTT) and thrombelastography (TEG) were studied pre- and 2+/-1/2 d postoperatively. Patients were divided in 3 groups. I: minor surgery without access to the abdomen or thorax (n=51); II: abdominal or thoracic interventions (n=24); III: abdominal surgery with postoperative sepsis (n=11). Preoperative values of Hb, Ht and INR were related to the age of the infant. Postoperatively clot strength and formation rate increased in gr. I (p<0.05). In gr. II, clot formation was initiated earlier (p<0.05) even though PT decreased (p<0.05). In group III, patients postoperatively developed a tendency for hypocoagulability in all TEG-parameters, but not in plasmatic coagulation. Postoperative TEG measurements were significantly inferior in gr. III when compared to gr. I and II. Our findings suggest activation of whole blood coagulation in the uncomplicated postoperative period despite of a decrease in plasmatic coagulation. In sepsis, only thrombelastography, but not plasmatic coagulation was affected."}
{"id": "16607085", "title": "Elastic modulus-based thrombelastographic quantification of plasma clot fibrinolysis with progressive plasminogen activation.", "content": "Elastic modulus-based thrombelastographic quantification of plasma clot fibrinolysis with progressive plasminogen activation. Thrombelastographic detection of fibrinolysis has been critical in the identification and treatment of coagulopathy in many perioperative settings. However, the fibrinolytic assessments have been at best non-parametric, amplitude-based determinations (e.g. estimated % lysis, clot lysis time or clot lysis rate). Recognizing this limitation, a methodology was developed to measure the onset, speed and extent of clot disintegration by changes in elastic modulus derived from the amplitude. Using this approach, our goal was to characterize the clot disintegration kinetics of progressive plasminogen activation with tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) and to determine the extent of inhibition of fibrinolysis mediated by tPA with aprotinin and activated factor XIII. While the estimated % lysis and clot lysis time were significantly affected by tPA (0-300 U/ml), elastic modulus-based analyses in a more activity-specific fashion demonstrated significantly decreased onset, increased rate and increased extent of fibrinolysis. Furthermore, aprotinin was found to inhibit the onset, rate and extent of fibrinolysis in an activity-dependent fashion, whereas activated factor XIII was noted to enhance the speed of onset of clot growth and delay the onset of fibrinolysis. In summary, our results serve as the rational basis to utilize this elastic modulus-based approach to quantify the extent of fibrinolysis in clinical and laboratory settings, as well as potentially guiding antifibrinolytic therapy."}
{"id": "16607076", "title": "The effect of N-acetylcysteine on blood coagulation and platelet function in patients undergoing open repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm.", "content": "The effect of N-acetylcysteine on blood coagulation and platelet function in patients undergoing open repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm. N-acetylcysteine (NAC) may offer renal and hepatic protection during surgery, but in experimental studies it has been shown to impair coagulation. Since very little is known about the effects of NAC on blood coagulation in surgical patients, we studied its effects during abdominal aortic reconstruction. NAC (a bolus of 150 mg/kg followed by a continuous 24-h infusion of 150 mg/kg) or the same volume of placebo was given intravenously, in a randomized double-blinded fashion, to 20 patients undergoing abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. The haematocrit, platelet count, prothrombin time, thromboelastometry, and platelet aggregation were studied during and after surgery. Total blood loss was also measured. The median (25th-75th percentiles) decrease of the prothrombin time value was 33.0% (30-37%) after NAC treatment and 6.5% (4-8%) after placebo (P<0.001). Postoperative prothrombin time values remained lower in the patients receiving NAC. In thromboelastometry tracings the coagulation time was more prolonged after the bolus of NAC (P=0.02). Platelet aggregation induced with adenosine diphosphate decreased after NAC but not after placebo. Low prothrombin time values before and after bolus infusions were associated with increased blood loss (P=0.008 and P=0.015, respectively). NAC has anticoagulant and platelet-inhibiting properties in patients undergoing major vascular surgery. This abnormal haemostatic activity should be considered when NAC is administered to patients with increased bleeding risk."}
{"id": "16584210", "title": "Blood compatible carbon nanotubes--nano-based neoproteoglycans.", "content": "Blood compatible carbon nanotubes--nano-based neoproteoglycans. Although nanotechnology has provided a rich variety of nanomaterials (1-100 nm) for in vivo medical applications, the blood compatibility of all these nanobiomaterials is still largely unexamined. Here, we report the preparation of blood-compatible carbon nanotubes (CNTs) that potentially represent the building blocks for nanodevices having in vivo applications. Activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) and thromboelastography (TEG) studies prove that heparinization can significantly enhance the blood compatibility of nanomaterials."}
{"id": "16581348", "title": "Correlation of perioperative platelet function and coagulation tests with bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass surgery.", "content": "Correlation of perioperative platelet function and coagulation tests with bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. The authors evaluated the correlation of post-cardiopulmonary bypass surgery bleeding, measured as 24-hour chest tube output/kilogram body weight, with platelet function tests using glass bead adhesion and Thrombelastograph Platelet Mapping (Haemoscope Corporation, Niles, Ill); coagulation tests; patient characteristics; surgery parameters; and visual assessment of surgical field bleeding before closure as not bleeding (code 1), oozing (code 2), and excessive bleeding (code 3). All platelet function and coagulation tests indicated significant dysfunction 15 minutes after protamine neutralization of heparin. With the exception of glass bead adherence, these assays indicated poor recovery of function 1 hour postoperatively. By multiple regression, the most significant predictors of postoperative bleeding were a low body mass index (BMI) (P < 0.0001), lowest core body temperature (P = 0.0006), and cross clamp time (P < 0.0001). Low core temperature was significantly (P < 0.0001) correlated with cross clamp time, which the authors believe is the most likely cause of coagulation and platelet dysfunction. None of the platelet function tests significantly correlated with bleeding. Looking at the highest quartile of chest tube output patients (n = 19) versus the upper and lower 50th percentile of coagulation and platelet function, bleeding could be explained for 11 patients by BMI plus surgery parameters along with coagulation and/or platelet dysfunction. In three cases without negative surgery parameters, coagulation dysfunction was observed. The remaining five cases did not give a clear indication of which parameters were primarily responsible for the bleeding."}
{"id": "16572074", "title": "Midterm results of transluminal endovascular grafting in patients with DeBakey type III dissecting aortic aneurysms.", "content": "Midterm results of transluminal endovascular grafting in patients with DeBakey type III dissecting aortic aneurysms. Transluminal endovascular grafting (TEG) is less invasive than conventional operative procedures for the treatment of DeBakey type III dissecting aortic aneurysms (DAA). We have used two different kinds of stent grafts covered with woven Dacron grafts, a Gianturco Z-stent graft (G-SG) and a Spiral Z-stent graft (S-SG). Because the G-SG lacks adequate flexibility, the end of the graft may injure the intima after long-term deployment in the proximal descending aorta. We have used S-SGs, which are more flexible than G-SG, to improve outcome. We report our late midterm results and discuss treatment policy. We studied 45 patients with DeBakey type III DAA. Thirty-two G-SGs and 13 S-SGs were used. Follow-up ranged from 1 year 6 months to 8 years 5 months (mean, 5 years 2 months). 1) Surgical outcome: (a) TEG was technically successful in all patients. There was no operative mortality. (b) One week after surgery, 36 patients had no endoleaks, 5 had minor endoleaks, and 4 had major endoleaks. 2) Late midterm results: (a) Four patients with residual major endoleaks, underwent replacement of the descending thoracic aorta. (b) Intimal injury occurred at the distal end of the stent graft 4 to 18 months (mean, 10.5 months) after surgery in 12 patients with G-SG and 1 with S-SG. One of these patients had recurrent dissection, and 12 had ulcer like projections (ULP). Two patients underwent additional stent implantation to block blood flow. (c) Four patients with S-SG had major endoleaks 3 to 6 months after surgery. In 3 of these patients, the Spiral Z-stents were compressed and occluded, and thrombus had formed in the lumen. Three patients underwent replacement of the descending thoracic aorta. (d) Additional replacement of the descending thoracic aorta was done in 9 of the 45 patients (20%) 4 to 24 months after TEG. All patients responded to treatment and were discharged from the hospital. Intimal injury was caused by Gianturco Z-stents because of inadequate flexibility, and endoleaks and stent-graft occlusion were caused by Spiral Z-stents because of insufficient radial force against the aortic wall. The development of stents with these improved properties is expected to further improve outcome."}
{"id": "16556896", "title": "Safety and pharmacokinetics of recombinant factor XIII-A2 administration in patients with congenital factor XIII deficiency.", "content": "Safety and pharmacokinetics of recombinant factor XIII-A2 administration in patients with congenital factor XIII deficiency. Congenital factor XIII (FXIII) deficiency is associated with a tendency for severe bleeding, a risk for spontaneous abortion, and a high rate of spontaneous intracranial hemorrhage. This phase 1 escalating-dose study was developed to evaluate the safety and pharmacokinetics of a single administration of human recombinant FXIII-A2 (rFXIII-A2) homodimer in adults with congenital FXIII deficiency. Pharmacokinetics and activity of rXIII and changes in endogenous B subunit levels were assessed. Recombinant FXIII-A2 homodimer were complexed with endogenous FXIII-B subunits to form an FXIII-A2B2 heterotetramer with a half-life of 8.5 days, similar to that of endogenous FXIII. The median dose response was a 2.4% increase in FXIII activity based on unit per kilogram rFXIII administered. After the administration of rFXIII-A2, clot solubility normalized as measured by clot lysis in urea. Clot strength and resistance to fibrinolysis, as assessed by thromboelastography, also improved. Safety reviews were conducted before each dose escalation; no serious adverse events, including bleeding or thrombosis, were noted during the study. In addition, there was no evidence of the generation of specific antibodies to rFXIII or yeast proteins. Recombinant FXIII appears to be a safe and potentially effective alternative for FXIII replacement in patients with FXIII deficiency."}
{"id": "16551936", "title": "A head-to-head comparison of the in vitro coagulation effects of saline-based and balanced electrolyte crystalloid and colloid intravenous fluids.", "content": "A head-to-head comparison of the in vitro coagulation effects of saline-based and balanced electrolyte crystalloid and colloid intravenous fluids. Both fluid composition (e.g., type of hydroxyethyl starch) and formulation (e.g., saline or balanced salt carrier solution) may alter whole blood coagulation. We therefore enrolled 10 healthy volunteers to test ex vivo, thrombelastograph-based blood coagulation differences of eight crystalloid and colloid solutions at 20%, 40%, and 60% dilutions. Saline and lactated Ringer's solution produced a hypercoagulable state at 20%-40% dilutions. Saline, hetastarch in saline, pentastarch in saline, tetrastarch in saline, and human albumin solutions all produced a hypocoagulable state at 60% dilution. Hetastarch in saline also produced a hypocoagulable state at 40% dilution. The larger molecular weight starches produced more intense coagulation abnormalities than the medium molecular weight compounds formulated similarly (i.e., suspended in saline or balanced salt solution). The balanced salt solutions caused fewer coagulation abnormalities, especially pentastarch in balanced salt solution. This balanced salt pentastarch preparation produced the least derangement of coagulation of the colloid solutions at all dilutions, causing hypercoagulability at the lower dilutions and minimal coagulation derangement at 60% dilution. These data support the theory that smaller molecular weight hydroxyethyl starches and colloids suspended in balanced salt solutions preserve coagulation better than large molecular weight starches and saline-based colloids, as judged by thrombelastography."}
{"id": "16551923", "title": "Fibrinogen concentrate reverses dilutional coagulopathy induced in vitro by saline but not by hydroxyethyl starch 6%.", "content": "Fibrinogen concentrate reverses dilutional coagulopathy induced in vitro by saline but not by hydroxyethyl starch 6%. Severe bleeding often induces coagulopathy via loss, consumption, and dilution of clotting factors and platelets. The aims of our in vitro study were to characterize the influence of progressive hemodilution with either NaCl 0.9% or hydroxyethyl starch (HES) 6% on blood clot formation and to analyze the effect of substitution of fibrinogen and platelets on dilutional coagulopathy. Whole blood samples drawn from 8 volunteers were diluted from 20% to 80% of the sample volume with both diluents separately. Clot formation was measured by thrombelastography. At a 60% dilution, either fibrinogen and/or platelets were added to the samples. Clot firmness became critical after 40% dilution with HES 6% but not until 60% dilution with NaCl 0.9%. When platelet function was blocked, fibrin polymerization was severely impaired after 20% dilution with HES 6%, whereas such an effect was only seen after 80% dilution with NaCl 0.9%. The addition of fibrinogen reconstituted the clot firmness in the presence of NaCl 0.9%, but this had only a minor effect after dilution with HES 6%. Platelets alone or in addition were not able to improve clot firmness to a clinically relevant extent. Dilutional coagulopathy induced by crystalloids can, in vitro, be effectively reversed by supplementation of fibrinogen. In contrast, HES molecules interfere with fibrin polymerization and, thus, administration of fibrinogen after dilution with HES 6% failed to significantly improve clot firmness."}
{"id": "16551888", "title": "Gelatin and hydroxyethyl starch, but not albumin, impair hemostasis after cardiac surgery.", "content": "Gelatin and hydroxyethyl starch, but not albumin, impair hemostasis after cardiac surgery. We investigated the effect of postoperative administration of colloids on hemostasis in 45 patients after cardiac surgery. Patients were randomized to receive 15 mL kg(-1) of either 4% albumin, 4% succinylated gelatin, or 6% hydroxyethyl starch (molecular weight of 200 kDa/degree of substitution 0.5) as a short-term infusion. There was a comparable decrease in maximum clot firmness of thromboelastometry tracings in gelatin and hydroxyethyl starch groups immediately after completion of the infusion, whereas these values remained unchanged in the albumin group. The impairment in clot strength persisted up to 2 h, although the values partly recovered. Postoperative bleeding correlated inversely with the clot strength in pooled data of the artificial colloids. Fibrin formation (clot formation time, alpha-angle) and fibrinogen-dependent clot strength (maximum clot firmness and shear elastic modulus) were more disturbed in the hydroxyethyl starch group than in the gelatin group. We conclude that after cardiopulmonary bypass surgery, both gelatin and hydroxyethyl starch impair clot strength and fibrin buildup, which may predispose patients to increased blood loss. The greatest impairment in hemostasis was seen after hydroxyethyl starch administration, whereas albumin appeared to have the least effect on hemostatic variables."}
{"id": "16548870", "title": "In vitro testing of haemostatic side-effects of colloids.", "content": "In vitro testing of haemostatic side-effects of colloids."}
{"id": "16529435", "title": "Surface modification of silica core-shell nanocapsules: biomedical implications.", "content": "Surface modification of silica core-shell nanocapsules: biomedical implications. In this article we present the synthesis of oil core silica shell nanocapsules with different shell thicknesses. The surface of the nanocapsules was modified with polyethyleoxide (PEO) and succinic anhydride. Two biomedical tests were then used to study the biocompatibility properties of these nanocapsules with different surface treatments, hemolysis and thromboelastography (TEG). PEO surface modification greatly reduced the damaging interactions of nanocapsules with red blood cells (RBCs) and platelets and attenuated particle size effects. It was found that the blood toxicity of charged particles increased with the acid strength on the surface. Experiments toward the assessment of detoxification of these nanocapsules in model drug overdose concentrations are currently underway."}
{"id": "16525587", "title": "Thrombelastography for the monitoring of lipopolysaccharide induced activation of coagulation.", "content": "Thrombelastography for the monitoring of lipopolysaccharide induced activation of coagulation. During Gram-negative sepsis, lipopolysaccharide (LPS) activates toll-like receptor (TLR) 4 and induces complex responses of immune system and haemostasis. In the present study we investigated whether thrombelastography is suitable to monitor the LPS-induced activation of coagulation. Whole blood samples from healthy volunteers were incubated with LPS for various incubation periods (0-5 hrs), thereafter rotation thrombelastography was performed. Incubation of whole blood (>or=3 h) with LPS markedly reduced clotting time; after 5 hrs the variable was reduced from 459+/-39 sec to 80+/-20 sec while the other thrombelastography variables (angle alpha, clot formation time, maximal clot formation) remained unaltered. EC(50) of the LPS effect on whole blood clotting time was 18 microg/ml. In isolated leukocytes, diluted in platelet poor plasma, far lower LPS-concentrations were effective: 10 ng/ml LPS reduced clotting time from 439+/-68 sec to 200+/-56 sec. Experiments with the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide and active site-inhibited factor VIIa revealed that LPS exerts its effects via the synthesis of tissue factor. Addition of tissue factor to whole blood samples revealed that a concentration of 100 fmol/l can be detected using thrombelastography. In whole blood samples the tissue factor concentration induced by LPS amounted up to 12 pmol/l. In summary, thrombelastography proved to be a sensitive and reliable tool for the determination of LPS-induced tissue factor mediated activation of haemostasis in whole blood samples."}
{"id": "16507197", "title": "The haemodilution enhanced onset of coagulation as measured by the thrombelastogram is transient.", "content": "The haemodilution enhanced onset of coagulation as measured by the thrombelastogram is transient. Crystalloid haemodilution has been widely found to enhance coagulation onset, but the duration of this effect has never been documented. Twelve healthy, consenting volunteers had a rapid infusion of 14 mL kg-1 of normal (0.9%) saline. Blood samples were taken, prior to (control), and immediately after (30 min) the rapid saline infusion was completed (30 min). They were then repeated at regular intervals up to 120 min. Haematocrit/platelet counts were taken to determine the degree of dilution and thrombelastograms, with and without platelet antagonists (ReoPro, Abciximab), were measured in all samples. Antithrombin levels were selectively measured. The haematocrit and platelet count showed a rapid dilutional decrease at 30 min (mean of -12.2% and -14.4%, respectively), with values returning towards baseline within 15 min after finishing the infusion. There was a significantly faster onset of coagulation (decrease in r-time) in the post-infusion sample (30 min) compared to control (P<0.05), again returning towards normal as the dilution effect was reversed. Similar thrombelastograms findings were evident in the plasma factor only group (platelets inhibited by ReoPro). Antithrombin levels changed in keeping with the haemodilution effect (P<0.0001). There was a linear relationship between antithrombin and thrombelastograms r-time (P=0.012). The faster onset of coagulation brought on by haemodilution return towards normal as the dilutional effect is reversed. This effect is mediated through plasma clotting factors. Of interest is the significant inverse correlation of the onset of coagulation increasing as the antithrombin levels decreased with dilution."}
{"id": "16498193", "title": "Thromboelastography detects inadequate response to abciximab therapy during stent-assisted cerebral aneurysm coil embolization complicated by stroke.", "content": "Thromboelastography detects inadequate response to abciximab therapy during stent-assisted cerebral aneurysm coil embolization complicated by stroke. Thromboembolic stroke is the most common severe complication following coil embolization of intracerebral aneurysms, with a 5% incidence of permanent deficits. Despite heparin anticoagulation, rescue therapy with the platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor antagonist abciximab may be required. However, we describe a failure of abciximab rescue therapy and discuss the importance of monitoring the variable individual response to abciximab. Two patients underwent stent-assisted cerebral aneurysm coil embolization complicated by thromboembolic stroke. In one patient, abciximab rescue therapy failed and was associated with a poor neurological outcome. Thromboelastography (TEG model 5000; Haemoscope, Skokie, IL) and platelet aggregometry suggested inadequate platelet inhibition, although other tests of platelet function suggested adequate inhibition. We describe a failure of regular-dose abciximab rescue therapy for thromboembolic stroke-complicating stent-assisted cerebral aneurysm coil embolization. The use of TEG to individualize abciximab dosing in this setting may improve patient outcome, as it tracks a pattern of coagulation consistent with the clinical picture."}
{"id": "16498155", "title": "Does calcium cause the different effects of Gelofusine and Haemaccel on coagulation?", "content": "Does calcium cause the different effects of Gelofusine and Haemaccel on coagulation? Gelofusine (which does not contain calcium) has a greater effect on coagulation than Haemaccel (which contains 6.25 mmol/l of calcium). This in vitro study was performed to assess whether calcium might be the cause of the different effects on coagulation. Three solutions were compared; (a) Gelofusine, (b) Gelofusine with calcium added to 6.25 mmol/l, and (c) Haemaccel. Thromboelastography (Sonoclot) was used to examine whole blood coagulation, with time to peak clot weight as the primary outcome measure. There was no significant difference between the Gelofusine containing solutions. Both Gelofusine solutions gave a greater impairment of coagulation than the Haemaccel solution. The different effect of Gelofusine on coagulation compared with Haemaccel does not seem to be related to the different calcium contents of the solutions."}
{"id": "16488131", "title": "Thromboelastography assessment of coagulation status in parturients with lupus anticoagulant receiving heparin therapy.", "content": "Thromboelastography assessment of coagulation status in parturients with lupus anticoagulant receiving heparin therapy."}
{"id": "16480437", "title": "An audit of red cell and blood product use after the institution of thromboelastometry in a cardiac intensive care unit.", "content": "An audit of red cell and blood product use after the institution of thromboelastometry in a cardiac intensive care unit. Cardiac surgery is estimated to use 20% of the UK blood supply. However, there has been much interest recently in decreasing red cell and blood product use not only to ease strain on blood stocks or avoid potential transmission of infection but also to decrease post-operative transfusion-related complications. Coagulopathies are not uncommon in cardiac surgical patients, but the time lapse for reporting conventional laboratory results has been highlighted as an obstacle to the appropriate use of blood products. Accordingly, much interest has arisen in rapid near-patient testing of coagulation and, in January 2002, a thromboelastometer (ROTEM, Pentapharm, Germany) was purchased for our unit. This audit sought to assess its impact by retrospective analysis of 990 sequential patients' demographic data and transfusion details covering 6 months prior to its introduction and 6 months after. In the 6 months prior to its introduction, red cells were used in 60% of patients and fresh frozen plasma (FFP) and platelets used in 17 and 16% of patients, respectively. In the following 6 months, red cell use had fallen to 53% and FFP and platelets to 12 and 11%, respectively (P < 0.05). Introduction of thromboelastometry has significantly decreased our use of red cells and blood products."}
{"id": "16479191", "title": "The effects of unfractionated heparin, low molecular weight heparin and danaparoid on the thromboelastogram (TEG): an in-vitro comparison of standard and heparinase-modified TEGs with conventional coagulation assays.", "content": "The effects of unfractionated heparin, low molecular weight heparin and danaparoid on the thromboelastogram (TEG): an in-vitro comparison of standard and heparinase-modified TEGs with conventional coagulation assays. To investigate the effects of unfractionated heparin (UFH), low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) and danaparoid (DPD) added to whole blood in vitro on standard and heparinase-modified thromboelastogram (TEG) parameters compared with conventional assays of coagulation. The effects of UFH, LMWH and DPD on standard TEG parameters were compared with the prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, thrombin time and anti-activated factor X (anti-FXa) activity, at concentrations of these anticoagulants ranging from 0.025 to 1 U/ml. In the second part of the study, the effects of very low concentrations (0.005-0.05 U/ml) of UFH, LMWH and DPD on the difference between standard and heparinase-modified TEG parameters were compared with the prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, thrombin time and anti-FXa activity. Standard TEG parameters were outside the reference range at lower concentrations of UFH, LMWH and DPD than most conventional coagulation assays were able to detect. Only anti-FXa activity was more sensitive to the presence of these anticoagulants than the standard TEG alone. The lowest concentration of UFH, LMWH and DPD used in this study (0.005 U/ml) caused significant differences between the standard and heparinase-modified alpha-angles of the TEG. In addition, the difference between standard and heparinase-modified TEG parameters distinguished between low concentrations (0.005-0.05 U/ml) of UFH with greater sensitivity than anti-FXa activity, but were less sensitive to LMWH and DPD. The standard TEG is more sensitive to UFH, LMWH and DPD than most conventional coagulation tests, with the exception of anti-FXa activity. Calculation of the difference between standard and heparinase-modified TEG parameters greatly increases the sensitivity of the assay for the effects of these anticoagulants, and is more sensitive to very low quantities of UFH than anti-FXa activity."}
{"id": "16476097", "title": "Acquired haemophilia: dynamic whole blood coagulation utilized to guide haemostatic therapy.", "content": "Acquired haemophilia: dynamic whole blood coagulation utilized to guide haemostatic therapy. Acquired haemophilia is a rare bleeding disorder caused by autoimmune antibodies interacting with factor VIII (FVIII) or factor IX. Anticipating a high degree of heterogeneity amongst cases, we recently initiated systematic recording of whole blood (WB) coagulation dynamic profiles using our recently developed thrombelastographic method employing very small amounts of tissue factor for activation. Six newly diagnosed patients with acquired haemophilia A in our University Hospital were investigated with the purpose to characterize the WB clotting phenotypes in each patient, as well as inspecting the ex vivo and in vivo response to supplementation with various haemostatic agents. Our results show a striking heterogeneity in patients WB clotting profiles, each patient having a particular pattern and an individual type of response to bypassing agents. Profiles in some of patients resembled severe haemophilia A, even if there was a measurable residual FVIII:C activity while others were more similar moderate-to-mild haemophilia. In one case the profile was very close to normal. Each patient seemed to respond individually to bypassing agents. WB clotting profiles assisted us in selecting an optimal treatment modality in each case and whenever possible, we compared the clinical effects of the treatment selected with the appearance of the WB clotting pattern. In one patient, the ex vivo response to FVIII looked promising, and a approximately 200 IU kg-1 per 24 h high-dose programme nearly normalized the clotting profile in 2-week time. Our preliminary small series of data should be concluded with caution. However, it seems that WB clotting profile studies at baseline, with ex vivo addition of haemostasis promoting agents, and during treatment may hold the potential to predict the success of treatment."}
{"id": "16469128", "title": "Molecular adsorbent recirculating system and hemostasis in patients at high risk of bleeding: an observational study.", "content": "Molecular adsorbent recirculating system and hemostasis in patients at high risk of bleeding: an observational study. Liver failure is associated with reduced synthesis of clotting factors, consumptive coagulopathy, and platelet dysfunction. The aim of the study was to evaluate the effects of liver support using a molecular adsorbent recirculating system (MARS) on the coagulation system in patients at high risk of bleeding. We studied 61 MARS treatments in 33 patients with acute liver failure (n = 15), acute-on-chronic liver failure (n = 8), sepsis (n = 5), liver graft dysfunction (n = 3), and cholestasis (n = 2). Standard coagulation tests, standard thromboelastography (TEG), and heparinase-modified and abciximab-fab-modified TEG were performed immediately before and 30 minutes after commencement of MARS, and after the end of MARS treatment. Prostaglandin I2 was administered extracorporeally to all patients; 17 patients additionally received unfractioned heparin. Three moderate bleeding complications in three patients, requiring three to four units of packed red blood cells, were observed. All were sufficiently managed without interrupting MARS treatment. Although there was a significant decrease in platelet counts (median, 9 G/l; range, -40 to 145 G/l) and fibrinogen concentration (median, 15 mg/dl; range, -119 to 185 mg/dl) with a consecutive increase in thrombin time, the platelet function, as assessed by abciximab-fab-modified TEG, remained stable. MARS did not enhance fibrinolysis. MARS treatment appears to be well tolerated during marked coagulopathy due to liver failure. Although MARS leads to a further decrease in platelet count and fibrinogen concentration, platelet function, measured as the contribution of the platelets to the clot firmness in TEG, remains stable. According to TEG-based results, MARS does not enhance fibrinolysis."}
{"id": "16464978", "title": "Molar substitution and C2/C6 ratio of hydroxyethyl starch: influence on blood coagulation.", "content": "Molar substitution and C2/C6 ratio of hydroxyethyl starch: influence on blood coagulation. Development of hydroxyethyl starches (HES) with a low impact on blood coagulation but a long intravascular persistence is of clinical interest. A previous in vitro study showed that low substituted high molecular weight HES does not compromise blood coagulation more than medium molecular weight HES. In the present study we assessed the individual effects on blood coagulation of molar substitution and C2/C6 ratio of a high molecular weight HES. Blood was obtained from 30 healthy patients undergoing elective surgery and mixed with six high molecular weight (700 kDa) HES solutions differing in their molar substitution (0.42 and 0.51) and C2/C6 ratio (2.7, 7 and 14) to achieve 20, 40 and 60% dilution. Blood coagulation was assessed by Thrombelastograph analysis (TEG) and plasma coagulation tests. Data were compared using a three-way analysis of variance model with repeated measures on the three factors. Higher molar substitution compromised blood coagulation most (for all TEG parameters, P<0.05). The lowest C2/C6 ratio was associated with the lowest effect on blood coagulation; r (P<0.001), angle alpha (P=0.003) and coagulation index (P<0.001). No effect on k and maximum amplitude was observed (P for both >0.50). The higher molar substitution was associated with a lesser increase in PT (P=0.007) and a greater decrease in factor VIII (P=0.010). PTT, functional and antigenic von Willebrand factors were not significantly influenced by molar substitution (P for all >0.20). No significant differences between solutions with the same molar substitution but different C2/C6 ratios were found in plasma coagulation parameters (P for all >0.05). TEG analysis indicates that high molecular HES with a molar substitution of 0.42 and a C2/C6 ratio of 2.7 has the lowest effect on in vitro human blood coagulation."}
{"id": "16439128", "title": "Synthesis and stability of two indomethacin prodrugs.", "content": "Synthesis and stability of two indomethacin prodrugs. The purpose of this study was to synthesize and study the in vitro enzymatic and non-enzymatic hydrolysis of indomethacin-TEG ester and amide prodrugs. It was found that the ester conjugate 10 was comparatively stable between pH 3 and 6 (half-life>90h), with a half-life equal to 5.2h in 80% buffered plasma. In contrast, the amide conjugate 12 appeared to be stable over the entire pH range studied with the only observed degradation being cleavage of the indolic N-4-chlorobenzoyl moiety."}
{"id": "16430671", "title": "In vitro evaluation of Haemonetics MCS+ apheresis platelet concentrates treated with photochemical pathogen inactivation following plasma volume reduction using the INTERCEPT Preparation Set.", "content": "In vitro evaluation of Haemonetics MCS+ apheresis platelet concentrates treated with photochemical pathogen inactivation following plasma volume reduction using the INTERCEPT Preparation Set. Pathogen inactivation using the INTERCEPT Blood System requires platelet resuspension in InterSol and reduced plasma. Platelets in plasma collected on the Haemonetics MCS+ were processed on the INTERCEPT Preparation Set for plasma volume reduction and addition of InterSol. The use of the Preparation Set resulted in a mean platelet loss of 5.6 +/- 3.4%. Subsequent photochemical treatment (PCT) with amotosalen and ultraviolet A light, and 7 days of storage, resulted in acceptable changes for platelet swirling, lactate, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), platelet factor-4 (PF4), p-selectin, glycoprotein V (GpV), pO2, pCO2, tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin-8 (IL-8). All platelet units processed with the Preparation Set and PCT met European requirements for leucoreduction and pH values."}
{"id": "16430537", "title": "Effects of aprotinin on plasma coagulation kinetics determined by thrombelastography: role of Factor XI.", "content": "Effects of aprotinin on plasma coagulation kinetics determined by thrombelastography: role of Factor XI. Aprotinin is commonly administered in settings involving cardiopulmonary bypass and liver transplantation to decrease peri-operative bleeding. Thrombelastography has been utilized to monitor coagulation in these settings, and aprotinin delays clot initiation, presumably by inhibiting kallikrein; however, aprotinin also inhibits Factor XI (FXI), a contact system protein. Thus, it was hypothesized that celite-activated thrombelastography coagulation kin-etics would be decreased via aprotinin-mediated FXI inhibition. Citrated normal plasma and prekallikrein-deficient (<1% normal activity) plasma were exposed to 0, 200, 400 or 800 kallikrein inhibitory units (KIU)/ml (n = 6 per condition). Samples were recalcified and celite-activated in a thrombelastograph, with clot initiation (R, s) determined. To confirm contact system specificity, additional prekallikrein-deficient samples with 0 or 800 KIU/ml aprotinin were activated with tissue factor (n = 4 per condition). Exposure of celite-activated, normal plasma to aprotinin 0, 200, 400 or 800 KIU/ml resulted in R values of 167 +/- 14, 253 +/- 10, 293 +/- 22 and 349 +/- 21 s, respectively, which were significantly different from one another (P < 0.05). Exposure of celite-activated, prekallikrein-deficient plasma to aprotinin 0, 200, 400 or 800 KIU/ml resulted in R values of 366 +/- 15, 630 +/- 64, 698 +/- 46 and 850 +/- 47 s, respectively, which were significantly different from one another (P < 0.05). There were no significant differences in R values between tissue factor-activated, prekallikrein-deficient plasma samples with 0 or 800 KIU/ml aprotinin. These data support a role for the inhibition of FXI as the mechanism for aprotinin-mediated delayed contact system clot initiation determined by thrombelastography."}
{"id": "16428520", "title": "The effect of fibrinogen substitution on reversal of dilutional coagulopathy: an in vitro model.", "content": "The effect of fibrinogen substitution on reversal of dilutional coagulopathy: an in vitro model. Colloids and crystalloids are usually administered as treatment for hypovolemia in severely injured patients. However, dilution of clotting factors and platelets together with impaired fibrinogen polymerization are associated with fluid therapy and may aggravate hemorrhage, thus worsening final outcome of these patients. We investigated, in an in vitro model, whether the addition of fibrinogen to diluted blood samples can reverse dilutional coagulopathy. Blood from 5 healthy male volunteers was diluted by 60% using lactated Ringer's solution, 4% modified gelatin solution, or 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4, as well as the combination of lactated Ringer's solution with either of the 2 colloid solutions. Thereafter, aliquots of diluted blood samples were incubated with 3 different concentrations of fibrinogen (0.75, 1.5, and 3.0 mg/mL). Measurements were performed by modified thrombelastography (ROTEM; Pentapharm, Munich, Germany). After 60% dilution, clotting times increased, whereas clot firmness and fibrin polymerization decreased significantly. After administration of fibrinogen, clotting times decreased and clot firmness, as well as fibrin polymerization, increased in all diluted blood samples. The effect of in vitro fibrinogen substitution on ROTEM variables was dependent on the fibrinogen dosage and the type of solution used to dilute the blood samples."}
{"id": "16427376", "title": "High-dose recombinant factor VIIa therapy in hemophilia patients with inhibitors.", "content": "High-dose recombinant factor VIIa therapy in hemophilia patients with inhibitors. Recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa; NovoSeven, Novo Nordisk, Bagsvaerd, Denmark) is well established as an effective hemostatic agent for the management and prophylaxis of hemorrhage in hemophilia patients with inhibitors. Treatment schedules usually involve multiple bolus doses of 90 to 120 microg/kg administered every 2 to 3 hours, but recent evidence suggests that the use of higher doses might be justified. Such high-dose regimens may overcome the rapid clearance rate observed in pediatric patients, and may be more convenient for patients with poor venous access. It has been suggested that individually tailored high-dose therapies might be beneficial in selected groups of patients, although careful monitoring of such patients is advised. Thrombelastography has demonstrated considerable success in this regard, allowing accurate assessment of both hemostatic efficacy and individual response to rFVIIa. To date, no safety issues associated with high-dose rFVIIa have been identified. However, it is hoped that further research will support these favorable observations and thus contribute towards more effective dose optimization of rFVIIa in hemophilic inhibitor patients."}
{"id": "16420574", "title": "Validation of rotation thrombelastography in a model of systemic activation of fibrinolysis and coagulation in humans.", "content": "Validation of rotation thrombelastography in a model of systemic activation of fibrinolysis and coagulation in humans. Thrombelastography (TEG) is a whole blood assay to evaluate the viscoelastic properties during blood clot formation and clot lysis. Rotation thrombelastography (e.g. ROTEM) has overcome some of the limitations of classical TEG and is used as a point-of-care device in several clinical settings of coagulation disorders. Endotoxemia leads to systemic activation of the coagulation system and fibrinolysis in humans. We validated whether ROTEM is sensitive to endotoxin induced, tissue factor-triggered coagulation and fibrinolysis and if its measures correlate with biohumoral markers of coagulation and fibrinolysis. Twenty healthy male volunteers participated in this randomized placebo-controlled trial. Volunteers received either 2 ng kg(-1) National Reference Endotoxin or saline. Endotoxemia significantly shortened ROTEM clotting time (CT) by 36% (CI 0.26-0.46; P < 0.05) with a strong inverse correlation with the peak plasma levels of prothrombin fragments (F(1 + 2)) (r = -0.83, P < 0.05). Additionally, endotoxin infusion enhanced maximal lysis (ML) 3.9-fold (CI: 2.5-5.2) compared with placebo or baseline after 2 h (P < 0.05). Peak ML and peak tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) values correlated excellently (r = 0.82, P < 0.05). ROTEM parameters clot formation time and maximal clot firmness were not affected by LPS infusion, whereas platelet function analyzer (PFA-100) closure times decreased. Rotation thrombelastography (ROTEM) detects systemic changes of in vivo coagulation activation, and importantly it is a point of care device, which is sensitive to changes in fibrinolysis in humans. The ex vivo measures CT and ML correlate very well with established in vivo markers of coagulation activation (F(1 + 2)) and fibrinolysis (t-PA), respectively."}
{"id": "16413239", "title": "Recombinant human antithrombin inhibits thrombin formation and interleukin 6 release in human endotoxemia.", "content": "Recombinant human antithrombin inhibits thrombin formation and interleukin 6 release in human endotoxemia. We hypothesized that infusion of recombinant human antithrombin without concomitant heparin would have dose-dependent anticoagulant properties and potentially decrease endotoxin (lipopolysaccharide [LPS])-induced cytokine production. This was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study in parallel groups enrolling 30 healthy male volunteers. The active treatment groups received infusions of recombinant human antithrombin to increase antithrombin levels to 200% and 500% before infusion of 2 ng/kg endotoxin (LPS). Infusion of antithrombin dose-dependently decreased coagulation (P < .01 by repeated-measures ANOVA): peak levels of prothrombin fragment (1.8 nmol/L [95% confidence interval (CI), 1.3-2.3 nmol/L] in the 500% antithrombin group and 4.4 nmol/L [95% CI, 2.7-6.2 nmol/L] in the placebo group at 4 hours), thrombin antithrombin complexes (12 microg/L [95% CI, 8-16 microg/L] in the 500% antithrombin group and 34 microg/L [95% CI, 20-48 microg/L] in the placebo group at 4 hours), and D-dimer (0.2 microg/L [95% CI, 0.1-0.2 microg/L] in the 500% antithrombin group and 0.5 microg/L [95% CI, 0.4-0.7 microg/L] in the placebo group). Recombinant human antithrombin decreased peak interleukin-6 levels by 40% (222 pg/mL [95% CI, 148-295 pg/mL] and 216 pg/mL [95% CI, 112-320 pg/mL] in the 500% and 200% antithrombin groups, respectively, versus 357 pg/mL [95% CI, 241-474 pg/mL] in the placebo group; P < .001 by ANOVA). Finally, infusion of recombinant human antithrombin rapidly and transiently decreased neutrophil counts (by 19% [95% CI, 8%-30%] in the 500% antithrombin group versus 6% [95% CI, 1%-10%] in the placebo group, P = .002 by Kruskal-Wallis ANOVA) and monocyte counts (by 30% [95% CI, 16%-44%] in the 500% antithrombin group and 18% [95% CI, 9%-28%] in the 200% antithrombin group versus 8% [95% CI, 5%-20%] in the placebo group, P = .04) before LPS challenge, indicating that recombinant human antithrombin directly interacts with these leukocyte subsets. In summary, recombinant human antithrombin dose-dependently inhibited tissue factor-triggered coagulation. Effects on leukocytes and inhibition of interleukin-6 release seem to represent specific pharmacodynamic properties of recombinant human antithrombin."}
{"id": "16398518", "title": "The antithrombogenic potential of a polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane (POSS) nanocomposite.", "content": "The antithrombogenic potential of a polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane (POSS) nanocomposite. We have developed a nanocomposite using a silica nanocomposite polyhedral oligomeric silsesquioxane (POSS) and poly(carbonate-urea)urethane (PCU) for potential use in cardiovascular bypass grafts and the microvascular component of artificial capillary beds. In this study, we sought to compare its antithrombogenicity to that of conventional polymers used in vascular bypass grafts so as to improve upon current patency rates, particularly in the microvascular setting. Using atomic force microscopy (AFM) and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), surface topography and composition were studied, respectively. The ability of the nanocomposite surface to repel both proteins and platelets in vitro was assessed using thromboelastography (TEG), fibrinogen ELISA assays, antifactor Xa assays, scanning electron microscopy (SEM), and platelet adsorption tests. TEG analysis showed a significant decrease in clot strength (one-way ANOVA, p < 0.001) and increase in clot lysis (one-way ANOVA, p < 0.0001) on the nanocomposite when compared to both poly(tetrafluoroethylene) (PTFE) and PCU. ELISA assays indicate lower adsorption of fibrinogen to the nanocomposite compared to PTFE (one-way ANOVA, p < 0.01). Interestingly, increasing the concentration of POSS nanocages within these polymers was shown to proportionately inhibit factor X activity. Platelet adsorption at 120 min was also lower compared to PTFE and PCU (two-way ANOVA, p < 0.05). SEM images showed a \"speckled\" morphologic pattern with Cooper grades I platelet adsorption morphology on the nanocomposite compared to PTFE with grade IV morphology. On the basis of these results, we concluded that POSS nanocomposites possess greater thromboresistance than PTFE and PCU, making it an ideal material for the construction of both bypass grafts and microvessels."}
{"id": "16395725", "title": "Prospective randomised comparison of the COBE spectra version 6 and haemonetics MCS(+) cell separators for hematopoietic progenitor cells leucapheresis in patients with multiple myeloma.", "content": "Prospective randomised comparison of the COBE spectra version 6 and haemonetics MCS(+) cell separators for hematopoietic progenitor cells leucapheresis in patients with multiple myeloma. A randomised crossover trial of two separators was undertaken to compare the mononuclear cell, CD34(+) cell and CFU-GM yield, in patients (<61 years) with previously untreated symptomatic multiple myeloma. After first-line therapy, all patients received mobilising chemotherapy (cyclophosphamide 4 g/m(2)) and daily G-CSF. The first leucapheresis was performed on the first day the peripheral blood absolute CD34(+) cell count was > 20 cells/microl. All patients underwent 2 leucaphereses on consecutive days. The patients were randomised to undergo either the first or second leucapheresis using the COBE Spectra. The target duration of the procedure on the COBE Spectra was 2 total blood volumes, and for the Haemonetics MCS(+) it was 20 cycles with four recirculations. Between September 2003 and March 2005, 60 patients were entered in the study. COBE Spectra version 6 processed significantly larger volumes of blood than the Haemonetics MCS(+) (8,845 and 5,680 ml, respectively, P < 0.01). The absolute yield of mononuclear cells (2.1 vs. 1.5 x 10(8)/kg, P = 0.04), CFU-GM (11 vs. 3 x 10(4)/kg, P = 0.01) and CD34(+) cells (3 vs. 1.7 x 10(6)/kg, P = 0.02) were all significantly higher with the COBE Spectra version 6, as were the yields per unit volume of blood processed. In conclusion, our study shows that COBE Spectra Version 6 is faster and has a better yield than the Haemonetics MCS(+), in patients with multiple myeloma."}
{"id": "16390565", "title": "Just scratching the surface: varied coagulation effects of polymer containers on TEG variables.", "content": "Just scratching the surface: varied coagulation effects of polymer containers on TEG variables. Different types of polymer surfaces affect the activation of platelets and coagulation pathway containers depending on their surface qualities. Importantly, this could produce variability of coagulation results obtained with thrombelastographical analysis. We assessed the effects of blood storage on thrombelastograph, TEG, variables using polypropylene and polycarbonate containers. An in vitro experiment was performed, with eight volunteers in each limb. Fresh whole blood was stored in polypropylene or polycarbonate tubes prior to TEGanalysis, to assess the role of these plastics in the TEG results obtained. The polycarbonate tubes displayed slower onset of coagulation and greater variability of data for all four basic TEG variables (r-time, k-time, alpha-angle and maximum amplitude, P < 0.05). Polycarbonate results fell outside manufacturer reference ranges. It is likely that this is due to the altered surface properties and charge effects of the containers affecting proteins and platelets differently. Caution should be used in choosing which containers are used for storage of fresh blood prior to coagulation assessment, as variable results will follow where different types of plastic containers are employed."}
{"id": "16368864", "title": "TEG and perioperative hypercoagulability.", "content": "TEG and perioperative hypercoagulability."}
{"id": "16368345", "title": "Aprotinin shows both hemostatic and antithrombotic effects during off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting.", "content": "Aprotinin shows both hemostatic and antithrombotic effects during off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting. Hemostatic drugs are widely thought to be unnecessary and potentially detrimental in off-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery (OPCABG), despite well-established use in on-pump surgery. In a randomized, prospective OPCABG trial, we assessed efficacy and safety of aprotinin through a comprehensive assessment of graft patency and hematologic function. Sixty patients were randomly assigned to full-dose aprotinin or placebo. Heparin was titrated to a kaolin-based activated clotting time of greater than 300 seconds. Exclusionary criteria included creatinine greater than 2 mg/dL, conversion to on-pump CABG, and preoperative GPIIb/IIIa inhibition. Hematologic assessments were obtained preoperatively, at the end of surgery, and on days 1 and 3: mean platelet volume, thrombin generation (prothrombin fragment 1.2 assay), and aspirin resistance using a modified thrombelastography, whole blood aggregometry, 11-dehydro-thromboxane B2 levels, and flow cytometry. Thrombotic events were defined as postoperative myocardial infarction by electrocardiography or elevated troponin I, clinical stroke by examination and head computed tomography, and bypass graft failure by multichannel computed tomography angiography on day 5. Aprotinin was associated with a significant reduction in intraoperative and postoperative blood loss compared with placebo but had no effect on transfusion rates. Patients treated with aprotinin had significantly fewer thrombotic events (3% versus 23%, p < 0.05, Fisher's exact test) and less postoperative aspirin resistance (20% versus 46%, respectively, p < 0.05, Fisher's exact test). Postoperative prothrombin fragment 1.2 level was reduced by aprotinin use. Aprotinin reduced perioperative bleeding after OPCABG. Preserved aspirin sensitivity in the aprotinin group may explain the observed reduction in thrombotic events and might be related to the suppression of perioperative and transmyocardial thrombin formation."}
{"id": "16359354", "title": "Up to 21-day banked red blood cells collected by apheresis and stored for 14 days after automated wash at different times of storage.", "content": "Up to 21-day banked red blood cells collected by apheresis and stored for 14 days after automated wash at different times of storage. A closed-system technology (ACP-215, Haemonetics, Braintree, MA) enables automated washing and extended storage of frozen red blood cells (RBC). This technology was applied to wash banked RBC for removal of undesirable protein and metabolites before transfusion. We studied protein and metabolite depletion as well as RBC metabolism and viability up to 14 days postwash with regard to various pre-storage times. Thirty RBC units were collected by means of apheresis and subdivided into three arms based on prewash storage time period (6 days/group 1, 14 days/group 2, 21 days/group 3). Wash efficacy (protein depletion, IgA), RBC metabolism (pH, lactate, potassium, haemolysis) and cell viability (ATP) were analysed immediately and 14 days after washing. Total protein and IgA postwash were lowered by automated wash in all groups and uniformly met EC guidelines. Potassium (mmol/l) was below 1.2 mmol/l postwash and significantly below prewash values in all groups, even after 14 days of storage (prewash vs. postwash; P < 0.05). RBCs washed after 14 and 21 days, respectively, showed significantly lower pH values and lower ATP content than RBCs washed after only 6 days of storage. Haemolysis rate remained significantly below 0.8%, the maximum level recommended by the EC guidelines, immediately and 14 days after washing in all units. Our data confirm that RBC units banked up to 21 days can be effectively protein- and potassium-depleted with the ACP-215 independent from prewash storage time. With respect to high ATP levels and pH, postwash storage of 2 weeks should be limited to units not older than 7 days before wash. This new washing technology ensures better standardization in washed RBC and provides blood centres with a logistical alternative to 24-h washed RBC products."}
{"id": "16270349", "title": "New physically and chemically crosslinked hyaluronate (HA)-based hydrogels for cartilage repair.", "content": "New physically and chemically crosslinked hyaluronate (HA)-based hydrogels for cartilage repair. When dissolved in aqueous solutions, sodium hyaluronate substituted with low amounts of alkyl chains [amphiphilic hyaluronate (HA)] can give rise to hydrogels thanks to intermolecular reversible hydrophobic interactions, leading to a three-dimensional (3D) network. Such hydrogels possess shear-thinning properties and can thus be injected in cartilage defect to promote chondrocyte proliferation and cartilage repair. However, these hydrogels are only physically crosslinked and can progressively loose their 3D structure when they are in contact with aqueous fluids. To overcome this drawback, HA derivatives substituted with dodecyl chains were chemically crosslinked by a difunctional reagent, tetraethylene glycol ditosylate (TEG-diOTs). To preserve the shear-thinning properties of amphiphilic HA, small amounts of TEG-diOTs were used so as to obtain a low chemical crosslinking ratio. After optimization of the synthesis parameters, aqueous solutions of the HA derivatives, crosslinked both physically and chemically, were obtained, with rheological properties improved compared to the amphiphilic polymers. As the hydrogels are aimed to cartilage repair, they were sterilized by wet heating; the effect of this treatment on the polymer characteristics was analyzed by different techniques. A similar study was carried out on HA derivatives stored under conditions mimicking physiological ones."}
{"id": "16256341", "title": "Evaluation of the platelet function analyzer (PFA-100) vs. the thromboelastogram (TEG) in the parturient.", "content": "Evaluation of the platelet function analyzer (PFA-100) vs. the thromboelastogram (TEG) in the parturient. The platelet function analyzer (PFA-100) is a bedside test of coagulation designed to evaluate platelet function. It measures the time required for whole blood to occlude a membrane impregnated with either epinephrine (EPI) or adenosine 5'diphosphate (ADP). The results are reported as closure time (CT-EPI or CT-ADP) in seconds. The thromboelastogram (TEG) measures whole blood clotting and the maximum amplitude (MA) correlates with platelet count and function. We wished to establish whether there is a correlation between the CT and platelet count, between the CT and MA, and between the MA and platelet count. Platelet count, CT, and MA were measured in blood drawn from 172 healthy term parturients using the PFA-100. We were unable to detect a significant correlation between the CT-EPI and platelet count (r=-0.1, P=0.21), or the CT-ADP and platelet count (r=-0.02, P=0.83). We also did not find a correlation between the CT-EPI and MA (r=-0.13, P=0.12) or between the CT-ADP and MA (r=-0.11, P=0.19). However, we found a significant correlation between platelet count and MA (r=0.33, P<0.001). We conclude that the CT does not correlate with the platelet count or MA in the parturient, but the TEG does. Therefore the TEG may be a better tool to evaluate coagulation in the parturient with thrombocytopenia."}
{"id": "15880369", "title": "Blood component collection by apheresis.", "content": "Blood component collection by apheresis. Apheresis component collection is a rapidly growing area in the blood collection field. Several instruments with varying capabilities are available. This is a brief review of the equipment available for granulocyte and apheresis component collection and indications for their use. In the United States, granulocytes are collected with the Fenwal CS3000, Fenwal CS3000 Plus, COBE (Gambro) Spectra, Haemonetics LN9000, and Fresenius AS 104. The use of hetastarch for sedimenting agent and stimulation with G-CSF and G-CSF plus dexamethasone have substantially increased granulocyte yields. Plateletapheresis is performed in the United States on the Fenwal CS3000, Fenwal CS3000 Plus, Fenwal Amicus, COBE (Gambro) Spectra, Gambro Trima Version 4, Gambro Trima Accel (Version 5), and Haemonetics LN9000. Automated red blood cell (RBC) collections are performed with the Haemonetics MCS+LN8150, Gambro Trima Version 4, Gambro Trima Accel (Version 5), Amicus, and Baxter Alyx. The RBC can be collected concurrently (with other components) in some instruments or separately in others. Plasma is collected concurrently on several instruments. Plasmapheresis for plasma only is performed on the Fenwal Autopheresis C and Haemonetics PCS2. Granulocyte yields range from 0.46 x 10(10) to 1.0 x 10(10) for unstimulated donors and 2.1 x 10(10) to 2.6 x 10(10) for donors stimulated with dexamethasone or prednisone. The use of G-CSF and G-CSF with dexamethasone has substantially increased granulocyte yields with yields of 4.1 x 10(10) to 10.8 x 10(10) reported. Platelet collection rates of 0.045-0.115 x 10(11) plt/min have been reported. Collection efficiencies of 46-85.7% have been reported. Automated (apheresis) component collection has the advantages of controlled volumes or doses of component, efficient use of the donor, multiple components from the same donor, better inventory control, and better quality control due to less manipulation of the individual components. Disadvantages of automated component collection include the use of expensive equipment and disposables, the need for specially trained machine operators, and lower capacity to collect large volumes of blood compared to whole blood donation. The use of apheresis component collection is rapidly growing to provide the best blood components in the most efficient manner."}
{"id": "17469409", "title": "[Update on endoscopic percutaneous gastrostomy].", "content": "[Update on endoscopic percutaneous gastrostomy]. Trans-endoscopic gastrostomy (TEG), after 25 years since it's introduction, is at present the most utilized method to gain access to the upper digestive tract, to place an enteral feeding tube. There are different modalities that must be known to be able to decide which alternative is the best according to our judgment and experience. The endoscopist is one more member of a multidisciplinary team caring for the patient who must have a pro-active role in the clinical management of each case. We must not forget that a good result is based on an adequate patient selection, keeping in mind the limitations, the complications and very importantly, the final care of each procedure."}
{"id": "16707925", "title": "Comparison of textilinin-1 with aprotinin as serine protease inhibitors and as antifibrinolytic agents.", "content": "Comparison of textilinin-1 with aprotinin as serine protease inhibitors and as antifibrinolytic agents. Textilinin-1 (Q8008) was isolated from the venom of the Pseudonaja textilis and has a 47% sequence identity to the antihaemorrhagic therapeutic agent aprotinin. When equimolar concentrations of enzyme and aprotinin were pre-incubated, plasmin was inhibited 100%, plasma kallikrein 58%, and tissue kallikrein 99%. Under the same conditions, textilinin-1 inhibited plasmin 98%, plasma kallikrein 16% and tissue kallikrein 17%. Whole blood clot lysis was inhibited strongly by both aprotinin and textilinin-1, as shown by thrombelastography. At 2 microM inhibitor lysis initiated by t-PA was greater than 99% inhibited by aprotinin (LY60 = 0.4 +/- 0.1) whereas textilinin-1, inhibited lysis by 91% (LY60 = 8.9 +/- 0.7). The same trend was found with the lysis of euglobulin fractions. From these data textilinin-1 appears to be a more specific plasmin inhibitor than aprotinin but aprotinin inhibits clot lysis to a greater extent."}
{"id": "16387122", "title": "The effect of in vitro recombinant factor VIIA on coagulation parameters for blood taken during liver transplantation.", "content": "The effect of in vitro recombinant factor VIIA on coagulation parameters for blood taken during liver transplantation. Recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) has been utilized in pilot studies in orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) when administered to patients at doses of 68.37 microg/kg and 80 microg/kg. Although some effectiveness in normalizing measurements of coagulation has been demonstrated, the optimal dose for patients undergoing OLT has not been established. This study evaluated the effects of an in vitro equivalent dose of 120 microg/kg of rFVIIa on coagulation parameters when applied to the blood drawn from patients undergoing OLT. Coagulation function was assessed in 10 patients at four points during OLT. These time points were baseline, 5 minutes prior to reperfusion, 10 minutes after reperfusion, and 70 minutes after reperfusion. These patients did not receive rFVIIa perioperatively. At each of these four time points, a native sample was analyzed for prothrombin time (PT) and thromboelastogram. The rFVIIa (6.1 microg/kg or the approximate equivalent dose of 120 microg/kg for a 70 kg patient) was added to a second sample from the same patient. This second sample was also analyzed for PT and thromboelastogram. There was a statistically significant difference in baseline PT between native versus rFVIIa supplemented samples (15.8 +/- 3.21 vs 13.6 +/- 2.36 seconds, P < .02). The maximum amplitude of the thromboelastogram was larger in the native samples at 5 minutes prior to reperfusion (53.5 mm vs 39 mm, P < .02). No significant differences existed in the variables at any of the other sampling times. This study failed to demonstrate a consistent in vitro effect of rFVIIa on the blood taken from patients during OLT."}
{"id": "16374273", "title": "Systemic coagulation changes caused by pulmonary artery catheters: laboratory findings and clinical correlation.", "content": "Systemic coagulation changes caused by pulmonary artery catheters: laboratory findings and clinical correlation. A higher rate of pulmonary embolism has been associated with pulmonary artery (PA) catheters; however, no mechanism has been described. Conventional tests of coagulation reveal no changes related to PA catheterization. The purpose of this study was to determine whether PA catheterization resulted in a hypercoagulable state detectable by thrombelastography (TEG). Healthy, anesthetized, swine (n = 19) underwent PA catheterization. Samples were drawn from 7F femoral arterial catheters before and two hours after PA catheterization, at 5 mL/min, and analyzed (native whole blood, n = 15, kaolin activated blood, n = 4) by TEG (Hemoscope, Niles, IL) at precisely two minutes. Human: An IRB-approved prospective, observational trial was conducted in critically ill patients (n = 19). Samples were drawn from 22-gauge radial artery catheters, before and three hours after PA catheterization. Kaolin-activated TEG samples were analyzed at precisely five minutes. Data are mean +/- SE; Groups were compared with analysis of variance and significance was assessed at the 95% confidence interval. In both animals and patients, PA catheterization truncated R times (time to initial fibrin formation). In swine, the R times were 17.6 +/- 1.3 minutes (native) and 3.8 +/- 0.4 (kaolin) before PA catheterization, and decreased to 6.3 +/- 1.0 minutes (p = 0.002) and 1.9 +/- 0.5 minutes (p = 0.010) afterward. There were no changes in pH or temperature during the experiment. In patients, 4 of 19 were excluded for protocol violations. The R time was 6.3 +/- 1.0 minutes (kaolin) before and 3.0 +/- 0.3 minutes after catheterization (p = 0.003). No changes were observed in conventional coagulation parameters, temperature or pH. In healthy swine, and critically ill patients, PA catheters may enhance thrombin formation and fibrin polymerization, indicating a systemic hypercoagulable state. This may explain why PA catheters are associated with an increased risk of pulmonary emboli."}
{"id": "16350383", "title": "Clinical performance and biocompatibility of novel hyaluronan-based heparin-bonded extracorporeal circuits.", "content": "Clinical performance and biocompatibility of novel hyaluronan-based heparin-bonded extracorporeal circuits. We tested documented in vitro and ex vivo advantages of novel hyaluronan based heparin bonded extracorporeal circuits in a prospective randomized study. During the period from June until September 2005, 40 patients undergoing reoperation for coronary artery bypass grafting were allocated into two equal groups (n = 20): Group 1 was treated with hyaluronan-based heparin-bonded circuits and group 2 was treated with uncoated control circuits. Complete blood count, fibrinogen, albumin, C3a, interleukin-2 levels, and thromboelastographic data were documented after induction of anesthesia (T1) and heparin administration before cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) (T2), 15 minutes after initiation of CPB (T3), before cessation of CPB (T4), 15 minutes after reversal with protamine (T5), and the first postoperative day at 8:00 a.m. (T6). Hollow fibers were collected for consecutive biomaterial analysis by optical and scanning electron microscopy (SEM). Desorbed protein deposition on fibers was compared by spectrophotometry. Leukocyte counts were lower in T4-T6 in group 1 (p < .05). Platelet counts demonstrated significant differences at T4 and T5 in coated group (p < .05). Albumin and fibrinogen levels were better preserved in Group 1 at T4, T5 and T4, T6, consecutively (p < .05). C3a and IL-2 levels were lower at T3-T5 and T4-T5 in intervention group (p < .05). Postoperative hemorrhage was 412 +/- 50 mL in group 1 and 684 +/- 50 ml in group 2 (p < .05). Respiratory support time was shorter in group 1 versus control (p < .05). Platelet adhesion was significantly lower in intervention group. Amount of desorbed protein was 1.44 +/- 0.01 mg/dL in group 1 and 1.94 +/- 0.01 mg/dL in control (p < .05). SEM and spectrophotometry demonstrated better surface preservation in the hyaluronan coated group. Novel hyaluronan-based heparin-bonded circuits reduce platelet adhesion-aggregation and protein adsorption and provide better perioperative clinical parameters through platelet, albumin, and fibrinogen-sparing effects."}
{"id": "16301227", "title": "Four cases of cardiopulmonary thromboembolism during liver transplantation without the use of antifibrinolytic drugs.", "content": "Four cases of cardiopulmonary thromboembolism during liver transplantation without the use of antifibrinolytic drugs. Orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) is one of the most demanding surgical procedures performed. Intraoperative bleeding can be substantial and related to both surgical and nonsurgical causes. A less common but previously reported phenomenon is intraoperative cardiopulmonary thromboembolism precipitating major patient morbidity and mortality. In this paper, we present four cases of intraoperative thromboembolism during OLT. These cases were performed without the concomitant use of antifibrinolytic drugs. We performed a review and analysis of previously reported cases of intraoperative thromboembolism during OLT. Possible causes of thromboembolism, clinical management, use of thromboelastography, and the role of antifibrinolytic drugs are discussed."}
{"id": "16286165", "title": "Platelet reactivity in patients and recurrent events post-stenting: results of the PREPARE POST-STENTING Study.", "content": "Platelet reactivity in patients and recurrent events post-stenting: results of the PREPARE POST-STENTING Study. We investigated the relation of high ex vivo platelet reactivity, rapid fibrin generation, and high thrombin-induced clot strength to postdischarge ischemic events in patients undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). High platelet reactivity and rapid fibrin generation may affect the incidence of ischemic events after PCI. However, limited data is available to link these ex vivo markers to the occurrence of events. We measured platelet reactivity to adenosine diphosphate (ADP) by light transmittance aggregometry (LTA) in patients undergoing PCI (n = 192). Clot strength, a measure of thrombin-induced fibrin and platelet interactions, and the time to initial fibrin generation, a marker of thrombin activity, were measured by thrombelastography. The relation of these measurements to ischemic event occurrence was prospectively examined over six months. A total of 100% and 84% of patients were on aspirin and clopidogrel therapy, respectively, at the time of the initial event. Posttreatment ADP-induced aggregation by LTA (63 +/- 12% vs. 56 +/- 15%, p = 0.02) and clot strength (MA) were higher (74 +/- 5 mm vs. 65 +/- 4 mm, p < 0.001) and time to initial fibrin generation was shorter (4.3 +/- 1.3 min vs. 5.9 +/- 1.5 min, p < 0.001) in patients with events (n = 38). The event rates in the highest quartiles of LTA and MA were 32% and 58%, respectively. High platelet reactivity and clot strength, and rapid fibrin formation are novel risk factors for ischemic events after PCI. Clot strength is more predictive than ADP-induced platelet aggregation and may explain the occurrence of events despite treatment with cyclooxygenase-1 and P2Y12 inhibitors."}
{"id": "16270265", "title": "Validation of human recombinant tissue factor-activated thromboelastography on citrated whole blood from clinically healthy dogs.", "content": "Validation of human recombinant tissue factor-activated thromboelastography on citrated whole blood from clinically healthy dogs. Thromboelastography (TEG) is an analytical method that enables global assessment of hemostatic function in whole blood (WB) with evaluation of both plasma and cellular components of hemostasis. TEG has a largely unused potential in the diagnostic workup and monitoring of dogs with hemostatic disorders and it may be a valuable supplement to traditional coagulation parameters. The objective of this study was to establish a clinically applicable reference interval for a TEG assay using recombinant human tissue factor (TF) as the activator on citrated WB from clinically healthy dogs and to evaluate the stability of citrated WB stored for 30 minutes (T30) and 120 minutes (T120) at room temperature (RT). Additionally, we evaluated the analytical variation in reaction time (R), clotting time (K), angle (alpha), and maximum amplitude (MA). Blood was collected from 18 clinically healthy dogs. Duplicate TEG analyses with TF as the activator at a concentration of 1:50,000 were performed on canine citrated WB at T30 and T120. R, K, a, and MAwere analyzed. Mean TEG values at T30/T120 were R = 5.61/4.91 minutes, K = 4.20/3.34 minutes, alpha = 45.33/50.90 degrees , and MA = 47.96/50.19 mm. Significant differences in these values were observed after storage for T30 and T120 at RT, with a tendency towards hypercoagulability at T120. The mean coefficients of variation were low. Canine citrated WB can be used for TEG analysis with human recombinant TF as the activator when stored at RT for T30 or T120. At both time points, the analytical variation was low, suggesting that TEG analysis may be of value in evaluating dogs with hemostatic disorders. A fixed time point should be chosen for serial measurements."}
{"id": "16269937", "title": "An evaluation of the procoagulant action of recombinant activated factor VII in cord whole blood versus adult whole blood using thromboelastography.", "content": "An evaluation of the procoagulant action of recombinant activated factor VII in cord whole blood versus adult whole blood using thromboelastography. Recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) has been reported to be effective in adult patients in various clinical situations and might be beneficial in neonates with bleeding tendency. In the present study we compared the procoagulant action of increasing amounts of rFVIIa in both cord whole blood and adult whole blood with respect to changes in the values of the clotting time, clot formation time, and maximum clot firmness by means of thromboelastography. Thromboelastography allows evaluation of the effects of rFVIIa on haemostasis in whole blood. When increasing amounts of rFVIIa were added in vitro to whole blood samples, significant decreases in the values of the clotting time and clot formation time and a significant increase in the maximum clot firmness were observed. Cord whole blood was significantly more sensitive to rFVIIa addition than adult whole blood, an effect probably attributable to the low anticoagulant capacity of the neonatal plasma. Maximum clot firmness values were significantly lower in cord whole blood than in adult whole blood, an effect mainly attributable to the hypofunctional state of neonatal platelets. Since cord whole blood exerted a significantly higher sensitivity to addition of rFVIIa, we speculate that lower doses of rFVIIa might be required to treat neonates with bleeding tendency compared with the adult rFVIIa administration strategy."}
{"id": "16256872", "title": "Overestimation of platelet aspirin resistance detection by thrombelastograph platelet mapping and validation by conventional aggregometry using arachidonic acid stimulation.", "content": "Overestimation of platelet aspirin resistance detection by thrombelastograph platelet mapping and validation by conventional aggregometry using arachidonic acid stimulation. This study sought to determine the prevalence of platelet aspirin resistance using methods that directly indicate the degree of platelet cyclooxygenase inhibition. Aspirin resistance in platelets may be overestimated by nonspecific laboratory measurements that do not isolate cyclooxygenase activity. Arachidonic acid (AA)-induced light-transmittance platelet aggregation (LTA) and thrombelastography (TEG) platelet mapping were performed on the blood of healthy subjects (n = 6) before and 24 h after receiving 325 mg aspirin, and on 223 patients reporting compliance with long-term daily aspirin treatment (n = 203 undergoing percutaneous intervention [PCI] and n = 20 with a history of stent thrombosis). Aspirin resistance was defined as >20% aggregation by LTA or >50% aggregation by TEG. In healthy subjects, AA-induced aggregation by LTA was 82 +/- 10% before and 2 +/- 1% at 24 h after aspirin (p < 0.001), and aggregation by TEG was 86 +/- 14% before and 5 +/- 7% at 24 h after aspirin (p < 0.001). In compliant patients, AA-induced aggregation by LTA was 3 +/- 2% before PCI and 3 +/- 2% after PCI (p = NS), and aggregation by TEG was 5 +/- 9% before PCI and 6 +/- 14% after PCI (p = NS). Seven PCI patients were noncompliant, and all were aspirin sensitive after in-hospital aspirin treatment. Among 223 patients, only one patient ( approximately 0.4%) was resistant to aspirin treatment. Platelet aspirin resistance assessed by methods that directly indicate inhibition of cyclooxygenase is rare in compliant patients with coronary artery disease."}
{"id": "16250863", "title": "Strategic leukofiltration in cardiac surgery.", "content": "Strategic leukofiltration in cardiac surgery. Systemic inflammatory response syndrome (SIRS) with activation of molecular cascades, cell activation, accumulation of interstitial fluid, organ dysfunction and, occasionally, organ failure is still a commonly recognized consequence of cardiac surgery. SIRS leads to costly complications and several strategies intended to ameliorate the symptoms that have been studied, including leukocyte reduction, using filtration. Although, the body of work suggests that leukoreduction attenuates SIRS, discrepancies remain within the literature. The recent literature is reviewed highlighting the areas where concordance is lacking. In our study, on the basis of indirect indicators of SIRS, platelet function by thromboelastography biomaterial evaluation by light and scanning electron microscopy, we present our conclusions regarding clinical outcomes and the role of leukofiltration."}
{"id": "16241949", "title": "Urokinase induced fibrinolysis in thromboelastography: a model for studying fibrinolysis and coagulation in whole blood.", "content": "Urokinase induced fibrinolysis in thromboelastography: a model for studying fibrinolysis and coagulation in whole blood. The contact system (CS) proteins, factor XII and prekallikrein are thought to have roles in blood coagulation and fibrinolysis. Recent research has suggested that the CS proteins might be more important in fibrinolysis and cell function than in coagulation. Most studies on fibrinolysis have used plasma or euglobulin assays, ignoring the influence of cellular elements of blood on the fibrinolytic process. In order to study both coagulation and fibrinolysis in whole blood (WB), we have developed a thromboelastography (TEG) assay to investigate both coagulation and fibrinolysis in the same blood sample. In this assay, named urokinase (UK) induced fibrinolysis in thromboelastography (UKIFTEG), TEG is performed on recalcified citrated WB in the presence of UK. Large variations in Ly60 (percentage lysis 60 min after clot formation) were obtained between different donors with the same UK concentration. The UKIFTEG assay was therefore performed using UK concentrations that gave Ly60 values in the approximate range of 20-40%. The effect of CS activation was investigated in the presence or absence of celite (10 mg mL(-1) blood). Celite shortened the clotting time (CT), and increased Ly60 values. Factor XIIa (FXIIa) and plasma kallikrein (KK) produced concentration dependent reductions in CT (significant at concentrations of 1303 and 2600 ng mL(-1) blood, respectively) and increased Ly60 values (significant at concentrations of 652 and 1300 ng mL(-1) blood, respectively). Our results show that CS activation and both FXIIa and KK produce reductions in clotting time and enhanced fibrinolysis in UKIFTEG."}
{"id": "16229690", "title": "Effect of amniotic fluid on coagulation and platelet function in pregnancy: an evaluation using thromboelastography.", "content": "Effect of amniotic fluid on coagulation and platelet function in pregnancy: an evaluation using thromboelastography. Amniotic fluid embolism is a rare obstetric complication. The exact pathogenesis of this syndrome remains unknown and significant controversy exists whether coagulopathy should always be present. We used thromboelastography to assess the effect of amniotic fluid on coagulation and platelet function in pregnant women. Different volumes of amniotic fluid (10-60 microl) were added to blood (330 microl) from pregnant women and thromboelastography variables determined. There were three important findings. R time, reflecting time to first clot formation, was significantly decreased with the addition of 10 microl amniotic fluid; platelet function, as determined by Reopro-TEG technique, was increased with the addition of 30 microl of amniotic fluid; and there was no evidence of fibrinolysis in any samples studied. In conclusion, our study substantiates the hypothesis that coagulation profile changes are invariable accompaniments of amniotic fluid embolism."}
{"id": "16221315", "title": "Mechanistic implications for the use and monitoring of recombinant activated factor VII in trauma.", "content": "Mechanistic implications for the use and monitoring of recombinant activated factor VII in trauma. As interest in the use of activated recombinant factor VII (rFVIIa) in trauma grows, questions arise regarding how best to monitor rFVIIa therapy and when rFVIIa may be expected to improve hemostasis. Knowledge of the mechanisms of action may be combined with available data on laboratory monitoring and efficacy in various coagulopathic states in coming to clinically relevant conclusions. This review addresses the physiology of hemostasis, placing emphasis on how rFVIIa influences the process by both tissue factor dependent and tissue factor independent mechanisms. This is extended to a mechanistic consideration of how rFVIIa may function under acidotic, hypothermic, and hemodilutional and/or consumptive conditions of trauma related coagulopathy. When these considerations are viewed alongside the available clinical data, it becomes apparent that rFVIIa has potential to improve hemostasis during trauma coagulopathy, within limitations. Common laboratory procedures are discussed with reference to mechanisms of action of rFVIIa and the available clinical data. Although there is no single assay that can predict rFVIIa efficacy in trauma, the prothrombin time (PT) is recommended as a minimum. Although a shortened PT does not predict success, correction of PT into the normal range may be a better indicator. A nonresponding PT appears to indicate that rFVIIa alone will not lead to hemostasis, and that additional blood products and other measures must be applied. Once the patient is more stable, PT and thromboelastography are recommended."}
{"id": "16220719", "title": "Reducing bioaerosol dispersion from wastewater treatment and its land application: a review and analysis.", "content": "Reducing bioaerosol dispersion from wastewater treatment and its land application: a review and analysis. Wastewater treatment systems and spray irrigation of treated water may spread microorganisms such as bacteria and viruses through dispersion of aerosol particles. A recent review (Brooks, Josephson, Gerba, & Pepper, 2004) identifies appropriate reports. Teltsch and co-authors report findings that suggest effective management controls involve providing buffer zones, irrigating in the daytime and in times of low humidity, reducing microorganism levels in water used for spraying, and testing for multiple types of viruses and bacteria (Teltsch & Katzenelson, 1978; Teltsch, Shuval, & Tadmor, 1980; Teltsch, Kedmi, Bonnet, Borenzstajn-Rotem, & Katzenelson, 1980). Camann, Moore, Harding, and Sorber support these findings. They also note that fecal streptococci are hardier than fecal coliform and appear frequently in background samples, suggesting that this bacterium is a better indicator of background and downwind conditions than are fecal coliform bacteria. In their study, storage prior to spray irrigation reduced microorganism concentrations by 99 percent. Downwind concentrations of sprayed reservoir water were often comparable to background values (Camann, Moore, Harding, & Sorber, 1988). Italian researchers (Brandi, Sisti, & Amagliani, 2000; Carducci, Gemelli, Cantiani, Casini, & Rovini, 1999; Carducci et al., 2000) confirm variable die-away rates of microorganisms, observe a positive association between fecal streptococci and the presence of viruses, and recommend consideration of submerged aeration for sludge digestion at sewage treatment plants. No reports are available that measure dispersion of bioaerosols from wastewater consistently treated to meet contemporary disinfection standards."}
{"id": "16219042", "title": "Tailoring haemostatic treatment to patient requirements - an update on monitoring haemostatic response using thrombelastography.", "content": "Tailoring haemostatic treatment to patient requirements - an update on monitoring haemostatic response using thrombelastography. Currently, there is no single haemostasis laboratory test that has the capacity to accurately illustrate the clinical effects of procoagulant or anticoagulant interventions. Although the time course of thrombin generation in plasma and the endogenous thrombin potential (ETP) may be useful coagulation parameters, clotting involves components other than thrombin (e.g. platelets, fibrinogen). The continuous coagulation profiles of thrombelastography may provide a more accurate reflection of in vivo biology, covering initiation, development and final clot strength during whole blood clot formation. This method has helped to clarify the mechanism of action of whole blood clot formation, demonstrating the differences from clotting in plasma, and the importance of platelets and tissue factor titrations. It has also been used to investigate hypocoagulation (in haemophilia A, rare coagulation disorders, anticoagulant therapy and dilutional coagulopathy), hypercoagulation and the ex vivo testing of haemostatic interventions. Thrombelastography has been shown to reflect the clinical efficacy of activated prothrombin complex concentrate (aPCC) and recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) in patients with haemophilia A with inhibitors and in patients with acquired haemophilia. Overall, tailoring laboratory assays to illustrate and correlate with clinical phenotypes is essential for effective coagulation monitoring. Applying an algorithm of preoperative, perioperative and postoperative tests, including thrombelastography, may enable physicians to achieve this."}
{"id": "16209984", "title": "Can N-acetylcysteine reverse the antiplatelet effects of clopidogrel? An in vivo and vitro study.", "content": "Can N-acetylcysteine reverse the antiplatelet effects of clopidogrel? An in vivo and vitro study. The active metabolite of clopidogrel binds the P2Y12 ADP receptor on the platelet surface via a disulfide bond. N-Acetylcysteine (NAC) is able to reduce disulfide bonds. We postulated that NAC might reverse clopidogrel's effect on platelets. Two groups of patients were investigated. Group 1 included 11 patients with stable coronary disease who, after discontinuation of aspirin, received 14 days of clopidogrel, 75 mg/day. Bleeding time and whole-blood platelet aggregometry (with 5 micromol/L ADP) were compared before and after the 14 days. Patients were then treated with 6 g of NAC orally, followed by repeat measurement of bleeding time and aggregometry. In group 2, 14 patients were treated with clopidogrel (300 mg) and aspirin before a percutaneous coronary intervention. Blood was drawn 22 +/- 3 hours later and divided into 2 samples. One was sent immediately for platelet-rich plasma aggregometry (using 5 and 2 micromol/L ADP, collagen, and arachidonic acid as agonists), thromboelastography, and aggregometry using the Plateletworks assay (Helena Laboratories, Beaumont, Tex). The other sample was treated with NAC (500 mg/L), after which these same platelet function tests were performed. In group 1, NAC therapy did not significantly change the bleeding time or results of aggregometry. In group 2, neither aggregometry nor the Plateletworks assay suggested reversal of inhibition by NAC. These studies reveal that a large dose of NAC does not reduce inhibition of platelet aggregation by clopidogrel in vitro or in vivo."}
{"id": "16194210", "title": "Inhibition of thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor augments fibrinolysis in human whole blood.", "content": "Inhibition of thrombin activatable fibrinolysis inhibitor augments fibrinolysis in human whole blood."}
{"id": "16183679", "title": "Activated recombinant factor VII after cardiopulmonary bypass reduces allogeneic transfusion in complex non-coronary cardiac surgery: randomized double-blind placebo-controlled pilot study.", "content": "Activated recombinant factor VII after cardiopulmonary bypass reduces allogeneic transfusion in complex non-coronary cardiac surgery: randomized double-blind placebo-controlled pilot study. Receiving an allogeneic transfusion may be an independent predictor of mortality for patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Furthermore, these patients utilize 15% of all donated blood in the UK. In our unit, 80% of patients undergoing complex non-coronary cardiac surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) receive an allogeneic transfusion. Activated recombinant FVII (rFVIIa) may be effective in reducing this need for transfusion. Twenty patients undergoing complex cardiac surgery were randomized to receive rFVIIa or placebo after CPB and reversal of heparin. Two patients in the rFVIIa group received 13 units of allogeneic red cells and coagulation products compared with eight patients receiving 105 units of allogeneic red cells and coagulation products in the placebo group (relative risk of any transfusion 0.26; confidence interval 0.07-0.9; P=0.037). The groups did not differ for adverse events. Despite major limitations (underpowered study and prone to type I error), we have shown that rFVIIa significantly reduces the need for allogeneic transfusion in complex non-coronary cardiac surgery without causing adverse events."}
{"id": "16181213", "title": "Automation of the glycerolization of red blood cells with the high-separation bowl in the Haemonetics ACP 215 instrument.", "content": "Automation of the glycerolization of red blood cells with the high-separation bowl in the Haemonetics ACP 215 instrument. The FDA has approved a closed-system red blood cell (RBC) glycerolization procedure with the ACP 215 (Haemonetics), which requires a centrifuge to prepare RBCs before and after glycerolization. In the study reported here, the Haemonetics high-separation bowl was evaluated in an attempt to automate these two concentration steps. Ten units of nonleukoreduced citrate phosphate dextrose (CPD)-anticoagulated whole blood were stored at 4 degrees C for 2 to 6 days before glycerolization and freezing as nonrejuvenated RBCs. Twenty-five units of nonleukoreduced CPD whole blood were stored at 4 degrees C for 2 to 8 days and then biochemically treated with a solution containing pyruvate, inosine, phosphate, and adenine (PIPA) before glycerolization and freezing as indated-rejuvenated RBC. Twenty units of leukoreduced CPD and AS-1 RBCs were stored at 4 degrees C for a mean of 48 days and treated with PIPA solution before glycerolization and freezing as outdated-rejuvenated RBCs. The glycerolized RBCs were frozen for at least 2 weeks at -80 degrees C, deglycerolized in the Haemonetics ACP 215 with the 325-mL bowl, and stored in AS-3 at 4 degrees C for 21 days. It took approximately 50 minutes to glycerolize the nonrejuvenated and rejuvenated RBCs. After freezing, deglycerolization, and postwash storage at 4 degrees C in AS-3 for 2 weeks, the quality was similar to that of RBCs processed by the current FDA-approved method. Processing time and need for technical expertise were significantly reduced with the completely automated functionally closed glycerolization procedure with the high-separation bowl in the Haemonetics ACP 215 instrument."}
{"id": "16171667", "title": "The effect of clonidine on perioperative blood coagulation.", "content": "The effect of clonidine on perioperative blood coagulation. To evaluate the influence of perioperative stress protection by clonidine on blood coagulation. Prospective, randomized, double-blinded, placebo-controlled clinical trial. University hospital. 50 patients scheduled for elective gynecoabdominal surgery. Patients were randomly assigned to control (placebo) or clonidine group (single intravenous clonidine dose; 4 microg/kg(-1) or 3 microg/kg(-1) for age >65 years). Three measurement time points were defined: before administration of placebo/clonidine and anesthesia induction, (t1; baseline measurement); after surgery, before emergence of anesthesia (t2); and at the first postoperative day, 24 hours after anesthesia induction (t3). Blood coagulation was analyzed at all time points measuring international normalized ratio, platelets, thrombin-antithrombin complex, von Willebrand factor, soluble thrombomodulin, d-dimers, plasminogen activator inhibitor 1, and Thrombelastograph analysis. In the postoperative period (t2, t3), hypercoagulability was present in all patients compared with baseline measurements (t1) but without differences between the control and clonidine group. Regarding hematologic, laboratory blood coagulation, and Thrombelastograph parameters, there was no statistically and clinically relevant difference throughout the study period between the 2 groups. No hemodynamic adverse events of clonidine were observed in the perioperative period. Until day of discharge, no thrombotic or thromboembolic events were reported in both groups. Preoperative administration of a single dose of clonidine has no effect on perioperative blood coagulation."}
{"id": "16166907", "title": "Locoregional anesthesia and coagulation.", "content": "Locoregional anesthesia and coagulation. The introduction of low molecolar weith heparin (LMWE) and the strong antithromboembolic prophylaxis protocols used in the USA, underlined the risk of spinal hemorrhage in patients receveing a neuraxial blockade. On the other side, the efficacy of these techniques over general anesthesia doesn't allow the anesthesist to miss this pratice, where possible. So it's necessary to quantify the spinal hematoma risk in patients assuming these drugs. Unfortunately, routine investigations on coagulation factors and platelets count are not reliable if patients are receiving LMWE. Waiting for dynamic tests concerning the coagulative status such as thromboelastography (TEG), many hospitals follow many different guidelines. For these reasons peripherical nerve block techniques are a good alternative, since they are not influenced by the efficacy of the coagulation system."}
{"id": "16154736", "title": "Thromboelastography should be available in every labour ward.", "content": "Thromboelastography should be available in every labour ward."}
{"id": "16154347", "title": "Thromboelastography should be available in every labour ward.", "content": "Thromboelastography should be available in every labour ward."}
{"id": "16149021", "title": "Perioperative monitoring of primary and secondary hemostasis in coronary artery bypass grafting.", "content": "Perioperative monitoring of primary and secondary hemostasis in coronary artery bypass grafting. On-pump cardiac surgery is accompanied by complex alterations of hemostasis. The excessive postoperative bleeding has been attributed to acquired platelet dysfunction, impaired plasmatic coagulation, and increased fibrinolysis. The characterization of the hemostatic defects responsible for bleeding is crucial for specific treatment and optimal clinical management of the patient. For rapid determination of platelet-dependent primary hemostatic capacity (PHC), the Platelet Function Analyzer PFA-100 system is available. To evaluate the PFA performance in perioperative monitoring, a study was performed in 49 patients selected for low bleeding risk undergoing selective primary coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). We compared PHC with Simplate bleeding time (BT) and platelet aggregometry. Furthermore, we analyzed global hemostasis by thromboelastography (TEG) and plasmatic coagulation by standard clotting tests prothrombin time (PT, Quick), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), thrombin time (TT) and clotting factors and fibrinolysis by batroxobin (reptilase) time (RT). In all patients BT was postoperatively increased by 1.5- to 2-fold irrespective of perioperative complications and decreased to mildly prolonged values on the first postoperative day (1st day). In patients without complications, PHC in both collagen-adenosine diphosphate closure time (CADP-CT: 83 seconds preop, 78 seconds postop, and 74 seconds 1st day) and collagen-epinephrine closure time (CEPI-CT: 98 seconds preop, 95 seconds postop, 85 seconds 1st day) remained nearly stable. Apart from a patient with postoperative moderate thrombocytopenia, in bleeding patients no other significant defect of postoperative platelet hemostatic capacity was observed. However, on 1st day, the PHC of those patients was significantly reduced compared with non-bleeding patients. In patients with postoperative myocardial ischemia, increased PHC was identified by significantly shorter postoperative CADP-CT (66 seconds vs. 83 seconds) than in uncomplicated patients. By aggregometry, partial platelet dysfunction was observed in some patients without correlation to bleeding complications. In seven of 9 patients the postoperative bleeding complication was attributed to prolonged heparin anticoagulation and/or mildly enhanced fibrinogenolysis/fibrinolysis by TEG and standard plasmatic coagulation tests (TEG: k time 18 minutes vs. 8 minutes; aPTT: 47 seconds vs. 32 seconds; TT: 18.0 seconds vs. 12.3 seconds) and (RT: 19.5 seconds vs. 17.7 seconds). The impairment of PHC, platelet aggregation, and clotting factors observed on the 1st day in bleeding and in intra-aortic balloon pump (IABP) patients are most likely secondary effects, for example, loss of active platelets and clotting factors, to the primary postoperative bleeding or implantation of the IABP. In conclusion, our data indicate that in standard CABG procedures highly variable alterations of the hemostatic system occur after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) even in patients with assumed low operative risks. For identification of post-CPB bleeding complications, thromboelastography, aPTT, and TT and heparin and batroxobin (reptilase) time as fibrinolysis-sensitive assays are useful. Platelet function appears to be rapidly restored in uncomplicated CABG. PHC determination by PFA-100 demonstrates a high specificity for adequate platelet function and, therefore, could be beneficial in improved transfusion of platelet concentrates. PHC testing by PFA-100 may help identify postoperative platelet hyper-reactivity associated with myocardial lesion."}
{"id": "16146462", "title": "Effects of PentaLyte and Voluven hemodilution on plasma coagulation kinetics in the rabbit: role of thrombin-fibrinogen and factor XIII-fibrin polymer interactions.", "content": "Effects of PentaLyte and Voluven hemodilution on plasma coagulation kinetics in the rabbit: role of thrombin-fibrinogen and factor XIII-fibrin polymer interactions. Hydroxyethyl starch (HES) administration has resulted in decreased hemostasis and fibrinogen (FI)-thrombin-(FIIa)-Factor XIII (FXIII) interactions. I proposed to determine the hemostatic effect of hemodilution with PentaLyte (6% HES, mean molecular weight 220 kDa) and Voluven (6% HES, 130 kDa). Rabbits were intravenously administered 20 ml/kg PentaLyte or Voluven (n = 8 per fluid) over 10 min. Plasma was obtained prior to, 1 min and 1 h after hemodilution. Thrombelastography was performed, with clot initiation (R, sec), clot propagation (alpha, degrees), and clot strength (shear elastic modulus, G, dynes/cm2) determined over 20 min. Celite-activated samples had either no additions or addition of FI, FIIa or activated FXIII (FXIIIa) to restore protein content to pre-diluted values. While there were no significant differences between the groups, R significantly decreased 1 h after hemodilution compared with values observed before and 1 min after hemodilution, whereas alpha and G significantly decreased 1 min after hemodilution and then significantly, but only partially, increased 1 h after hemodilution compared with pre-dilution values. Addition of FI, FIIa and FXIIIa significantly decreased R in both groups. alpha and G 1 min after hemodilution were significantly enhanced by FI, FIIa, FXIIIa in both groups; however, 1 h after hemodilution, rabbits administered PentaLyte had alpha and G enhanced only by FI and FXIIIa addition, whereas animals administered Voluven had alpha and G significantly enhanced by FI addition. PentaLyte and Voluven hemodilution initially diminishes FIIa-FI and FXIIIa-fibrin, but within an hour primarily inhibit FXIIIa-fibrin interactions in the rabbit."}
{"id": "16146184", "title": "[Intensive Naikan therapy for generalized anxiety disorder and panic disorder: clinical outcomes and background].", "content": "[Intensive Naikan therapy for generalized anxiety disorder and panic disorder: clinical outcomes and background]. Intensive Naikan therapy (INT) is used to treat irrational recognition, and to develop awareness of others and self-reflection. Several reports have also shown that INT is effective for treating anxiety disorders. The purpose of the present systematic study was to investigate the factors contributing to the efficacy and clinical outcomes of INT by assessing the background, psychological evolution, and treatment required after such therapy. Twenty-eight anxiety disorder inpatients at Tottori University Hospital, 15 with general anxiety disorders (GAD) and 13 with panic disorders (PD), were treated with INT. Age, sex, duration of the present anxiety episode, and diagnosis were investigated. The Tokyo University Egogram (TEG), Yatabe-Guilford personality inventory (YG test) and Rosenzweig picture frustration (PF) study were conducted before and after INT to investigate psychological changes. The long-term efficacy of INT for PD and GAD was assessed with Global Assessment of Functioning (GAF). Whether the patients achieved awareness of others, awareness of egocentricity, feelings of love, and self reflection after INT were investigated. 1) All patients showed improved GAF; the average GAF score increased from 51 +/- 8 (before Naikan therapy) to 83.2 +/- 15 (after therapy). The clinical outcomes of INT were as follows: 17 patients showed extremely effective results (60.7%), 6 were effective (21.4%), 3 were slightly effective (10.7%), and 2 were unchanged (7.1%). Overall, 23 patients (82.1%) showed remarkable improvements as a result of INT (improved group) and 5 showed no remarkable improvements (not improved group). 2) The improved group included significantly more patients with obsessive tendencies or nervous personalities such as a premorbid personality. In addition, significantly more of the patients in this group underwent daily INT and improved more rapidly in the short-term. 3) According to the STAI (state trait anxiety inventory), both state-(S-anxiety), and trait-anxiety (T-anxiety) significantly decreased after INT. The PD group showed significantly reduced S and T-anxiety, but the GAD group only showed significantly reduced T-anxiety. The adult (A) and free child (FC) TEG scales significantly increased, and according to YG, nervousness (N) and depression (D) significantly decreased while general activity (G) and social extraversion (S) significantly increased. Furthermore, according to the PF study, extraggression (E -A) after INT significantly decreased and imaggression (I-A) significantly increased. In the improved group, significantly more patients became more aware of their partners (Naikan) and achieved an objective outlook, awareness of egocentricity, feelings of love and self-reflection after INT. Our results suggest that INT for PD and GAD is extremely effective, and a very important form of psychotherapy. Attainment of self-reflection caused psychological changes that motivated the patients to continue Naikan therapy daily. We consider this a key factor in maintaining the efficacy of INT."}
{"id": "16134089", "title": "In vitro biological performances of phosphorylcholine-grafted ePTFE prostheses through RFGD plasma techniques.", "content": "In vitro biological performances of phosphorylcholine-grafted ePTFE prostheses through RFGD plasma techniques. Arterial prostheses made of microporous Teflon (ePTFE) are currently used in vascular surgery as bypasses for small and medium vessels. However, several clinical complications, such as thrombosis, frequently occur in these prostheses when implanted in humans. In this work, an original strategy was developed to improve the hemocompatibility of ePTFE prostheses, based on glow-discharge surface modification followed by chemical grafting of phosphorylcholine, known for its hemocompatible properties. This procedure leads to a covalent attachment of the molecules, therefore preventing their removal by shear stress induced by blood flow at the implant wall. The improvement of the blood compatibility properties of the modified ePTFE arterial prostheses have been investigated by in vitro tests such as thromboelastography, neutrophil adsorption, platelet aggregation, and cell cultures. These in vitro tests put in evidence that thrombogenicity index, platelet aggregation, and neutrophil adhesion were decreased by the molecule grafted on the prostheses. Moreover, the cell growth on the surface of the PRC-grafted prostheses was greatly enhanced in comparison to the virgin prosthesis. Based on these results, it could be concluded that PRC grafting on ePTFE prostheses permit to improve in vitro hemocompatibility and biocompatibility in comparison with their virgin counterpart."}
{"id": "16130064", "title": "An in vitro study comparing the effects of Hextend, Hespan, normal saline, and lactated ringer's solution on thrombelastography and the activated partial thromboplastin time.", "content": "An in vitro study comparing the effects of Hextend, Hespan, normal saline, and lactated ringer's solution on thrombelastography and the activated partial thromboplastin time. The purpose of this study was to determine if 6% HES 450/0.7 (hydroxyethyl starch 450/0.7) in normal saline (Hespan) and 6% HES 450/0.7 in lactated Ringer's solution (Hextend) have the same inhibition of the intrinsic coagulation pathway and platelet function. Multiple studies have suggested that 6% Hespan inhibits coagulation and increases chest tube drainage and transfusion requirements in cardiac surgical patients. There have been few studies of the effects of 6% Hextend, a relatively new plasma volume expander, on coagulation and the results thus far have been mixed. A prospective in vitro study. A large academic medical center. Blood was collected from 30 healthy volunteers. Interventions : The blood was fractionated and diluted by 30% with Hextend, Hespan, normal saline, and lactated Ringer's solutions, with a native sample for a control. Primary outcome measures were thromboelastography and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT). For each of the TEG parameters, there was no difference between samples diluted with Hextend compared with Hespan (p > or = 0.112 in all cases). APTT did not differ significantly between samples diluted with Hextend compared with Hespan (p = 0.562). This prospective in vitro study suggests that Hextend and Hespan, hydroxyethyl starch 450/0.7 in different base solutions, exhibit the same effect on platelet function as measured by the TEG."}
{"id": "16122555", "title": "Purification and characterization of a new anticoagulant protein, PP27, from placenta.", "content": "Purification and characterization of a new anticoagulant protein, PP27, from placenta. It has long been known that water extracts of placenta hominis (Jahage in Korean) are effective for treating immunological and vascular diseases and is a major constituent of traditional oriental medicines. We report herein on the isolation and purification of a new type of anticoagulant protein, PP27, from human placenta. PP27 ran as a single band on SDS-PAGE with a molecular mass (Mr) of 27 kDa under denaturing conditions and chromatography on a calibrated Sepharose 4B column indicated a molecular mass of 23 kDa, a value that is similar to those of other PP4 enzymes reported to date. The isoelectric point of PP27 was pI 5.2. PP27, at doses higher than 10 microg/ml, inhibited platelet activating factor (PAF)-induced platelet activation in a dose-dependent manner. The protein was found to inhibit the coagulation time in a concentration-dependent manner. PP27, which acts as a vascular anticoagulant of annexin type, inhibits the blood clotting process by virtue of its binding of essential lipids, which is dependent on the presence of Ca2+ ions. In the presence of Ca2+ ions, PP27 combines with platelet membranes and neutralizes their procoagulant effect. Coagulation, triggered by the addition of thromboplastin/lipid mixtures, is extinguished by PP27."}
{"id": "16117453", "title": "Partial bowls using the Haemonetics Cell Saver 5: does it produce a quality product?", "content": "Partial bowls using the Haemonetics Cell Saver 5: does it produce a quality product? Controversy still exists on the validity of processing a partial bowl during the collection of shed blood lost through surgery during cell salvaging. The purpose of this study was to assess the quality of red blood cells produced from a partial bowl of autologous suctioned blood using the Haemonetics Cell Saver 5. Suctioned blood was collected from 17 patients undergoing cardiac surgery. A partially filled cell saver bowl was washed with 1500 mL of NaCl. Reservoir and processed blood samples were examined for potassium, leukocytes, hematocrit, platelets, and plasma-free hemoglobin and then compared with 22 previously studied full bowls. Results are summarized in the table below: In conclusion, the Haemonetics Cell Saver 5 can produce a quality product from washing a partial bowl with a better washout of white blood cells compared with a full bowl. However, there is a reduction in red blood cell recovery."}
{"id": "16102110", "title": "Evaluation of the profile of thrombin generation during the process of whole blood clotting as assessed by thrombelastography.", "content": "Evaluation of the profile of thrombin generation during the process of whole blood clotting as assessed by thrombelastography. The objective of this study was to evaluate the possibility of linking the tracing of whole blood clotting in a thrombelastograph (TEG) hemostasis system with the generation of thrombin assessed by thrombin/antithrombin complex (TAT). Citrated whole blood containing corn trypsin inhibitor from volunteers was clotted in the presence of CaCl2 and tissue factor. Clotting was monitored with the eight channels of a TEG system. At different time points, the whole blood TEG reaction cups were kept in a cold quenching solution, centrifuged, and the supernatants were kept at -80 degrees C until assayed for TAT by ELISA. The total thrombus generation (TTG) was calculated from the first derivative of the TEG waveform and was compared with thrombin generation measured by TAT. The two vector values--the TAT thrombin generation data and the corresponding TEG TTG--were analyzed using Pearson correlation coefficients (r) and linear, non-linear and natural log (ln) transformation of TAT values for least-squares goodness-of-fit curves. The best least-squares fit is an exponential curve. Linearizing using the ln of the TAT thrombin generation variable produces the same r (0.94) as of the exponential curve. The prediction equation is y = 8.0465 + 0.0005x (P < or = 0.0001), where y is the TAT thrombin generation variable in the ln transformation and x is the TEG TTG variable. The high magnitude of r and the high significance of the prediction equation demonstrate the high efficacy of the prediction of TAT thrombin generation by the use of TEG TTG."}
{"id": "16095459", "title": "Colloids decrease clot propagation and strength: role of factor XIII-fibrin polymer and thrombin-fibrinogen interactions.", "content": "Colloids decrease clot propagation and strength: role of factor XIII-fibrin polymer and thrombin-fibrinogen interactions. Colloid-mediated hypocoagulability is clinically important, but the mechanisms responsible for coagulopathy have been incompletely defined. Thus, my goal was to elucidate how colloids decrease plasma coagulation function. Plasma was diluted 0% or 40% with 0.9% NaCl, three different hydroxyethyl starches (HES, mean molecular weight 450, 220 or 130 kDa), or 5% human albumin. Samples (n=6 per condition) were activated with celite, and diluted samples had either no additions or addition of fibrinogen (FI), thrombin (FIIa) or activated Factor XIII (FXIIIa) to restore protein function to prediluted values. Thrombelastographic variables measured included clot propagation (angle, alpha), and clot strength (amplitude, A; or shear elastic modulus, G). Dilution with 0.9% NaCl significantly decreased alpha, A and G-values compared to undiluted samples. Supplementation with FI, but not FIIa or FXIIIa, resulted in 0.9% NaCl-diluted thrombelastographic variable values not different from those of undiluted samples. FI supplementation of HES 450, HES 220, HES 130 and albumin-diluted samples only partially restored alpha, A and G-values compared to undiluted samples. FIIa addition only improved clot propagation and strength in albumin-diluted samples. FXIIIa supplementation improved propagation in samples diluted with HES 450, HES 220 and albumin, and clot strength improved in HES 450 and albumin-diluted plasma. Considered as a whole, these data support compromise of FIIa-FI and FXIIIa--fibrin polymer interactions as the mechanisms by which colloids compromise plasma coagulation. Investigation to determine if clinical enhancement of FXIII activity and/or FI concentration (e.g. fresh-frozen plasma, cryoprecipitate) can attenuate colloid-mediated decreases in hemostasis is warranted."}
{"id": "16078928", "title": "A randomized crossover trial comparing three plateletpheresis machines.", "content": "A randomized crossover trial comparing three plateletpheresis machines. The aim of the study was to compare three different apheresis machines with the same donors regarding the processing time required to obtain a 3.5 x 10(11) platelet (PLT) dose and acceptance by donors. A randomized crossover trial was performed to evaluate the differences between the Amicus Crescendo (Baxter Biotech Corp.), the MCS Plus (Haemonetics Corp.), and the Trima Accel (Gambro BCT). Donations from 51 donors were compared for time adjusted to obtain a standard 3.5 x 10(11) PLT dose (TSD3.5), efficiency, adverse reactions, yield, leukodepletion, machine accuracy, and donor preferences. Processing times were measured by chronometer. The same vein access was used during all three processes in each donor. In the statistical analysis, to take into account the nonindependence of several measurements from the same donor, generalized estimating equations were used with an autoregressive correlation matrix. The Accel produced a TSD3.5 (mean +/- SEM) of 47.9 +/- 1.0 min; the Amicus, 60.3 +/- 1.0 min; and the MCS Plus, 66.7 +/- 1.0 (p < 0.0001). The Amicus presented the greatest efficiency (87.5%; p < 0.0028). The MCS Plus demonstrated the highest capacity for leukodepletion (p < 0.0002) despite one process presenting more than 1 x 10(6) white blood cells per unit. The MCS Plus also measured the processing time with the greatest accuracy. No severe adverse effects were observed. The donors preferred the Accel (61%) followed by the Amicus (35%) and the MCS Plus (4%; p < 0.0001) and the processing speed was the most highly valued measure (55%). The Accel is the fastest and, because of this advantage, the machine preferred by donors. The Amicus was the most efficient and the MCS Plus was the only one not to underestimate the processing time."}
{"id": "16038171", "title": "[Evaluation of the OrthoPAT autologous transfusion system by experimental models simulating intra- and postoperative blood salvage].", "content": "[Evaluation of the OrthoPAT autologous transfusion system by experimental models simulating intra- and postoperative blood salvage]. To evaluate the efficacy of the OrthoPAT (Haemonetics) system for blood salvage and for removing chemical or cellular debris, by experimental models simulating intra- and postoperative conditions. Blood samples (20%-25% packed red cells) were prepared for the intraoperative model (n=8) and the postoperative model (n=22). Surgical compresses were soaked in some samples (n=5). Other samples were supplemented with hemolyzed blood (n=7). From others cytokines were removed and blood activated with bacterial liposaccharides (n=10) was added. The samples were analyzed before and after processing; tests included detection of free plasma hemoglobin (FPH), potassium ions (K+), glutamic oxalic transaminase (GOT), lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), proteins, and cytokines. In the intraoperative model 2935 (SD 260) mL of blood was processed. The concentration of packed red cells was 63% and 80% of the red cells were recovered. In the postoperative model 652 (35) mL was processed, the packed red cell concentration was 67% and 81% of the red cells were recovered. Reductions were observed in the concentrations of white blood cells (72%), platelets (88%), GOT and LDH (75%), and proteins and K+ (>95%). Fifty percent of the red cells were recovered in the surgical compresses model. In the hemolysis model, the K+ and FPH concentrations were reduced more than 95%. In the cytokine model, up to 90% of the interleukin 1beta, interleukin 6, and tumor necrosis factor content was removed from the activated blood samples. These findings suggest that the OrthoPAT system washes blood and salvages content effectively, recovering 80% of red cells. Moreover, its processing capacity (800-1000 mL x h(-1)) seems adequate for blood replacement in orthopedic surgery."}
{"id": "16037156", "title": "A prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the platelet and global hemostatic effects of Ganoderma lucidum (Ling-Zhi) in healthy volunteers.", "content": "A prospective, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study of the platelet and global hemostatic effects of Ganoderma lucidum (Ling-Zhi) in healthy volunteers. Ganoderma lucidum is a Chinese herbal medicine popular with cancer patients. Previous in vitro studies suggested that Ganoderma lucidum might impair hemostasis. In this prospective, randomized double-blind study, healthy volunteers received orally Ganoderma lucidum capsules 1.5 g (n = 20) or placebo (n = 20) daily for 4 wk. We monitored subjects before drug administration and at 4 and 8 wk thereafter by routine coagulation screen, fibrinogen concentration, von Willebrand ristocetin cofactor activity, platelet function analyzer PFA-100, and thrombelastography. There were no significant between-group differences and all measurements remained within the normal range. Ganoderma lucidum ingestion over 4 wk was not associated with impairment of hemostasis. Ingestion of Ganoderma lucidum does not cause impairment of hemostatic function in healthy volunteers, despite earlier in vitro reports that it may cause platelet inhibition and may have other antithrombotic and fibrinolytic activity. The use of Ganoderma lucidum preoperatively is unlikely to increase the risk of surgical bleeding in otherwise healthy patients."}
{"id": "16025089", "title": "A Thrombelastograph whole blood assay for clinical monitoring of NSAID-insensitive transcellular platelet activation by arachidonic acid.", "content": "A Thrombelastograph whole blood assay for clinical monitoring of NSAID-insensitive transcellular platelet activation by arachidonic acid. Optical platelet aggregation (OPA) with platelet-rich plasma (PRP) was compared with a Thrombelastograph (TEG) whole blood assay for monitoring arachidonic acid (AA)-induced platelet activation. Assays were performed on 47 interventional cardiology and 24 general surgery patients receiving aspirin therapy for cardiovascular disease, as well as 48 volunteers asked to take nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) or 12 volunteers on chronic NSAID therapy unrelated to diagnosed cardiovascular disease. Whole blood TEG monitoring of NSAID inhibition detected NSAID-insensitive AA activation of platelets in a significantly higher number of cardiology (23%) and surgery (25%) patients and normal volunteers on chronic NSAID (25%) therapy relative to normal subjects not on chronic NSAID therapy (0%). Whole blood NSAID insensitivity was observed with cyclooxygenase-I inhibitors, such as aspirin and ibuprofen; was not affected by Celebrex, a cyclooxygenase-II inhibitor; but was completely inhibited by thromboxane-receptor antagonists. This was not due to platelet NSAID insensitivity, because complete inhibition of AA-activation responses in PRP was observed with either TEG or OPA assays. We confirmed that thromboxane B(2) formation in PRP from NSAID-insensitive subjects was completely inhibited by NSAIDs. However, significant amounts were formed in whole blood from NSAID-insensitive subjects, but not in whole blood from NSAID-sensitive subjects. Thromboxane formation after AA addition was not found in washed blood cells with 90% reduced platelet counts or in leukocyte-rich buffy coat fractions, but could be restored by addition of PRP. NSAID-insensitive activation was inhibited by nordihydroguaiaretic acid, with an IC(50) of 30 micromol, implicating 12- and/or 15-lipoxygenases in this transcellular pathway."}
{"id": "16024582", "title": "Effects of protamine and heparin can be detected and easily differentiated by modified thrombelastography (Rotem): an in vitro study.", "content": "Effects of protamine and heparin can be detected and easily differentiated by modified thrombelastography (Rotem): an in vitro study. Precise coagulation monitoring might help prevent heparin-protamine mismatch and thus decrease postoperative blood loss. We therefore measured coagulation time (CT) by modified thrombelastography (Rotem) as a possible differential monitor of the effects of heparin and protamine. Undiluted and diluted blood samples from 26 healthy volunteers were spiked with increasing concentrations of heparin (0.1, 0.2, 0.4, 0.8 and 1 U ml(-1)). In addition, undiluted blood was spiked with protamine hydrochloride (0.1, 0.2, 0.4, 0.8 and 1.6 U ml(-1)), and we tested the effect of protamine on the reversal of heparin 0.4 U ml(-1). Heparin-containing samples were analysed using the heparin-sensitive INTEM test and the heparinase-containing HEPTEM test; protamine series were also analysed with the EXTEM test (tissue factor activation). CT by the INTEM test [CT-INTEM; median (min/max)] increased significantly and dose-dependently with increasing concentrations of heparin [control, 175 s (146/226); heparin, 1.0 U ml(-1) 1320 s (559/2100); P<0.001] and protamine [control, 172 s (150/255); protamine, 1.6 U ml(-1) 527 s (300/1345); P<0.0001]. Up to heparin concentrations of 0.4 U ml(-1), results were similar in undiluted and diluted blood samples. As expected, CT-HEPTEM remained within the normal range for all tested heparin concentrations (median 180-183 s), but increased similarly to CT-INTEM for increasing protamine concentrations. CT measurement using the Rotem technique appears to be a valuable tool for heparin-protamine management. For detection of heparin alone, protamine alone and the two combined, the ratio of CT-INTEM:CT-HEPTEM can be used to distinguish the effects of heparin excess (CT-INTEM:CT-HEPTEM>1) from those of protamine excess (CT-INTEM:CT-HEPTEM=1)."}
{"id": "15999036", "title": "Safety, efficacy, and cost of intraoperative cell salvage and autotransfusion after off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery: a randomized trial.", "content": "Safety, efficacy, and cost of intraoperative cell salvage and autotransfusion after off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery: a randomized trial. We evaluated, in a randomized controlled trial, the safety and effectiveness of intraoperative cell salvage and autotransfusion of washed salvaged red blood cells after first-time coronary artery bypass grafting performed on the beating heart. Sixty-one patients undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting surgery were prospectively randomized to autotransfusion (n = 30; receiving autotransfused washed blood from intraoperative cell salvage) or control (n = 31; receiving homologous blood only as blood-replacement therapy). Homologous blood was given according to unit protocols. The groups were well matched with respect to demographic and comorbid characteristics. Patients in the autotransfusion group had a significantly higher 24-hour postoperative hemoglobin concentration (11.9 g/dL; SD, 1.41 g/dL) than those in the control group (10.5 g/dL; SD, 1.37 g/dL) (mean difference, 1.02 g/dL; 95% confidence interval, 1.60-0.44 g/dL; P = .0007), as well as a 20% reduction in the frequency of homologous blood product use (11/31 vs 5/30; P = .095). Autotransfusion of washed red blood cells was not associated with any derangement of thromboelastograph values or laboratory measures of clotting pathway function (prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, and fibrinogen levels), increased postoperative bleeding, fluid requirements, or adverse clinical events. There was no statistical difference between groups in the total operation, hospitalization, and management costs per patient (median difference, USD 1015.90; 95% confidence interval, -USD 2260 to USD 206; P = .11). Conclusions Intraoperative cell salvage and autotransfusion was associated with higher postoperative hemoglobin concentrations, a modest reduction in transfusion requirements, no adverse clinical or coagulopathic effects, and no significant increase in cost compared with controls. This study supports its routine use in off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting surgery."}
{"id": "15998538", "title": "Biological performances of collagen-based scaffolds for vascular tissue engineering.", "content": "Biological performances of collagen-based scaffolds for vascular tissue engineering. Collagen is widely used for biomedical applications and it could represent a valid alternative scaffold material for vascular tissue engineering. In this work, reconstituted collagen films were prepared from neutralized acid-soluble solutions for subsequent haemocompatibility and cell viability performance assays. First, haemoglobin-free, thrombelastography and platelet adhesion tests were performed in order to investigate the blood contact performance. Secondly, specimens were seeded with endothelial cells and smooth muscle cells, and cell viability tests were carried out by MTT and SEM. Results show that neutralized acid-soluble type I collagen films do not enhance blood coagulation, do not alter normal viscoelastic properties of blood and slightly activate platelet adhesion and aggregation. Cell culture shows that the samples are adequate substrates to support the adhesion and proliferation of endothelial and smooth muscle cells."}
{"id": "15981443", "title": "von Willebrand disease: a laboratory approach.", "content": "von Willebrand disease: a laboratory approach. von Willebrand disease (VWD) is a common inherited bleeding disorder. Accurate diagnosis and classification of VWD is crucial for clinical management. A detailed clinical history, including that of bleeding, is required. A family and drug history are also important. Genetic factors such as blood group, and environmental factors such as stress, trauma, pregnancy and inflammation should also be considered. The age, ethnic group and hormonal status could also affect the von Willebrand factor (VWF) levels. No single test is robust enough to detect all variants of VWD. In view of the heterogeneity of the disease and limitations in assays, a battery of tests should be performed before a final diagnosis can be reached. These include the screening coagulation tests, factor VIII:C assay, VWF antigen assay, assessment of functional VWF which includes VWF ristocetin cofactor assays, VWF collagen binding assay, ristocetin-induced platelet aggregation and VWF multimer analysis. The newer ELISA techniques based on VWF binding with factor VIII glycoprotein (Gp) 1b and cerebrosides have also helped in determining certain unusual forms of VWD. The advent of new systems such as platelet function analysers (PFA), thromboelastography (TEG) and clot signature analysers (CSA), which are designed to assess either the primary platelet function or as a global haemostasis screen, have facilitated and simplified the diagnosis. However, few centres all over the world can perform all these expensive tests to provide a final diagnosis of VWD. We reviewed the laboratory investigations required for a diagnosis of VWD. Apart from congenital VWD, the possibility of acquired VWD should be considered in those with a negative past history of bleeding or in the presence of an underlying disease."}
{"id": "15976759", "title": "Comparison of modified Thrombelastograph and Plateletworks whole blood assays to optical platelet aggregation for monitoring reversal of clopidogrel inhibition in elective surgery patients.", "content": "Comparison of modified Thrombelastograph and Plateletworks whole blood assays to optical platelet aggregation for monitoring reversal of clopidogrel inhibition in elective surgery patients. Clinically monitoring recovery from clopidogrel and nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) inhibition requires whole blood assays corresponding to a standard methodology such as platelet-rich plasma aggregation monitored optically (OPA). We compared OPA, using an ED 50 dose of adenosine diphosphate activation, with 2 whole blood assays, Plateletworks (PWA) and modified Thrombelastograph (TEG). Two sets of assays were performed on 43 surgery patients while on clopidogrel and off clopidogrel to determine the reversal of absolute and relative inhibition. The modified TEG had Spearman correlations with OPA for absolute (rho = .424; P = .006) and relative inhibition (rho = .742; P < .0001). PWA correlations with OPA gave absolute (rho = .28; P = .08) and relative inhibition (rho = .46; P = .004) values. Bland-Altman analysis indicated agreement of both tests with OPA, showing constant biases of about 18% and some dependency on mean magnitude error. Cohen effect size thresholds defined nonresponders as < 7.7% clopidogrel inhibition relative to baseline recovery of full platelet function. Apparent nonresponse to clopidogrel or lack of platelet recovery did not correlate with statin or NSAID therapies. These PWA and modified TEG whole blood assays could prove useful for monitoring the reversal of clopidogrel and NSAID inhibition before surgery. More important, these assays done at baseline and after beginning clopidogrel therapy could monitor the effectiveness for the individual patients with cardiovascular disease and help identify the need for alternative therapies."}
{"id": "15976201", "title": "A comparison of transfusion requirements between living donation and cadaveric donation liver transplantation: relationship to model of end-stage liver disease score and baseline coagulation status.", "content": "A comparison of transfusion requirements between living donation and cadaveric donation liver transplantation: relationship to model of end-stage liver disease score and baseline coagulation status. The use of living donation is an important option for patients in need of liver transplant. We retrospectively reviewed the preoperative Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) score, baseline coagulation laboratory results, and intraoperative transfusion of red blood cells and component therapy for 27 living donation transplants and 69 cadaveric donation transplants during a 3-yr period (2001-2004). Patients undergoing living donation transplantation had significantly lower MELD scores and preserved coagulation function compared with cadaveric donation transplantation recipients (P < 0.001). The living donation transplant patients also received significantly fewer transfusions of red blood cells and component therapy compared with the cadaveric donation transplant patients (P < 0.001). For the combined population of both cadaveric donation transplant and living donation transplant patients, there were significant associations between MELD score and preoperative coagulation tests (P < 0.001) and intraoperative transfusion of blood and component therapy. MELD score and preoperative fibrinogen concentration were identified as independent predictors of transfusion exposure. In conclusion, we detected significant differences in severity of disease at time of transplantation, degree of impairment of coagulation function, and need for transfusion of red blood cells and component therapy between patients undergoing living donation transplantation compared with patients undergoing cadaveric donation transplantation."}
{"id": "15970714", "title": "Antithrombin efficiency is maintained in vitro in human plasma following dilution with hydroxyethyl starches.", "content": "Antithrombin efficiency is maintained in vitro in human plasma following dilution with hydroxyethyl starches. Hemodilution has been associated with changes in hemostasis secondary to modulation of procoagulant activity. However, direct effects of specific fluids on anticoagulants, such as antithrombin (AT), remained undefined. Thus, the purpose of this investigation was to determine whether hemodilution with hydroxyethyl starches (HES) directly diminishes plasma AT activity, which would be manifested by decreases in clot initiation time (reaction time, R) with thrombelastography greater than that seen with 0.9% NaCl (NS). Normal plasma and AT-deficient (<1% activity) plasma were diluted 0 or 30% with NS, Hextend (6% HES; average molecular weight, 450 kDa), PentaLyte (6% HES; average molecular weight, 220 kDa), or Voluven (6% HES; average molecular weight, 130 kDa) (n=6-7 experiments per condition). Undiluted, normal plasma had an R value of 796+/-65 s, which was significantly (P<0.05) greater than R values following NS (690+/-50 s) or Voluven (675+/-68 s) dilution. R values of normal plasma diluted with Hextend (831+/-51 s) or PentaLyte (801+/-72 s) were not different from undiluted plasma but were significantly (P<0.05) greater than those observed following NS or Voluven dilution. There were no significant differences between the conditions when AT-deficient plasma was utilized (R range, 404-440 s). Rather than interfere with AT activity, HES with an average molecular weight of 220-450 kDa maintain AT efficiency."}
{"id": "15933879", "title": "[High dose fibrinogen administration for acute therapy of coagulopathy during massive perioperative transfusion].", "content": "[High dose fibrinogen administration for acute therapy of coagulopathy during massive perioperative transfusion]. During acute and severe perioperative bleeding a coagulopathy due to depletion, consumption and dilution of clotting factors and thrombocytes may occur. Diagnosis and therapy of such a coagulopathy should take place immediately. We report two cases of acute coagulopathy during perioperative bleeding and massive transfusion, which were treated successfully by administration of high dose fibrinogen concentrate. Diagnosis and treatment control were performed by thrombelastography."}
{"id": "15922540", "title": "[Manageability and potential for haemostasis monitoring by near-patient modified thromboelastometer (Rotem) in intensive care unit].", "content": "[Manageability and potential for haemostasis monitoring by near-patient modified thromboelastometer (Rotem) in intensive care unit]. Preliminary assessment of a rotary thromboelastometer (Rotem) in the haemostasis monitoring in ICU. Prospective, open. The device: the Rotem is a rotary thromboelastometer, which measures continuously and retranscribes numerically viscoelastic properties of a clot after an in vitro haemostasis activation. 83 patients with various haemostasis disorders that 122 blood samples have been subjected to a double analysis: extemporaneous by Rotem and at the laboratory for conventional haemostasis tests (aPTT, PT, fibrinogen, platelets). We assessed Rotem's manipulation duration, time for the first results. We compared Rotem variables with conventional haemostasis parameters and haemostasis diagnosis with each method. Mean Rotem manipulation duration was measured at 2 minutes 51 seconds+/-1 minute 48 seconds and time for results at 13+/-6 minutes. Plasma fibrinogen level was strongly correlated with the kinetic of clot formation (CFT) and the maximun clot firmness (MCF) measured by Rotem (R>0.7, coefficient of Pearson). Platelets were strongly correlated with MCF. The PT and aPTT had a weak correlation with Rotem parameters (R< or =0.53). The diagnosis concordance between the two techniques was good with a pondered kappa coefficient measured at 0.68. Hypocoagulability thromboelastographic profile with Rotem was in agreement with conventional parameters diagnosis in 92 percent of cases. Hypercoagulability thromboelastographic profile was associated with a significant increase of conventional parameters (supranormal value in 78%). Normal thromboelastography profile was associated with normal conventional parameters in 49%. Different reagents used on several simultaneous tests specified the thromboelastographic diagnosis. A diagnostic algorithm showed the interest of the Rotem for the prediction of conventional test results. Rotem is an easy manipulation device whose concordant and rapid results allow its emergency use in the framework of haemorrhagic situations. It also allows an approach of hypercoagulability states so that the therapeutic implication remains to evaluate. The Rotem offers a dynamic multifactorial approach on total blood of haemostasis that is what makes it a prime aid of haemostasis monitoring, in complement of usual analytic haemostasis evaluation."}
{"id": "15921879", "title": "[Thromboelastography: one step forward?].", "content": "[Thromboelastography: one step forward?]."}
{"id": "15920213", "title": "The effects of platelet count on clot retraction and tissue plasminogen activator-induced fibrinolysis on thrombelastography.", "content": "The effects of platelet count on clot retraction and tissue plasminogen activator-induced fibrinolysis on thrombelastography. Clot retraction and fibrinolysis may present as a decrease in amplitude on thrombelastography (TEG). The former represents normal or hyperactive platelet function, and the latter represents a fibrinolytic state. It is important to distinguish clot retraction from fibrinolysis because the treatment of each condition is different. To distinguish between these phenomena, we performed TEG with platelet-poor plasma (PPP) and platelet-rich plasma (PRP) with an increasing platelet count (range, 50-1200 x 10(9)/L) with or without abciximab. Maximum amplitude (MA) and the percentage decrease of amplitude at 30 and 60 min after MA were examined for each sample. Blood samples to which tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) was added served as positive controls for fibrinolysis. Morphological changes of clots and D-dimer levels were also examined. With higher platelet counts, the percentage decrease of amplitude after MA increased significantly at 30 and 60 min, but not in the abciximab samples. Morphological changes of clots have shown clot retraction in PRP, but not in PPP or PRP pretreated with abciximab. D-dimer levels increased only in samples to which tPA was added, but not in native PPP or PRP samples. In conclusion, we have shown that the decrease in amplitude at 30 and 60 min can be due to platelet-mediated clot retraction and can be attenuated by sample pretreatment with abciximab, which interrupts platelet-fibrin(ogen) binding."}
{"id": "15920177", "title": "Thromboelastography maximum amplitude predicts postoperative thrombotic complications including myocardial infarction.", "content": "Thromboelastography maximum amplitude predicts postoperative thrombotic complications including myocardial infarction. Postoperative thrombotic complications increase hospital length of stay and health care costs. Given the potential for thrombotic complications to result from hypercoagulable states, we sought to determine whether postoperative blood analysis using thromboelastography could predict the occurrence of thrombotic complications, including myocardial infarction (MI). We prospectively enrolled 240 patients undergoing a wide variety of surgical procedures. A cardiac risk score was assigned to each patient using the established revised Goldman risk index. Thromboelastography was performed immediately after surgery and maximum amplitude (MA), representing clot strength, was determined. Postoperative thrombotic complications requiring confirmation by a diagnostic test were assessed by a blinded observer. Ten patients (4.2%) suffered a total of 12 postoperative thrombotic complications. The incidence of thrombotic complications with increased MA (8 of 95 = 8.4%) was significantly (P = 0.0157) more frequent than that of patients with MA < or =68 (2 of 145 = 1.4%). Furthermore, the percentage suffering postoperative MI in the increased MA group (6 of 95 = 6.3%) was significantly larger than that in the MA < or =68 group (0 of 145 = 0%) (P = 0.0035). In a multivariate analysis, increased MA (P = 0.013; odds ratio, 1.16; 95% confidence interval, 1.03-1.20) and Goldman risk score (P = 0.046; odds ratio, 2.39; 95% confidence interval, 1.02-5.61) both independently predicted postoperative MI. A postoperative hypercoagulable state as determined by thromboelastography is associated with postoperative thrombotic complications, including MI, in a diverse group of surgical patients."}
{"id": "15919298", "title": "Disruption of graft endothelium correlates with early failure after off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery.", "content": "Disruption of graft endothelium correlates with early failure after off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery. Saphenous vein graft failure after coronary artery bypass surgery may be as high as 5% to 10% in the first postoperative week. We hypothesized that identifying damage sustained by saphenous vein endothelium before grafting predicts early graft attrition after off-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Intraoperative graft flow, platelet function, and endothelial integrity were analyzed in 125 patients undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery. Endothelial integrity was assessed in an excess vein segment from each graft using immunohistochemistry (CD31 staining). Platelet function was monitored just before and immediately after revascularization and on postoperative days 1 and 3 using whole blood aggregometry, thrombelastography, and platelet activated clotting time. Platelet activation was monitored using flow cytometry. Intraoperative conduit blood flow, measured by transit time ultrasonography, was used to detect and rectify anastomotic problems. Early graft patency was determined on postoperative day 5 using gated multichannel computed tomography angiography. In 106 patients undergoing postoperative computed tomography evaluation, 10 vein grafts in 10 patients were discovered to have developed early thrombosis, representing 4% (10 of 217) of all vein grafts. Endothelial integrity was 10.75% +/- 17.56% in 10 grafts that failed early compared with 51.45% +/- 36.29% in patent grafts (p = 0.04). Perioperative platelet function and graft flow did not differ significantly between the two groups. Although endothelial disruption predicts early failure of bypass grafts, the importance of a hypercoaguable state and low graft flow as a cause of early graft thrombosis after off-pump coronary artery bypass graft surgery was not supported by our preliminary results. A means to assess, prevent, and treat intraoperative vein graft damage will likely improve early graft patency."}
{"id": "15918449", "title": "Coagulation management of a patient with factor V Leiden mutation, lupus anticoagulant, and activated protein C resistance: a case report.", "content": "Coagulation management of a patient with factor V Leiden mutation, lupus anticoagulant, and activated protein C resistance: a case report. Although patients undergoing cardiac surgery often present with diverse comorbidities, those with coagulation derangements are especially challenging. The present report describes the management of a patient who presented with a Factor V Leiden mutation, lupus anticoagulant, and acquired activated protein C resistance. A 42-year-old female presented with acute shortness of breath and chest pain. She was otherwise healthy 1 month prior to admission when she presented with dysfunctional uterine bleeding, resulting in the transfusion of three units of packed red blood cells. Coagulation evaluation revealed that the patient had lupus anticoagulant, factor V Leiden mutation and an activated protein C resistance. The patient presented with an acute myocardial infarction and was found to have 90% stenosis of her left main coronary artery, moderate mitral and tricuspid regurgitation, and a left ventricular ejection fraction of 25%. An emergent off-pump coronary artery bypass procedure with placement of a vein graft to the left anterior descending artery was completed. Intraoperative thrombophilia was encountered as evidenced by both an elevated thromboelastograph coagulation index (+3.6) and an acquired antithrombin-III deficiency. Postoperatively, the patient was placed on low molecular weight heparin, but developed heparin-induced thrombocytopenia and was switched to a direct thrombin inhibitor, argatroban. The following case report describes the coagulation management of this patient from the time of admission to discharge 43 days later, and the unique challenges this combination of hemostatic defects present to the clinicians."}
{"id": "15916786", "title": "Oncospheral peptide-based ELISAs as potential seroepidemiological tools for Taenia solium cysticercosis/neurocysticercosis in Venezuela.", "content": "Oncospheral peptide-based ELISAs as potential seroepidemiological tools for Taenia solium cysticercosis/neurocysticercosis in Venezuela. This study evaluates five synthetic peptides derived from four, potentially protective, Taenia saginata oncosphere molecules for the serodiagnosis of T. solium cysticercosis/neurocysticercosis in three distinct Venezuelan endemic regions. The peptides, all of which have been described previously, are designated HP6-3, Ts45W-1, Ts45W-5, Ts45S-10 and TEG-1. In clinically verified and seropositive hospital cases, combining the results of three of the individual peptide-based ELISAs (HP6-3, Ts45W-1 and Ts45W-5) afforded the best balance between sensitivity (85%) and specificity (83.5%), a significant improvement on the 63.6% specificity obtained with the routinely employed T. solium cyst-fluid-based ELISA. Similarly, in the seropositive Venezuelan endemic zone samples, 89.09% of Amerindians, 77.27% of symptomatic rural subjects and 67.83% of non-symptomatic rural subjects were also classed as seropositive by the combined peptide-based ELISAs. The profile of antibody recognition to individual peptides varied between the different groups of samples examined. The relevance of the above findings for the serology and prognosis of T. solium cysticercosis/neurocysticercosis in hospital- and field-based situations is discussed."}
{"id": "15913424", "title": "Thromboelastographic and hemostatic characteristics in pediatric patients with sickle cell disease.", "content": "Thromboelastographic and hemostatic characteristics in pediatric patients with sickle cell disease. Patients with sickle cell disease suffer from a variety of vaso-occlusive events that may be related to activation of the hemostatic system. Thromboelastography assesses the functionality of this system from a global standpoint and has demonstrated some utility in detecting hypercoagulable states in varied clinical settings, but it has not been systematically evaluated in patients with sickle cell disease. To characterize the findings of thromboelastography in patients with sickle cell disease during periods of steady state and illness, to compare these results with those of healthy controls, and to correlate these profiles with other measured hemostatic parameters. In this cross-sectional study, we obtained thromboelastographic and other hemostatic data on specimens from 46 patients with sickle cell disease (35 with hemoglobin SS, 7 with hemoglobin SC, and 4 with hemoglobin S-beta thalassemia) and 20 healthy race-matched controls. Data were obtained from patients with sickle cell disease at baseline conditions (n = 41) and in the setting of acute illness (n = 5). Patients with hemoglobin SS had lower reaction time and higher angle, maximum amplitude, and coagulation index values on thromboelastography than the control group. Hemoglobin SC patients had higher angle, maximum amplitude, and coagulation index values than controls. Hemoglobin S-beta thalassemia patients showed no significant differences compared with controls. Five hemoglobin SS patients with recent or current illness demonstrated increased maximum amplitude and coagulation index compared with hemoglobin SS patients at baseline conditions. Patients with sickle cell disease demonstrated a significant hypercoagulable state in thromboelastography profiles, with the degree of abnormality dependent on the type of sickle cell disease and perhaps the presence of acute illness. Continued follow-up of this patient cohort, as well as further study of larger and more homogeneous patient groups, is required to adequately assess the utility of thromboelastography in predicting complications of sickle cell disease."}
{"id": "15892080", "title": "Quality systems in automated plateletpheresis in hospital-based blood transfusion service in north India.", "content": "Quality systems in automated plateletpheresis in hospital-based blood transfusion service in north India. The issues of providing quality blood products and maintaining donor safety are primary aims of blood transfusion services. A comprehensive quality system should be in place to fulfill these aims, which can be attained through strict adherence to the established standard operating procedures (SOPs). The Drugs and Cosmetics Act of India, which controls the licensing of blood transfusion services, does not provide clear guidelines regarding plateletpheresis procedure. We, therefore, established our own SOP and operational flow chart for plateletpheresis that can be easily followed by other centers in India. A total of 100 plateletpheresis procedures performed using two cell separators (CS3000 Baxter Healthcare, Round Lake, IL; MCS3p, Haemonetics Corporation, Braintree, MA) were evaluated following our established SOP. The mean platelet yield in CS3000 was 2.9 +/- 0.84 x 10(11) and in MCS3p it was 2.88 +/- 0.75 x 10(11)per unit. However, only 4-7% of SDPs showed WBC levels <5 x 10(6) due to lack of appropriate methods to quantitate residual WBC counts. Six of 100 donors complained of hypocalcemic symptoms. The operational flow chart designed in this study was found to be simple and easy to adapt by blood transfusion services in this country."}
{"id": "15888356", "title": "Thromboelastographic study of the effect of manipulation of central veins on coagulability of venous blood.", "content": "Thromboelastographic study of the effect of manipulation of central veins on coagulability of venous blood. To measure whole blood coagulability in vitro using thromboelastography before and after direct and indirect manipulation of the internal jugular and subclavian veins. We studied 10 patients (American Society of Anaesthesiologists (ASA) grades I or II) with malignant disease of the head and neck who were having selective neck dissections. We excluded patients with diabetes, those who were being given any anticoagulant, those who were actively infected, and those with known coagulopathy. We took 3 ml samples of venous blood during insertion of a peripheral cannula, after insertion of a central venous cannula, and after dissection of the internal jugular vein. Thromboelastography was done on recalcified citrated samples within 1h of sampling. The variables r, k, alpha angle, and maximum amplitude were recorded at each point and the values before and after manipulation were compared using t-tests. The only change was seen in the variable r, which showed an insignificant increase in coagulability."}
{"id": "15879994", "title": "Thromboelastography: a means to transfusion reduction.", "content": "Thromboelastography: a means to transfusion reduction. Consider using thromboelastography to improve care outcomes for cardiac surgery patients."}
{"id": "15877645", "title": "Does washing swabs increase the efficiency of red cell recovery by cell salvage in aortic surgery?", "content": "Does washing swabs increase the efficiency of red cell recovery by cell salvage in aortic surgery? We investigated the contribution of swab washing to the efficiency of red cell recovery by intraoperative cell salvage (ICS) in 10 patients undergoing elective aortic aneurysm repair. Volumes and haemoglobin (Hb) concentrations were recorded in the blood recovered by direct suction and from washed swabs, both before and after processing with a Haemonetics Cell Saver 5. The mean +/- standard deviation (SD) estimated blood loss was 991 +/- 403 ml, resulting in a mean +/- SD salvaged RBC volume of 380 +/- 124 ml. The median [interquartile (IQR) range] Hb collected from suction was 84.9 (61.8-131.4) g, of which 50.1 (45-71.5) g was returned to the patient after processing, a median yield of 68 (49-77)%. The swab wash produced a median (IQR) Hb of 39.4 (28.4-64.9) g, of which 26.2 (16.8-31) g was reinfused, a 67 (33-98)% yield. Swab wash thus contributed with a median (IQR) of 31 (24-39)% of the total RBC recovery. Washing swabs improves the efficiency of red cell recovery by ICS."}
{"id": "15870552", "title": "Multi-centre investigation on reference ranges for ROTEM thromboelastometry.", "content": "Multi-centre investigation on reference ranges for ROTEM thromboelastometry. Reagent-supported thromboelastometry (TEM) with the ROTEM Whole Blood Haemostasis Analyser is an enhancement of thromboelastography, a method that is increasingly used for the point of care monitoring of acute perioperative bleeding disorders. We investigated the reference ranges of two activated tests (INTEM and EXTEM) and a test analysing specifically the fibrin component of coagulation (FIBTEM) in a multi-centre approach. The reference ranges obtained for the clotting time (CT), clot formation time (CFT), alpha angle (ALP), maximum clot firmness (MCF) and clot lysis parameters were comparable from centre to centre. INTEM: CT equals; 137-246 s, CFT equals; 40-100 s, MCF equals; 52-72 mm. EXTEM: CT equals; 42-74 s, CFT equals; 46-148 s, MCF equals; 49-71 mm. FIBTEM: MCF equals; 9-25 mm. ROTEM whole blood coagulation correlated weakly with a trend towards enhanced coagulation in females compared with males and in advanced age. The repeatability (within-run imprecision) of the results was dependent on the test with the following coefficients of variation: 1-5% (clot firmness, alpha angle), 3-12% (CT, CFT), 6-13% (FIBTEM clot firmness). Citrated blood samples were stable for ROTEM analysis stored within 6 h from drawing. In summary, the data showed that ROTEM thromboelastometry yields consistent values between centres and that providing general orientating reference ranges seems to be possible."}
{"id": "15847668", "title": "The value of pH as a quality control indicator for apheresis platelets.", "content": "The value of pH as a quality control indicator for apheresis platelets. Standards and regulations require measurement of pH as an apheresis platelet (PLT) component quality monitor. The usefulness of this quality control (QC) measure was investigated. QC data were retrospectively reviewed for apheresis PLTs collected over 4.5 years. Three collection devices were used, the Amicus (Baxter), the CS-3000 Plus (Baxter), and the MCS+ LN9000 (Haemonetics). Each month, four components from each instrument were sampled. PLT counts and component volume were measured immediately after collection, and pH, after 5 days of storage. A total of 668 products were studied. pH decreased as PLT concentration increased (r(2) = 0.129, p < 0.001) and as component volume decreased (r(2) = 0.086, p = 0.02). PLT concentration and volume, however, were poor predictors of a low pH. Apheresis instrument type affected pH. The 216 components collected with use of the CS-3000 device had a lower pH than components from the other two instruments. Only 13 components had a pH value less than the acceptable level of 6.2, 12 of which were collected with the CS-3000. For newer-model blood cell separators, pH measurements do not provide information that might identify a manufacturing problem. Because factors that influence pH are controlled or monitored for each component, evaluation of pH on a sample group provides an indication of the quality of specific component only, rather than an effective monitor of the quality of the manufacturing process."}
{"id": "15839219", "title": "[The diagnosis and correction of impairments of microcirculation, central hemodynamics, and oxygen status in children with traumatic shock].", "content": "[The diagnosis and correction of impairments of microcirculation, central hemodynamics, and oxygen status in children with traumatic shock]. The paper presents the results of studies of microcirculation, central hemodynamics, and oxygen status in 120 children aged 2-14 years who had traumatic shock of various etiology (40 with burn injury, 50 with mixed injury, and 30 with brain injury). The following studies were used: biomicroscopy of conjunctival microvessels with photo recording and processing on a computer; central hemodynamic monitoring; studies of a thromboelastogram, acid-alkali balance, and blood gases. The authors found the previously unknown parallels of the impairments of microcirculation, the severity of traumatic injury, and the parameters of central hemodynamics, and oxygen status in the patient. Traumatic shock was characterized by spastic impairments of all the components (perivascular, vascular, and intravascular) of microcirculation progressing to spastic-and-atonic ones. The degree of microcirculatory disorders depended on the severity of shock and the nature of injury. The criteria for compensation and decompensation in the microcirculatory module were defined. The routine infusion therapy initiated in the compensation period promotes to a significant alleviation of microcirculatory disorders; however, the mentioned shifts long persist. In this connection, a package of additional measures (infucol GEC solutions, disaggregatory, antihypoxic, and antioxidant agents, and coenzymes of vitamins) has been developed."}
{"id": "15804156", "title": "Is platelet function as measured by Thrombelastograph monitoring in whole blood affected by platelet inhibitors?", "content": "Is platelet function as measured by Thrombelastograph monitoring in whole blood affected by platelet inhibitors? Platelet inhibitors, especially the glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa receptor antagonists, have demonstrated their effectiveness in reducing the acute ischemic complications of percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and in improving clinical outcomes in patients with acute coronary crisis. Three common platelet inhibitors observed in emergent cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) for failed PCI are abciximab, eptifibatide, and tirofiban. An in vitro model was constructed in two parts to determine whether platelet aggregation inhibition induced by platelet inhibitors would be demonstrated by the Thrombelastograph (TEG) monitor when compared with baseline samples with no platelet inhibitor. In part A, 20 mL of fresh whole blood was divided into four groups: group I = baseline, group A = abcix-imab microg/mL, group E = eptifibatide ng/mL, and group T = tirofiban ng/mL. Platelet inhibitor concentrations in whole blood were derived starting with reported serum concentrations with escalation to achieve 80% platelet inhibition using the Medtronic hemoSTATUS and/or Lumi-aggregometer. A concentration range determined by our in vitro tests were chosen for each drug using concentrations achieving less than, equal to, or greater than 80% platelet inhibition. In part B, TEG analysis was then performed using baseline and concentrations for each drug derived in part A. Parameters measured were clot formation reaction time (R), coagulation time (K), maximum amplitude (MA) and alpha angle (A). Groups E1000 and E2000 extended R over control by 37% and 23%, respectively (p = 0.01 and 0.03). Groups E1000 and E2000 increased K times by 45% and 58% (p = .02 and .04). T160 samples prolonged K by 20% (p = 0.01). The angle or clot strength (A) was decreased in groups T160 and E1000 by 23% (+ 7.06 SD) and 18% (+ 11.23 SD), respectively (p = 0.001 and 0.01). The MA decrease was statistically significant in the T160, E1000 and E2000 by 9%, 6% and 13% respectively (p = 0.01). Samples treated with abciximab were comparable to control values for all parameters measured. Although statistical significance could be demonstrated with some parameters, sensitivity was only observed at increased doses and was not seen with all agents tested. In our in vitro model, the TEG monitor was unable to demonstrate clinically significant differences in platelet function and may not be reflective of platelet function in samples which have been treated with these GP IIb/IIIa inhibitors."}
{"id": "15795533", "title": "Using thrombelastography to determine the efficacy of the platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonist, roxifiban, on platelet/fibrin-mediated clot dynamics in humans.", "content": "Using thrombelastography to determine the efficacy of the platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonist, roxifiban, on platelet/fibrin-mediated clot dynamics in humans. The effect of platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists on the dynamics of platelet/fibrin clot formation and strength was determined using thrombelastography (TEG) under conditions of recalcification or tissue factor addition. In the present investigation, the effect of roxifiban (class I) on ex vivo clot dynamics using recalcified blood was tested in normal, healthy volunteers (n = 7) dosed with 1 mg BID roxifiban for 9 days. Roxifiban inhibited platelet aggregation induced by 20 mumol/l adenosine diphosphate by 60-90% but did not significantly affect any of the TEG parameters either at peak, trough, or subtrough drug levels. Addition of 30 nmol/l roxifiban free acid (XV459; which is ineffective by itself to modify TEG parameters) to human blood obtained from roxifiban-treated subjects resulted in 45-60% (P < 0.01) inhibition of clot strength (maximum amplitude), 90-100% (P < 0.01) inhibition of initial kinetic of clot development (angle alpha), and 50-70% (P < 0.01) inhibition of early clot initiation (K). These data suggest that a subthreshold blood level of 40-50 nmol/l roxifiban active form was achieved in those subjects, as estimated from an in vitro calibration with XV459. These data indicate (not studied) that roxifiban, at a targeted clinical dosing regimen, failed to achieve sufficient exposure to modulate platelet-mediated clot retraction."}
{"id": "15792676", "title": "Coagulation status and complications of pregnancy.", "content": "Coagulation status and complications of pregnancy. There is much interest in the relationship between coagulation status and complications of pregnancy. The thrombelastograph (TEG) has been proposed as a useful, inexpensive tool to screen for patients with hypercoagulable states. We investigated 588 unselected pregnant women at booking, obtaining blood samples for TEG and thrombophilia investigation. Pregnancy outcome data was recorded. We found significant correlations between TEG parameters and the Prothrombin time (PT) and Activated Partial Thromboplastin time (APTT) (p<0.01) and with plasma Antithrombin level (p<0.01). There was no correlation between TEG and other thrombophilic defects (protein C, protein S, Factor V Leiden mutation, Prothrombin G20210A mutation, MTHFR C677T mutation and Lupus Anticoagulant). There was a significant association of TEG parameters with mid-trimester loss (MTL) but not with other adverse pregnancy outcomes. The correlation between TEG and PT, APTT and antithrombin level supports its value in providing a global measure of haemostasis. Coagulation status at booking is associated with increased risk of MTL but not with complications occurring later in pregnancy."}
{"id": "15784355", "title": "Platelet function tests predict bleeding and thrombotic events after off-pump coronary bypass grafting.", "content": "Platelet function tests predict bleeding and thrombotic events after off-pump coronary bypass grafting. A balanced coagulation system after cardiac surgery minimizes bleeding and thrombotic events. However, the best method to monitor this balance has not been established. We used a series of tests of coagulation and platelet function to define the risk of bleeding and thrombotic events after OPCAB. In 76 patients, routine coagulation tests (i.e. prothrombin time, fibrinogen level, d-dimer, and platelet count), thrombelastography, and whole blood aggregometry were obtained perioperatively and on days 1 and 3 after OPCAB. Intra- and postoperative blood loss was determined. Early patency of venous bypass grafts was determined using CT angiography (Philips Medical, Corp.). Chest tube output and red cell volume loss at 24 h were 952+/-475 and 190+/-115 ml, respectively. Early graft failure developed in eight patients. Perioperative changes in routine coagulation tests showed no correlation with either bleeding or thrombosis. However, perioperative decline in platelet function as assessed by the area under the impedance curve for whole blood aggregometry correlated with intraoperative blood loss (R=0.42, P<0.05). A perioperative decline in the maximum amplitude of the thrombelastography trace showed a significant correlation with 24h hemoglobin loss (R=0.45, P<0.05). Compared to those with all patent grafts, patients with early graft failure demonstrated a reduction in platelet sensitivity to aspirin by both thrombelastography and aggregometry on day 3. In contrast to standard coagulation testing, platelet function predicted both bleeding and thrombosis after OPCAB. Titration of perioperative platelet function according to these tests may minimize thrombosis without increasing bleeding."}
{"id": "15784122", "title": "Thrombelastography/thromboelastometry.", "content": "Thrombelastography/thromboelastometry. The term thrombelastograph (TEG) was used to describe the trace produced from the measurement of the viscoelastic changes associated with fibrin polymerization. Recently the term rotational thromboelastometry has been applied to the output of the ROTEM instrument. Since its first description in 1948, the TEG/ROTEM has been successfully used in the near patient assessment of haemostasis. The greatest use has been the application of TEG-guided transfusion of blood components in hepatic and more widely in cardiac surgery. Recent years have seen a renewed interest in the technology with applications for both pharmaceutical monitoring and patient screening being described. The present review gives a broad overview of the developments and applications related to thrombelastography/thromboelastometry."}
{"id": "15765989", "title": "[Ability of leukocyte reduction filters to remove fat particles from blood in experimental models simulating blood salvage in orthopedic surgery].", "content": "[Ability of leukocyte reduction filters to remove fat particles from blood in experimental models simulating blood salvage in orthopedic surgery]. Salvaged autologous blood in orthopedic surgery may contain tissular debris such as fat particles (FP), possibly increasing the risk of fat embolism after bone surgery. Therefore, this study was initiated to ascertain the capacity of leukocyte filters to remove FP using in vitro models. All experiments were performed in triplicate using donor blood bags within 15 days of their donation. Five different olive oil volumes were added to blood to obtain 5 oil concentrations (1% to 5%), and blood was subsequently filtered through a PureCell (Pall Biomedical, Portsmouth, UK) leukocyte-reduction filter. In another set of experiments, 5 different oil volumes (1, 2.5, 5, 7.5 or 10 mL) were injected into the line during filtration of oil-free blood. In addition, 3 preparations of blood supplemented with 5% oil were processed in the autotransfusion device OrthoPAT (Haemonetics Corp, Braintree, MA, USA), and the obtained red cell concentrate was subsequently filtered through PureCell. We collected samples for cell counting and analysis and FP detection with a Pentra 120 Retic (ABX, Montpellier, France) flow cytometer. Specific signals corresponding to FP were clearly detected in the white blood cell scattergrams yielded by the cytometer for oil supplemented blood. PureCell removed FP up to an oil concentration of 3% or up to an injected oil volume of less than 10 mL. Addition of a filtration step through a PureCell filter after blood washing by the OrthoPAT device completely removed FP. Leukocyte filters seem to be useful for removing FP from unprocessed blood with a low degree of fat contamination (less than 10 mL) and to complete FP removal from processed blood. Therefore, using a leukocyte filter in the patient's line should contribute to improving the safety of perioperative autologous blood salvage."}
{"id": "15761339", "title": "Hypercoagulability is most prevalent early after injury and in female patients.", "content": "Hypercoagulability is most prevalent early after injury and in female patients. Hypercoagulability after injury is a major source of morbidity and mortality. Recent studies indicate that there is a gender-specific risk in trauma patients. This study was performed to determine the course of coagulation after injury and to determine whether there is a gender difference. We hypothesized that hypercoagulability would occur early after injury and that there would be no difference between men and women. This was a prospective cohort study. Inclusion criteria were admission to the intensive care unit, Injury Severity Score > 4, and the ability to obtain consent from the patient or a relative. A Thrombelastograph (TEG) analysis was performed and routine coagulation parameters and thrombin-antithrombin complexes were measured within 24 hours of injury and then daily for 4 days. Sixty-five patients met criteria for entry into the study. Their mean age was 42 +/- 17 years and their mean Injury Severity Score was 23 +/- 12. Forty patients (62%) were men. The prevalence of a hypercoagulable state by TEG was 62% on day 1 and 26% on day 4 (p < 0.01). Women were significantly more hypercoagulable on day 1 than men as measured by the time to onset of clotting (women, 2.9 +/- 0.7 minutes; men, 3.9 +/- 1.5 minutes; p < 0.01; normal, 3.7-8.3 minutes). Mean platelet counts, international normalized ratios, and partial thromboplastin times were within normal limits throughout the study. Thrombin activation as measured by thrombin-antithrombin complexes decreased from 34 +/- 15 microg/L on day 1 to 18 +/- 8 microg/L (p < 0.01) on day 4, consistent with the prevalence of hypercoagulability by TEG. Hypercoagulability after injury is most prevalent during the first 24 hours. Women are more hypercoagulable than men early after injury. The TEG is more sensitive than routine coagulation assays for the detection of a hypercoagulable state."}
{"id": "15752404", "title": "Artificial colloids impair haemostasis. An in vitro study using thromboelastometry coagulation analysis.", "content": "Artificial colloids impair haemostasis. An in vitro study using thromboelastometry coagulation analysis. Hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solutions impair haemostatic mechanisms. The impact of the degree of substitution (DS) of a HES solution on thromboelastometry tracings is unclear. Therefore we tested the hypothesis of whether the DS has an effect on the haemostatic defect caused by HES, and assessed whole blood coagulation by thromboelastometry coagulation analysis (ROTEM, Pentapharm Co., Munich, Germany) in serial in vitro haemodilutions of colloids. Whole blood was withdrawn from 12 volunteers in a crossover study. Six per cent low-molecular weight HES with a high (HES MW 120 kDa/degree of substitution 0.7) and low (HES MW 130 kDa/0.4) degree of substitution, 4% succinylated gelatin (GEL) or 4% albumin (ALB) was added to citrated venous whole blood samples to make 20, 40, 60 vol.% end-concentrations of each of the solutions. Samples were analyzed by ROTEM. There was a comparable decrease in maximum clot firmness (MCF) and shear elastic modulus [G = 5000 x MCF/(100-MCF)] by HES 120/0.7 and HES 130/0.4 at 20 and 40 vol.% dilutions. At 60 vol.% dilution HES 120/0.7 decreased less alpha-angle and MCF than HES 130/0.4 (P < 0.05). With moderate dilutions all colloids shortened coagulation time (CT). At 20, 40 and 60 vol.% dilutions MCF and G were more decreased in both HES groups than in the ALB and GEL groups (P < 0.05). Furthermore, at 40 and 60 vol.% dilutions G deteriorated more in the GEL than in the ALB group (P < 0.05). In vitro the impact of the degree of substitution of HES solution on thromboelastometry coagulation analysis was modest. Haemodilution with gelatin and albumin induced fewer coagulation abnormalities than HES. In addition, the haemodilution with gelatin impaired coagulation more than albumin solution."}
{"id": "15747263", "title": "Hypercoagulability affecting early vein graft patency does not exist after off-pump coronary artery bypass.", "content": "Hypercoagulability affecting early vein graft patency does not exist after off-pump coronary artery bypass. Hypercoagulability may compromise the patency of bypass grafts. The authors hypothesized that perioperative in vitro platelet responses to varying agonists (eg, thrombin, platelet activating factor, collagen, adenosine diphosphate) correlate with early graft thrombosis after off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (OPCAB). Prospective study of 78 OPCAB patients with 151 venous bypass grafts treated with perioperative aspirin and intraoperative heparin (250 U/kg). Tertiary, academic medical center. None. Hypercoagulability, defined by TEG (maximum amplitude [MA]>70 mm), whole-blood aggregometry (>15 ohms after 5 mcl/mL collagen) or hemoSTATUS (Ch5CR>0.5), was serially assessed around OPCAB. An immediate decline in platelet function after surgery and on postoperative day 1 returned to normal by postoperative day 3 in most patients. Graft blood flow was analyzed intraoperatively, and vein biopsies were analyzed for endothelial disruption. Graft patency was assessed by multichannel computed tomography coronary angiography on postoperative day 5. No differences in any of the platelet function assays were noted for the 8 patients with graft thrombosis (n=8 grafts) versus the 68 patients with all patent grafts (n=129 grafts). Ten patients developed a rise in platelet function postoperatively >1 SD above baseline; only 1 developed graft thrombosis (p=not significant v patients with normal platelet function). OPCAB is not associated with a significant activation in postoperative platelet function. This study suggests that if hypercoagulability exists after OPCAB, it is not involved in the pathogenesis of arterial thrombotic events such as early bypass graft failure."}
{"id": "15735843", "title": "Evidence based coagulation monitors: heparin monitoring, thromboelastography, and platelet function.", "content": "Evidence based coagulation monitors: heparin monitoring, thromboelastography, and platelet function. The hemostatic management of patients undergoing cardiac surgery is a unique challenge. Since its inception, cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) has required meticulous attention to maintaining adequate anticoagulation. New anticoagulants and alternative monitoring techniques present an opportunity to investigate potential advances in the area of anticoagulation for CPB. Hemostasis after CPB is still a vexing problem, and the addition of antiplatelet medication to the platelet defect already incurred during CPB has led to hemorrhagic complications in cardiac surgery. The two opposing processes of anticoagulation and hemostasis must be managed carefully and modified with respect to the patient's hematologic status and desired hemostatic outcome. Cardiac surgical patients consume a much larger fraction of perioperative blood transfusions than the percentage of the surgical population they represent. Thus, during CPB, careful attention must be paid to optimal anticoagulation, platelet quiescence, biocompatible circuitry and interventions, and to monitoring hemostasis. The multifactorial etiology of the CPB-induced hemostatic defect requires a multimodal approach to blood conservation and hemostasis monitoring, including heparin maintenance and sophisticated point-of-care hemostasis monitoring. Each technology has its own attributes and each may be suitable for different populations based upon the expected defects being measured. This article reviews the evidence supporting the use of point-of-care monitors in coagulation and hemostasis management in cardiac surgical patients."}
{"id": "15715625", "title": "Effects of coagulation factor deficiency on plasma coagulation kinetics determined via thrombelastography: critical roles of fibrinogen and factors II, VII, X and XII.", "content": "Effects of coagulation factor deficiency on plasma coagulation kinetics determined via thrombelastography: critical roles of fibrinogen and factors II, VII, X and XII. Thrombelastography (TEG) is used to assess coagulopathy. However, a comprehensive characterization of the effects of specific coagulation factor deficiencies and mode of activation on TEG data does not exist. Thrombelastography was performed for 15 min with control plasma and plasmas deficient (<1% activity) in Factors II, V, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, XII, or XIII activated with celite (0.28 mg ml(-1)) or tissue factor (TF, 0.1%) (n = 6 per condition). Additional fibrinogen concentration activity (75-345 mg dl(-1)) and Factor II, VII, X and XII activity-response relationships (1%, 6.25%, 12.5%, 25%, 50% and 100% activity) were obtained (n = 8 per condition). Thrombelastography parameters included reaction time (R), angle (alpha), and clot strength (A, amplitude; G, elastic modulus). Celite activation of FXII-deficient plasma, TF activation of FVII-deficient and FX-deficient plasma, and celite or TF activation of FII-deficient plasma resulted in an almost undetectable clot. Compared to control values, celite activation of plasmas deficient in FXI, FIX and FVIII resulted in prolonged R and decreased alpha values, whereas TF activation resulted in decreased alpha values. Celite and TF activation of FV-deficient plasma resulted in prolonged R and decreased alpha values, whereas FXIII-deficient plasma had decreased alpha, A and G-values compared to control values. The fundamental finding of this study is that coagulation factor deficiencies affect TEG parameters in both a factor-dependent and activation-dependent fashion. Utilizing both celite and TF activation improves the diagnostic power of TEG. Based on such TEG data, more targeted administration of blood products could potentially help improve perioperative hemostatic outcomes."}
{"id": "15703777", "title": "Improved outcome of extremely low birth weight infants with Tegaderm application to skin.", "content": "Improved outcome of extremely low birth weight infants with Tegaderm application to skin. Significant fluid and electrolyte disturbances occur in extremely low birth weight (ELBW) infants in the first few days of life. We investigated the effect of semipermeable polyurethane membrane (Tegaderm) applied to the skin shortly after birth on fluid and electrolyte status and the clinical outcome in these infants. We reviewed charts of ELBW infants (BW<1.0 kg) born during 24 months prior to Tegaderm application and 19 months after starting Tegaderm. Data were collected daily from the first week of life and additional clinical morbidities were compared. A total of 39 infants from pre-Tegaderm period (NOTEG) (mean+/-SD, BW 756+/-158 g, GA 26.1+/-1.9 weeks) were compared to 30 infants with extensive Tegaderm application to chest, abdomen and extremities (TEG) (BW 802+/-160 g, GA 26.3+/-1.8 weeks). The groups were similar in maternal demographics as well as postnatal surfactant use. Throughout the first week of life, serum Na levels, daily fluid intake and daily weight loss were significantly higher in the NOTEG infants (all P< or =0.04) while BUN/Serum creatinine levels were similar. Hypernatremia (Na>150 mEq/l) developed in 51% of NOTEG infants compared to 17% of TEG (P=0.0005) and daily fluid intake > or =170 ml/kg/day was required in 54 vs 13% (P=0.0008), respectively. The mean time to regain BW was significantly longer in NOTEG vs TEG infants, 20.7+/-7.4 vs 15.8+/-6.3 days, respectively (P<0.02). There were no statistical significant differences among the groups in incidence of IVH, NEC, PDA or nosocomial sepsis; however, respiratory outcome was better in TEG infants. They had significantly less BPD (58% in NOTEG vs 22% TEG (P=0.01)) and fewer infants in the TEG group required supplemental oxygen at discharge (58% vs 22% (P=0.01)). Survival was significantly higher in TEG 90% vs 64% in NOTEG infants (P=0.02). Semipermeable polyurethane membrane application to skin of ELBW infants shortly after birth decreased postnatal fluid and electrolyte disturbances and significantly improved their outcome by reducing severity of lung disease and decreasing mortality."}
{"id": "15684255", "title": "Magnesium therapy improves thromboelastographic findings before liver transplantation: a preliminary study.", "content": "Magnesium therapy improves thromboelastographic findings before liver transplantation: a preliminary study. Patients undergoing liver transplantation may be predisposed to hypomagnesemia and present a bleeding tendency. There are evidences suggesting that magnesium is a crucial constituent of the blood coagulation cascade and has a pro-coagulant activity. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of magnesium therapy on thromboelastography (TEG) in patients undergoing liver transplantation. 27 patients scheduled for liver transplantation were enrolled. 1.5 g of magnesium sulfate, diluted in normal saline, were infused to all patients over five minutes in the operating room, before skin incision. The TEG findings immediately before and ten minutes after the magnesium infusion were compared. The TEG findings showed general hypocoagulability before magnesium therapy. The K time and coagulation times (r+k) were shortened significantly from 641.6 +/- 505.9 (mean +/- SD) to 464.6 +/- 387.7 sec and from 1664.7 +/- 772.5 to 1362.2 +/- 487.1 sec respectively (P < 0.05); the maximal amplitude, and TEG index showed significant increases from 38.5 +/- 13.5 to 45.3 +/- 12.2 mm and from -3.4 +/- 2.6 to -1.9 +/- 1.8 respectively after magnesium therapy (P < 0.01). R time, alpha angle and LY60 were not different after magnesium therapy. Magnesium therapy significantly improved TEG findings suggestive of a general hypocoagulable state towards normal in patients about to receive liver transplantation."}
{"id": "15608046", "title": "Thrombelastographic whole blood clot formation after ex vivo addition of plasma substitutes: improvements of the induced coagulopathy with fibrinogen concentrate.", "content": "Thrombelastographic whole blood clot formation after ex vivo addition of plasma substitutes: improvements of the induced coagulopathy with fibrinogen concentrate. Plasma substitutes such as hydroxyethyl starch (HES) and various dextrans may compromise the haemostatic system, thereby causing potentially dangerous bleeding. Whilst several mechanisms have been advanced to explain the nature of the coagulopathy induced by this colloid, there has been comparably little interest in devising ways to optimize haemostasis after a relative colloid overdose. Real-time whole blood (WB) clot formation profiles were recorded using a thrombelastographic method employing activation with tissue factor. The coagulation tracings were transformed into dynamic velocity profiles of WB clot formation. WB from healthy individuals (n=20) was exposed to haemodilution of approximately 55% with isotonic saline, HES 200/0.5, HES 130/0.4, and dextran 70, respectively. Possible modalities for improvement of the induced coagulopathy were explored, in particular ex vivo addition of a fibrinogen concentrate. WB coagulation profiles changed significantly with decreased clot strength, and a compromised propagation phase of clot formation. The duration of the initiation phase of WB coagulation was unchanged. No statistical differences were detected amongst the HES solutions and dextran 70. However, dextran 70 returned a more suppressed clot development and strength compared with the HES solutions. Ex vivo haemostatic addition of washed platelets (75 x 10(9) litre(-1)) and factor VIII (0.6 IU ml(-1)) produced insignificant changes in clot initiation, propagation, and in the clot strength. In contrast, ex vivo addition of a fibrinogen concentrate (1 g litre(-1)) improved the coagulopathy induced by all of the three individual plasma expanders tested. Coagulopathy induced by haemodilution with either HES 200/0.5, HES 130/0.4, and dextran 70 may be improved by fibrinogen supplementation."}
{"id": "15601279", "title": "Spinal anaesthesia despite combined clopidogrel and aspirin therapy in a patient awaiting lung transplantation: effects of platelet transfusion on clotting tests.", "content": "Spinal anaesthesia despite combined clopidogrel and aspirin therapy in a patient awaiting lung transplantation: effects of platelet transfusion on clotting tests. The risk of central neuraxial blockade in patients treated with newer antiplatelet drugs is unclear. We report the case of a woman awaiting lung transplantation who presented for emergency groin surgery. She had recently undergone a coronary artery stent implantation and was treated with both clopidogrel and aspirin. Despite this dual antiplatelet therapy, uneventful spinal anaesthesia was administered following platelet transfusion. While thromboelastography was of no help in assessing the degree of anticoagulation, the effects of platelet transfusion were reflected by adenosine diphosphate and epinephrine aggregometry. Thus, in selected patients, platelet transfusion may be appropriate to enable central neuraxial blockade when deemed necessary."}
{"id": "15567466", "title": "Direct-acting fibrinolytic enzymes in shark cartilage extract: potential therapeutic role in vascular disorders.", "content": "Direct-acting fibrinolytic enzymes in shark cartilage extract: potential therapeutic role in vascular disorders. Fibrinogen and fibrin are molecules with overlapping roles in blood clotting, fibrinolysis, wound healing, inflammation, matrix and cellular interactions and neoplasia. There is currently much interest in the possible use of fibrinolytic agents in human therapeutics. In this study, we report the presence of fibrinolytic activities in shark cartilage extract (SCE). In vitro, SCE at 100 microg/ml completely degraded fibrin gel in an aprotinin-insensitive manner, suggesting a non-plasmin molecular nature. SCE was able to cleave all chains of fibrinogen and fibrin and the cleavage was completely inhibited by 1,10-phenanthroline, suggesting an essential role for metalloprotease(s) in this process. Using fibrinogen zymography, we show that SCE contains two plasmin-independent fibrinolytic activities and that these activities are correlated with the presence of 58 and 62 kDa proteases in the extract. SCE-fibrinolytic activities are inhibited by dithiothreitol, suggesting that disulfide bonds are necessary for the protease structure. Finally, using thromboelastography, SCE markedly induced retraction of human platelet-rich plasma (PRP) clot, this process being completely abolished by 1,10-phenanthroline. These data suggest the presence of novel non-plasmin fibrinolytic activities within SCE. This extract may thus represent a potential source of new therapeutic molecules to prevent and treat vaso-occlusive and thromboembolic disorders."}
{"id": "15516349", "title": "In vitro effects of local anaesthetics on the thromboelastographic profile of parturients.", "content": "In vitro effects of local anaesthetics on the thromboelastographic profile of parturients. Post-dural puncture headache can be an incapacitating complication of obstetric epidural analgesia/anaesthesia and early or prophylactic epidural blood patch (EBP) is one of the treatment options. Although local anaesthetic (LA) agents have been shown to have anticoagulation effects in vitro, peri-partum women are known to be hypercoagulable. We postulated that the presence of residual LA might not result in impaired haemostasis of the EBP in parturients. Blood samples from 10 healthy term parturients were subjected to thromboelastography after the addition of four different LA (lidocaine, bupivacaine, levobupivacaine, and ropivacaine) preparations. There was a significant reduction in reaction (R) and coagulation (K) time (P<0.001, P<0.05) and an increase in alpha degrees angle (P<0.01) when comparing undiluted blood with the saline control group. Maximum amplitude (MA) and clot lysis (Ly30) did not change significantly despite the 50% dilution. The thromboelastographic parameters of all four LA-treated groups were no different from their saline controls and from each other. At clinical dosages, LA did not cause any hypocoagulable changes on the thromboelastographic profile of healthy parturients."}
{"id": "20527429", "title": "[Fibrinolysis activation after cardiac surgery--role of thromboelastography in the diagnosis and treatment].", "content": "[Fibrinolysis activation after cardiac surgery--role of thromboelastography in the diagnosis and treatment]. Use of cardiopulmonary bypass in cardiac surgery strongly influences haemostatic system, activating fibrinolysis as well. The widespread use of antiplatelet and fibrinolytic drugs creates haemostatic disturbances in the perioperative period. Thromboelastography seems to be a useful tool in the assessment of this complex process, particularly in the early postoperative period."}
{"id": "15799917", "title": "Analysis of platelet function during left ventricular support with the Incor and Excor system.", "content": "Analysis of platelet function during left ventricular support with the Incor and Excor system. Improvements in pump technology and the scarcity of donor organs have led to an increased use of mechanical assist devices, but the problem of thromboembolism has still not been solved. We report on our initial experience with sequentially analyzing platelet function in patients provided with the Incor left ventricular assist device (LVAD) and the Excor LVAD system. Thirteen patients 5 to 61 years old with acute or end-stage heart failure were included in a pilot study. Five of the 10 Incor patients underwent LVAD placement under emergency conditions, and 5 were electively scheduled for surgery. All 3 patients with an Excor device had been connected to an extracorporeal membrane oxygenation system prior to insertion of the device. An anticoagulation protocol including heparin, aspirin, and clopidogrel was employed, and the patients were closely monitored with a special platelet analyzing system that allows dose optimization for antiplatelet drugs. Initial platelet function was normal in only 2 patients (15%). During a follow-up period of 1770 days (cumulative >4.8 years), no early (<30 days) bleeding complications related to device implantation occurred. Late cerebral thromboembolic events were noted in 3 patients. One patient experienced severe stroke mandating neurosurgery during mechanical assist, and 1 patient experienced systemic embolism. The PAP platelet analyzer offers a cheap and reliable alternative to the more expensive thromboelastography method for adequately surveying the efficacy of aspirin and clopidogrel treatment, even if late thromboembolic events cannot be prevented."}
{"id": "15782557", "title": "Thrombelastography monitoring of platelet substitution therapy and rFVIIa administration in haemato-oncological patients with severe thrombocytopenia.", "content": "Thrombelastography monitoring of platelet substitution therapy and rFVIIa administration in haemato-oncological patients with severe thrombocytopenia. Thrombocytopenic patients refractory to platelet concentrates (PC) could be treated during bleeding episodes with the recombinant activated FVII (rFVIIa). However, monitoring of administration of the rFVIIa or a response to platelet substitution therapy in thrombocytopenia patients is not well documented so far. Using of whole blood ROTEG analysis we monitored the changes in haemostatic parameters following in vivo platelet concentrate administration compared to ex vivo rFVIIa administration in patients with a severe to mild thrombocytopenia secondary to haemato-oncological disease. We use non-activated thrombelastography (NATEG) and a mild intrinsic activation thrombelastography (INTEG). NATEG analysis was sufficiently sensitive to monitor changes following PC and rFVIIa administration. Both, platelet infusion and rFVIIa treatment induced significant shortening of clotting time (CT) and clot formation time (CFT) parameters (p<0.05). When we compared the effect of platelet vs. rFVIIa treated whole blood by NATEG analysis we did not found any significant difference. Analysis with INTEG system was less sensitive and changes in CT and CFT were not significant. The monitoring with thrombelastography could enable efficient application of platelet concentrate and furthermore the using of rFVIIa as an alternative treatment of patients refractory to platelet infusion or with allergic reactions."}
{"id": "15704256", "title": "Hyperhomocysteinemia, thrombosis and vascular biology.", "content": "Hyperhomocysteinemia, thrombosis and vascular biology. Epidemiological evidence suggests that hyperhomocysteinemia (HH) is an independent risk factor for arterial thrombotic diseases such as acute myocardial infarction, stroke, peripheral ischemic occlusive disorders as well as venous thromboembolism. This article presents a hypothesis to explain the pathogenesis of increases in plasma homocysteine level and associated increased risk of thrombotic disease. It is based on the data in the literature and results from our laboratory on the impact of folate induced HH in rats. These results include: a) Effects on whole blood coagulation, which is characterized by increased velocity of coagulation, increased firmness of the formed coagulum and prolonged initiation phase of the coagulation; b) Genetic regulation of blood cells, which is characterized by increased platelet activation, impaired fibrinolysis and impaired function of the contact activation pathway of coagulation, and c) Reduced functional activities of single coagulation factors FXII:C, FX:C and FII:C."}
{"id": "15675222", "title": "Anaphylaxis with associated fibrinolysis, reversed with tranexamic acid and demonstrated by thrombelastography.", "content": "Anaphylaxis with associated fibrinolysis, reversed with tranexamic acid and demonstrated by thrombelastography. In the surgical setting, fibrinolysis can be a serious complication of anaphylaxis. We present four cases of anaphylaxis that were associated with fibrinolysis during anaesthesia, and the use of the thrombelastograph to demonstrate this haemostatic defect and its correction using tranexamic acid."}
{"id": "15650472", "title": "Does homeopathically potentized antimony stimulate coagulation? A summary of previous findings and results of an in vitro pilot study by means of thrombelastography.", "content": "Does homeopathically potentized antimony stimulate coagulation? A summary of previous findings and results of an in vitro pilot study by means of thrombelastography. Potentized antimony is traditionally used in anthroposophic medicine to enhance hemostasis in bleeding disorders, but evidence of its effectiveness is scarce. On the other hand, non-toxic and economic additional therapeutic options for hemostatic disorders are desirable. We examined all available literature on the subject and performed a controlled pilot in vitro study to test the procoagulatory potency of antimony D 5. Freshly drawn citrated whole blood of 12 healthy volunteers and 12 patients with bleeding disorders was equally distributed into 344 portions, after which it was mixed with antimony D 5, or its potentized vehicle (lactose D 5) as control solution and tested with thrombelastography. The paired t-test and the Wilcoxon signed rank test were used for statistical analysis. In 5 of the 12 healthy donors, a second blood sample was drawn to assess individual variability and increase the total number of replicates. Thus three separate calculations were performed: for the 12 patients, the 12 healthy donors, and the 5 later samples from the same donors. The analysis was exploratory, and no Bonferroni correction was applied. In the antimony D5 samples of the 12 healthy subjects, but not the patients, there was a tendency toward a shorter clotting time (CT) (p = 0.074) and a trend for an increased clot firmness, expressed as maximal amplitude (MA) (p = 0.058). The increase of MA was significant (p = 0.011) when the later samples were included. No statistical difference was detected for the clot formation time and the clot lysis index. The exploratory results of this pilot study are inconclusive as to whether antimony D5 has a procoagulatory effect in vitro, although the results suggest an effect on MA and possibly CT. More research is warranted."}
{"id": "15636037", "title": "Factors associated with sight threatening lesions of leprosy in patients on multidrug therapy.", "content": "Factors associated with sight threatening lesions of leprosy in patients on multidrug therapy. One hundred and six consecutive patients (old and newly diagnosed) attending the leprosy clinic at Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Delhi, underwent a detailed ophthalmic examination to identify factors associated with the prevalence of sight threatening lesions of leprosy so as to delineate a sub-group of patients who should continue under active ophthalmic surveillance to prevent blindness. All of them were receiving multidrug therapy as recommended by WHO. Demographic data, systemic parameters and ophthalmic lesions attributable to the disease were endorsed on to a proforma. The data were analysed by chi-square test, discriminant analysis and multivariate regression analysis to isolate factors that could be associated with sight threatening lesions of leprosy. In 106 leprosy patients 212 eyes were examined; sight threatening lesions were found in 37 eyes (17.4%). The comea was involved most commonly (78.3%). The lesions were still present in 15.8% of patients who had completed multidrug therapy. Leprosy related visual impairment was seen in 2.3% eyes and blindness in 0.9% eyes. Factors significantly associated with sight threatening lesions included female gender, multibacillary leprosy, increasing duration of leprosy, thickened corneal nerves, subepithelial punctate corneal opacities and presence of any academic lesion of leprosy. On multivariate and discriminant analysis, female gender, thickened corneal nerves and duration of leprosy > 7 years were significantly associated with sight threatening lesions."}
{"id": "15605300", "title": "Does hemodilution enhance coagulability?", "content": "Does hemodilution enhance coagulability? Recent publications reported enhanced coagulability in hemodilution determined by TEG. In contrast, earlier reports have shown prolongation of in-vivo bleeding time in anemia. In order to take a closer look at this discrepancy undiluted and diluted anticoagulated blood samples (20 % with saline solution, hydroxyl-ethyl starch 6 % (HES), autologous platelet poor plasma (PPP)) were investigated by TEG (n = 10), ball (n = 10), and hook coagulometer (n = 15) as well as tests simulating primary hemostasis ex vivo (Platelet Function Analyzer PFA-100, n = 10). Dilution with plasma changed TEG parameters in a way, when started by recalcification of the blood sample, which is characteristic of enhanced coagulability (r decreased in all and k in 8 of 10 samples, maximal amplitude increased in 9 out of 10). With HES, changes in TEG parameters mainly indicated reduced coagulability (k increased in 7 out of 10, MA decreased in 10 out of 10). When the coagulation was additionally activated by PTT reagent (InTEG) the TEG parameters also mainly showed hypocoagulation with the three dilution solutions. Coagulation times with ball and hook coagulometers were significantly prolonged by dilution especially with saline (+ 25 % and + 17 %, p < 0.001). Dilution always significantly (often abnormally) prolonged closure time in PFA-100 (saline + 41 +/- 18 %, PPP + 37 +/- 20 %, HES + 69 +/- 24 %) demonstrating disturbance of primary hemostasis, particularly with HES. From the results obtained it can be concluded that the changes in the classical TEG (without addition of PTT-reagent), suggesting an enhanced coagulability, may be caused methodically as they are also found with autologous PPP. On the other hand, a disturbance of the primary hemostasis in hemodilution has to be taken into account from the results seen with the PFA-100 and a number of published data."}
{"id": "15605299", "title": "[Dilutional coagulopathy, an underestimated problem?].", "content": "[Dilutional coagulopathy, an underestimated problem?]. When no fresh frozen plasma is available, acute major blood loss is compensated above all with crystalloids, colloids and erythrocyte concentrates, meaning that all plasma clotting factors are diluted. Consumption coagulopathy is almost always accompanied by dilutional coagulopathy. Formulas for calculating critical blood loss and standard coagulation tests are often not helpful in the case of massive transfusion. On the other hand, systems suitable for point of care, such as thrombelastography, have important advantages. In the case of consumption and dilutional coagulopathy plasma coagulation is disturbed and critical values are first seen for fibrinogen. Not only is fibrin polymerization impaired by the bleeding-induced loss and dilution of fibrinogen, but also by interaction with artificial colloids, particularly hydroxyethyl starch preparations. Therapy of consumption and dilutional coagulopathy calls for fresh frozen plasma. If this is not available in sufficient quantity or within a reasonable time, coagulation factor concentrates must be used. Neither fresh frozen plasma therapy nor treatment with coagulation factor concentrates has been the subject of detailed clinical study. Further studies are needed to work out guidelines for coagulation management in the case of massive blood loss."}
{"id": "15605298", "title": "[Monitoring of Perioperative Dilutional Coagulopathy Using the ROTEM Analyzer: Basic Principles and Clinical Examples].", "content": "[Monitoring of Perioperative Dilutional Coagulopathy Using the ROTEM Analyzer: Basic Principles and Clinical Examples]. Recent changes in quality of transfusion supply, transfusion triggers as well as fluid therapy promote the development of dilutional coagulopathy. Nevertheless, up to now guidelines generally assume presence of hypocoagulability when more than one individual circulating blood volume is lost. This might be true for some patients under some conditions but is not necessarily true for every patient. Routine coagulation tests are insufficient in predicting increased bleeding and, moreover, available after an unacceptable time delay. Therefore the occurrence of diffuse microvascular bleeding is often used as clinical sign to start hemostatic therapy. However, such severe derangement of hemostasis might lead to the development of secondary tissue damage and frequently is unresponsive to conventional treatment. Coagulopathy occurring during extensive surgery or after polytrauma can be detected and treated early when using the ROTEM monitoring. Recent data showing a direct beneficial effect of hemostatic therapy on blood loss and final outcome are scarce. However, evidence exists that the amount of blood loss, presence of coagulopathy and number of transfusions needed are associated with poor outcome in bleeding patients. Although manifold articles have been published already using thrombelastography for various indications (medline research \"thrombelastography\", 2022 articles), further data are needed to confirm the clinical experience that this technique is an excellent tool for safe patient management."}
{"id": "15588086", "title": "Antiestrogen binding site and estrogen receptor mediate uptake and distribution of 4-hydroxytamoxifen-targeted doxorubicin-formaldehyde conjugate in breast cancer cells.", "content": "Antiestrogen binding site and estrogen receptor mediate uptake and distribution of 4-hydroxytamoxifen-targeted doxorubicin-formaldehyde conjugate in breast cancer cells. The anthracycline antitumor drug, doxorubicin (DOX), has long been used as a broad spectrum chemotherapeutic. The literature now documents the role of formaldehyde in the cytotoxic mechanism, and anthracycline-formaldehyde conjugates possess substantially enhanced activity in vitro and in vivo. We have recently reported the design, synthesis, and preliminary evaluation of a doxorubicin-formaldehyde conjugate targeted, via 4-hydroxytamoxifen, to the estrogen receptor (ER) and antiestrogen binding site (AEBS), which are commonly present in breast cancer cells. The lead targeted doxorubicin-formaldehyde conjugate, called DOX-TEG-TAM, was found to possess superior cell growth inhibition characteristics relative to clinical doxorubicin and an untargeted control conjugate, especially in ER-negative, multidrug resistant MCF-7/Adr cells. The enhanced activity in the absence of estrogen receptor raised the possibility that targeting was also mediated via AEBS. Fluorescence microscopy of an ER-negative, AEBS-positive cell line as a function of time showed initial DOX-TEG-TAM localization in cytosol, in contrast to initial DOX and untargeted doxorubicin-formaldehyde conjugate localization in the nucleus. DOX-TEG-TAM was taken up by four AEBS-positive cell lines to a greater extent than doxorubicin and an untargeted doxorubicin-formaldehyde conjugate. Of the four cell lines, three were ER negative. DOX-TEG-TAM uptake was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by the presence of a competing AEBS ligand. DOX-TEG-TAM retains 60% of the affinity of 4-hydroxytamoxifen for AEBS. DOX-TEG-TAM was also taken up by the AEBS-negative, ER-positive cancer cell line Rtx-6; with these cells uptake was inhibited in a dose-dependent manner by the ER ligand, estradiol. The data support the hypothesis that uptake of 4-hydroxytamoxifen targeted doxorubicin-formaldehyde conjugate is mediated by both the antiestrogen binding site and estrogen receptor."}
{"id": "15584621", "title": "[Thromboelastography in liver transplantation, a comparison with conventional laboratory tests].", "content": "[Thromboelastography in liver transplantation, a comparison with conventional laboratory tests]. The aim of our study was to compare the results of conventional tests and thromboelastography during liver transplantation and to determine their importance for blood loss. Thromboelastography and conventional laboratory tests were undertaken in 25 patients at the end of the anhepatic phase. Transfusion requirements correlated significantly only with prothrombin time and reaction time, R. These two tests likewise correlated significantly one with the other. Lowered plasma levels of coagulation factors of the prothrombin complex influenced the blood losses in our patients. While not replacing conventional tests, thromboelastography can serve as an additional test for monitoring acute changes in hemostasis."}
{"id": "15583737", "title": "In vitro comparison of the effect of fondaparinux and enoxaparin on whole blood tissue factor-triggered thromboelastography profile.", "content": "In vitro comparison of the effect of fondaparinux and enoxaparin on whole blood tissue factor-triggered thromboelastography profile. Fondaparinux and enoxaparin are both effective and safe in preventing post-operative venous thromboembolism. However, neither of them significantly influence the conventional clotting tests. We compared the influence of clinically relevant concentrations of fondaparinux and enoxaparin on normal whole blood (WB) thromboelastographic profiles after triggering TF-pathway with minimal amount of thromboplastin. Diluted thromboplastin was added to WB samples supplemented with buffer (control), fondaparinux (0.25; 0.5; 1 microg/ml), or enoxaparin (0.1; 0.5; 1 anti-Xa IU/ml). Four parameters were analyzed, R: clotting time, K: time required to reach an amplitude of 20 mm, alpha angle: measurement reflecting clot development kinetics and MA: maximal amplitude. At concentrations used in prophylaxis, both enoxaparin (0.1 anti-Xa IU/ml) and fondaparinux (0.25 microg/ml which correspond to 0.27 anti-Xa IU/ml) significantly prolonged the R and K times, but did not significantly modify the alpha angle as compared to the control. At concentrations observed after administration of curative doses for the treatment of DVT (> or = 0.5 anti-Xa IU/ml for enoxaparin and > or = 0.5 microg/ml for fondaparinux) both drugs induced a significant increase of R and K times, and a significant decrease of the alpha angle (p < 0.05). In contrast to fondaparinux, enoxaparin at concentrations equal to or higher than 0.5 anti-Xa IU/ml significantly reduced MA. The present study provides evidence that the whole blood TF-triggered TEG assay is sensitive to the presence of clinically relevant concentrations of enoxaparin or fondaparinux. Moreover, the angle may be used in order to distinguish the effect of prophylactic and therapeutic concentrations, since it was significantly reduced by the later ones. Further studies are needed to evaluate the clinical usefulness of whole blood TF-triggered TEG assay for the monitoring of treatment with enoxaparin or fondaparinux."}
{"id": "15578468", "title": "Dose-response relationship between plasma ionized calcium concentration and thrombelastography.", "content": "Dose-response relationship between plasma ionized calcium concentration and thrombelastography. To establish the threshold value for calcium at which coagulation commenced and to investigate the range over which changes in ionized calcium influenced coagulation. Controlled, nonblinded, in vitro observational study. The study was conducted in a university-based laboratory. Blood was obtained from healthy volunteers. One hundred samples of citrated blood were recalcified using varying quantities of 10% calcium chloride solution. Heparinized samples from the recalcified blood were obtained for measurement of ionized calcium concentration (Ca(2+)). Coagulation of the recalcified samples was analyzed using thrombelastography. The ionized calcium concentration in recalcified blood was measured using a calcium electrode in a blood gas analyzer. No sample with a Ca(2+) < 0.33 mmol/L showed any clot formation. Normal coagulation measures were obtained in almost all samples in which the Ca(2+) was >0.56 mmol/L. Final clot strength appeared to be independent of Ca(2+) once the threshold value of 0.33 mmol/L was exceeded. Ca(2+) of <0.33 mmol/L is necessary to prevent coagulation. Ca(2+) > 0.56 is unlikely to be the cause of coagulation abnormalities during surgical procedures in which calcium metabolism is deranged. Between these values, Ca(2+) may exert an effect on the rate of clot formation, but final clot strength should be unaffected."}
{"id": "15572250", "title": "The ultrastructure of fibrinogen-420 and the fibrin-420 clot.", "content": "The ultrastructure of fibrinogen-420 and the fibrin-420 clot. Fibrinogen-420 is a minor subclass of human fibrinogen that is so named because of its higher molecular weight compared to fibrinogen-340, the predominant form of circulating fibrinogen. Each of the two Aalpha chains of fibrinogen-340 is replaced in fibrinogen-420 by an Aalpha isoform termed alphaE. Such chains contain a globular C-terminal extension, alphaEC, that is homologous with the C-terminal regions of Bbeta and gamma chains in the fibrin D domain. The alphaEC domain lacks a functional fibrin polymerization pocket like those found in the D domain, but it does contain a binding site for beta2 integrins. Electron microscopy of fibrinogen-340 molecules showed the major core fibrinogen domains, D-E-D, plus globular portions of the C-terminal alphaC domains. Fibrinogen-420 molecules had two additional globular domains that were attributable to alphaEC. Turbidity measurements of thrombin-cleaved fibrinogen-420 revealed a reduced rate of fibrin polymerization and a lower maximum turbidity. Thromboelastographic measurements also showed a reduced rate of fibrin-420 polymerization (amplitude development) compared with fibrin-340. Nevertheless, the final amplitude (MA) and the calculated elastic modulus (G) for fibrin-420 were greater than those for fibrin-340. These results suggested a greater degree of fibrin-420 branching and thinner matrix fibers, and such structures were found in SEM images. In addition, fibrin-420 fibers were irregular and often showed nodular structures protruding from the fiber surface. These nodularities represented alphaEC domains, and possibly alphaC domains as well. TEM images of negatively shadowed fibrin-420 networks showed irregular fiber borders, but the fibers possessed the same 22.5-nm periodicity that characterizes all fibrin fibers. From this result, we conclude that fibrin-420 fiber assembly occurs through the same D-E interactions that drive the assembly of all fibrin fibrils, and therefore that the staggered overlapping molecular packing arrangement is the same in both types of fibrin. The alphaEC domains are arrayed on fiber surfaces, and in this location, they would very likely slow lateral fibril association, causing thinner, more branched fibers to form. However, their location on the fiber surface would facilitate cellular interactions through the integrin receptor binding site."}
{"id": "15567653", "title": "Anesthetic and perioperative management of a patient with Bernard-Soulier syndrome.", "content": "Anesthetic and perioperative management of a patient with Bernard-Soulier syndrome. We describe a patient with Bernard-Soulier syndrome who underwent emergency laparotomy for intraabdominal bleeding. Presentation of this recent case highlights some of the anesthetic and perioperative implications of the disease. Briefly, perioperative and anesthetic management of patients with Bernard-Soulier syndrome should include platelet transfusions and choice of appropriate anesthetic drugs and techniques. The potential benefit of desmopressin and corticosteroids should be considered. Thrombelastography, if available, is also useful."}
{"id": "15562073", "title": "A novel method to assess platelet inhibition by eptifibatide with thrombelastograph.", "content": "A novel method to assess platelet inhibition by eptifibatide with thrombelastograph. We examined a novel method to detect platelet inhibition with thrombelastography (TEG). We hypothesized that this method would be suitable for monitoring the antiplatelet effects of eptifibatide (Integrilin). Whole blood from healthy volunteers was anticoagulated with 3.2% citrate or unfractionated heparin (7 IU/mL). For the platelet aggregation test, both citrate and heparinized samples were spiked with increasing concentrations of eptifibatide (0, 0.2, 0.4, 0.8, 1.6, and 4 microg/mL). Conventional kaolin TEG was performed with citrated samples, and batroxobin-modified TEG was performed with heparinized samples, which were spiked with eptifibatide at concentrations of 0, 0.4, 0.8, 1.6, 4, 8, and 24 microg/mL. Adenosine 5'-diphosphate-induced platelet aggregation was reduced to 6.4% +/- 2.9% (citrate) and 10.3% +/- 4.8% (heparin) with eptifibatide at the concentration of 4 mug/mL. The kaolin TEG showed a decrease in maximum amplitude (MA) only at the eptifibatide concentration of 24 mug/mL and no change in alpha angle, whereas with the batroxobin-based TEG, the difference in MA and alpha angle was observed at concentrations >/=0.8 microg/mL. Additionally, the time to achieve maximum MA was much shorter for batroxobin TEG than for kaolin TEG. We conclude that the batroxobin-modified TEG is a sensitive method that detects platelet inhibition induced by eptifibatide."}
{"id": "15562038", "title": "The effect of hemopure on coagulation in clinically relevant concentrations.", "content": "The effect of hemopure on coagulation in clinically relevant concentrations. Hemopure is a new colloidal blood substitute that may influence coagulation. We designed this study to examine the influence of this product on in vitro coagulation of whole blood by using the thrombelastograph (TEG). Blood samples from 20 volunteers were obtained. Hemopure was added to blood samples to obtain 0.5, 1, and 2 g/dL mixtures of Hemopure in blood. Control consisted of an undiluted sample and, for comparison, two samples diluted with volumes of lactated Ringer's solution (LR) equivalent to the two higher Hemopure dilutions. TEG with Hemopure at a concentration of 2 g/dL showed significantly shorter reaction and clot formation k times and an increased alpha angle compared with control. LR dilution with equivalent volume to 2 g/dL Hemopure solution also resulted in significantly shorter reaction and k times, as well as an increased alpha angle. Coagulation in samples with Hemopure at concentrations of 0.5 and 1 mg/dL did not vary significantly from control. Maximum amplitude did not vary significantly from control in any samples. The effect of Hemopure on TEG measures of coagulation is not significantly different from that of LR at clinically relevant concentrations."}
{"id": "15562037", "title": "The effect of dilution on plasma coagulation kinetics determined by thrombelastography is dependent on antithrombin activity and mode of activation.", "content": "The effect of dilution on plasma coagulation kinetics determined by thrombelastography is dependent on antithrombin activity and mode of activation. Hemodilution-associated hypercoagulability has been the focus of several investigations because significant morbidity and mortality have been associated with perioperative thrombophilia. Because most investigations implicate imbalances in procoagulant/anticoagulant activity as the etiology of hemodilution-associated hypercoagulability, we determined the effects of dilution on coagulation kinetics and clot strength with thrombelastography (TEG(R)). Control plasma (+/-celite activation) and antithrombin (AT)-deficient (<10% activity) plasma were diluted 0%, 10%, 20%, and 30% with saline. TEG(R) variables measured included time to clot initiation (reaction time, R), speed of clot propagation (angle, alpha), and clot strength (amplitude, A; or shear elastic modulus, G). Dilution of control plasma (10%-30%) resulted in a significant (P < 0.05) 16% decrease in R values, no change in alpha values, and decrease in A and G values. AT-deficient plasma had significantly smaller R values compared with control, and dilution did not change R values in AT-deficient plasma. Celite activation eliminated dilution-associated changes in R values in control plasma but resulted in linear decreases (R(2) = 0.88-0.96, P < 0.0001) in alpha, A, and G in response to dilution. Thus, our data indirectly support the concept that decreases in AT activity cause dilution-mediated hypercoagulability in plasma. Finally, celite activation permits quantification of dilution with TEG."}
{"id": "15513380", "title": "Endogenous heparin-like activity detected by anti-Xa assay in infected cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic patients.", "content": "Endogenous heparin-like activity detected by anti-Xa assay in infected cirrhotic and non-cirrhotic patients. Bacterial infections have been proposed as a trigger for portal hypertensive bleeding in cirrhotic patients. Endogenous low molecular weight heparinoids have been previously detected in vitro by heparinase-modified thromboelastography, but it is not known what type of heparinoids they are. The aim of this study was to assay anti-Xa concentrations to detect heparin activity in infected cirrhotics in vivo. We evaluated 30 cirrhotic patients (15 with bacterial infection, 15 not infected) and 9 non-cirrhotic patients with bacterial infection. The anti-Xa assay was performed at the start of infection in all patients and after resolution of infection in 8 cirrhotics (5 to 10 days after starting antibiotics); thromboelastography (native and heparinase I-modified TEG) was performed in a subgroup of 11 cirrhotic patients with infection, 8 cirrhotics without infection and 8 non-cirrhotics with infection. Anti-Xa activity was detected in 9 of the 15 infected cirrhotics (60%) and only in 1 of 15 non-infected cirrhotics (6.7%) (P < 0.01). In the infected cirrhotic patients, a heparinase effect was shown in the heparinase I-modified TEG: k time (P < 0.01), alpha-angle (P < 0.01) and r time (P = 0.05), with no effect in the non-infected cirrhotics. Four of 9 (44%) infected non-cirrhotics were positive with the anti-Xa assay. In cirrhotic patients, bacterial infections modify haemostasis by producing endogenous heparin-like substances which can inhibit the activated clotting factor X (factor Xa). In infected non-cirrhotics, anti-Xa activity can also be found."}
{"id": "15506032", "title": "Argatroban as an alternative to heparin in extracorporeal membrane oxygenation circuits.", "content": "Argatroban as an alternative to heparin in extracorporeal membrane oxygenation circuits. We investigated the anticoagulant effects of argatroban, a direct thrombin inhibitor, versus heparin in extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) circuits. Three sham circuits were prepared according to our hospital's standard practice and run for six hours simultaneously. Two circuits were anticoagulated with argatroban (one with heparin in the wet prime and one without). One circuit had heparin in the initial prime and was then anticoagulated with heparin. We measured thrombin generation (prothrombin fragment 1+2, D-dimer and thrombin-antithrombin complexes), activated clotting times (ACTs) and partial thromboplastin times (aPTTs), and monitored thrombus formation using thromboelastography. ACTs were >1000 s in each circuit throughout assessment. No clot initiation was detected by thromboelastography. Thrombin generation was decreased in circuits anticoagulated with argatroban versus heparin, despite aPTTs being less prolonged. These results suggest that argatroban may be more efficacious than heparin for anticoagulation in ECMO. Additional studies are warranted to further evaluate argatroban in this setting."}
{"id": "15502066", "title": "Decreased factor XIII availability for thrombin and early loss of clot firmness in patients with unexplained intraoperative bleeding.", "content": "Decreased factor XIII availability for thrombin and early loss of clot firmness in patients with unexplained intraoperative bleeding. To explore relevant changes in unexplained intraoperative bleeding, we evaluated elements of the final steps of the coagulation cascade in 226 consecutive patients undergoing elective surgery. Patients were stratified for the occurrence of unexplained intraoperative bleeding according to predefined criteria. Twenty patients (8.8%) developed unexplained bleeding. The median intraoperative blood loss was 1350 mL (bleeders) and 400 mL (nonbleeders) (P < 0.001). Fibrinogen and Factor XIII (F. XIII) were more rapidly consumed in bleeders (P < 0.001). Soluble fibrin formation (fibrin monomer) was increased in bleeders throughout surgery (P < or = 0.014). However, F. XIII availability per unit thrombin generated was significantly decreased in bleeders before, during, and after surgery (P < or = 0.051). Computerized thrombelastography showed a parallel, significant reduction in clot firmness. We suggest that mild preexisting coagulopathy is not rare in surgical patients and probably can result in clinically relevant intraoperative bleeding. This hemostatic disorder shows impaired clot firmness, probably secondary to decreased cross-linking (due to a loss of F. XIII, both in absolute measures and per unit thrombin generated). We suggest that the application of F. XIII might be worthwhile to test in a prospective clinical trial to increase clot firmness in patients at risk for this intraoperative coagulopathy."}
{"id": "15502045", "title": "Electron microscopic evaluations of clot morphology during thrombelastography.", "content": "Electron microscopic evaluations of clot morphology during thrombelastography. In this study, we characterized clot morphology with a scanning electron microscope (SEM) at time points corresponding to the commonly used thrombelastography (TEG) variables, illustrating the correlation of the physical clot formation with TEG(R) tracings. The first channel of the TEG analyzer was used to obtain the tracings of clot formation, while the sub-samples for the SEM were obtained from the second TEG channel. Different types of samples were examined, including whole blood, abciximab-treated whole blood, platelet-rich plasma (PRP), and abciximab-treated PRP. The SEM images were obtained at reaction time, different amplitudes (5-30 mm), maximum amplitude (MA), and at amplitude 60 min after MA. In the whole blood, coarse fibrin and activated platelets were observed at reaction time and fibrin strands progressively became more solid and intertwined at amplitude 10 mm and thereafter. Red blood cells were surrounded with fibrin strands at amplitude 30 mm and were tightly packed by fibrin strands at MA. In abciximab-treated whole blood, red blood cell shape was maintained at MA. The process of fibrin formation and platelet activation was also examined in PRP. Abciximab did not block platelet shape change, although the blockage of fibrin binding to platelets was shown on the TEG analyzer. In summary, we have shown structural changes of the forming clot in relation to TEG variables."}
{"id": "15502028", "title": "Fibrinogen in children undergoing cardiac surgery: is it effective?", "content": "Fibrinogen in children undergoing cardiac surgery: is it effective? There is speculation based on laboratory tests and biochemical data regarding the functional integrity of the fibrinogen in young children. Recent investigations in adults have demonstrated that their fibrinogen level correlates with the thromboelastogram maximum amplitude (MA) after modification with a glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptor blocker that uncouples platelet-fibrinogen interactions. We postulate that if the fibrinogen of young children is functionally intact then their fibrinogen levels should also correlate with modified thromboelastogram MA values as they do in adults. We compared modified and unmodified thromboelastogram variables of 250 children <2 yr old undergoing cardiac surgery with their fibrinogen levels and platelet counts. Five age groups were distinguished to determine if and when correlations become significant (<1 mo, 1-3 mo, 3-6 mo, 6-12 mo, and 12-24 mo). Fibrinogen levels correlated with modified thromboelastogram MAs only in the 12-24 mo group. In this 12-24 mo age group other correlations between fibrinogen levels and thromboelastogram variables influenced by fibrinogen also became significant, as did correlations noted in adults between platelet counts and thromboelastogram variables. We conclude that the fibrinogen of children <12 mo old with congenital heart disease is qualitatively dysfunctional."}
{"id": "15502019", "title": "A novel thrombelastograph tissue factor/kaolin assay of activated clotting times for monitoring heparin anticoagulation during cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "A novel thrombelastograph tissue factor/kaolin assay of activated clotting times for monitoring heparin anticoagulation during cardiopulmonary bypass. We used a thrombelastograph (TEG) assay with tissue factor and kaolin (TEG TF/K) to measure activated clotting time (ACT) in 31 patients during cardiopulmonary bypass. For comparison, ACTs were also determined by a Hemochron Jr. Signature and a Hepcon HMS. The TEG TF/K correlated with both the Hepcon (r(2) = 0.789) and Hemochron (r(2) = 0.743) ACTs. The average ACT after heparin was 319 +/- 119 s (mean +/- sd) for the TEG TF/K compared with 624 +/- 118 s for the Hepcon instrument. To evaluate the effects of hemodilution on TEG TF/K and Hemochron assays, ACT assays were performed on blood diluted to 50% and titrated with heparin from 0 to 6 U/mL. Both instruments showed significant (P < 0.01) changes in the ACT-versus-heparin slope, but the 0 heparin intercept for the TEG TF/K ACTs was not significantly changed (P = 0.292), in contrast to that for the Hemochron device (P = 0.041). Both instruments also indicated the same 1.3:1 ratio of protamine to heparin for optimum heparin neutralization, with increasing ACTs at ratios >2.6:1. The TEG TF/K ACT assay rapidly monitors heparin anticoagulation, in addition to the capabilities of this instrument to monitor platelet function, clotting factors, and fibrinolysis."}
{"id": "15497380", "title": "Extensive coagulation monitoring in patients after implantation of the MicroMed Debakey continuous flow axial pump.", "content": "Extensive coagulation monitoring in patients after implantation of the MicroMed Debakey continuous flow axial pump. Ventricular assist device (VAD) implantation is associated with impaired primary hemostasis and thromboembolic complications. Recently, a new generation of implantable continuous flow axial pumps was introduced into clinical application. To study the potential thrombogenic properties of this type of pump, we applied extensive platelet monitoring was applied. In our institution, 13 patients received the MicroMed DeBakey VAD as a bridge to transplantation. Routine coagulation tests (platelet count, activated partial thromboplastin time, prothrombin time, antithrombin III activity) and platelet function tests (whole blood aggregometry, thrombelastography, flow cytometry) were performed. No clinically relevant thromboembolic events were detected. No correlation was found between global function tests, platelet aggregation, and thrombelastography. No correlation was detected between platelet activation and hemolysis parameters. Platelet aggregation and coagulation index were significantly suppressed early after operation. A subsequent phase of hyper-aggregability, starting around day 6, suggested the initiation of antiaggregation therapy. Platelet activation markers were upregulated in the postoperative period but were returned to preoperative levels after initiation of aspirin. In contrast to routine coagulation monitoring, platelet function tests reflect in detail the coagulation status of blood pump recipients and the efficiency of antiaggregation therapy. Aspirin and dipyridamole therapy in addition to oral anticoagulation using phenprocoumon may contribute to platelet function and clot mechanics restoration and is, therefore, recommended for patients after VAD implantation."}
{"id": "15493055", "title": "Assessment of complement activation during membrane-based plasmapheresis procedures.", "content": "Assessment of complement activation during membrane-based plasmapheresis procedures. Previous studies have suggested that plasmapheresis procedures using a separation membrane may activate the complement system and release anaphylatoxins. This study determines the content in C3a/C3a(des Arg) and C5a/C5a(des Arg) in plasma donations obtained by the new Haemonetics Filter Core (FC) procedure and compares it to Baxter Autopheresis C (Auto-C). FC performs sequential blood centrifugation and plasma filtration on a microporous polyethersulfone membrane, while Auto-C removes blood cells by simultaneous gravitation and filtration on a rotating nylon membrane. One group of 34 donors donated on FC and two groups of 30 and 10 donors on Auto-C. Plasma aliquots were taken from the plasma units within 30 min of the end of the collection procedures, frozen at < -30 degrees C and assessed for C3a and C5a at various time points of storage. Mean C3a/C3a(des Arg) in FC plasma (N = 34) was 1,151 (range: 526-2,991), 1,092 (range: 349-3498), and 507 (range: 307-815) ng/ml at time of collection and after 6 and 12 months of storage, respectively. Respective C5a/C5a(des Arg) was 26.6 (range 4.9-74), 18.9 (9.5-42.6), and 30.9 (range: 10.7-62.3) ng/ml. Mean C3a/C3a(des Arg) was higher in Auto-C (P < 0.001): 4,724 ng/ml (N = 10; range: 2,400-7 ,360) and > 4,149 ng/ml (N = 30; 2,408- > 6,430) after 3 and 18 months storage, respectively. Mean C5a/C5a(des Arg) was 32.1 ng/ml (N = 30; range: 10.6-57.2) after 18 months of storage. Complement activation in FC plasmas appears limited compared to Auto-C, suggesting better biocompatibility of this collection device and/or a favourable impact of the sequential cell centrifugation/filtration technology used. Further studies are needed to explain differences in complement activation between apheresis procedures and to assess clinical impacts, if any."}
{"id": "15493051", "title": "Comparative study of plateletpheresis using Baxter CS 3000 plus and Haemonetics MCS 3P.", "content": "Comparative study of plateletpheresis using Baxter CS 3000 plus and Haemonetics MCS 3P. Platelet concentrates made from cell separators are used more frequently due to less donor exposure and leucodepletion. This retrospective study was done to compare plateletpheresis done on two cell separators: Baxter CS 3000 plus and Haemonetics MCS 3p. Plateletpheresis procedures, done from January 1997 to April 2002, were included in the study. One hundred and seven procedures were done on Haemonetics MCS 3p using SDP protocol, 49 procedures were done on Haemonetics MCS 3p using PLP protocol, and 107 were done on Baxter CS 3000 plus. Pre-procedure donor's platelet count and haemoglobin were comparable in all the groups. Platelet yield was comparable in PLP (6.44 x 10(11) platelets) and SDP (5.27 x 10(11)) protocols, but significantly less in Baxter (4.05 x 10(11) platelets, P < 0.001 for PLP and P < 0.05 for SDP). Efficiency of platelet removal was statistically significantly different in all the groups (P < 0.0001), however it was more in PLP (PLP-55.02%, SDP-47.38%, Baxter 38.98%). A significant number of products (19.51%) of Baxter failed to comply platelet count of product < or = 2,435 x 10(9)/l compared to 5.13% in PLP and 1.23% in SDP group; 36.96% of units from PLP and 28% from SDP qualified for split products compared to 1.18% of Baxter. PLP protocol of Haemonetics MCS 3p gives better platelet yield compared to Baxter CS 3000 plus and SDP protocol of Haemonetics MCS 3p."}
{"id": "15481628", "title": "Monitoring of hemostatic status in four patients being treated with recombinant factor VIIa.", "content": "Monitoring of hemostatic status in four patients being treated with recombinant factor VIIa. Recombinant Factor VIIa (rVIIa) is a potent hemostatic agent for the management of refractory bleeding in patients with Factor VII deficiency or Factor VIII inhibitors. While the current recommended dose is usually effective, the most appropriate dose remains a subject of debate. Since factor VII levels and shortening of the pro-thrombin time do not appear to correlate with response, an appropriate laboratory marker of clinical response has not been identified. In this article we report changes noted in thrombin generation, platelet function and clot structure in blood from patients treated with rVIIa. Thrombin generation was assessed via a thrombin generation time (TGT) assay using a Hemodyne HAS instrument. Changes in clot structure were assessed as changes in clot elastic modulus in the HAS, changes in maximum amplitude in the TEG and changes in maximum clot firmness in the ROTEG. The cases presented confirmed improvement in thrombin generation with administration of rVIIa. The cases also illustrate that: a) in the factor VII deficient patient, 25% of the 90 microg/kg dose is sufficient to totally correct the defect, b) patients with high level factor VIII inhibitors may require significantly more than the recommended dose of 90 microg/kg, c) thrombin generation may not be completely corrected despite dramatic shortening of the prothrombin time, and d) increasing rVIIa doses does not by itself ensure improved thrombin generation."}
{"id": "15461627", "title": "The effects of folic acid supplements on coagulation status in pregnancy.", "content": "The effects of folic acid supplements on coagulation status in pregnancy. Thromboembolic disease remains the leading cause of maternal death in the UK. Recent literature has proposed that folate status is a strong predictor for venous thrombosis. Using thrombelastography (TEG((R))), we tested the hypothesis that folic acid supplementation is associated with a reduction in whole blood coagulability. Blood samples and questionnaire data were obtained at a mean gestation of 13.6 weeks (SD: 3.8, range: 6-38 weeks) from unselected consecutive women attending for their antenatal booking scan. Of 588 patients, 439 (74.7%) took folic acid. All TEG((R)) parameters were less hypercoagulable in women that had taken folic acid compared with those that had not: mean maximum amplitude (MA) 60.3 versus 62.1; mean difference 1.8; 95% confidence interval 0.8, 2.8; P = 0.0001; mean coagulation index (CI) 0.54 versus 0.85; mean difference 0.31; 95% confidence interval 0.11, 0.5; P = 0.002. There was no difference in the incidence of the homozygous MTHFR mutation in patients taking folic acid (5.53%) compared with those that were not (4.08%). This study suggests that benefit may be derived from longer-term treatment, although large multicentre studies are required to determine whether the relative hypocoagulability is associated with a reduction in risk of venous thrombosis."}
{"id": "15385042", "title": "Thrombin generation assay and other universal tests for monitoring haemophilia therapy.", "content": "Thrombin generation assay and other universal tests for monitoring haemophilia therapy. Factor VIII bypassing agents have different multiple modes of action, but share the common feature of inducing or facilitating thrombin generation. The information obtained from most overall assays to measure the haemostatic response to inhibitor-bypassing agents is limited to the initial phase of blood coagulation (clotting time measurement) or the formation of a solidifying clot followed by fibrinolysis (thrombelastography), and excludes the real endpoint of thrombin generation. Thrombin generation assays (TGAs) measure the whole kinetics of thrombin generation even after the clot formation, and thus assess all activating and inactivating systems of coagulation. Therefore, TGAs are not only becoming a universal tool to improve understanding of haemostasis and to investigate biochemical principles of the haemostatic system, but are also evolving as a powerful prognostic and monitoring tool for inhibitor bypassing therapies."}
{"id": "15370104", "title": "Clopidogrel (Plavix) and cardiac surgical patients: implications for platelet function monitoring and postoperative bleeding.", "content": "Clopidogrel (Plavix) and cardiac surgical patients: implications for platelet function monitoring and postoperative bleeding. The use of clopidogrel (Plavix), an inhibitor of adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-induced platelet aggregation, has been proven to reduce ischemic events in cardiovascular patients, but little information is available for optimal monitoring of platelet function in patients receiving the drug preoperatively. In the first part of the study we compared different testing modalities (thrombelastography (TEG), platelet aggregometry, and whole blood aggregation) to assess platelet ADP receptor inhibition. Because clopidogrel is a pro-drug, we used an in vitro model of ADP inhibition with 5'-p-fluorosulfonylbenzoyladenosine (FSBA). FSBA at final concentration of 80 microM completely inhibited platelet aggregation but had no effect on TEG maximum amplitude (MA). In the second part of the study, antiplatelet effects of clopidogrel were clinically assessed and correlated to postoperative bleeding in 18 coronary bypass surgery patients. Preoperative TEG results were normal or hypercoagulable in clopidogrel-treated patients, although platelet aggregation responses to ADP were inhibited. Clopidogrel-treated patients who underwent cardiopulmonary bypass had a high incidence (84.6%) of platelet transfusion therapy due to increased chest tube drainage. In conclusion, we have demonstrated that normal preoperative TEG-MA does not preclude clopidogrel-induced ADP receptor blockade; however, TEG can be a reliable monitor for CPB-induced platelet dysfunction related to GPIIb/IIIa. For monitoring clopidogrel, it is necessary to perform more specific platelet function tests (aggregometry or platelet count ratio) using ADP as an activator."}
{"id": "15353134", "title": "Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in patients with haematological malignancies.", "content": "Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in patients with haematological malignancies. To report the initial data on allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation for haematological malignancies in Pakistan. A single centre descriptive study. Bismillah Taqee Institute of Health Sciences and Blood Diseases Centre from September 1999 to June 2004. Patients with haematological malignancies were included who had received allogeneic PBSC transplantation of Filgrastim (rhG-CSF) mobilized peripheral blood stem cells from HLA-identical siblings (except one 5/6 antigen sibling) with Busulphan and Cyclophosphamide standard conditioning therapy in all patients. No patient received antibiotics for gut decontamination. Empirical antibiotics included Ceftriaxone and Amikacin for febrile neutropenia, oral Itraconazole for antifungal prophylaxis while oral acyclovir was used for antiviral prophylaxis. All donors and recipients were CMV IgG positive Cyclosporin A / Methotrexate were given for graft versus host disease (GvHD) prophylaxis. Stem cells were harvested using Haemonetics MCS+ cell separator. All patients received G-CSF starting from day +4 until their neutrophil count rose to normal. There were 21 patients with age range of 8-38 years and male to female ratio of 2:1. Engraftment was achieved in all patients; median time to absolute neutrophil count of > 0.5 x 10(9)/l was 10 days (range 8 - 12 days) and platelet count of > 20 x 10(9)/l was 14 days (12-17 days). Acute graft versus host disease ( aGvHD) was seen in 7 patients; one patient had grade IV skin and hepatic GvHD; another patient had grade III gut GvHD, grade II GvHD was seen in 3 patients while grade I skin aGvHD was seen in 2 patients. Median hospital stay was 34 days. Treatment related mortality was seen in 3 patients (18%). Chronic GvHD was seen in 5 patients. Four more patients died during the follow-up period. Malaria was seen in 2 while tuberculosis developed in one case. Relapse was seen in 2 patients. The estimated probability of survival at one hundred day, at one year and five years was 82, 47 and 40 percent respectively. Haematopoietic stem cell transplant programme can be developed in a developed country setting. Post transplant complications are similar to what have been reported in the developed countries. In endemic areas malaria could prove to be fatal if not recognised and treated early."}
{"id": "15334755", "title": "Plateletworks platelet function test compared to the thromboelastograph for prediction of postoperative outcomes.", "content": "Plateletworks platelet function test compared to the thromboelastograph for prediction of postoperative outcomes. Approximately 3.5 million units of platelets are transfused in the United States each year to patients undergoing open-heart surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). CPB is a known contributor to platelet loss and platelet dysfunction leading to disruption of hemostasis. Impaired hemostasis results in excess bleeding in 5-25% of all patients undergoing CPB. For this reason, it may be beneficial to measure platelet number and function in these patients. The purpose of this study was to compare the Plateletworks platelet function analyzer to the thromboelastograph (TEG) in predicting postoperatiave hemostatic outcomes as measured by blood product use and chest tube (CT) drainage. This study consisted of 35 adult patients undergoing cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass at Rush-Presbyterian-Saint Luke's Medical Center (RPSLMC). The Plateletworks and TEG tests were performed preoperatively, after protamine was given, and 24 hours postoperatively on all patients. Plateletworks demonstrated a statistically significant change in platelet function as shown by the adenosine diphosphate (ADP) reagent tube from the preoperative period to the removal of the aortic cross clamp (p = .011). The TEG did not demonstrate a significant change in the k-time and maximum amplitude (MA), but did show a significant change in the alpha-angle from the pre-operative to postoperatiave sample (p = .035). A correlation was found between Plateletworks collagen reagent tubes preoperatively and CT drainage (p = .048, r -0.324). No statistical correlation was established between TEG parameters and CT drainage at any time interval. TEG preoperative MA showed a correlation to receipt of blood products (p = .016). When comparing the Plateletworks to the TEG in this study, the Plateletworks system was a more useful predictor of blood product use and chest tube drainage."}
{"id": "15321411", "title": "In vitro evidence of gender-related heparin resistance.", "content": "In vitro evidence of gender-related heparin resistance. Coagulability varies among men, women, and pregnant women, along a spectrum where the blood of men is the least and that of pregnant women the most coagulable. The effects of differences in coagulation status on the action of heparin cannot be measured by specific laboratory tests such as aPTT or anti-Factor Xa assay. Thromboelastography which measures whole blood coagulation can assess the effect of heparin against differing backgrounds of coagulation. The aim of this in vitro study was to explore differences in heparin effect between men, women and pregnant women. Fifteen male and female staff volunteers, and 15 pregnant women approaching term, donated venous blood, which was added to four cups in two TEG 5000 analysers. In the cups of the analysers was 0.03 mL of saline control, or heparin 0.4, 0.6 or 1 unit/mL. TEG variables r and k, angle and MA were compared across the groups using two way ANOVA. All subject groups demonstrated a significant heparin effect, which was least in the control group and greatest with 1 unit/mL (P < 0.0001). Across the subject groups, from men to pregnant women, increasing coagulability was seen, with shortening of r and k (P < 0.04), and increasing angle and MA (P < 0.0001). A relationship between gender and heparin was significant for r and k (P < 0.02) but not for angle and MA. This result assists the case against a one-size-fits-all approach to policies on heparinisation."}
{"id": "15296091", "title": "Physical transformation of niclosamide solvates in pharmaceutical suspensions determined by DSC and TG analysis.", "content": "Physical transformation of niclosamide solvates in pharmaceutical suspensions determined by DSC and TG analysis. This study reports the preparation of four niclosamide solvates and the determination of the stability of the crystal forms in different suspension vehicles by DSC and TG analysis. Thermal analysis showed that the niclosamide solvates were extremely unstable in a PVP-vehicle and rapidly changed to monohydrated crystals. A suspension in propylene glycol was more stable and TG analysis showed that crystal transformation was less rapid. In this vehicle, the crystals transformed to the anhydrate, rather than the monohydrate, since the vehicle was non-aqueous. The TEG-hemisolvate was the most stable in suspension and offered the best possibility of commercial exploitation."}
{"id": "15284525", "title": "Clotting parameters and thromboelastography in children with neuromuscular and idiopathic scoliosis undergoing posterior spinal fusion.", "content": "Clotting parameters and thromboelastography in children with neuromuscular and idiopathic scoliosis undergoing posterior spinal fusion. An unblinded comparison of laboratory values between patients with idiopathic and neuromuscular scoliosis. To compare standard tests of coagulation and thromboelastography (TEG) parameters between two groups of patients undergoing posterior spinal fusion (PSF). Children with neuromuscular scoliosis such as cerebral palsy have more intraoperative blood loss than children with idiopathic scoliosis during PSF. Various reasons suggested for this include nutritional deficiencies, altered tissue integrity, hepatic dysfunction, and use of antiepileptic medications that can cause poor hemostasis and altered coagulation. We have observed alterations in coagulation factor levels in patients with cerebral palsy due to spastic quadriplegia with moderate blood volume loss (25% estimated blood volume). In a prospective analysis, we compared standard tests of coagulation (prothrombin time [PT], partial thromboplastin time [PTT], platelet count, fibrinogen levels) and TEG at baseline and at a blood loss of 15% estimated blood volume in patients with idiopathic scoliosis and cerebral palsy undergoing PSF. There were no differences between the groups in terms of gender distribution and age. There was a significant difference between the baseline PT and PTT values, although both groups were within laboratory norms. After 15% blood volume loss, there were differences seen in the PT, PTT, maximum amplitude on the TEG, ionized calcium, and serum magnesium levels (P < 0.05). Children with cerebral palsy undergoing PSF have increased bleeding that starts earlier in the procedure than it does for patients with idiopathic scoliosis undergoing PSF. We found that, even though children with spastic quadriplegia had baseline PT and PTT values within normal limits, they were significantly different when compared with normal patients."}
{"id": "15283824", "title": "The use of recalcified citrated whole blood -- a pragmatic approach for thromboelastography in children.", "content": "The use of recalcified citrated whole blood -- a pragmatic approach for thromboelastography in children. Thromboelastography (TEG) is an established way of monitoring the coagulation status of children and adults requiring blood products during surgery. Serial measurements are performed using a nearside machine and blood product prescription may be titrated against changes in TEG. There may also be useful applications when the patient is remote from the TEG machine but these are limited because TEG is usually performed on fresh native whole blood within 6 min of venepuncture. Citrated whole blood can be used for TEG if transport time is more than 6 min. We wished to establish whether TEG parameters for citrated whole blood were comparable with those of native whole blood in healthy children. Blood was obtained from 14 healthy children undergoing minor surgical procedures, at the time of intravenous cannula insertion for anaesthesia. Each sample was divided: TEG was performed on part of the sample in its fresh native state at 6 min and second portion of the sample was citrated, kept at room temperature and TEG was performed at 30 min after recalcification. There was a significant difference in TEG parameters (r, k, alpha, MA and LY30) for fresh native whole blood and recalcified citrated whole blood (paired t-test). The normal range for fresh native whole blood TEG parameters is well established, which is routinely used in practice. There was a significant difference between TEG parameters for fresh native whole blood and citrated whole blood. We recommend that a specific normal range be established for citrated whole blood to enable it to be used in clinical practice."}
{"id": "15281530", "title": "Does arginine vasopressin influence the coagulation system in advanced vasodilatory shock with severe multiorgan dysfunction syndrome?", "content": "Does arginine vasopressin influence the coagulation system in advanced vasodilatory shock with severe multiorgan dysfunction syndrome? Arginine vasopressin (AVP) is a potent supplementary vasopressor in advanced vasodilatory shock, but decreases in platelet count have been reported during AVP therapy. In this study we evaluated the effects of AVP infusion on the coagulation system in advanced vasodilatory shock when compared to norepinephrine (NE) infusion alone. Forty-two patients with advanced vasodilatory shock (NE requirements >0.5 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1), mean arterial blood pressure <70 mm Hg) were prospectively randomized to receive an additional AVP infusion (4 U/h) or NE infusion alone. Most patients received coagulation active treatment (fresh-frozen plasma, thrombocyte concentrates, coagulation factors, and continuous veno-venous hemofiltration with heparin). At baseline and 1, 24, and 48 h after randomization, coagulation laboratory variables and a modified thrombelastography were measured. There were no differences between groups in plasmatic coagulation variables. Although there was no significant difference between groups, platelet count significantly decreased in AVP patients (P = 0.036). There were no differences in results of modified thrombelastography analyses between groups. AVP infusion in advanced vasodilatory shock with severe multiorgan dysfunction syndrome does not increase plasma concentrations of Factor VIII, von Willebrand Factor antigen, and ristocetin Co-Factor but may stimulate platelet aggregation and induce thrombocytopenia. Global coagulation, assessed by modified thrombelastography, is not different from patients receiving NE infusion alone."}
{"id": "15281516", "title": "The impact of factor XIII on coagulation kinetics and clot strength determined by thrombelastography.", "content": "The impact of factor XIII on coagulation kinetics and clot strength determined by thrombelastography. Fibrinogen has been shown to be responsible for most protein-mediated clot strength via thrombelastography. However, factor XIII (FXIII) activity also plays a prominent role in the development of clot strength. Thus, we hypothesized that changes in FXIII activity would significantly increase clot strength. FXIII (0%, 1%, 6.25%, 12.5%, 25%, 50%, and 100% normal activity) was placed in a fixed volume of citrated FXIII-deficient plasma with 1% tissue factor and calcium chloride and underwent thrombelastography for 10 min. We measured the variables reaction time (R; a measurement of clot initiation), alpha (a measure of the rate of clot formation), amplitude (A; a measure of clot strength), and shear elastic modulus (G; a measure of clot strength). FXIII activity significantly decreased R in a pattern of exponential decay (R2 = 0.77; P < 0.001). FXIII activity significantly increased alpha, following a sigmoidal pattern (R2 = 0.88; P < 0.001). Finally, increases in FXIII activity significantly increased A and G in a sigmoidal pattern (R = 0.89; P < 0.001). We concluded that FXHI significantly affects R, alpha, A, and G. Thus, transfusion decision making with protein-mediated thrombelastographic patterns must account for the contribution of both fibrinogen and FXIII."}
{"id": "15281495", "title": "Peroxynitrite decreases hemostasis in human plasma in vitro.", "content": "Peroxynitrite decreases hemostasis in human plasma in vitro. Coagulopathy has been associated with clinical scenarios that involve reactive nitrogen species such as peroxynitrite (OONO-). Further, OONO- decreases tissue factor and fibrinogen function in vitro. Thus, we hypothesized that exposure of plasma to the OONO- generated with 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1), a molecule that produces both nitric oxide and superoxide, would result in a decrease in hemostatic function via diminished coagulation protein activity. Hemostatic function of plasma exposed to SIN-1 (0, 1, 5, and 10 mM for 60 min at 37 degrees C) was assessed with thrombelastography, activated partial thromboplastin time, and prothrombin time in the presence or absence of superoxide dismutase (SOD) or an OONO- scavenger. SIN-1 exposure resulted in a significant (P < 0.05), dose-dependent decrease in plasma hemostatic function and concurrent significant (P < 0.05) decreases in activities of factor VII, factor VIII complex, and factor X. Fibrinogen concentration was not affected by SIN-1. Antithrombin and protein C activity also decreased significantly (P < 0.05). Coincubation with SOD or an OONO- scavenger significantly (P < 0.05) attenuated SIN-1 mediated changes in hemostasis and procoagulant/ anticoagulant activity. We conclude that OONO- may decrease hemostatic function in human plasma by nitration of key procoagulants and that OONO- may play a significant role in hemorrhagic states."}
{"id": "15280746", "title": "In vitro effects of poly-N-acetyl glucosamine on the activation of platelets in platelet-rich plasma with and without red blood cells.", "content": "In vitro effects of poly-N-acetyl glucosamine on the activation of platelets in platelet-rich plasma with and without red blood cells. This study was performed to assess the effect of poly-N-acetyl glucosamine fiber slurry on plasma clotting proteins, platelets, and red blood cells in the clotting of the blood. Citrate phosphate dextrose whole blood was stored at 22degreesC for 48 hours to prepare platelet-poor plasma, platelet-rich plasma (PRP), and PRP plus red blood cells with hematocrit values of 20%, 35%, and 45% with and without an equal volume of poly-N-acetyl glucosamine fibers (1 mg/mL 0.9% NaCl). Thromboelastogram data show that poly-N-acetyl glucosamine fibers (p-GlcNAc) significantly reduced the R time in platelet-poor plasma, PRP, and PRP supplemented with red blood cells. Poly-N-acetyl glucosamine fibers increased, but not significantly, Annexin V and factor X binding to platelets, platelet microparticles, and red blood cell Annexin V binding. Poly-N-acetyl glucosamine fibers increased the production of thromboxane B2 by PRP. Poly-N-acetyl glucosamine slurry activates platelets."}
{"id": "15272413", "title": "Increases in human T helper 2 cytokine responses to Schistosoma mansoni worm and worm-tegument antigens are induced by treatment with praziquantel.", "content": "Increases in human T helper 2 cytokine responses to Schistosoma mansoni worm and worm-tegument antigens are induced by treatment with praziquantel. Levels of Schistosoma mansoni-induced interleukin (IL)-4 and IL-5 and posttreatment levels of immunoglobulin E recognizing the parasite's tegument (Teg) correlate with human resistance to subsequent reinfection after treatment. We measured changes in whole-blood cytokine production in response to soluble egg antigen (SEA), soluble worm antigen (SWA), or Teg after treatment with praziquantel (PZQ) in a cohort of 187 individuals living near Lake Albert, Uganda. Levels of SWA-induced IL-4, IL-5, IL-10, and IL-13 increased after treatment with PZQ, and the greatest relative increases were seen in the responses to Teg. Mean levels of Teg-specific IL-5 and IL-10 increased ~10-15-fold, and mean levels of IL-13 increased ~5-fold. Correlations between the changes in cytokines suggested that their production was positively coregulated by tegumentally derived antigens. Levels of SEA-, SWA-, and Teg-induced interferon- gamma were not significantly changed by treatment, and, with the exception of IL-10, which increased slightly, responses to SEA also remained largely unchanged. The changes in cytokines were not strongly influenced by age or intensity of infection and were not accompanied by corresponding increases in the numbers of circulating eosinophils or lymphocytes."}
{"id": "15271723", "title": "Changes in thrombelastograph variables associated with aging.", "content": "Changes in thrombelastograph variables associated with aging. Aging is associated with hypercoagulability. To assess thrombelastography (TEG) variables associated with aging, 132 adult patients of various ages undergoing orthopedic surgery for fracture repair had venous blood samples withdrawn for testing of recalcified TEG before the induction of anesthesia. Age was weakly correlated with all TEG variables: r time (R) (r = -0.45, P < 0.001; R = 19.5 - 0.09 x age), k time (K) (r = -0.49, P < 0.001; K = 6.5 - 0.04 x age), maximum amplitude (MA) (r = 0.25, P < 0.01; MA = 53.3 + 0.07 x age), and alpha (r = 0.52, P < 0.001; alpha = 52.8 + 0.2 x age). The correlation was stronger for men than for women. Only R was significantly correlated with age when the women were separately analyzed. Part of the correlation may be attributable to a concurrent decrease in hemoglobin with aging, but age remained an independent predictor of R, K, and alpha on forward stepwise linear multiple regression analysis. Aging was weakly associated with changes in TEG variables, which should be allowed for when interpreting TEG measurements in the elderly."}
{"id": "15271704", "title": "Diagnosis and treatment of intracardiac thrombosis during orthotopic liver transplantation.", "content": "Diagnosis and treatment of intracardiac thrombosis during orthotopic liver transplantation. Intracardiac thrombus formation during orthotopic liver transplantation can be a catastrophic event leading to death. Most often this devastating complication occurs after reperfusion and may be related to massive blood transfusion, marginal liver grafts, tendencies towards hypercoagulability, or the potential role of antifibrinolytics. We report a case of an intracardiac thrombus occurring during the hepatectomy stage (stage I) of orthotopic liver transplantation. Transesophageal echocardiography was used to quickly diagnose the thrombus, allowing rapid pharmacological intervention and later guide surgical evacuation of the intracardiac thrombus via the inferior vena cava."}
{"id": "15260819", "title": "Content and functional activity of von Willebrand factor in apheresis plasma.", "content": "Content and functional activity of von Willebrand factor in apheresis plasma. Von Willebrand Factor (VWF) is a complex high-molecular-weight (HMW) plasma glycoprotein playing a critical role in primary and secondary haemostasis. Owing to its multimeric structure and sensitivity to proteolysis, VWF can be used as a marker of the impact of collection procedures on the characteristics of plasma for transfusion and for fractionation. We studied VWF content, functional activity and HMW multimers in plasmas collected by five different automated apheresis collection procedures. Five series of 30 plasma units were obtained from volunteer donors at two collection sites using Haemonetics PCS2 machines with Revision (Rev) F, Rev G, high-separation core (HSC), or filter core (FC) procedures, or Baxter-Fenwall Autopheresis-C (Auto-C). VWF antigen (VWF:Ag), ristocetin cofactor (VWF:RCo) activity and HMW multimers were first determined in 10 randomly selected plasma donations collected with Rev G, HSC, FC and Auto-C procedures. Then, the same analyses and the collagen binding (VWF:CB) activity were determined in the pools of 30 donations from each of the five procedures and compared with two normal plasma pools (NPP1 and NPP2). A reference plasma (RP) was used to calibrate each assay. There were a greater number of group O individuals in the Rev F, Rev G and FC donors than in the HSC and Auto-C donors. The mean VWF:Ag level was > 100 IU/dl, VWF:RCo activity was > 90 U/dl, the VWF:RCo/Ag ratio was close to 1, and the percentage of 11-15 mers was above 100% of RP in the 10 individual plasma units from Rev G, HSC, FC, and Auto-C and in their respective pools. The mean percentage of multimers > 15 mers, relative to RP, was significantly less in Rev G plasmas (48 +/- 17%; range 32-91%), compared with Auto-C, HSC and FC plasmas (P = 0.0211; 0.0257; and 0.0376, respectively). The VWF:CB activity of the 30-donation pools was 61 and 60 U/dl in Auto C and HSC, 50 U/dl in Rev F and FC, and 43 U/dl in the Rev G pool. The VWF:CB/Ag ratio was 0.54 (Auto-C), 0.49 (HSC), 0.46 (Rev F), 0.45 (FC) and 0.37 (Rev G), compared with 0.81and 0.92 in NPPs. The percentage of VWF multimers of 11-15 mers in apheresis plasma and NPP was normal. VWF multimers > 15 mers ranged from 38 to 64% of that of RP plasma, and was 111 and 112% in NPPs. The VWF:Ag, VWF:RCo activity and 11-15 mer VWF multimers were well preserved in all plasma units from each of the five apheresis procedures. The VWF:CB activity and the percentage of multimers > 15 mers in apheresis plasma was less than in normal plasma pools and differed slightly among procedures."}
{"id": "15244445", "title": "Oligochitosan derivatives bearing electron-deficient aromatic rings for adsorption of amitriptyline: implications for drug detoxification.", "content": "Oligochitosan derivatives bearing electron-deficient aromatic rings for adsorption of amitriptyline: implications for drug detoxification. The objective of this work is the synthesis of water-soluble oligochitosan derivatives with electron deficient aromatic rings for selective and rapid adsorption of amitriptyline through pi-pi complexation. Oligochitosan was chemically modified under homogeneous conditions in dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO). (1)H NMR, FT-IR, and MALDI-TOF were employed in characterization, confirming that the electron deficient aromatic rings were chemically attached to the backbone of oligochitosan. Thromboelastography (TEG) revealed functionalized oligochitosan derivatives did not affect blood clotting. (1)H NMR was also utilized to observe the aromatic-aromatic interaction between electron deficient aromatic rings on oligochitosan and electron rich aromatic rings in amitriptyline. The chemical shift variation of aromatic protons in oligochitosan derivatives was followed to monitor the aromatic-aromatic interaction. Upfield shift of aromatic protons on benzenesulfonyl and dinitrobenzenesulfonyl groups was observed upon the addition of amitriptyline, supporting the formation of pi-pi complexes through aromatic-aromatic interactions. Dinitrobenzenesulfonyl rings show a larger variation in chemical shift due to the presence of the electron deficient nitro groups."}
{"id": "15233820", "title": "Hypercoagulable state associated with kidney-pancreas transplantation. Thromboelastogram-directed anti-coagulation and implications for future therapy.", "content": "Hypercoagulable state associated with kidney-pancreas transplantation. Thromboelastogram-directed anti-coagulation and implications for future therapy. The clinical consequences of type 1 diabetes mellitus (IDDM) include diabetic triopathy: retinopathy, nephropathy, and neuropathy, as well as microangiopathy, accelerated atherosclerotic disease, and hypercoagulability. The etiology of the hypercoagulability is multifactorial, involving various clotting factors or pathways (for example platelets, fibrinogen, individual components of the clotting system and/or fibrinolysis in different studies). The development of end-stage renal disease (ESRD), with the uremia-related platelet effect has the potential to protect from the existing hypercoagulable state. This has important implications for surgery, particularly simultaneous pancreas-kidney (SPK) transplantation, where the pancreas has historically been prone to thrombosis. This has led us to perform intra-operative thromboelastograms (TEG's) to evaluate the patient's current coagulation status. A TEG was performed in 85 SPK recipients along with a control group of 54 non-diabetic kidney transplant (KT) recipients. For each of the 4 TEG coagulation parameters, the SPK recipients were significantly more hypercoagulable than the non-diabetic KT recipients. The use of intra-operative heparin is based on the degree of hypercoagulability by TEG and degree of operative hemostasis. There has been one PT lost to thrombosis (1%) in the first week following transplantation during this time. The use of TEG is a helpful adjunct to SPK surgery, demonstrating the patient's current coagulation status. Nearly all SPK recipients (type 1 IDDM with ESRD) have been demonstrated to be hypercoagulable. The TEG allows the judicious use of anti-coagulation at the time of surgery, and beyond."}
{"id": "15233811", "title": "Thromboelastography used to assess coagulation during treatment with molecular adsorbent recirculating system.", "content": "Thromboelastography used to assess coagulation during treatment with molecular adsorbent recirculating system. Coagulopathy is a life-threatening complication of liver cirrhosis. We describe the effect of molecular adsorbent recirculating system (MARS), a cell-free dialysis technique, on the blood coagulation of cirrhotic patients. From February 2002 to July 2002, nine patients--five males (55.5%) and four females (44.4%), age 47-70 yr (median 56)--underwent 12 courses (4-7 sessions each) of MARS. Patients were treated for the following indications: six (66.6%) acute-on-chronic hepatic failure, three (33.3%) intractable pruritus. Platelet count, prothrombin time (PT), international standardized ratio and thromboelastography were measured before and after each MARS session. Coagulation factors II, V, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, XII, XIII, von Willebrand, lupus anticoagulant, protein C, protein S, antithrombin III, plasminogen, alpha 2 antiplasmin, D-dimer, fibrin monomers, complement, and C(1) inactivator were measured before and at the end of each MARS treatment. We found a statistically significant difference (p < 0.05) in the platelet count, PT, all the thromboelastograph variables (reaction and constant time, alpha angle, and maximal amplitude), factor VIII, von Willebrand, and D-dimer, when measured before and after MARS. Previous reports have shown amelioration of blood coagulation following MARS treatments. However, we document that MARS induces coagulopathy through a platelet-mediated mechanism, whereby platelet may be mechanically destroyed during the passage of blood through the filters and lines. An alternative postulated mechanism is an immune-mediated platelet disruption - coagulopathy."}
{"id": "15230956", "title": "Unresponsiveness to factor VIII inhibitor bypassing agents during haemostatic treatment for life-threatening massive bleeding in a patient with haemophilia A and a high responding inhibitor.", "content": "Unresponsiveness to factor VIII inhibitor bypassing agents during haemostatic treatment for life-threatening massive bleeding in a patient with haemophilia A and a high responding inhibitor. We report a case of haemophilia A with a high responding inhibitor of factor VIII (FVIII) who had a serious retroperitoneal haematoma caused by penetration of a duodenal ulcer. Inhibitor-bypassing therapy was commenced immediately on admission. On the 17th day of treatment with activated prothrombin complex concentrate (APCC; FEIBA, re-bleeding occurred and thrombelastography (TEG) demonstrated resistance to therapy. Treatment was changed to recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa; NovoSeven and resulted in clinical improvement together with an improvement in TEG parameters. On the 10th day of continuous infusion with NovoSeven, however, TEG again showed resistance to therapy. FEIBA infusions were re-introduced and TEG results remained satisfactory for 7 days. On day 34, however, further retroperitoneal bleeding was evident and a decline in the haemostatic efficiency of FEIBA was recorded by TEG. NovoSeven was again successfully administered for 7 days. There were no laboratory findings to indicate disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), hypercoagulability or abnormal fibrinolysis. The plasma-based clotting tests did not show any additional prolongation on the occasions when the TEG demonstrated unresponsiveness to FEIBA or NovoSeven. These findings suggested that some component of whole blood, other than plasma might have governed the TEG data. The long-term use of APCC such as FEIBA or rFVIIa, requires careful monitoring in terms of FVIII inhibitor bypassing activity as well as the tendency to DIC."}
{"id": "15225238", "title": "The in vitro quality of red blood cells frozen with 40 percent (wt/vol) glycerol at -80 degrees C for 14 years, deglycerolized with the Haemonetics ACP 215, and stored at 4 degrees C in additive solution-1 or additive solution-3 for up to 3 weeks.", "content": "The in vitro quality of red blood cells frozen with 40 percent (wt/vol) glycerol at -80 degrees C for 14 years, deglycerolized with the Haemonetics ACP 215, and stored at 4 degrees C in additive solution-1 or additive solution-3 for up to 3 weeks. Red blood cells (RBCs) frozen with 40 percent (wt/vol) glycerol, stored at -80 degrees C (mean temperature; range, -65 to -90 degrees C) for 14 years, deglycerolized in the Haemonetics automated cell processor (ACP) 215 with the 325-mL disposable bowl, and stored at 4 degrees C in additive solution (AS)-1 or AS-3 for 21 days were evaluated. A total of 106 units of citrate phosphate dextrose adenine-1 RBCs were frozen with 40 percent (wt/vol) glycerol in the original 800-mL polyvinylchloride plastic bag and stored in corrugated cardboard boxes at -80 degrees C for 14 years. The thawed units were deglycerolized with the ACP 215 with a 325-mL disposable bowl and stored in AS-1 or AS-3 at 4 degrees C for 21 days. The freeze-thaw recovery value was 94 +/- 4 percent (mean +/- SD), the freeze-thaw-wash recovery value was 80 +/- 7 percent, and there was no breakage. Thirty-eight units were processed as 19 pairs. Two units of ABO-matched units were thawed, pooled, divided equally into two units, and deglycerolized. One unit was stored in AS-1 and the other in AS-3 at 4 degrees C for 21 days. Units stored in AS-1 exhibited significantly greater hemolysis than those stored in AS-3. Acceptable results were achieved when RBCs frozen at -80 degrees C for 14 years were deglycerolized in the ACP 215. Deglycerolized RBCs in AS-1 exhibited significantly higher hemolysis than those in AS-3 after storage at 4 degrees C for 7 to 21 days."}
{"id": "15216770", "title": "[Changes in general hemostasis in patients with diabetic retinopathy].", "content": "[Changes in general hemostasis in patients with diabetic retinopathy]. The hemostasis system was analyzed in 106 patients with diabetes mellitus, including 86 patients with diabetic retinopathy. Parameters of coagulogram and thromboelastogram as well as platelets aggregation, stimulated by collagen, were examined in all patients. Besides, the fibrinolytic activity of blood plasma as well as the concentration of plasminogen, fibrinogen and of fibrin-degradation products were evaluated. Essential changes were detected, which correlated with an intensity of diabetic changes in the eye fundus, i.e. generalized hypercoagulation caused by a lower activity of the system antithrombin III-heparin, a higher activity of fibrinogen and activation of the fibrinolytic system. The obtained data denote an important role of impaired hemostasis in the pathogenesis of diabetic retinopathy."}
{"id": "15205591", "title": "Coagulation changes and edema formation during long-distance bus travel.", "content": "Coagulation changes and edema formation during long-distance bus travel. Long-distance travel in a cramped position by aircraft or by bus and car has been suggested to be associated with an increased risk for thromboembolic events. Recently, we demonstrated moderate activation of coagulation after a long-haul flight. At present the single contributing factors (i.e. hypoxia and low humidity on board an aircraft and prolonged sitting in an aircraft, car or bus inducing venous stasis) have not yet been investigated. Therefore we measured markers of coagulation and fibrinolysis as well as functional parameters of coagulation using activated thrombelastography in 19 healthy volunteers before, during and after a real 10-h bus journey. In addition, changes in leg volume were measured. Thrombelastography revealed moderate activation of coagulation in all travelers, which was accompanied by a significant increase in prothrombin fragment F1 + 2. Thrombin-antithrombin III complexes and D-dimer remained unchanged, and tissue-type plasminogen activator and plasminogen-activator inhibitor 1 decreased after travel. After the travel we found a significant increase in leg volume that was exclusively distributed in the calf. We conclude that beside long-haul flights also long-distance bus travel induces a certain activation of the coagulation system. Thus, it is questionable whether hypoxia is the crucial risk factor for thromboembolic events after long-haul flights."}
{"id": "15203716", "title": "The platelet function defect of paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria.", "content": "The platelet function defect of paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria. Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH) is a rare, acquired stem cell disorder, characterised by an abnormal susceptibility of red blood cells to complement induced lysis, resulting in repeated episodes of intravascular haemolysis and haemoglobinuria, thromboembolic events at atypical locations and, to a much lesser extent, bleeding complications. Platelet function is assumed to be abnormal, however, a defect has not yet been characterised and underlying mechanisms remain elusive. To explore these issues, we investigated platelet function in PNH patients using assays for clot formation under low and high shear force (thrombelastography and PFA100 device), adhesion to glass beads in native whole blood (Hellem method), aggregometry using various agonists (Born method), and flow cytometric assays for baseline and agonist-induced surface expression density of alpha-granule (CD62P) and lysosomal granule proteins (CD63), ligand binding to surface receptors (thrombospondin), and expression density of activation-induced neoepitopes of the fibrinogen receptor complex (PAC-1). Platelet PNH clone size determined by CD55 and CD59 labelling was compared to the clone sizes of granulocytes, monocytes, erythrocytes, and reticulocytes. A profound reduction of platelet reactivity was observed in PNH patients for all \"global function\" assays (clot formation, adhesion, aggregation). Platelet hyporeactivity was confirmed using flow cytometric assays. Whereas baseline levels of flow cytometrically determined platelet activation markers did not differ significantly between controls and PNH patients, agonist-induced values of all markers were distinctly reduced in the PNH group. Moreover, significantly reduced white blood cell counts (3.1/nl vs. 5.9/nl), haemoglobin values (9.5 vs. 14.3/g per dl), and platelet counts (136 vs. 219/nl) delineate profound tricytopenia in PNH patients. The fraction of particular cell types lacking the surface expression of GPI-anchored glycoproteins is referred to as the respective PNH clone; median PNH clone sizes of cells with short life spans (reticulocytes, platelets, granulocytes) was 50-80% of total cell populations compared to 20% of red blood cells. The results of our laboratory investigations show, that in PNH, reduced platelet counts coincide with reduced platelet reactivity. The foremost clinical complication in PNH, however, is venous thromboembolism, very probably induced by an activated and dysregulated plasmatic coagulation system. From these seemingly contradictory findings we infer, that part of the platelet hyporeactivity is probably due to reactive downregulation of platelet function in response to chronic hyperstimulation. The overall result is thought to be an unsteady balance, associated with thromboembolism in a larger proportion of patients, and with bleeding in a smaller proportion."}
{"id": "15183046", "title": "Evaluation of a novel kallikrein inhibitor on hemostatic activation in vitro.", "content": "Evaluation of a novel kallikrein inhibitor on hemostatic activation in vitro. DX-88 is a potent kallikrein inhibitor that is being studied for the treatment of hereditary angioedema (HAE) and represents a potential alternative to aprotinin in cardiac surgical patients. The current study was designed to evaluate in vitro effects of DX-88 on coagulation in comparison with aprotinin. Blood samples were obtained from consented 12 healthy volunteers. DX-88 or aprotinin was added to blood at 200 and 800 kallikrein inhibitory units (KIU) per milliliter for aprotinin, and at 1.1, 2.2, or 8.8 microg/ml for DX-88. Thromboelastography (TEG) was performed using celite, kaolin, or tissue factor (TF) activation. Kaolin-based activated clotting times (ACTs) were measured at different heparin levels. The whole blood prothrombin time (PT)/PTT values were also measured. The endogenous thrombin generation was assessed with a fluorogenic assay using platelet-poor plasma (PPP). With celite and kaolin activation of TEG, the reaction time was prolonged with DX-88 and aprotinin. With tissue factor activation, TEG parameters were not affected. DX-88 caused dose-dependent kaolin-ACT prolongation that was augmented by increasing doses of heparin. DX-88 or aprotinin had no significant effects on the PT values, but PTT values were dose-dependently prolonged. Both agents delayed the onset of thrombin generation when PTT reagent was used as a trigger, whereas no change was observed when tissue factor was used. We found that DX-88 delayed contact activator induced coagulation without affecting tissue factor mediated coagulation. For evaluation of coagulation during DX-88 therapy, the use of PT or tissue factor-activated TEG may be preferable."}
{"id": "15183043", "title": "A critical role for thrombin in platelet aggregation under high shear stress.", "content": "A critical role for thrombin in platelet aggregation under high shear stress. The serine protease, thrombin, plays a crucial role in both coagulation and platelet activation. Anhydrothrombin (AhT) is a catalytically inactive derivative of thrombin in which dehydroalanine replaces the active-site serine. AhT retains affinity for natural substrates of thrombin and may be a competitive inhibitor of thrombin-mediated coagulation and platelet reactions. In the present study, thrombelastography showed that AhT not only delayed the onset and the progress of the coagulation process but impaired clot strength, indicating that AhT may have both anticoagulant and antiplatelet activity. In addition, AhT prolonged the activated partial thromboplastin time dose-dependently, but had little effect on the prothrombin time, suggesting that its principal activity was mediated in the intrinsic coagulation pathway. AhT inhibited thrombin-induced aggregation of platelet-rich plasma. Complete inhibition of aggregation was evident at a concentration of 1.85 microM AhT. Furthermore, 3.7 microM of AhT almost completely abolished shear-induced platelet aggregation in PRP. Interpretation of this in vitro study requires confirmation in vivo, but the findings suggest that thrombin plays a critical role in shear related platelet mechanisms. AhT may be a useful tool for investigating platelet-based coagulation reactions and may provide the basis for a novel class of antithrombotic agents."}
{"id": "15179795", "title": "[Naikan therapy for prolonged depression: psychological changes and long-term efficacy of intensive Naikan therapy].", "content": "[Naikan therapy for prolonged depression: psychological changes and long-term efficacy of intensive Naikan therapy]. Many studies have shown that a considerable number of patients with prolonged depression are refractory to drug therapy or supportive psychotherapy. A few studies have shown the short-term effectiveness of intensive Naikan therapy for prolonged depression, but the long-term effects have not been reported. For other psychotherapies also, few studies have demonstrated their long-term effectiveness for prolonged depression. The purpose of the present study was to assess the long-term efficacy of intensive Naikan therapy for patients with prolonged depression and to investigate the factors contributing to its efficacy. At Tottori University Hospital, 23 inpatients with prolonged depression were treated with intensive Naikan therapy. The age, sex, age at onset, number of depressive episodes, duration of the present episode, diagnosis and family history were investigated. The Tokyo University Egogram (TEG), Yatabe-Guiltora personality inventory (YG test) and Rosenzweig picture-frustration (PF) study were conducted before and after intensive Naikan therapy to investigate psychological changes. The long-term efficacy (average: 24.5 +/- 10.6 months) of intensive Naikan therapy for prolonged depression was assessed with Global Assessment of Functioning scale (GAF). \"Improvement\" was defined as a post-therapy GAF score of 61 or higher. The Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (HAM-D) was applied to confirm the GAF results. Whether the patient achieved awareness of other's viewpoint, awareness of egocentricity, feeling of love, breaking out from self and sense of fulfillment after intensive Naikan therapy was investigated. Fifteen patients (65.2%) showed improvement in GAF and HAM-D (improved group) and eight patients showed no improvement (non-improved group). The average GAF score changed from 46.1 (before Naikan therapy) to 81.8 (at outcome assessment) in the improved group and from 45.3 to 52.8 in the non-improved group. The improved group had significantly shorter average duration of the present depressive episode and significantly less depressive episodes compared to the non-improved group. Only the improved group showed significantly lower scores on the critical parent (CP) scale of TEG, cyclic tendency (C) on the YG test and extraggression (E-A) in PF study. In the improved group, significantly more patients achieved deep insight (Naikan); and significantly more patients achieved awareness of other's viewpoint, awareness of egocentricity, feeling of love, breaking out from self and sense of fulfillment after intensive Naikan therapy. Our results suggested that intensive Naikan therapy for prolonged depression was equally as effective as Morita therapy, interpersonal therapy or group psychotherapy, and the effects of intensive Naikan therapy continued for a long term. Attainment of deep Naikan brought psychological changes in patients showing improvement, motivating them to continue Naikan therapy in daily life. We consider that this is the key factor that maintains the long-term efficacy of intensive Naikan therapy."}
{"id": "15175117", "title": "Prevalence of dental caries among 7- and 13-year-old First Nations children, District of Manitoulin, Ontario.", "content": "Prevalence of dental caries among 7- and 13-year-old First Nations children, District of Manitoulin, Ontario. Dental caries is a disease that, although decreasing in the non-Aboriginal child population, remains high for Canadian Aboriginal and Native American children and adolescents. To address dental health issues in First Nations in the District of Manitoulin, Noojmowin Teg Health Centre initiated a multiphase collaborative research project with the department of community dentistry at the University of Toronto. The purpose of this paper was to identify the prevalence of dental caries in children 7 or 13 years of age and to compare these data with published data for the same age groups from other First Nations communities in Canada. All children 7 or 13 years of age who were in elementary schools on a reserve in 7 First Nations communities were eligible for a dental health examination as part of the survey. Children attending school off the reserve in 6 of the communities were also eligible. A total of 66 children (56% 7-year-old children, 62% girls) were examined. The mean caries score (deft+ DMFT) for 7-year-old children was 6.2; the mean decayed, extracted, filled permanent teeth (DMFT) score for 13-year-old children was 4.1. Overall, 96% of children had 1 or more past or active carious lesion. Results indicate that dental caries is highly prevalent and increasing in severity in this population."}
{"id": "15166952", "title": "Thromboelastography with citrated blood: comparability with native blood, stability of citrate storage and effect of repeated sampling.", "content": "Thromboelastography with citrated blood: comparability with native blood, stability of citrate storage and effect of repeated sampling. Thromboelastography (TEG) with recalcified citrate blood is used as an alternative to native blood, but there is insufficient data regarding sample reliability and stability over time. Thus, TEG parameters of freshly drawn native blood were compared with those of recalcified citrated blood without celite in 10 healthy subjects, and the effect of repeated sampling over 240-min storage was evaluated. All TEG parameters following citrate storage remained stable between 30 min [clot formation time (k) = 7.2 +/- 0.6 min; maximum amplitude (ma) = 48.5 +/- 1.9 mm] and 2 h (k = 7.1 +/- 0.6 min; ma = 46.2 +/- 2.5 mm) after initial sampling, but were not comparable with native blood (k = 9.3 +/- 0.7 min; ma = 43.5 +/- 2.5 mm) at any time point. TEG parameters of repeatedly sampled citrated blood had a significant overall hypercoagulable trend throughout 4 h following sampling. In conclusion, in order to achieve reproducible results, citrated blood without celite may be utilized between 30 min and 2 h following sampling, but in normal subjects the TEG parameters following citrate storage are not comparable with native blood, possibly because of incomplete inhibition of the activation of the coagulation cascade. Thus, citrated blood can be used as a surrogate of native blood in assessing coagulation using TEG, but if repeated sampling is used the trend in hypercoagulability must be considered."}
{"id": "15166942", "title": "The effect of fibrinogen concentrate administration on coagulation abnormalities in a rat sepsis model.", "content": "The effect of fibrinogen concentrate administration on coagulation abnormalities in a rat sepsis model. Disseminated intravascular coagulation is a disorder that affects the function of the clotting system and is frequently associated with sepsis or septic shock. One of its leading symptoms is the decrease in circulating fibrinogen. We investigated the effect of fibrinogen concentrate (Haemocomplettan P) on fibrinogen plasma levels, coagulation parameters and mortality in a rat model of sepsis-induced disseminated intravascular coagulation. The disseminated intravascular coagulation was characterized by elevated thrombin-antithrombin complex and a sharp drop in circulating fibrinogen. Coagulation abnormalities were evaluated by thrombelastography. Plasma fibrinogen levels decreased from 2.06 +/- 0.2 to 0.16 +/- 0.1 g/l following administration of bacterial lipopolysaccharide. Thrombelastographic measurements revealed a concurrent decrease in maximum amplitude and an increase in reaction time. Treatment with fibrinogen concentrate (Haemocomplettan P, 25-200 mg/kg body weight intravenously) resulted in a statistically significant dose-dependent increase in fibrinogen plasma levels and amelioration of the measured coagulation abnormalities. Fibrinogen plasma concentrations were restored to normal levels when 200 mg/kg body weight fibrinogen concentrate was administered. A significant decrease in sepsis-induced mortality was observed in animals treated with Haemocomplettan P."}
{"id": "15157260", "title": "Collection of white blood cell-reduced plasma by apheresis.", "content": "Collection of white blood cell-reduced plasma by apheresis. WBC reduction of cellular blood components has been introduced in many countries. Owing to concerns of residual WBCs in plasma, a new method to collect WBC-reduced plasma by apheresis was studied. An apheresis machine (PCS2, Haemonetics) was used, in combination with the \"high-separation\" core (HSC) bowl, a redesigned version of the blow-molded (BM) bowl. With the BM bowl collections as control group, various software settings were investigated applying the HSC bowl. The optimized program was validated for routine application. Results are expressed as means +/- SD. Plasma collected in the control group with the BM bowl (n = 25) had a volume of 622 +/- 7 mL and contained 5.3 +/- 4.6 x 10(6) WBCs per L, 11 +/- 5 x 10(9) PLTs per L, and 0.063 +/- 0.051 x 10(9) RBCs per L. The collection efficiency was 17.8 +/- 2.8 mL per minute, and the total procedure time was 36.1 +/- 6.3 minutes. The HSC bowl produced plasma that had a volume of 623 +/- 9 mL and contained 0.01 +/- 0.02 x 10(6) WBCs per L, 2 +/- 2 x 10(9) PLTs per L, and 0.00040 +/- 0.0016 x 10(9) RBCs per L (n = 134, all p < 0.001). The collection efficiency was 15.8 +/- 2.2 mL per minute, and the collection time was 40.3 +/- 6.3 minutes (both p < 0.001). The HSC bowl with the new software reliably produces WBC-reduced apheresis plasma, with a slight elongation of the procedure time."}
{"id": "15155319", "title": "Heparinase-modified thrombelastography in term and preterm neonates.", "content": "Heparinase-modified thrombelastography in term and preterm neonates. Thrombelastography (TEG) appears to be a promising test to assess coagulation in infants and children. TEG enables a rapid assessment of hemostatic function with only 300 microL of whole blood and provides information about plasmatic coagulation, platelet function, and fibrinolysis. In this study, we used TEG to assess the coagulation system of preterm and term neonates to determine the effects of their deficient coagulation factor levels on global hemostatic function. Heparinase-modified TEG, platelet and red blood cell count, plasma fibrinogen, and prothrombin time were assessed in four groups of clinically stable infants: severely preterm (gestational age [GA], 27-31 wk), moderately preterm (GA, 32-36 wk), term (GA, 36-40 wk), and former preterm (corrected GA, 34-40 wk). Healthy adult volunteers served as a control group. When compared with the adult group, thromboelastography revealed no defects in coagulation from groups of clinically stable infants, documenting the functional integrity of coagulation despite, in part, decreased conventional coagulation variables. Because clinically stable preterm and term infants show a relatively small incidence of bleeding, despite prolonged conventional coagulation tests, TEG may better reflect the hemostatic potential of these patients compared with conventional coagulation tests. This study assessed the coagulation of preterm and term infants by thrombelastography and found functional integrity of coagulation despite, in part, decreased conventional coagulation variables."}
{"id": "15144531", "title": "Fibrin sealant produced by the CryoSeal FS System: product chemistry, material properties and possible preparation in the autologous preoperative setting.", "content": "Fibrin sealant produced by the CryoSeal FS System: product chemistry, material properties and possible preparation in the autologous preoperative setting. The CryoSeal FS has been introduced as an automated device for the production of fibrin sealant from small volumes of plasma. We tested this device and compared the product with commercially available fibrin sealants and with the requirements of the European Pharmacopoeia. The CP3 program and disposables required were used to manufacture fibrin sealant. The chemistry and mechanical properties of the product were investigated. The cryoprecipitate generated with CryoSeal contains concentrated fibrinogen and critical clotting factors. The efficiency of the production process is poor, but the production procedure itself is simple and not time-consuming. The volume of plasma required allows application in the preoperative autologous setting. The CryoSeal FS is an automated device for cryoprecipitation and production of thrombin. It can be implemented easily in the clinical routine, although, owing to product specifications, the efficacy of the CryoSeal fibrin sealant requires further clinical trials."}
{"id": "15142727", "title": "Effect of composite resin biodegradation products on oral streptococcal growth.", "content": "Effect of composite resin biodegradation products on oral streptococcal growth. Hydrolytic degradation by-products associated with the constitutive monomers 2,2-bis [4-(2-hydroxy-3-methacryloxypropoxy) phenyl] propane (bis-GMA), bisphenol A polyethylene glycol diether dimethacrylate (bis-EMA), and triethylene glycol dimethacrylate (TEDGMA) used in dental restorative composites include bis-hydroxy-propoxyphenyl propane (bis-HPPP), ethoxylated bisphenol A (E-bisPA), methacrylic acid (MA), and triethylene glycol (TEG). These products are generated from the interaction of human salivary esterases with the composites. Recent findings have indicated that TEGDMA has the ability to modulate oral bacteria but it is unclear which components of TEGDMA are related to the observed effects. The objective of the current study was to investigate the influence of TEGDMA derived degradation products MA and TEG on the growth of three strains of oral bacteria: S. mutans strains NG8 and JH1005, and S. salivarius AT2. Bacterial growth rates were measured at 37 degrees C, and pH values of 5.5 (representative of cariogenic state) or 7.0 at concentrations of 0-50mmol/l for MA (Sigma, US) and 0-100mmol/l for TEG (Sigma, US). It was found that at pH 5.5 TEG significantly stimulated the growth of both S. mutans strains ( p<0.05 ) in the concentration range of 0.5-10.0mmol/l and stimulated the growth of S. salivarius AT2 for the entire concentration range tested (p<0.05). TEG (above 50mmol/1) did not significantly affect the doubling times of S. salivarius at pH of 7.0 and it inhibited the growth of both S. mutans strains above 50mmol/l at the same pH value. At pH 5.5 MA inhibited the growth of all three strains with increasing concentration. At neutral pH, the growth of S. mutans NG8 strain was significantly reduced by MA ( p<0.05 ) above 10mmol/l. In summary, these results indicate that TEG and MA modulate the growth rate of important oral bacteria in a concentration and pH dependent manner."}
{"id": "15141797", "title": "Can we rely on arterial line sampling in performing activated plasma thromboplastin time after cardiac surgery?", "content": "Can we rely on arterial line sampling in performing activated plasma thromboplastin time after cardiac surgery? Arterial catheters are routinely used to sample blood for clotting studies in most cardiothoracic intensive care units. The clotting profile in surgical bleeding after cardiac surgery influences further management. Aspiration and discard of a certain amount of blood from the line, prior to sampling, are assumed to clear heparin contamination. We have investigated this assumption through analysis of the clotting profile by simultaneous arterial line and peripheral venous samples. The morning following cardiac surgery, simultaneous arterial line and peripheral venous blood samples were taken for activated plasma thromboplastin time (APTT) ratio and international normalized ratio (INR) in 49 randomly selected patients. Also, a thromboelastogram analysis (TEG) (n = 7) was made. A survey of 22 UK cardiothoracic intensive care units was carried out to determine the practice for the withdrawal of blood for clotting studies. The median arterial APTT ratio value was 1.32 +/- 0.52 as compared to the median peripheral APTT ratio value which was 1.1 +/- 0.24 (P < 0.001). INR values were statistically similar by both routes. Heparin contamination was confirmed by TEG which revealed that the R-value for arterial catheter blood samples without heparinase in the cup was higher (406.00 +/- 64.44 s) compared with the value for arterial samples with heparinase in the cup (318.28 +/- 47.26s, P < 0.05). The survey of 22 UK cardiothoracic intensive care units showed that heparinized arterial lines were by far the commonest ports used for blood withdrawal for the measurement of APTT ratio results. Samples withdrawn from heparinized arterial lines cannot be relied upon for APTT ratio results."}
{"id": "15122174", "title": "A novel modification of the Thrombelastograph assay, isolating platelet function, correlates with optical platelet aggregation.", "content": "A novel modification of the Thrombelastograph assay, isolating platelet function, correlates with optical platelet aggregation. Flow cytometry, singlet platelet counting, and optical aggregation have been used to monitor clopidogrel and glycoprotein IIb/IIIa (GPIIb/IIIa) platelet antagonists. Optical aggregation is considered the gold standard, but neither it nor flow cytometry is convenient in larger-scale clinical studies or point-of-care systems. Singlet platelet counting, a point-of-care assay correlated with optical platelet aggregation, only provides a measurement of platelet function at a single point in time. The Thrombelastograph is used to assay whole blood for thrombin-generated maximal clot-shear elasticity, referred to as the maximal amplitude (MA). Although platelet dysfunction, thrombocytopenia, and the in vitro effect of strong inhibitors such as IIb/IIIa antagonists can be observed, with thrombin generation milder platelet inhibitors cannot be assessed. We modified the Thromboelastograph assay, using reptilase and factor XIIIa, to form a clot, without thrombin generation, in heparinized whole blood. The resulting clot MA is dependent on added platelet agonists such as ADP or arachidonic acid, is sensitive to platelet antagonists, and provides a continuous measure of platelet function more analogous and better correlated with optical aggregation. This novel modification of the Thromboelastograph assay should prove to be a useful point-of-care whole-blood assay with which to monitor the effects of GPIIb/IIIa, ADP, and thromboxane A(2)-receptor-inhibiting drugs in patients."}
{"id": "15116259", "title": "The role of platelets and recombinant factor VIIa on thrombin generation, platelet activation and clot formation.", "content": "The role of platelets and recombinant factor VIIa on thrombin generation, platelet activation and clot formation. In the present study we assessed the effect of platelet counts and rFVIIa on thrombin generation, platelet activation and clot formation after tissue factor pathway activation in human plasma aiming to investigate the mechanism by which rFVIIa induces haemostasis in patients with severe thrombocytopenia. Plasma samples with platelet counts from 5 x 10(9)/l to 150 x 10(9)/l were spiked with rFVIIa (1 micro g/ml) or buffer. Clotting was initiated in the presence of diluted thromboplastin. Thrombin generation was assessed using the Thrombogram-Thrombinoscope trade mark assay. The kinetics of platelet activation was assessed using flow cytometry to measure the expression the P-selectin on platelet membrane of washed platelets suspended in defibrinated homologous PPP. Thromboelastography was used to evaluate the effect of platelets and rFVIIa on the kinetics of clot formation and clot's firmness. In the presence of low platelet counts the endogenous thrombin potential (ETP) and the maximum concentration of generated thrombin (Cmax) were reduced by 60%-70%. The lag-time of thrombin generation and the time required to reach the Cmax (Tmax) were prolonged, the velocity of platelet activation was decreased and thrombus formation was delayed. Recombinant FVIIa accelerated thrombin generation and platelet activation but it did not significantly modify ETP or Cmax. Recombinant FVIIa enhanced platelet activation in a TF and thrombin dependent manner since its effect on the studied parameters was abolished when TF was omitted or when hirudin was added into the experimental system respectively. Recombinant FVIIa normalized the velocity of clot formation but it did not modify clot firmness, which depended mainly on platelets' count. In conclusion, in experimental conditions simulating severe thrombocytopenia rFVIIa in the presence of low amounts of TF, accelerates thrombin generation, without increasing the maximum amount of generated thrombin, thus leading in enhanced platelet activation and rapid clot formation."}
{"id": "15111857", "title": "Changes in blood coagulability as it traverses the ischemic limb.", "content": "Changes in blood coagulability as it traverses the ischemic limb. We undertook this study to determine whether changes in blood coagulability associated with peripheral arterial occlusive disease are due to contact with the atherosclerotic arterial wall or passage through distal ischemic tissue. Thirty patients with peripheral arterial occlusive disease undergoing angiography participated in the study. Ankle-brachial pressure index was recorded before intervention. Blood samples taken from the aorta, common femoral artery, and common femoral vein were analyzed at thromboelastography. Angiograms were scored for stenotic disease by a radiologist blinded to the other results. When femoral artery samples were compared with aortic samples there was a decrease in reaction time (R; P <.05), an increase in maximum amplitude (MA; P <.05), and an increase in coagulation index (CI; P <.002), indicating an increase in coagulability as blood flowed down the iliac segment. These changes also correlated (DeltaR, r = 0.442, P <.05; DeltaMA, r = 0.379, P <.05; DeltaCI, r = 0.429, P <.05) with the severity of disease in the ipsilateral iliac segment. Significant differences in R (P <.05), angle (P <.05), MA (P <.005), and CI (P <.001) between common femoral arterial and venous samples confirmed that venous samples were more coagulable in this group of patients. This difference in Thromboelastography parameters across the arteriovenous segment correlated inversely with the degree of ischemia (represented by ankle-brachial pressure index; DeltaCI, r = -0.427, P <.05; DeltaMA, r = -0.370, P <.05) in the puncture side limb. Passage of blood down an atherosclerotic artery leads to an increase in coagulability proportional to the degree of stenosis in that vessel. Passage of blood through ischemic tissue may also contribute to increased coagulability in peripheral arterial occlusive disease."}
{"id": "15111142", "title": "Safety and efficacy of perioperative cell salvage and autotransfusion after coronary artery bypass grafting: a randomized trial.", "content": "Safety and efficacy of perioperative cell salvage and autotransfusion after coronary artery bypass grafting: a randomized trial. The aim of this study was to ascertain whether cell salvage and autotransfusion after first time elective coronary artery bypass grafting is associated with a significant reduction in the use of homologous blood, a clinically significant derangement of postoperative clotting profiles, or an increased risk of postoperative bleeding. Patients were randomized to autotransfusion (n = 98) receiving autotransfused washed blood from intraoperative cell salvage and postoperative mediastinal fluid cell salvage after coronary artery bypass surgery or control (n = 102) receiving stored homologous blood only after coronary artery bypass surgery. There was no statistical difference between the groups in terms of demographics, comorbidity, risk stratification, or operative details. Mean volume of blood autotransfused was 367 +/- 113 mL. Patients in the autotransfusion group were significantly less likely to receive a homologous blood transfusion compared with controls (odds ratio 0.40, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.22-0.71) and received significantly fewer units of blood per patient compared with controls (0.43 +/- 1.5 vs 0.90 +/- 2.0 U, p = 0.02). There was no difference between the groups in terms of postoperative blood loss, fluid requirements, blood product requirements, or in the incidence of adverse clinical events (p = NS chi(2)). Autotransfusion did not produce any significant derangement of thromboelastograph values or laboratory measures of clotting pathway function (prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, fibrinogen, and fibrinogen D-dimer levels) when compared with the effect of homologous blood transfusion (p = NS, repeated measures analysis of variance [MANOVA]). Autotransfusion is a safe and effective method of reducing the use of homologous bank blood after routine first time coronary artery bypass grafting."}
{"id": "15105207", "title": "Peroxynitrite inactivates tissue plasminogen activator.", "content": "Peroxynitrite inactivates tissue plasminogen activator. Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) has a prominent role in physiological fibrinolysis in vivo. Thrombosis has been associated with clinical scenarios (e.g., atherosclerotic disease) known to involve local decreases in tPA activity with concomitant formation of reactive nitrogen species such as peroxynitrite (OONO(-)), a molecule formed from nitric oxide and superoxide. We hypothesized that exposure of tPA to OONO(-) would result in a decrease in tPA activity. OONO(-) was generated with 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1), a molecule that produces both nitric oxide and superoxide. Recombinant tPA was incubated at 37 degrees C for 60 min with 0 microM SIN-1; 100 microM SIN-1; 100 microM SIN-1 and 4000 U/mL recombinant human superoxide dismutase; or 4000 U/mL recombinant human superoxide dismutase (n = 8 separate reactions per condition). Changes in tPA activity were assessed by addition of tPA samples to tissue factor-exposed human plasma and measuring clot fibrinolysis with a thrombelastograph. Exposure to SIN-1 resulted in a decrease in tPA-mediated fibrinolysis (<1% activity of tPA not exposed to SIN-1) that was significantly (P < 0.001) different from the other three conditions. There were no significant differences between the other conditions. We conclude that tPA is inhibited by OONO(-), and that OONO(-) may have a role in clinical thrombotic scenarios. Tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) has a prominent role in fibrinolysis in vivo. Thrombosis has been associated with clinical scenarios involving decreases in tPA activity with concomitant formation of the oxidant peroxynitrite. We determined that peroxynitrite decreased tPA activity via thrombelastography. Peroxynitrite-mediated tPA inactivation may have a role in thrombotic states."}
{"id": "15095839", "title": "The rheological effects of X-Coating with albumin and hetastarch on blood during cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "The rheological effects of X-Coating with albumin and hetastarch on blood during cardiopulmonary bypass. Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) exposes blood to artificial surfaces, resulting in mechanical damage to the formed elements of the blood. The purpose of this study was to examine the effect of poly(2-methoxyethylacrylate) coating (PMEA, X-Coating) on coagulation and inflammation under various prime conditions. An in vitro analysis was conducted utilizing fresh whole human blood (2 units) and a CPB circuit (n = 18) consisting of a venous reservoir, oxygenator, and arterial filter. Nine nontreated circuits were used in a control group (CTR) and an equal number of tip-to-tip PMEA circuits for treatment (TRT). Each group was divided into three subgroups based upon prime: crystalloid, hetastarch (6%), and albumin (5%). CPB was conducted with a hematocrit 30% +/- 2, temperature 37 degrees C +/- 1, and a flow of 4 L/min. Samples were collected at 0, 60, 120, and 240 minute intervals. Endpoint measurements included thromboelastograph index (TI), and markers of inflammation and coagulation. The TI was significantly depressed in both groups when hetastarch was used in the prime. The TRT had significantly higher TI levels in both the crystalloid (0.3 +/- 0.1 vs. -3.3 +/- -1.2, P < .05) and albumin (0.6 +/- 0.2 vs -3.9 +/- -1.1. P < .03) subgroups compared to CTR groups. Platelet count was significantly higher in TRT as compared to CTR groups, except for both hetastarch groups. SEM demonstrated significant fibrin deposition on nontreated circuitry but little to no detection in the TRT group. In conclusion, both surface coating and prime components significantly effect coagulation, with PMEA circuits resulting in more favorable preservation of function."}
{"id": "15060415", "title": "Role of the Thrombelastograph as an adjunctive test in thrombophilia screening.", "content": "Role of the Thrombelastograph as an adjunctive test in thrombophilia screening. The Thrombelastograph (TEG) provides a global assessment of haemostatic function. We have investigated the potential role of TEG in thrombophilia testing by studying 87 consecutive patients (all with personal or family history of thrombosis). For each patient, routine thrombophilia screening tests and TEG were performed in parallel. In keeping with previous reports, at least one thrombophilic trait was identified in 34% of the patients. Among those patients with previous thrombosis, the yield from screening was higher (54% with prothrombotic trait). Overall, a hypercoaguable TEG was demonstrated in 45% of patients. However, TEG and standard thrombophilia testing did not necessarily identify the same subset of individuals. Of 39 patients with hypercoaguable TEG, only 17 had a demonstrable thrombophilic trait. Conversely, of 30 patients with proven thrombophilia, 17 also had a hypercoaguable TEG. We conclude that TEG cannot be used as a sole initial screening test in patients referred for thrombophilia testing, as it fails to identify 43% of underlying thrombophilic traits. However, TEG may be a useful adjunctive test, particularly in patients in whom the regular thrombophilia screen proves unremarkable. Prospective studies are warranted to determine whether a hypercoaguable TEG can be used to predict a subset of patients at increased risk for recurrent thrombotic events."}
{"id": "15000000", "title": "Targeted haemostasis monitoring using the TEG whole blood analyser system.", "content": "Targeted haemostasis monitoring using the TEG whole blood analyser system."}
{"id": "14987789", "title": "The effect of hypertonic saline dextran on whole blood coagulation.", "content": "The effect of hypertonic saline dextran on whole blood coagulation. Hypertonic saline dextran (RescueFlow) is being promoted for resuscitation from hypovolaemia following injury. We studied the in vitro effect on coagulation of serial dilutions of blood with this fluid. There was a mild procoagulant effect up to a dilution of 11% and an anticoagulant effect above this level, which rapidly increased so that coagulation was grossly deranged at a 15% dilution. Although the clinical significance of these findings is not yet known, it may suggest that for hypertonic saline dextran there is little to separate the top of the therapeutic window from the threshold of potentially serious adverse effects."}
{"id": "14985175", "title": "The influence of red wine or white wine intake on platelet function and viscoelastic property of blood in volunteers.", "content": "The influence of red wine or white wine intake on platelet function and viscoelastic property of blood in volunteers. Since the consumption of wine in the United States has increased in recent years, a number of patients may be admitted to the hospital on the morning of their elective surgery after having consumed wine with dinner the evening before. Research indicates that by reducing platelet aggregation, moderate alcohol consumption can protect against the development of coronary artery disease. Therefore, an alcohol consumption in the night before surgery may influence on a patient's hemostasis. This study was designed to investigate the effects of wine intake the night before surgery on platelet aggregation and thromboelastogram in healthy volunteers. Twenty-four healthy subjects participated in this randomized crossover study. Each subject drank either a half bottle (300-350 ml, approximately two glasses) of red or white wine during dinner on two separate occasions. Blood samples were taken on the morning of the scheduled wine consumption and at the same time on the morning after the wine consumption. Platelet counts, and thromboelastogram (TEG) were performed and platelet function was assessed by adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and collagen induced platelet aggregation tests. There were no significant changes in platelet number, platelet function and TEG values the morning after wine consumption, and there were no significant differences in platelet number, platelet function and TEG values between red and white wine. This study indicates that an intake of red or white wine during dinner does not affect platelet number, platelet function, or viscoelastic properties of blood the next morning. A half bottle of red or white wine intake prior to a next day's elective surgery has no significant risk of suppression of coagulation function."}
{"id": "14984856", "title": "Nicardipine versus nitroprusside for deliberate hypotension during idiopathic scoliosis repair.", "content": "Nicardipine versus nitroprusside for deliberate hypotension during idiopathic scoliosis repair. To compare coagulation, blood loss, and transfusion requirements between patients receiving nicardipine and nitroprusside for deliberate hypotension during idiopathic scoliosis repair. Prospective, randomized study. University hospital. 51 ASA physical status I patients presenting for spine fusion for idiopathic adolescent scoliosis. Patients were randomized to two groups to receive nicardipine or nitroprusside to maintain mean arterial pressure (MAP) between 55 and 65 mmHg. Blood loss, blood transfusions, and coagulation studies (thromboelastogram and platelet aggregation) before starting vasodilator, 30 minutes and 90 minutes after starting vasodilator, and 30 minutes after stopping vasodilator, were all recorded. There was no difference between the groups in blood loss [nicardipine = 1,129 cc (893 to 1,480), nitroprusside = 960 cc (704 to 1,473)] and only one patient required a nonautologous transfusion. There were no differences in prothrombin time (pT, partial thromboplastin time (pTT), platelet count, or platelet aggregation between groups. There were more episodes of severe hypotension (MAP <45 mmHg) in the nitroprusside group (0% vs. 28%, p = 0.0175). On average, patients in the nicardipine group spent 21 minutes less in the recovery room than did the nitroprusside group (p = 0.043). Nitroprusside's effect on platelet aggregation produces no increase in blood loss compared with nicardipine. Nicardipine causes less transient severe hypotension than nitroprusside, although both drugs are acceptable choices for obtaining the goals of deliberate hypotension."}
{"id": "14980916", "title": "Peroxynitrite decreases rabbit tissue factor activity in vitro.", "content": "Peroxynitrite decreases rabbit tissue factor activity in vitro. Tissue factor (TF) is a primary initiator of physiological coagulation in vivo. Peroxynitrite (OONO(-)), a molecule formed from nitric oxide (NO) and superoxide (O(2). (-)), decreases human TF activity in vitro. Coagulopathy has been associated with hepatoenteric ischemia-reperfusion known to involve formation of OONO(-). Further, circulating TF activity decreases in rabbits after hepatoenteric ischemia-reperfusion. We hypothesized that exposure of rabbit TF to OONO(-) would result in a decrease in activity. OONO(-) generation was performed with 3-morpholinosydnonimine (SIN-1), a molecule that produces both nitric oxide and superoxide. Rabbit brain TF was incubated at 37 degrees C for 90 min with 1) 0 mM SIN-1, 2) 5 mM SIN-1, 3) 5 mM SIN-1 and 2000 U/mL recombinant human superoxide dismutase (hSOD1), or 4) 2000 U/mL hSOD1 (n = 8 per condition). TF activity was assessed by addition of TF samples to human plasma and measuring clot formation kinetics with a thrombelastograph(R). TF exposure to SIN-1 resulted in a 48% decrease in activity that was significantly different from the other three conditions (P < 0.001). There were no significant differences between the other conditions. We conclude that rabbit TF is inhibited by OONO(-), and further investigation to determine the role of OONO(-) in coagulopathies associated with hepatoenteric ischemia-reperfusion is warranted. Tissue factor (TF) initiates physiological coagulation in vivo. Hepatoenteric ischemia-reperfusion injury is associated with peroxynitrite (OONO(-)) formation, coagulopathy and decreased TF activity in rabbits. We determined that OONO(-) decreased rabbit TF activity in vitro via thrombelastography(R)."}
{"id": "14971899", "title": "Design, synthesis, and biological evaluation of doxorubicin-formaldehyde conjugates targeted to breast cancer cells.", "content": "Design, synthesis, and biological evaluation of doxorubicin-formaldehyde conjugates targeted to breast cancer cells. The anthracycline antitumor drug doxorubicin (DOX) has been utilized for decades as a broad-spectrum chemotherapeutic. Recent literature evidence documents the role of formaldehyde in the cytotoxic mechanism, and anthracycline-formaldehyde conjugates possess substantially enhanced activity in vitro and in vivo. Targeting a doxorubicin-formaldehyde conjugate specifically to cancer cells may provide a more efficacious chemotherapeutic. The design and 11-step synthesis of doxorubicin-formaldehyde conjugates targeted to the estrogen receptor, which is commonly overexpressed in breast cancer cells, are reported. The formaldehyde is incorporated in a masked form as an N-Mannich linkage between doxorubicin and salicylamide. The salicylamide triggering molecule, previously developed to release the doxorubicin-formaldehyde active metabolite, is tethered via derivatized ethylene glycols to an E and Z mixture of 4-hydroxytamoxifen. The targeting group, E/Z-4-hydroxytamoxifen, was selected for its ability to tightly bind the estrogen receptor and antiestrogen binding sites. The targeted doxorubicin-formaldehyde conjugates' estrogen receptor binding and in vitro growth inhibition were evaluated as a function of tether length. The lead compound, DOX-TEG-TAM, bearing a triethylene glycol tether, binds the estrogen receptor with a binding affinity of 2.5% relative to E/Z-4-hydroxytamoxifen and inhibits the growth of four breast cancer cell lines with 4-fold up to 140-fold enhanced activity relative to doxorubicin."}
{"id": "14969622", "title": "Frequency of nonresponse antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel during pretreatment for cardiac catheterization.", "content": "Frequency of nonresponse antiplatelet activity of clopidogrel during pretreatment for cardiac catheterization. Platelet function was evaluated before and after clopidogrel therapy in 50 cardiology candidates scheduled for intervention; results were averaged from optical platelet aggregation with 2 significantly correlated point-of-care instruments, Thrombelastograph and Ichor PlateletWorks. Although this was a limited study with few complications, the failure of clopidogrel therapy (30% nonresponders with <10% average platelet inhibition) was not correlated with clinical pretreatment variables, including atorvastatin therapy, postintervention bleeding complications, or major adverse coronary events."}
{"id": "14968394", "title": "[Rational use of blood cell products in orthopedics and traumatology].", "content": "[Rational use of blood cell products in orthopedics and traumatology]. The risk of transmission of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), hepatitis B and C viruses as well as the development of costs has changed the use of homologous blood cell products. The present investigation shows the state of the art of blood salvage in orthopedic and elective trauma surgery. In this investigation the established methods such as controlled hypotension (spine surgery), arrest of blood supply (extremity surgery) and the following methods of autotransfusion have been examined: acute normovolemic hemodilution (ANH), intra- (Cell-Saver, Haemonetics Corp.) and postoperative autotransfusion, autologous donor plasmapheresis and autologous predeposit. Using this method it is possible to reduce homologous blood transfusions particularly in elective procedures such as orthopedic surgery and elective trauma surgery to a minimum."}
{"id": "14872435", "title": "Thromboelastography and recombinant factor VIIa-hemophilia and beyond.", "content": "Thromboelastography and recombinant factor VIIa-hemophilia and beyond. Thromboelastography (TEG), which records the continuous profiles of whole blood (WB) coagulation, can be used to evaluate the effects of hemostatic agents, such as recombinant factor VII (rFVIIa). Our group has developed a revised TEG model, involving activation with minute amounts of tissue factor and subsequent signal processing, and has used this method to evaluate the effects of rFVIIa both in patients with hemophilia and in those receiving vitamin K antagonist (VKA) thromboprophylaxis. We review the early results of our investigations, which suggest that, in clinical situations where rFVIIa has shown benefit, the changes in the profiles obtained by TEG recording appear to correlate with the clinical outcome."}
{"id": "14872433", "title": "Understanding the hemostatic effects of recombinant factor VIIa by clot wave form analysis.", "content": "Understanding the hemostatic effects of recombinant factor VIIa by clot wave form analysis. The monitoring of coagulation-inhibitor bypassing agents, including recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa), remains a major issue in the management of clinical hemophilia. Clotting assays using prothrombin time (PT) and measurements of factor VII (FVII) activity do not always reflect the hemostatic effects of treatment. Thrombelastography can be used to observe the global effects of treatment on the overall coagulation process and is especially useful for observing the effects of hemostatic treatment in hemophilia patients with inhibitors. Waveform analysis is another technique for evaluating global hemostatic condition where changes in light transmission during routine clotting assays, such as the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), are measured. We found that waveforms differed between individual patients with severe hemophilia A (FVIII:C < 1.0 IU/dL) with levels of sensitivity at below FVIII:C 1.0 IU/dL. Clot waveforms indicated dose-dependent improvements in clot formation after the addition of rFVIIa to both FVIII-deficient and factor IX (FIX)-deficient plasma. The improvements were further enhanced in the presence of both platelets and synthetic phospholipids, and were more pronounced with FVIII-deficient plasma than with FIX-deficient plasma. It appears that clot waveform analysis provides a very useful means for monitoring hemostasis in hemophilia A patients with inhibitors."}
{"id": "14872422", "title": "Views on methods for monitoring recombinant factor VIIa in inhibitor patients.", "content": "Views on methods for monitoring recombinant factor VIIa in inhibitor patients. The development of recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) has greatly augmented the range of treatment options available for hemophilia patients with inhibitors. However, there still remains a lack of consensus regarding several aspects of treatment with bypassing agents such as rFVIIa, prothrombin complex concentrates (PCC), and activated PCC (aPCC). Such unresolved issues may be clarified by the identification of a suitable laboratory monitoring method with which to correlate clinical outcomes. This paper will review the need for an effective and informative monitoring strategy, and will discuss several candidate methods that have been employed for the measurement of hemostatic efficacy following therapy with bypassing agents. To date, however, no assay endpoint has been developed that can correlate accurately with clinical outcomes in a sufficiently large patient sample."}
{"id": "14762872", "title": "Intravascular thrombosis and thromboembolism during liver transplantation: antifibrinolytic therapy implicated?", "content": "Intravascular thrombosis and thromboembolism during liver transplantation: antifibrinolytic therapy implicated? This case report describes a patient who underwent orthotopic liver transplantation and developed extensive hyperacute venous and arterial intravascular thromboses and thromboemboli intraoperatively. The patient was receiving antifibrinolytic therapy with aprotinin. The safety of routine aprotinin therapy in liver transplantation is examined. The value of the thrombelastograph (TEG) as a qualitative assessment of the coagulation system is emphasized."}
{"id": "14762869", "title": "Thromboelastogram monitoring in the perioperative period of hepatectomy for adult living liver donation.", "content": "Thromboelastogram monitoring in the perioperative period of hepatectomy for adult living liver donation. Living donor liver transplantation (LDLT) is becoming a widespread procedure. However, the risk of surgical and medical complications in healthy donors is still a major concern. Hypercoagulability contributes to thromboembolic complications after surgery, but alterations of hemostasis after liver resection are difficult to predict. This study aims to define the perioperative coagulation profile of living liver donors by the use of both routine tests and thromboelastogram (TEG). Ten subjects undergoing right hepatectomy for LDLT were studied. A complete coagulation screening was performed before operation. The coagulation profile was evaluated by platelet count, prothrombin time-international normalized ratio (PT-INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), and TEG at the beginning and at the end of surgery, and on days 1, 3, 5, and 10 after operation, while the donors were under low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) prophylaxis. At preoperative screening, no subject showed evidence of a prothrombotic state. In all cases, TEG was normal at the beginning of surgery. In the postoperative period, despite decreased platelet counts, increased PT-INR, and normal aPTT values, TEG evidenced the progressive development of hypercoagulability in 4 subjects on day 5 and in 6 subjects on day 10. One donor with a definitely hypercoagulable TEG on day 5 experienced deep venous thrombosis (DVT) on day 8, which was resolved with therapeutic doses of LMWH. In conclusion, despite routine tests suggesting hypocoagulability and LMWH prophylaxis, TEG monitoring showed the unexpected occurrence of hypercoagulability in the majority of the subjects after hepatectomy for LDLT. TEG monitoring could be useful in the perioperative management of donors to guide antithrombotic treatment and increase the safety of the procedure."}
{"id": "14750239", "title": "Eosinophil-rich CD30+ lymphoproliferative disorder of the oral mucosa. A form of \"traumatic eosinophilic granuloma\".", "content": "Eosinophil-rich CD30+ lymphoproliferative disorder of the oral mucosa. A form of \"traumatic eosinophilic granuloma\". We describe 3 patients who had oral mucosal lesions with features of traumatic eosinophilic granuloma (TEG) and containing CD30+ atypical cells. In 1 patient, the oral lesion was followed by skin nodules. All lesions were evaluated histologically, by immunohistochemical analysis, and by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis of the T-cell receptor (TCR) gamma chain gene. All oral lesions were characterized by a dense and deeply infiltrative lymphoproliferation, showing epitheliotropism and massive eosinophilia. They contained atypical large lymphoid cells, which expressed T-cell markers and CD30. PCR analysis showed a monoclonal rearrangement of the TCR gamma chain gene in all lesions and, in 1 patient, the same rearrangement in the oral and cutaneous specimens. The lesions in these patients seem to be the oral counterpart of the spectrum of primary cutaneous CD30+ lymphoproliferative disorders and should be recognized as such to avoid a diagnosis of large T-cell lymphoma and possible consequent overtreatment. However, they represent only a subset among several others within the complex and heterogeneous category of disorders referred to as TEG."}
{"id": "14744480", "title": "Design of attachment type of drug delivery system by complex formation of avidin with biotinyl drug model and biotinyl saccharide.", "content": "Design of attachment type of drug delivery system by complex formation of avidin with biotinyl drug model and biotinyl saccharide. Recent studies have focused on the active targeting of drug delivery by combining a homing device and antitumor drug. For this purpose, synthesis of a well-designed vehicle (such as polymer/drug conjugates or nanoparticles) carrying a drug and a homing device requires many steps. We propose a new type of drug delivery system (DDS) by formation of a complex containing avidin (Av) plus biotinyl drug with a biotinyl homing device, which easily accommodates the combination of various drugs and homing devices. The targetable drug complex can be prepared by selecting an appropriate biotinyl drug derivative and a biotinyl homing device and mixing them with avidin. Fluorescent dye with 5-(and-6)-carboxytetramethylrhodamine (TAMRA) was used as a drug model, and galactose (Gal) recognized by liver parenchymal cells was used as a homing device. TAMRA and galactose were attached to biotin (Bio) through a triethyleneglycol (TEG) spacer group to give Bio-TEG-TAMRA conjugate and Bio-TEG-Gal conjugate, respectively. Confocal laser scanning microscopic studies suggest that the complexes prepared by mixing Bio-TEG-Gal conjugate and fluorescein isothiocyanate (FITC)-labeled Av (feed molar ratio 4:1), and mixing Bio-TEG-Gal conjugate, Bio-TEG-TAMRA conjugate and FITC-labeled Av are internalized into the hepatoma cells through a receptor-mediated endocytosis mechanism."}
{"id": "14742357", "title": "Hydroxyethyl starch as a priming solution for cardiopulmonary bypass impairs hemostasis after cardiac surgery.", "content": "Hydroxyethyl starch as a priming solution for cardiopulmonary bypass impairs hemostasis after cardiac surgery. We investigated the influence of hydroxyethyl starch (HES) as a priming solution for the cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) circuit on postoperative hemostasis in 45 patients undergoing elective coronary artery bypass grafting. In a randomized sequence, 20 mL/kg of low-molecular-weight HES (HES 120; molecular weight 120,000 daltons), high-molecular-weight HES (HES 400; molecular weight 400,000 daltons), or 4% human albumin (ALB) was used as the main component of the CPB priming solution. The thromboelastographic values indicating the speed of solid clot formation (alpha-angle) and the strength of the fibrin clot (maximum amplitude and shear elastic modulus) were decreased up to 2 h after CPB in both HES groups. Four hours after the operation, blood loss through the chest tubes had increased in the HES groups: HES 120, mean 804 mL (range, 330-1390 mL); HES 400, mean 1008 mL (range, 505-1955 mL); and ALB, mean 681 mL (range, 295-1500 mL) (P < 0.05 between the HES 400 and ALB groups). We conclude that HES solutions, when given in doses of 20 mL/kg in connection with the CPB prime, compromise hemostasis after cardiac surgery. This effect appears related to formation of a less stable thrombus compared with that formed in the presence of ALB. The influence of hydroxyethyl starch (HES) on postoperative hemostasis was investigated in cardiac surgery. The thromboelastographic values indicated that HES solutions, when given in connection with the cardiopulmonary bypass prime, compromise hemostasis after cardiac surgery. This effect seems to occur through the formation of a less stable clot."}
{"id": "14733324", "title": "Antiplatelet, anticoagulant, and thrombolytic drug interactions.", "content": "Antiplatelet, anticoagulant, and thrombolytic drug interactions."}
{"id": "14722166", "title": "Comparison of structured use of routine laboratory tests or near-patient assessment with clinical judgement in the management of bleeding after cardiac surgery.", "content": "Comparison of structured use of routine laboratory tests or near-patient assessment with clinical judgement in the management of bleeding after cardiac surgery. Using algorithms based on point of care coagulation tests can decrease blood loss and blood component transfusion after cardiac surgery. We wished to test the hypothesis that a management algorithm based on near-patient tests would reduce blood loss and blood component use after routine coronary artery surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass when compared with an algorithm based on routine laboratory assays or with clinical judgement. Patients (n=102) undergoing elective coronary artery surgery with cardiac bypass were randomized into two groups. In the point of care group, the management algorithm was based on information provided by three devices, the Hepcon, thromboelastography and the PFA-100 platelet function analyser. Management in the laboratory test group depended on rapidly available laboratory clotting tests and transfusion of haemostatic blood components only if specific criteria were met. Blood loss and transfusion was compared between these two groups and with a retrospective case-control group (n=108), in which management of bleeding had been according to the clinician's discretion. All three groups had similar median blood losses. The transfusion of packed red blood cells (PRBCs) and blood components was greater in the clinician discretion group (P<0.05) but there was no difference in the transfusion of PRBCs and blood components between the two algorithm-guided groups. Following algorithms based on point of care tests or on structured clinical practice with standard laboratory tests does not decrease blood loss, but reduces the transfusion of PRBCs and blood components after routine cardiac surgery, when compared with clinician discretion. Cardiac surgery services should use transfusion guidelines based on laboratory-guided algorithms, and the possible benefits of point of care testing should be tested against this standard."}
{"id": "14717978", "title": "Different effects of abciximab and cytochalasin D on clot strength in thrombelastography.", "content": "Different effects of abciximab and cytochalasin D on clot strength in thrombelastography. Maximum amplitude (MA) in thrombelastography (TEG) consists of a plasmatic and a platelet component. To assess the magnitude of the plasmatic component, pharmacological approaches have been proposed to eliminate the platelet component. We evaluated the individual and combined effects of abciximab and cytochalasin D on the MA of TEG. Whole blood, platelet-rich plasma (PRP) and homologous platelet-poor plasma (PPP) from 20 healthy volunteers were spiked with abciximab or cytochalasin D or a combination of both and TEGs performed. Abciximab and cytochalasin D decreased MA in all samples. MA of whole blood (18.6 +/- 3.1 mm) and PRP (33.7 +/- 3.5 mm) spiked with abciximab or cytochalasin D alone (15.0 +/- 2.9 mm and 25.0 +/- 4.0 mm) were significantly higher when compared with abciximab and cytochalasin D combined (10.4 +/- 3.0 and 20.2 +/- 3.5 mm). While MA of PRP and homologous PPP were significantly (P < 0.001) different after individual administration of abciximab and cytochalasin D, combination of both abolished this difference (20.2 +/- 3.5 mm and 20.4 +/- 3.7 mm, P = 0.372). In whole blood of critically ill patients or patients undergoing major surgery there was also a significant difference of MA between abciximab alone and in combination with cytochalasin D (16.5 +/- 11.3 mm and 11.3 +/- 7.7 mm, P < 0.001). This indicates that in contrast to individual administration of abciximab or cytochalasin D, a combination of both compounds eliminates the platelet-specific effect on MA of TEG tracings."}
{"id": "14717973", "title": "Whole blood clot formation phenotypes in hemophilia A and rare coagulation disorders. Patterns of response to recombinant factor VIIa.", "content": "Whole blood clot formation phenotypes in hemophilia A and rare coagulation disorders. Patterns of response to recombinant factor VIIa. Until now, no routinely used clotting assay has demonstrated the power to reflect significantly a patient's response to recombinant factor (rF)VIIa. Adopting a thrombelastographic principle, profiles of continuous whole blood (WB) coagulation were studied in minimally altered WB activated with a small amount of tissue factor (TF). Investigation of the WB clotting profile was performed before and after ex vivo addition of rFVIIa 20 nm to WB from 26 patients with hemophilia A, two patients with severe hemophilia B, and individuals with deficiencies of FV, FX, FXI, and FXIII. In five patients with hemophilia plus inhibitors, the response to ex vivo added rFVIIa and to activated complex concentrate (APCC) was studied. Patients with severe and moderate hemophilia A demonstrated remarkable variance in the hemostatic characteristics at baseline, even in groups with the same FVIII:C activity levels. The response to rFVIIa at 20 nm also varied extensively, the effect correlating with the continuous WB coagulation phenotype at baseline. This indicates that the efficacy of rFVIIa may be optimized by tailoring the dose according to the hemostatic response to varying doses tested prior to in vivo administration. In patients with inhibitors against FVIII and factor IX, rFVIIa and APCC substitution resulted in quite similar response patterns that appeared to be dose dependent. In severe FV, FX, and FXIII-deficient WB, rFVIIa addition induced minor changes only. In FXI deficiency, rFVIIa normalized the dynamic properties of clotting, although a reduced clot firmness remained unchanged. In conclusion, the thrombelastographic analysis of WB clotting, as activated with a minute amount of TF, seems an interesting method that detects phenotypic variation amongst hemophilia patients. The method appears useful for assessment of the hemostatic capacity and it seems a promising tool for evaluation of the individual response to rFVIIa or APCC before and during in vivo administration."}
{"id": "15013052", "title": "Effect of valproate on hemostatic function in patients with traumatic brain injury.", "content": "Effect of valproate on hemostatic function in patients with traumatic brain injury. To evaluate whether valproate (VPA) resulted in laboratory or clinical evidence of a change in bleeding-related measures associated with VPA therapy in patients sustaining a traumatic brain injury. Fibrinogen, platelet count and clot elastic shear modulus using the Thrombelastograph (TEG) coagulation analyzer were measured at baseline, 4, 14, 30, and 180 days post-injury. Clinically significant events, defined as the trigger for requiring a transfusion, were identified and evaluated as to possible treatment effects. Compared to baseline, the platelet count in the VPA groups was decreased on day 4, increased by 100% on day 14, and returned to baseline levels by day 30. Fibrinogen was significantly increased by day 4 and returned to baseline by day 30. The platelet count was correlated with an increase in the maximum amplitude or width of the TEG tracing; a measure of strength of the clot, suggesting that valproate did not alter the clot strength contributed by platelets. None of the clinical events requiring transfusions appeared to be treatment related. No serious hemostatic adverse events occurred in the trauma patients receiving VPA or phenytoin that could be attributed to treatment."}
{"id": "15008334", "title": "Factors contributing to the incompatibility between simplified-step adhesives and chemically-cured or dual-cured composites. Part III. Effect of acidic resin monomers.", "content": "Factors contributing to the incompatibility between simplified-step adhesives and chemically-cured or dual-cured composites. Part III. Effect of acidic resin monomers. This study examined the polymerization kinetics of acid-contaminated light- and chemically-cured resins with the use of differential scanning calorimetry. Light-cured and chemically-cured versions of an experimental bis-GMA/TEG-DMA resin at the ratio (w:w) of 62:38 were prepared. Four acidic resin monomers with either carboxylic (DSDM and MAA) or phosphoric functional groups (MP and 2MP) were added at a 10 wt% concentration to these resins to simulate the intermixing of resin composites and unpolymerized acidic monomers along the adhesive-composite interface of simplified-step dentin adhesives. Different concentrations of the most acidic monomer 2MP (10 to 50 wt% for the light-cured resin, and 2 to 4 wt% for the chemically-cured resin) were also added to examine their contribution to reducing the extent and rate of polymerization of these resin mixtures. The effect of sodium benzene sulphinate on the polymerization of the chemically-cured resin that was contaminated with 10 wt% 2MP was also investigated. At 10 wt% concentration, all acidic monomers had a limited effect on the polymerization of the light-cured resin. The rate and extent of polymerization in the chemically-cured resin was substantially reduced by the carboxylic acid monomers DSDM and MAA, while polymerization was completely inhibited in the presence of the organophosphate monomers MP and 2MP. Substantial reductions in the rate and extent of polymerization of the light-cured resin occurred only in the presence of high concentrations (30 to 50 wt%) of 2MP. More acute polymerization inhibition was observed when the chemically-cured resin was contaminated with 2 to 3 wt% 2MP, with polymerization completely inhibited at 4 wt%. Addition of sodium benzene sulphinate to 2MP-contaminated chemically-cured resin revived the previously uncured resins, but their rate and extent of polymerization were still inferior to that of uncontaminated chemically-cured resin. When the influence of adhesive permeability was excluded with the use of neat, water-free resins, deactivation of the tertiary amine utilized in the chemically-cured resin by even very low concentrations of acidic resin monomers accounts for the reported incompatibility between simplified-step dentin adhesives and chemically-cured composites. The polymerization of light-cured resin is only affected by much higher concentrations of acidic resin monomers."}
{"id": "14979421", "title": "The effects of aprotinin on platelet function in blood exposed to eptifibatide: an in vitro analysis.", "content": "The effects of aprotinin on platelet function in blood exposed to eptifibatide: an in vitro analysis. The preoperative use of platelet inhibitors has increased the risk of bleeding during cardiac surgery. Aprotinin has been shown to preserve hemostatic function in patients undergoing CPB. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of aprotinin on coagulation in blood exposed to eptifibatide. Freshly collected bovine blood was used in an in vitro model of extracorporeal circulation. Blood was separated into two groups: activated (60 minutes exposure to bubble oxygenation) and nonactivated. Within each group there were four subgroups: control (n = 3), eptifibatide (2.8 microg/mL, n = 3), aprotinin (250 KIU/mL, n = 3), and eptifibatide with aprotinin (2.8 microg/mL, 250 KIU/mL, n = 3). Twenty-four modified extracorporeal circuits utilizing a hard-shell venous reservoir and cardioplegia heat exchangers were used. Blood flow was maintained at a rate of 1.25 L/min for a total of 170 minutes, at 37 +/- 1 degree C. Samples were collected at 0, 20, 50, and 110 minutes with the following variables measured: thromboelastograph (TEG), activated clotting time (ACT), and hematocrit (Hct). Results demonstrated that at 110 minutes, the TEG index (TI) was decreased by four-fold in the activated group compared to the nonactivated group (-4.6 +/- 1.2 vs. 1.4 +/- 1.5, p < .05). The administration of aprotinin resulted in preservation of the TI as compared to eptifibatide-treated blood (-4.9 +/- 1.2 vs. -7.9 +/- 1.2, p < .05). Aprotinin combined with eptifibatide reduced coagulation derangements when compared to eptifibatide alone (-5.2 +/- 1.2 vs. -7.9 +/- 1.2, p < .05). In conclusion, aprotinin attenuated the platelet inhibition effect of eptifibatide during in vitro CPB, resulting in improved coagulation."}
{"id": "14721820", "title": "Hemodilution during off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting: can we improve flow and reduce hypercoagulability?", "content": "Hemodilution during off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting: can we improve flow and reduce hypercoagulability? The aim of this study was to compare intraoperative coronary graft flows performed on pump and off pump and to evaluate the effects of hemodilution on coronary graft flows in off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) patients by using transit time flow measurements (TTFM). Three hundred patients undergoing only CABG procedures were enrolled in a prospective randomized manner into 3 groups. Group 1 consisted of 100 patients undergoing operations with standard cardiopulmonary bypass techniques. Group 2 consisted of 100 patients scheduled for revascularizations using off-pump techniques. Group 3 consisted of 100 patients who underwent operations with offpump techniques under controlled hemodilution (hematocrit levels kept between 25% and 28%). TTFM were performed with the coronary Flometer system. Mean flows, pulsatility indices, and flow patterns were evaluated. Twenty-five patients in each group were randomly assigned for control angiography 6 days postoperatively. Thromboelastographic (TEG) measurements were performed for each patient before and after surgery to evaluate the patient's coagulation status. The mean number of anastomoses was higher in group 1 than in groups 2 and 3 (P < .05). Mean arterial pressures and heart rates were similar between groups during measurements. Hematocrit values were higher in group 2 than in groups 1 and 3 (P < .05). Mean flows for left anterior descending coronary artery and right coronary artery territories were significantly lower in group 2 patients (P < .05). For the circumflex artery territory, mean flows did not reach statistically significant levels despite lower flows again in group 2. The pulsatility indices were similar in all 3 groups for all 3 coronary territories. Postoperative coronary angiographic results revealed similar graft patencies among the 3 groups (not significantly different). Postoperative TEG patterns failed to show a hypercoagulable state in off-pump patients. Off-pump CABG patients with hemodilution had significantly higher graft flows than off-pump CABG patients without hemodilution. Although we failed to show the existence of a hypercoagulable state for patients in the offpump group, an examination of the TTFM findings suggests that hemodilution may help to improve graft patency in offpump CABG patients during the early postoperative period."}
{"id": "14697147", "title": "[Correlation between thromboelastogram and activated clotting time in liver transplantation].", "content": "[Correlation between thromboelastogram and activated clotting time in liver transplantation]."}
{"id": "14692073", "title": "Managing utilization of new diagnostic tests.", "content": "Managing utilization of new diagnostic tests. In appropriate utilization of laboratory testing has been estimated to range from 10% to 50% of the volume encountered in hospital laboratories. Many strategies to control utilization of laboratory testing have been reported, including redesigning test requisitions, changing standing orders, the use of provider order entry, physician profiling, and educational initiatives. The major motivation to reduce utilization of unnecessary testing is financial, although other benefits also may be observed, such as reducing false-positive results stemming from testing patients in low prevalence populations, eliminating unnecessary follow-up procedures, avoiding iatrogenic anemia, and potentially lowering hospital length of stay resulting from the need to track down the significance of falsely abnormal tests. The majority of utilization control efforts have focused on reducing routine laboratory tests such as chemistry profiles and automated blood counts. In many hospitals novel diagnostic tests, especially in molecular genetics and oncology, are the major driver behind increasing laboratory costs. Traditional methods to control utilization of routine testing are usually ineffective in controlling testing of novel diagnostic methods. In most cases, test requests originate from a small group of physician specialists who typically are more knowledgeable in their area of expertise than is the clinical pathologist. For this reason, a different approach is generally required. It is particularly important to establish an institutional structure authorized to review and approve new laboratory tests. The clinical pathologist usually takes the lead in this effort because laboratory-based physicians are familiar with new tests being requested by physicians across a spectrum of medical specialties. To be successful, the laboratory physician must identify potential utilization issues, acquire and analyze data, function on interdepartmental teams, and develop strategies to satisfy the needs of clinicians while at the same time preventing introduction of inappropriate technologies into the laboratory. This article will give a perspective on approaches to laboratory test utilization and offer specific examples of initiatives we have undertaken in our institution. The examples will illustrate how the pathologist can use knowledge of medicine and the clinical laboratory in conjunction with organizational and team building skills. In the final analysis, the process is more of an art than a science."}
{"id": "14686601", "title": "Synthesis and evaluation of amphiphilic RGD derivatives: uses for solvent casting in polymers and tissue engineering applications.", "content": "Synthesis and evaluation of amphiphilic RGD derivatives: uses for solvent casting in polymers and tissue engineering applications. Derivatives containing arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (RGD) inhibit fibrinogen binding to activated platelets and promote endothelial and smooth muscle cell attachment. An amphiphilic derivative of RGD that can be dissolved in an organic solvent has potential in the development of non-thrombogenic biomaterials. Such a derivative, LA-GRGD, was synthesised by coupling glycine-arginine-glycine-aspartic acid (GRGD) with lauric acid (LA). Its solubility and antithrombotic, cytotoxic and cell-binding effects were then evaluated in comparison with heparin (which is used clinically) and a fibronectin-engineered protein polymer (FEPP). Thromboelastography (TEG) was used to measure blood clotting time using fresh whole blood from healthy volunteers. Tissue factor (TF) activity was measured using plasma with a standard prothrombin time assay (PT). Cytotoxicity was assessed on human umbilical cord endothelial cells (HUVECs) using an Alamar blue assay. Solubility of the conjugate was assessed in a co-solvent. These techniques were used to study LA-GRGD, using heparin and FEPP as controls. The amphiphilic property of LA-GRGD was dependent on the feed mole ratio of GRGD to LA. LA-GRGD was soluble in acetone:water and water. LA-GRGD inhibited TF by >90% and prolonged TEG-r by 8.2+/-3.3 min (200 microg ml(-1)). Heparin inhibited TF by >90%, but prolonged TEG-r by 97.4+/-1.6 min (1 U ml(-1)); FEPP inhibited TF by >90% (100 microg ml(-1)) and prolonged TEG-r by 73.7+/-8.4 min (10 microg ml(-1)). Heparin had no cytotoxic effect on EC metabolism and viability at the concentrations studied (0.1-100 U ml(-1)). No significant cytotoxic effect was produced by LA-GRGD or FEPP at concentrations ranging from 0.1 microg ml(-1) to 50 microg ml(-1), but, at higher concentrations (100 microg ml(-1) and 200 microg ml(-1)), a detrimental effect was observed. Cell binding studies showed that LA-GRGD bound 29% of ECs compared with FEPP (60%) and heparin (22%). This new approach for synthesising amphiphilic RGD and its analogues has potential as a drug delivery system for the manufacture of new polymer formulations for use in bypass grafts and other tissue-engineered devices."}
{"id": "14661565", "title": "[Massive bleeding due to hyperfibrinolysis during living-related liver transplantation for terminal liver cirrhosis; report of two cases].", "content": "[Massive bleeding due to hyperfibrinolysis during living-related liver transplantation for terminal liver cirrhosis; report of two cases]. We reported two cases of massive bleeding due to critical hyperfibrinolysis during living-related liver transplantation (LRLT) for end stage liver cirrhosis. The total volume of bleeding amounted to 57930 ml with the case 1, and amounted to 55980 ml with the case 2. TEG was useful for diagnosis of the hyperfibrinolysis. We administrated large amounts of FFPs, MAPs, PLTs, and gabexate mesilate. By rapid transfusion, we could manage to finish the procedures without hypotension, and complications were not observed at the early postoperative stage. We thought that the cause of the hyperfibrinolysis is the increasing blood tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) due to long-anhepatic stage and small graft size. During anesthesia, since the functional start of a transplant liver is indispensable to it, in order to support a transplant liver for an improvement of hyperfibrinolysis, it is important to keep the homeostasis, such as body temperature, blood pressure."}
{"id": "14645169", "title": "Thromboelastography, whole-blood haemostasis and recurrent miscarriage.", "content": "Thromboelastography, whole-blood haemostasis and recurrent miscarriage. Some cases of recurrent miscarriage have a thrombotic basis. Thromboelastography is a rapid, reproducible test of whole-blood haemostasis. Thromboelastography was performed in 494 consecutive, non-pregnant women (median age 35 years; range 21-48) with a history of miscarriages at <12 weeks gestation (median 4; range 3-12) and 55 parous women (median age 33 years; range 20-41) with no history of pregnancy loss. The prospective outcome of untreated pregnancies amongst 108 women with recurrent miscarriage was studied. The maximum clot amplitude (MA) (median 66.0 mm; range 48.0-76.0) was significantly higher and the rate of clot lysis (LY30) (median 2.5%; range 0.5-7.8) significantly lower amongst women with recurrent miscarriage compared with controls (MA 61.5 mm; range 50.0-67.0; P = 0.01; LY30 4.9%; range 2.9-9.7; P = 0.01). The pre-pregnancy MA was significantly higher amongst women who subsequently miscarried (median 66.0 mm; range 54.0-73.0) compared with those whose had a live birth (median 61.7 mm; 48.0-71.5; P < 0.01). A pre-pregnancy MA >or=64 mm has a sensitivity of 68% and specificity of 82% to predict miscarriage. Thromboelastography identifies a subgroup of women with recurrent miscarriage to be in a prothrombotic state outside of pregnancy. Women in such a state are at increased risk of miscarriage in future untreated pregnancies."}
{"id": "14633255", "title": "A novel therapeutic approach combining human plasma-derived Factors VIIa and X for haemophiliacs with inhibitors: evidence of a higher thrombin generation rate in vitro and more sustained haemostatic activity in vivo than obtained with Factor VIIa alone.", "content": "A novel therapeutic approach combining human plasma-derived Factors VIIa and X for haemophiliacs with inhibitors: evidence of a higher thrombin generation rate in vitro and more sustained haemostatic activity in vivo than obtained with Factor VIIa alone. Therapy with recombinant Factor VIIa (rFVIIa) for haemophiliacs with inhibitors still has some unresolved problems, such as the requirement for frequent infusions of rFVIIa every 2-3 h to sustain haemostatic activity for an extended time-period and that the therapeutic dose of rFVIIa is not always predictable. In the present study, we searched for an effective combination of plasma-derived FVIIa with other blood coagulation factors, and demonstrated that a therapeutic approach combining plasma-derived FVIIa and Factor X (FX) was more useful for treating haemophiliacs with inhibitors than FVIIa alone. The haemostatic effects of FVIIa and FX were evaluated in vitro and in vivo. In in vitro experiments we assessed the following: the ability to enhance the thrombin generation rate in a reconstituted blood coagulation model without Factor VIII (FVIII) or Factor IX (FIX); the ability to correct the activated partial prothrombin time (APTT) of FVIII-depleted plasma or FIX-depleted plasma; and the ability to correct the clotting time of haemophilia-like whole blood using thromboelastography (TEG). In in vivo experiments, the haemostatic activity of the combination treatment of FVIIa and FX was determined by measuring the bleeding time and TEG using a monkey haemophilia B model produced by the injection of anti-human FIX polyclonal antibodies. The degree of thrombogenicity of the combination was evaluated using the rabbit stasis model. The addition of FX to FVIIa dramatically enhanced the thrombin generation rate in the reconstituted blood coagulation model and corrected the prolonged APTTs of FVIII- and FIX-depleted plasmas to levels achieved by the replacement therapies. In contrast, the addition of prothrombin to FVIIa did not show such enhancing activity. Furthermore, FVIIa-induced whole blood clotting times in the FVIII- and FIX-inhibited states were also shortened by the addition of FX in a concentration-dependent manner. Finally, the co-administration of FVIIa (80 microg/kg) and FX (800 microg/kg) in a monkey haemophilia B model resulted in a more robust and persistent haemostatic effect on the secondary bleeding time and whole-blood clotting time of TEG than that of FVIIa alone. The results of rabbit stasis tests for evaluating the risk of thrombogenicity showed that the combination of FVIIa and FX was less thrombogenic than FEIBA. The present study demonstrated that the combination of FVIIa and FX appeared to have a higher and more sustainable haemostatic potential than FVIIa alone, and less thrombogenicity than FEIBA. A therapeutic approach combining FVIIa and FX could be a promising and novel approach to compensate for the disadvantages of rFVIIa and FEIBA for haemophiliacs with inhibitors."}
{"id": "14620309", "title": "Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation for aplastic anaemia: a single centre experience.", "content": "Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation for aplastic anaemia: a single centre experience. To assess the feasibility of stem cell transplantation in local setting. A tertiary care haematology centre. This is a single centre retrospective analysis of the outcome of allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation for severe aplastic anaemia. Preliminary data on stem cell transplantation in Pakistan. Aplastic anaemia is an uncommon disorder with a high mortality without treatment. Immunosuppression and bone marrow transplantation remains the mainstay of treatment. Stem cell transplantation facility became available in Pakistan in 1999, since then both allogeneic and autologous procedures are carried out for severe aplastic anaemia, b-thalassaemia major and haematological malignancies. Between April 2000 and July 2002, 20 allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplants were carried out for aplastic anaemia from HLA identical siblings. Donors were primed with G-CSF 10 mcg/kg/day subcutaneously for 4 days; stem cells were harvested on 5th day using Haemonetics MCS+ cell separator. Cyclophosphamide was used for conditioning; cyclosporin A and methotrexate were given for graft versus host disease prophylaxis. Eighteen out of 22 patients survived transplant in a follow up period of 788 days. The causes of death were intra-cranial haemorrhage on day +7, herpes encephalitis on day +180, graft failure and mucour mycosis on day +353 and TB meningitis on day +544. Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation resulted in 81% event free survival in our hands. Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation is feasible and life saving in an otherwise fatal disorder. This could be carried out effectively in Pakistan."}
{"id": "14617309", "title": "Residual cell content in plasma produced by three centrifugal apheresis procedures.", "content": "Residual cell content in plasma produced by three centrifugal apheresis procedures. Understanding the impact of collection procedures on the residual amount of blood cells in plasma for transfusion and for fractionation is of current interest. This prospective work evaluated plasma donations collected on an apheresis machine (PCS 2, Haemonetics) with three different automatic centrifugal apheresis procedures, currently largely used in the US (Revision G) and in Europe (Revision F), and included a new procedure that uses a high-separation core (HSC) that is designed with a second separation chamber to further separate cells from plasma. A total of 90 collection procedures have been performed from a population of 37 donors, under comprehensively standardized conditions. There were 30 well-matched donors in each group. Plasma aliquots were taken from the plasma units within 30 minutes of the end of the collection procedures and immediately assessed for WBCs, RBCs, PLTs, and supernatant Hb. In Revision F and Revision G plasma donations, the mean numbers of WBCs were 83.1 x 10(4) and 311 x 10(4) per L; PLTs, 5.01 x 10(9) and 20 x 10(9) per L; and RBCs, 58 x 10(6) and 43 x 10(6) per L, respectively [corrected]. Significantly lower values were found with the HSC procedure (mean WBC, RBC, and PLT counts, 3.01 x 10(4)/L [p < 0.05], 9 x 10(6)/L [p < 0.001], and 3.5 x 10(9)/L [p < 0.001], respectively). The amount of free Hb was similar in all three procedures. Significant differences in numbers of cells in plasma were found depending on the centrifugal procedures used and the design of the separation bowl. The lowest level of cell contamination was found with the new HSC bowl, which without a filtration step, yielded plasma that met the standard for WBC-reduced plasma. Plasma collectors can select the most appropriate method of plasma collection based on donor criteria, use of plasma (transfusion, viral inactivation, or fractionation), and local or international regulations, when in place."}
{"id": "14602292", "title": "Coagulation monitoring and management of anticoagulation during cardiac assist device support.", "content": "Coagulation monitoring and management of anticoagulation during cardiac assist device support. The incidence of clinically significant thromboembolic events due to the use of cardiac assist device systems remains high. Despite the considerable advances in cardiac assist device technology, the monitoring and management of the hypercoagulable coagulation status, resulting from foreign surfaces of the assist device system, altered rheologic conditions, and blood stasis in the recipient heart remain a challenge. Moreover septic complications and insufficient anticoagulation are responsible for thromboembolic events. In addition to standard coagulation analysis, functional coagulation tests were performed including the use of a thrombelastographic monitoring system (ROTEG) and a platelet function analyzer (PFA-100). Severe biventricular ischemic heart failure developed in a 58-year-old man with acute myocardial infarction and he needed a biventricular assist device for a bridge to cardiac transplantation. Although the patient received acenocoumarol (Sintrom; Novartis Pharma, Vienna, Austria) and acetylsalicylic acid (Aspisol; Bayer AG, Leverkusen, Germany) as usual, ROTEG and the PFA-100 detected hypercoagulability while routine coagulation screening tests showed hypocoagulability. Moreover thrombus formation surrounding the canula of the left ventricular assist device was detected. Antithrombotic therapy with clopidogrel (Plavix) was initiated. Coagulation was closely monitored with modified thrombelastography and the PFA-100 to achieve sufficient but not overwhelming anticoagulation therapy. Three months after biventricular assist device implantation the patient underwent successful transplantation with no major blood loss. Thrombelastography should be the standard form of monitoring in such patients to decrease the risk of thromboembolic events and prevent bleeding complications."}
{"id": "14577027", "title": "Differences in perioperative coagulation between Japanese and other ethnic groups undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy.", "content": "Differences in perioperative coagulation between Japanese and other ethnic groups undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Japanese patients experience fewer episodes of postoperative thrombosis than those in certain other countries. To investigate this phenomenon, we measured perioperative coagulation activation markers and conducted thromboelastography (TEG) in 27 Japanese patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy. D-dimer, thrombin-antithrombin complex (TAT), and prothrombin fragment 1+2 (F1+2) were measured as coagulation activation markers. TEG was performed to measure reaction time (R), clot formation time (K), maximum amplitude (MA), and maximum elastance (ME). These measurements were performed before and after the operation and the day after the operation. Coagulation activation markers increased significantly postoperatively. With respect to TEG, MA and ME increased postoperatively. R and K did not change. Whereas clotting factor activation sthenia is common in Europe and North America, thrombocyte function sthenia occurs in Japanese patients. This difference may account for the differing incidences of phlebothrombosis in Japanese and white populations."}
{"id": "14570639", "title": "Tissue factor-activated thromboelastograms in children undergoing cardiac surgery: baseline values and comparisons.", "content": "Tissue factor-activated thromboelastograms in children undergoing cardiac surgery: baseline values and comparisons. Activation of clotting with tissue factor (TF) allows rapid evaluation of thromboelastograms but alters the values of thromboelastogram variables. We have performed TF-activated thromboelastograms in 250 children <2 yr old undergoing cardiac surgery to establish baseline values. Five groups were distinguished to evaluate the effects of quantitative deficiencies in coagulation factor levels during infancy: <30 days, 1-3 mo, 3-6 mo, 6-12 mo, and 12-24 mo. Activation of clotting (R and K values) was similar among groups. Infants 1-3 mo of age demonstrated increased clot strength compared with the other groups, a finding similar to previous evaluation of native thromboelastograms. The alpha and maximum amplitude values were numerically almost identical in each age group, a unique finding in activated thromboelastograms. Fibrinolysis was similar among groups. We believe that knowledge of baseline TF-activated thromboelastogram variables in young children will be useful in interpreting these thromboelastograms in clinical scenarios, in using these thromboelastograms as part of coagulopathy treatment algorithms, and during the application of more specific thromboelastogram modifiers. Additionally, the similarity of alpha and maximum amplitude values in each age group will allow even faster interpretation of thromboelastogram data. Baseline values for tissue factor-activated thromboelastograms in young children undergoing cardiac surgery have been established and will permit accurate use and interpretation of this thromboelastogram modification in evaluating and managing coagulopathies."}
{"id": "14564249", "title": "Thrombelastography. Present and future perspectives in clinical practice.", "content": "Thrombelastography. Present and future perspectives in clinical practice. Thrombelastography (TEG) is a method for evaluating the viscoelastic properties of the blood clot, from its formation to its lysis. All major surgeries may be associated with massive blood loss, with blood component transfusion therapy often becoming mandatory. The clinician's goal is thus to optimize and possibly minimize blood components usage. To this end, TEG allows for a qualitative and dynamic analysis of the specific blood clotting process, from clot formation through its lysis, highlighting alterations at every single step in the cascade. With TEG is thus possible to know if bleeding is due to a failure to provide adequate surgical hemostasis, if there is platelet dysfunction, or to detect anomalies in coagulation proteases or their inhibitors, or if the blood loss is associated to early, excessive fibrinolysis. The theoretical advantages of TEG are the ease of performing the test, the fast sample reading times (now 30 minutes) and the informative"}
{"id": "14525829", "title": "Thromboelastography to assess coagulation in the thrombocytopenic parturient.", "content": "Thromboelastography to assess coagulation in the thrombocytopenic parturient."}
{"id": "14525812", "title": "Should a normal thromboelastogram allow us to perform a neuraxial block? A strong word of warning.", "content": "Should a normal thromboelastogram allow us to perform a neuraxial block? A strong word of warning."}
{"id": "14524031", "title": "[The value of platelet function tests].", "content": "[The value of platelet function tests]. Platelet function tests are used to detect patients with abnormal platelet function, which may be inborn or acquired or to detect increased platelet activation which may be accompanied by an increased risk of thrombosis. Platelet function tests are also used to monitor platelet function inhibitors as aspirin, clopidogrel or platelet membrane glycoprotein IIb/IIIa-inhibitors. Incorrect blood sampling is a major source of error in measuring platelet function. Global tests besides platelet count and bleeding time are thrombelastography, the platelet function analyzer (PFA) and possibly in the future the new Impact-system. Specific tests measure platelet spreading and adhesion to defined surfaces. In a series of methods platelets are counted before and after passage of a filter. Some of these tests are partially standardized. The most frequently measured platelet function is aggregation induced by ADP, collagen or other substances as first described by Gustav Born. Some newer methods to perform aggregometry are described. Platelet activation can be detected by measuring spontaneous aggregation as in the PAT-test. Prospective trials with this test have shown that enhanced spontaneous aggregation is a risk factor for new vascular occlusions in diabetics and for myocardial infarctions in healthy individuals. The Wu and Hoak-test and the measurement of released platelet factor 4 or betaglobulin are of limited value. Flow cytometric methods are frequently used to measure platelet activation markers as CD 62 and others. Platelet induced thrombin generation is an interesting function to measure drug effects. None of the presently available platelet function tests is well standardized, so there is much room for improvement."}
{"id": "14507564", "title": "Perioperative use of the Thrombelastograph in patients with inherited bleeding disorders.", "content": "Perioperative use of the Thrombelastograph in patients with inherited bleeding disorders. There are few reports of the use of Thrombelastgraph (TEG) in patients with isolated or inherited bleeding disorders. Three surgical patients are presented with von Willebrand's disease, factor XII deficiency, and hemophilia A with dysfibrinogenemia in which the abnormalities detected by the TEG were similar to the expected coagulation abnormalities based on preoperative laboratory studies. This initial report suggests that this potential application of the TEG be further investigated."}
{"id": "14507267", "title": "Seven-day storage of random donor PLT concentrates.", "content": "Seven-day storage of random donor PLT concentrates. PLT concentrates are licensed for use up to a maximum of 5 days of storage. Increasing storage to 7 days would improve the logistics of supply and have the potential to reduce wastage. PLTs were prepared from CP2D blood with standard procedures (n = 16) and then WBC-reduced. Sampling was carried out at 3, 5, and 7 days for PLT count, pH, aggregation to ADP and collagen, hypotonic shock response, Kunicki morphology score, thromboelastogram response, pO2, and pCO2, and PLT activation (CD62) was carried out by flow cytometry. Additionally, PLTs stored for 7 days were transfused into thrombocytopenic patients, and the CCI was calculated. Some of the in vitro tests such as the aggregation response to single stimuli showed decreased values with time. The hypotonic shock was well maintained for 7 days (77%-68%); the Kunicki morphology score showed progressive shape change (300 to 164). The CCI of 7-day PLTs averaged 16,000 (n = 9). The data indicate acceptable in vitro PLT function at 7 days. Transfusion of the 7-day-old CP2D PLTs resulted in an appropriate posttransfusion increment in thrombocytopenic patients. Random donor PLTs collected into CP2D can be successfully stored for 7 days before use."}
{"id": "12964741", "title": "Solid-phase reversible immobilization in microfluidic chips for the purification of dye-labeled DNA sequencing fragments.", "content": "Solid-phase reversible immobilization in microfluidic chips for the purification of dye-labeled DNA sequencing fragments. In this manuscript, we discuss the use of photoactivated polycarbonate (PC) for purification of dye-labeled terminator sequencing fragments using solid-phase reversible immobilization (SPRI) prior to gel electrophoretic sorting of these DNAs. An immobilization bed for the DNA purification was produced by exposing a posted microchannel to UV radiation, which induced a surface photooxidation reaction, resulting in the production of carboxylate groups. The immobilization microchannel contained microposts to increase the loading level of DNAs to improve signal intensity without the need for preconcentration. By suspending the sequencing cocktail in an immobilization buffer (TEG/ethanol), the DNA fragments demonstrated a high affinity for this carboxylated surface. The loading density of DNAs to this activated surface was found to be 3.9 pmol cm(-2). The captured DNA could be subsequently released from the surface by incubation with ddH2O. SPRI cleanup of dye-terminator sequencing fragments using the photoactivated PC chip and slab gel electrophoresis produced a read length comparable to the conventional SPRI format, which utilized carboxylated magnetic beads and a magnetic field. The read length for the PC-SPRI format was found to be 620 bases with a calling accuracy of 98.9%. The PC-SPRI cleanup format was also integrated to a capillary gel electrophoresis (CGE) system. The PC-SPRI method was shown to effectively remove excess dye terminator from the CGE tract, but yielded lower plate numbers, as compared to a direct injection method with purification accomplished off-chip. The loss in efficiency was found to result primarily from the extended injection time associated with the microchip purification method."}
{"id": "12958612", "title": "Role of blood coagulation factor XIII in patients with acute pulmonary embolism. Correlation of factor XIII antigen levels with pulmonary occlusion rate, fibrinogen, D-dimer, and clot firmness.", "content": "Role of blood coagulation factor XIII in patients with acute pulmonary embolism. Correlation of factor XIII antigen levels with pulmonary occlusion rate, fibrinogen, D-dimer, and clot firmness. In patients with acute pulmonary embolism (PE), pulmonary occlusion rate is directly related to D-dimer and inversely related to fibrinogen levels. The role of coagulation factor XIII (FXIII) levels in acute venous thromboembolism is not known. A total of 120 consecutive patients with suspected PE and VIDAS D-dimer levels >500 micro g/L were investigated by helical computed tomography (CT). Pulmonary occlusion rate was assessed by CT using the modified Miller index. D-dimer, fibrinogen, and FXIII A- and B-subunit antigen levels were taken on admission. Thrombelastography (TEG) was performed in a subset of patients (n = 12). The 71 patients with PE had lower FXIII A-subunit levels than the 49 patients with excluded PE (78.6 +/- 24.5% vs. 91.3+/-28.8%, p=0.01). In both groups, FXIII A-subunit was inversely related to D-dimer levels. FXIII A-subunit correlated with fibrinogen levels in patients with PE but not in patients without PE. FXIII A-subunit decreased with increasing pulmonary occlusion rate. The risk of PE was increased in the presence of A-subunit levels < 60% (OR 7.0 [95% CI 1.4-35.3], p = 0.019). Clot firmness determined by TEG was lower in patients with PE than in patients without PE. In patients with PE, circulating FXIII A-subunit is decreased compared to patients with suspected but excluded PE. The higher the clot burden within the pulmonary arteries the lower the FXIII antigen. In these patients, direct relation of FXIII A-subunit to fibrinogen levels argues for significant consumption of these coagulation factors in PE. This consumption of FXIII can also be detected by a global coagulation test like TEG."}
{"id": "12921116", "title": "Superlite Plasma Collection System.", "content": "Superlite Plasma Collection System. The Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare launched a national initiative to become plasma self-sufficient by reducing reliance on imported plasma products and increasing plasma collections to enable plasma-derived pharmaceuticals, including albumin, globulin, and Factor VIII products to use plasma collected within Japan. In order to realize this goal, plasma collections from volunteer donors must increase to about 1.5 million litres of plasma per year (1) or about 50% more than what the Japan Red Cross currently collects. A mobile device, such as the Superlite system, will make it easier and more efficient for Japan's sole blood collection agency, the Japan Red Cross, to add plasma collection to mobile blood drives. Haemonetics Corporation (Braintree, MA, USA) has combined many years of apheresis experience with up-to-date technology to create the Superlite Plasma Collection System (PCS) for the Japan Red Cross. This new device, which is expected to greatly contribute to the Red Cross's national source plasma collection program, is even smaller than the Ultralite PCS and offers several advanced features and benefits. Light, compact, and very portable, the Superlite has a Japanese language friendly user interface that continually displays collection status, including time remaining in the collection procedure. The device features a protocol that limits extra-corporeal blood volume for low-weight donors; a program used in conjunction with a reduced volume disposable bowl. Superlite, designed for use in both fixed-site and mobile applications, combines the portable ease-of-use of the Ultralite with the collection process calculation abilities of the CCS to provide a state-of-the-art collection device that will help define the future of Japan plasma collection."}
{"id": "12919424", "title": "Protein composition and activation markers in plasma collected by three apheresis procedures.", "content": "Protein composition and activation markers in plasma collected by three apheresis procedures. Scientific and technical advances made in transfusion medicine sustain the need for more comprehensive understanding of the impact of collection procedures on the quality of plasma for fractionation and for transfusion. This prospective work evaluated protein composition and markers of activation in plasma donations collected with three different automatic collection procedures (performed on Haemonetics machines), including a new procedure using a high-separation core-molded bowl. A total of 90 collection procedures have been performed from a population of 37 donors, under comprehensively standardized conditions. Plasma aliquots were taken from the plasma units within 30 minutes of the end of the collection procedures and immediately frozen at -70 degrees C. Content in an extended range of proteins and of markers of activation of the coagulation and fibrinolytic systems has been measured using standard in vitro testing methods. Plasma donations had normal mean total protein, IgG, IgM, and fibrinogen content. The mean levels in coagulation FV, FVII, FVIII, and FXI and in antithrombin were above the standard international requirements. There was no sign of activation of the hemostasis system, as assessed by activated FVII, thrombin antithrombin complex, Prothrombin fragment 1+2, and D-dimers. Activated complement component C3 and C5 were low. Data indicates the good and consistent protein composition of plasma obtained by those automatic apheresis procedures. In particular, the new high-separation core procedure yields a high-quality plasma meeting requirements for transfusion and fractionation."}
{"id": "12884845", "title": "The timing for the use of heparinase and tromboelastography to prevent excessive bleeding coronary artery bypass graft surgery.", "content": "The timing for the use of heparinase and tromboelastography to prevent excessive bleeding coronary artery bypass graft surgery."}
{"id": "12873917", "title": "A comparison of flow rates and warming capabilities of the Level 1 and Rapid Infusion System with various-size intravenous catheters.", "content": "A comparison of flow rates and warming capabilities of the Level 1 and Rapid Infusion System with various-size intravenous catheters. Cases involving massive blood transfusion may require the use of specialized blood warmers, such as the Level 1 (L-1) (Level 1 Technologies, Inc., Rockland, MA) or the Rapid Infusion System (RIS) (Haemonetics Corp., Braintree, MA). In this in vitro study, we compared the infusion and warming capabilities of the L-1 (model 1000) versus the RIS using pediatric- and adult-sized IV catheters. The time to infuse 2 L of lactated Ringer's solution and the end temperature after infusion through 20-, 18-, 16-, and 14-gauge catheters, and 4-, 5-, 6-, 7-, and 8.5-French catheters using both the L-1 and RIS were measured. The flow rates of both systems were similar for 18- and 20-gauge catheters; however, the flow rates with the RIS were progressively faster than the L-1 as catheter size increased to >18 gauge. The heating capabilities of the RIS were superior to the L-1 for all catheters >or=16 gauge. We conclude that the RIS was superior to the L-1 for both flow rates and warming capacity for all IV catheters >18 gauge, i.e., those used for cases with massive blood loss. The RIS provided no advantage (with regard to heating and flow) when used with typical pediatric-sized catheters. The rapid infusion system is superior to the Level 1 for warming and flow of crystalloid for IV catheters >18 gauge in vitro. The rapid infusion system provides no advantage with catheters typically used in small children (<or=18 gauge). Safety and cost are additional factors to be considered when choosing one system over the other."}
{"id": "12871465", "title": "Whole blood coagulation thrombelastographic profiles employing minimal tissue factor activation.", "content": "Whole blood coagulation thrombelastographic profiles employing minimal tissue factor activation. We investigated whole blood coagulation by thrombelastography (TEG) employing activation with minute amounts of tissue factor (TF). Continuous raw data captured were transformed into novel parameters, such as the maximum velocity (MaxVel) and the time to maximum velocity (t,MaxVel) of whole blood clot formation. The courses of the whole blood clot development were very similar to thrombin generation curves reported in plasma. In this assay healthy women (n = 30) showed an earlier onset and an increased coagulation velocity compared to healthy men (n = 30). In patients with severe hemophilia, and persons undergoing thromboprophylaxis, distinctly abnormal coagulation profiles were observed with a decrease in the MaxVel, as well as a prolonged t,MaxVel. Changes appeared to be dependent on the nature and severity of the hemostatic deficit. Preliminary studies in patients substituted with recombinant factor VIIa demonstrated a marked change in the coagulation profile, in which the MaxVel and t,MaxVel shifted towards normal in a dose-dependent way. Data suggest that the whole blood coagulation TEG profile, following activation with minute amounts of TF, may reflect the hemostatic potential in patients suspected of impaired hemostasis."}
{"id": "12861136", "title": "Low-dose oral contraceptive effects on thromboelastogram criteria and relationship to hypercoagulability.", "content": "Low-dose oral contraceptive effects on thromboelastogram criteria and relationship to hypercoagulability. The study was undertaken to assess hypercoagulability, by using thromboelastography, in women who use low-dose oral contraceptives (OCs). Forty-three women using low-dose OCs (<or=35 microg ethinyl estradiol) underwent thromboelastography before starting OCs and again during the third month of OC use. Prior and 3-month mean values of four thromboelastogram parameters (maximum amplitude [MA], K time, alpha angle, and R time) were compared by using paired t tests. Comparison according to progestin type was also performed with unpaired t tests. Prior versus 3-month values for MA, alpha, and K were not significantly different (P values-K: 0.8; alpha:.34; MA: 0.49); power was adequate to detect small differences. The 3-month R time was decreased compared with pre-OC values (P =.025), although the magnitude of this change was not characteristic of hypercoagulability. Comparison according to progestin type demonstrated no difference. We found no significant trend toward hypercoagulability in women who used low-dose OCs and who otherwise had no known thromboembolic risks."}
{"id": "12851533", "title": "Reversal of the International Normalized Ratio with recombinant activated factor VII in central nervous system bleeding during warfarin thromboprophylaxis: clinical and biochemical aspects.", "content": "Reversal of the International Normalized Ratio with recombinant activated factor VII in central nervous system bleeding during warfarin thromboprophylaxis: clinical and biochemical aspects. Major bleeding is a frequent and hazardous complication associated with thromboprophylaxis using vitamin-K antagonists (VKA). Suggested regimens for control of highly elevated International Normalized Ratio (INR) and hemorrhagic events during VKA treatment include administration of vitamin K, infusion of fresh frozen plasma (FFP) or a prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC). In contrast, this communication present the first report on the efficacious use of recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) as additional therapy in seven patients presenting with central nervous system (CNS) bleeding emergencies. Pre-treatment INRs ranged from 1.7 to 6.6, and 10 min after a single dose of rFVIIa (10-40 microg/kg) all INRs were </= 1.5. Six patients underwent drainage of the CNS hematoma and all patients survived. No untoward biochemical signs of coagulation activation were detected and no incidence of thromboembolism was observed. In ex-vivo experimental studies, profiles of continuous whole blood clot formation were evaluated by thrombelastography in 25 patients on VKA treatment (INR 1.7-4.3), demonstrating a significantly prolonged initiation phase and diminished propagation of clot formation. Ex-vivo supplementation with rFVIIa to blood of six patients returned a distinct reduction of the prolonged initiation but variable changes in the maximum velocity of clot formation. The ex-vivo experiments and our clinical data support recent suggestions that rFVIIa might substitute for infusion of FFP or PCC in acute reversal of VKA treatment."}
{"id": "12850830", "title": "Influence of platelet count and activity on thromboelastography parameters.", "content": "Influence of platelet count and activity on thromboelastography parameters. It has been suggested that thromboelastography TEG) can help in limiting or directing the appropriate use of blood products during surgery. However, the contribution of platelets to the TEG profile has not been studied in detail. Blood was taken from eight healthy subjects and eight patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD). Immunomagnetic separation was achieved by the addition of Dynabeads labeled with a CD41 murine antibody (to the GPIIb/IIIa receptor) to achieve 90-100% depletion of platelets from blood. This was then titrated with whole blood to achieve platelet counts of approximately 0, 25 and 50% of the original count to compare with whole blood using TEG. Platelet function was also assessed by spontaneous platelet aggregometry (SPA) at baseline and at the 50% dilution. SPA, maximum amplitude (MA) and K time were significantly different in PAD patients compared to controls (P < 0.05). In both controls and PAD patients there was a strong linear correlation between Log10 [platelet count] and MA (r = 0.97 for controls, r = 0.89 for PAD) and K time (r = -0.86 for controls, r = -0.68 for PAD). Correlation between Log10 [platelet count] and R time was poor in both groups. The MA and K TEG parameters may be most useful for assessing platelet transfusion requirements."}
{"id": "12846638", "title": "Monitoring of platelet function.", "content": "Monitoring of platelet function."}
{"id": "12831971", "title": "[Epidural analgesia in a pregnant woman with essential thrombocythaemia].", "content": "[Epidural analgesia in a pregnant woman with essential thrombocythaemia]. Epidural analgesia is often considered as risk of epidural haematoma in patient with essential thrombocythaemia because of the platelet disorder. In this observation, uncomplicated epidural analgesia was performed in a pregnant woman with asymptomatic essential thrombocythaemia, because the absence of bleeding symptoms was associated with normal thrombo-elastography and time of occlusion by PFA-100 suggesting normal platelet function. PFA-100 is a biological test evaluating platelet function in whole blood, which is easy and quick to perform. This case study suggests that this test might be useful in evaluating platelet function in obstetrics but must be validated before recommending its extensive use."}
{"id": "12828667", "title": "Potential role of the dynamic properties of whole blood coagulation in assessment of dosage requirements in haemophilia.", "content": "Potential role of the dynamic properties of whole blood coagulation in assessment of dosage requirements in haemophilia. In the clinical setting, patients suffering from haemophilia are classified according to the residual level of the deficient coagulation factor. Patients suffering from the severe form of haemophilia (critical factor level <0.01 IU mL-1) display some heterogeneity in their tendency to bleeding despite the uniform factor level. Utilizing a new thrombelastographic method in which coagulation is activated by very small amounts of tissue factor and where resulting data are processed with new software, we studied the whole blood coagulation profile in 11 patients with severe haemophilia A and 11 patients with moderate haemophilia. In both groups of patients, we found a considerable degree of heterogeneity in the coagulation signal. In moderate haemophilia with factor VIII (FVIII):C levels between 0.01 and 0.05 IU mL-1, variance was expected, whereas a quite substantial diversity had not been forecasted in patterns of the whole blood coagulation profiles in patients with the severe form of haemophilia A. Ex vivo substitution to patient's blood to reach various theoretical levels of recombinant factor VIII (rFVIII) revealed that the coagulation response to FVIII supplementation varied substantially. In some severely affected patients levels of FVIII:C close to 0.05 IU mL-1 was sufficient to normalize the coagulation profile, while others required a dose giving >0.50 IU mL-1 of FVIII to achieve a normal whole blood clotting profile. In conclusion, our study revealed that severe haemophilia A seems not to be a single entity, but rather several different clinical and biochemical phenotypes, and that the response to added FVIII varies amongst patients."}
{"id": "12818228", "title": "The management of perioperative bleeding.", "content": "The management of perioperative bleeding. Excess perioperative bleeding remains a major complication following surgery, resulting in increased morbidity and mortality. The principal causes of non-surgical haemostatic perioperative bleeding are a pre-existing undetected bleeding disorder, related to the nature of the operation itself or from coagulation abnormalities arising from massive blood loss. Very often, it is a combination and coexistence of various pathologies. Identifying patients at risk remains a major component of preventing excessive blood loss. Understanding the haemostatic changes occurring in the perioperative period, especially in complex procedures like cardiopulmonary bypass and orthotopic liver transplantation is crucial in developing new strategies for the management of perioperative bleeding. Pharmacological interventions, especially aprotinin, tranexamic acid, desmopressin and increasingly, recombinant VIIa are being used both in prophylaxis and therapeutically to stop bleeding. The use of near patient testing like thromboelastography and platelet function analyser has allowed for more detailed assessment of the various steps of haemostasis. One of the main goals is to reduce the usage of allogeneic blood transfusion and its attendant risks."}
{"id": "12818190", "title": "Anticoagulant activity of M-LAO, L-amino acid oxidase purified from Agkistrodon halys blomhoffii, through selective inhibition of factor IX.", "content": "Anticoagulant activity of M-LAO, L-amino acid oxidase purified from Agkistrodon halys blomhoffii, through selective inhibition of factor IX. One of haemorrhagic toxins present in snake venoms is L-amino acid oxidase (LAO), which catalyzes the oxidative deamination of L-amino acids with the generation of hydrogen peroxide. Although it is widely accepted that LAO alters platelet function, the effects of LAO on human blood coagulation remain largely unknown. The present study demonstrated, for the first time, that M-LAO, LAO purified from the venom of Agkistrodon halys blomhoffii (Japanese mamushi), possesses an anticoagulant activity. Thrombelastography (TEG) showed that M-LAO significantly delayed the onset and the progress of the coagulation process. In addition, the enzyme prolonged the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) dose-dependently, but had little effect on the prothrombin time (PT), suggesting that its principal activity was mediated in the intrinsic coagulation pathway. Furthermore, M-LAO reduced factor IX procoagulant activity in a dose-dependent manner and did not affect other coagulation factors. These results indicate that M-LAO has an anticoagulant activity that impairs the intrinsic clotting by inhibiting factor IX."}
{"id": "12812383", "title": "Value of thromboelastography in the assessment of platelet function.", "content": "Value of thromboelastography in the assessment of platelet function. Thromboelastography (TEG) is a useful measure of coagulation. Modified TEG (that is with the addition of a GP IIb/IIIa receptor antagonist) has been used to assess the contribution of the fibrinogen-platelet interaction to TEG parameters (in particular the maximum amplitude, MA). Modified TEG was compared with other investigations of platelet function to assess its sensitivity in both normal subjects and in patients with peripheral arterial disease (PAD), a condition associated with activated platelets. Blood was collected from eight healthy subjects and 12 PAD patients. Platelet function was measured by TEG, flow cytometry (using PAC-1, P-selectin, GP IIIa and GP Ib murine antibodies) and platelet aggregometry (spontaneous and ADP-induced) in the presence and absence of tirofiban (a GP IIb/IIIa receptor antagonist). TEG showed a statistically significant reduction in MA with tirofiban at 0.4 mg/L and an increase in k (kinetic time; which indicates how fast clot strength is increasing once clotting starts) at 0.2 and 0.4 mg/L of tirofiban in both healthy subjects and PAD patients. Flow cytometry showed a significant decrease in the PAC-1 binding index (at 0.2 mg/L). This finding was compatible with the significant reductions found in spontaneous and ADP-induced platelet aggregation. However, aggregometry and flow cytometry were more sensitive indicators of platelet inhibition than the TEG parameters. TEG does not provide a comprehensive or sensitive reflection of impaired platelet function. If TEG is used as an index of severely impaired platelet function, we recommend that the k parameter should be used as well as MA. TEG should be supplemented by other methods of platelet function assessment wherever possible."}
{"id": "12761010", "title": "The effect of graded hypothermia (36 degrees C-32 degrees C) on hemostasis in anesthetized patients without surgical trauma.", "content": "The effect of graded hypothermia (36 degrees C-32 degrees C) on hemostasis in anesthetized patients without surgical trauma. The isolated effects of hypothermia on hemostasis have not been investigated in healthy humans. We cooled 16 anesthetized patients scheduled for elective intracranial surgery to 32 degrees C body core temperature and assessed prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time, thrombelastogram (TEG), closure time, and platelet count at 36 degrees C, 34 degrees C, and 32 degrees C body core temperature after the induction of anesthesia but before surgical intervention. Activated partial thromboplastin time, hematocrit, and closure time did not change, whereas PT and platelet count decreased during cooling. Platelet count decreased without a decrease in hematocrit; hence, a dilution by administered fluids seemed unlikely. The small decrease of platelet count is probably clinically irrelevant in patients with normal platelet count and function. The small decrease in PT indicates an alteration of the extrinsic pathway of coagulation. TEG measurements showed a delay of clot formation in temperature-adjusted measurements but showed no change if the test temperature was 37 degrees C. This indicates that hypothermia reduces plasmatic coagulation and platelet reactivity. However, the clot strength is not altered by hypothermia. All coagulation variables remained within the normal ranges. Our results may indicate that moderate short-term (4-h) hypothermia has only minor adverse effects in healthy humans. We can make no statement about the effects of hypothermia of longer duration. This study investigated the isolated effects of hypothermia in healthy anesthetized humans. We found only minor effects of body temperature reduction to 32 degrees C on assessed coagulation variables, indicating only minor effects in otherwise healthy humans."}
{"id": "12757498", "title": "Near-patient testing of haemostasis in the operating theatre: an approach to appropriate use of blood in surgery.", "content": "Near-patient testing of haemostasis in the operating theatre: an approach to appropriate use of blood in surgery. Several haemostasis point-of-care (POC) monitors are now available in the operating theatre. Two of these are widely used; the Coaguchek and the thromboelastograph (TEG), but they have been developed in very different ways. Bedside-activated partial thromboplastin time and prothrombin time performed with the Coaguchek monitor seem to be reliable and have been used to build algorithms for transfusion decision making. They have been developed in close collaboration with haemostasis groups and therefore gain a benefit from these links. Conversely, TEG provides very important information except it has never been validated. The number of collaborative studies with biologists has to increase in order to implement the use of TEG in the routine practice."}
{"id": "12735570", "title": "Blood loss in infants and children for open heart operations: albumin 5% versus fresh-frozen plasma in the prime.", "content": "Blood loss in infants and children for open heart operations: albumin 5% versus fresh-frozen plasma in the prime. Infants and children undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass become substantially hemodiluted secondary to the volume used to prime the oxygenator. Fresh-frozen plasma has been included in the prime to lessen dilution of clotting factors and correspondingly minimize blood loss and transfusions. We prospectively randomized 56 patients weighing 10 kg or less who required cardiopulmonary bypass to receive either one unit of fresh-frozen plasma or 200 mL of albumin 5% in the prime. After protamine administration, samples for prothrombin time, fibrinogen, platelet count, and thromboelastogram were obtained. Mediastinal chest tube drainage and transfusion requirements were documented. There were no significant differences between groups regarding demographic or surgical characteristics. Blood loss during the first 24 hours was similar in both groups, but total transfusions were significantly greater in those who received fresh-frozen plasma instead of albumin 5% in the prime (8.0 +/- 4.2 versus 6.1 +/- 4.5 U, respectively; p = 0.035). Post hoc analyses suggest that for cyanotic patients and patients undergoing complex operations, fresh-frozen plasma in the prime results in less blood loss than albumin 5%. Substitution of albumin 5% for fresh-frozen plasma in the prime of acyanotic patients weighing 10 kg or less who undergo noncomplex operations requiring cardiopulmonary bypass significantly reduces perioperative transfusions without increasing blood loss. Further investigation is needed to determine whether increased blood loss is associated with increased transfusions when albumin 5% is substituted for fresh-frozen plasma in the prime of infants and children who are cyanotic or undergoing complex operations."}
{"id": "12729278", "title": "Determination of ethanolamine, ethylene glycol and triethylene glycol by ion chromatography for laboratory and field biodegradation studies.", "content": "Determination of ethanolamine, ethylene glycol and triethylene glycol by ion chromatography for laboratory and field biodegradation studies. The determination of alkanolamines and glycols in groundwater and subsurface environments is essential for environmental assessment, remediation and monitoring for selected industrial sites. Monoethanolamine (MEA), ammonium, sodium, magnesium and calcium detection was performed using cation exchange chromatography (IC) with suppressed conductivity detection. Acetate, chloride, nitrite, nitrate, phosphate, sulfate and oxalate were monitored employing anion exchange chromatography with suppressed conductivity. Detection of ethylene glycol (MEG) and triethylene glycol (TEG) and ethanol was carried out using ion exclusion chromatography with pulsed amperometric detection. Effective determination of MEA, MEG and TEG in complex groundwater matrices without compound transformation offered improved monitoring capabilities. This study presents robust analytical tools for MEA, MEG and TEG determination in biodegradation studies. Using ion chromatography offered significant advantages for the analyses of groundwater samples and laboratory bioreactor monitoring."}
{"id": "12718774", "title": "Peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in children with beta-thalassemia major.", "content": "Peripheral blood stem cell transplantation in children with beta-thalassemia major. To share the preliminary data on stem cell transplantation in Pakistan. This is a single center retrospective analysis of the outcome of allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) transplantation in b-thalassemia major patients. Bismillah Taqee Blood Diseases Centre, Karachi; a tertiary care hematology center from September 1999 to September 2002. Twelve patients with b-thalassemia major received allogeneic PBSC transplantation from HLA identical sibling donors except in one case where mother was the donor. All patients received busulphan and cyclophosphamide conditioning therapy and cyclosporin A/methotrexate for graft versus host disease (GVHD) prophylaxis. Donors were primed with G-CSF for 4 days and stem cells were harvested using Haemonetics MCS + cell separator on 5th day. All patients received G-CSF starting from day + 4 until their neutrophil count rose to normal. Engraftment was achieved in all patients except one who required a second dose of bone marrow graft on day +21. Median time to achieve absolute neutrophil count of > 0.5 x 10(9)/l was 9.0 days (range 8-31 days) and platelet count of > 20 x 10(9)/l was 14 days (12-35 days). Acute GVHD was seen in 3 patients, one patient had grade IV gut GVHD; another patient had grade III gut GVHD while third patient had grade II skin GVHD. Median hospital stay was 29 days. Six patients were well and transfusion independent 3 to 36 months posttransplant. One episode of primary graft failure required a second dose of bone marrow harvest. Another episode of graft rejection received two doses of donor lymphocytes infusion. There were 4 deaths due to grade IV gut GVHD because of uncontrolled systemic Candida infection and one due to hepatic veno-occlusive (VOD) disease. Allogeneic peripheral blood stem cell transplantation can be safely and economically carried out in Pakistan. Although there had been 4 deaths during 36 months follow-up, with increasing understanding and experience the outcome is expected to improve."}
{"id": "12717223", "title": "Adverse outcome of human islet-allogeneic blood interaction.", "content": "Adverse outcome of human islet-allogeneic blood interaction. A report of inflammatory damage when islets come into contact with allogeneic blood prompted us to confirm the finding. Fresh handpicked human islets were incubated in blood group matched, nonsensitized allogeneic blood. Destruction was quantified by assaying the supernatants for proinsulin release and by blood clot histology. The effect on global hemostasis was assessed by thromboelastography (TEG), and heparin-bonded tubing was used to assess the effect on blood cellular counts. In separate experiments, islets were incubated in allogeneic blood with heparin or Reopro (monoclonal anti-GpIIbIIIa). Islets were also incubated in serum, and cryosections were stained for C1q, C4, C3, C5b-9, immunoglobulin (Ig)M, and IgG binding using immunohistochemistry. Histologic assessment showed severe destruction in 37% of islets in contact with allogeneic blood versus none in controls and a sevenfold increase in proinsulin release from controls (n = 6)(P < 0.005). TEG (n = 11) showed accelerated coagulation in the presence of islets (P < 0.001). Analysis of blood cellular counts (n = 3) showed consumption of platelets, neutrophils, and monocytes in the presence of islets (P < 0.001). Inhibition of coagulation with heparin (n = 3) or inhibition of platelet aggregation with Reopro (n = 3), separately or together (n = 3), did not make a substantial improvement in the destruction in terms of histology or proinsulin release. Immunohistochemical staining (n = 4) revealed C1q, C4, C3, and C5b-9 deposition along with IgG binding. IgM binding was weak if anything. This study confirms and extends the finding that human islet-allogeneic blood interaction results in significant destruction of islet tissue with activation of the coagulation cascade and platelet, neutrophil, and monocyte consumption. There was evidence for activation of complement by the classical pathway along with IgG binding."}
{"id": "12716588", "title": "Off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery may produce a hypercoagulable patient.", "content": "Off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery may produce a hypercoagulable patient. The incidence of thromboembolic events following traditional open heart surgery has not been clinically significant. However, with beating heart surgery, for which cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) is not required, the incidence of spontaneous intravascular thrombosis may be similar to that encountered after general surgeries. Compounding this risk is that many cases of off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB) surgery are reserved for the elderly patient with multiple comorbidities. The few studies to date that have assessed the coagulation profile in OPCAB patients have been limited to the first 24 hours after surgery. We prospectively studied 17 OPCAB and 6 onpump patients over 4 days (hospital course) with daily thromboelastography. A coagulation index (CI) (reflecting R and K times, angle, and maximum amplitude lbrack;MArbrack;) was calculated for the patients, who served as their own controls. The OPCAB patients demonstrated 3 days postoperatively a 17% increase in coagulation compared with the baseline. Specifically, the CI consistently revealed an elevation in the angle and the MA, both of which reflect increased fibrinogen and platelet activity. On the other hand, 3 days following surgery the CI of the CPB group was tightly clustered around their respective baseline CI values, which had recovered from a significant decrease immediately after surgery. A state of hypercoagulability, as measured by thromboelastography, exists in the OPCAB patient beyond the first postoperative day, and this finding suggests that prophylactic postoperative anticoagulation therapy targeting fibrinogen and platelet activity may be indicated for these patients."}
{"id": "12709915", "title": "Hemostasis during normal pregnancy and puerperium.", "content": "Hemostasis during normal pregnancy and puerperium. During normal pregnancy the hemostatic balance changes in the direction of hypercoagulability, thus decreasing bleeding complications in connection with delivery. The most important initial factor for acute hemostasis at delivery is, however, uterine muscle contractions, which interrupt blood flow. Global tests such as Sonoclot signature, the Thromboelastogram, and a new method analyzing overall plasma hemostasis, all show changes representative of hypercoagulability during pregnancy. Increased endogenous thrombin generation, acquired activated protein C resistance, slightly decreased activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and increased prothrombin complex level (PT) measured as international normalized ratio (INR) of less than 0.9 have been reported as well. In normal pregnancy, the platelet count is within normal range except during the third trimester when benign gestational thrombocytopenia, 80 to 150 x 10 9/L, can be observed. Platelet turnover is usually normal. Activation of platelets and release of beta-thromboglobulin and platelet factor 4 are reported. The bleeding time is unchanged during normal pregnancy. Most blood coagulation factors and fibrinogen increase during pregnancy. Factor (F) XI is the only blood coagulation factor that decreases. Blood coagulation inhibitors are mainly unchanged but the level of free protein S decreases markedly and the level of tissue factor pathway inhibitor increases. Thrombomodulin levels increase during pregnancy. Fibrinolytic capacity is diminished during pregnancy, mainly because of markedly increased levels of plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 (PAI-1) from endothelial cells and plasminogen activator inhibitor-2 (PAI-2) from the placenta. Thrombin-activated fibrinolysis inhibitor is reported to be unaffected. The total hemostatic balance has been studied by analyses of prothrombin fragment 1+2, thrombin-antithrombin complex, fibrinopeptide A, soluble fibrin, D-dimer, and plasmin-antiplasmin complex. There is activation of blood coagulation and a simultaneous increase in fibrinolysis without signs of organ dysfunction during normal pregnancy. These changes increase as pregnancy progresses. During delivery, there is consumption of platelets and blood coagulation factors, including fibrinogen. Fibrinolysis improves and increases fast following childbirth and expulsion of the placenta, resulting in increased D-dimer levels. These changes are self-limiting at normal delivery. The hemostatic changes, noted during pregnancy, normalize after delivery within 4 to 6 weeks. Platelet count and free protein S, however, can be abnormal longer. Hemostasis should not be tested earlier than 3 months following delivery and after terminating lactation to rule out influences of pregnancy. PAI-1 and PAI-2 levels decrease fast postpartum, but PAI 2 has been detected up to 8 weeks postpartum. alpha 2 -antiplasmin, urokinase, and kallikrein inhibitor levels have been reported to be increased 6 weeks postpartum."}
{"id": "12701115", "title": "Effects of human mast cell tryptase and eosinophil granule proteins on the kinetics of blood clotting.", "content": "Effects of human mast cell tryptase and eosinophil granule proteins on the kinetics of blood clotting. Hypereosinophilic syndromes are often associated with thrombosis through unclear mechanisms, and mastocytosis has been associated with a variety of bleeding disorders. The present studies were aimed at defining the roles and interactions of eosinophil and mast cell constituents on the kinetics of blood clotting as measured by thromboelastograms. Eosinophil granule proteins and purified eosinophil peroxidase markedly reduced the anticoagulant properties of the mast cell tryptase/heparin complex. Moreover, eosinophil peroxidase by itself functioned as a powerful procoagulant and also inhibited the anticoagulant actions of heparin in a chromogenic assay for antithrombin III/factor Xa activity. The anticoagulant activity of the tryptase/heparin complex was attributable exclusively to the associated heparin and not to the intrinsic enzymatic activity of tryptase. Eosinophil granule proteins also strongly inhibited the enzymatic activity of tryptase in the presence of hydrogen peroxide, thus implicating a critical role for eosinophil peroxidase. We conclude that eosinophil granule proteins and eosinophil peroxidase both function as powerful procoagulants and also inhibit the anticoagulant and enzymatic activities of mast cell tryptase. The present results thus provide a mechanistic rationale for the well-established link between certain eosinophilic inflammatory disorders and hypercoagulant states. They also suggest that eosinophils may play an important role in neutralizing the anticoagulant activity of mast cell tryptase/heparin in various diseases."}
{"id": "12698142", "title": "Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting provides complete revascularization with reduced myocardial injury, transfusion requirements, and length of stay: a prospective randomized comparison of two hundred unselected patients undergoing off-pump versus conventional coronary artery bypass grafting.", "content": "Off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting provides complete revascularization with reduced myocardial injury, transfusion requirements, and length of stay: a prospective randomized comparison of two hundred unselected patients undergoing off-pump versus conventional coronary artery bypass grafting. Retrospective comparisons of selected patients undergoing off-pump versus conventional on-pump coronary artery bypass grafting have yielded inconsistent results and raised concerns about completeness of revascularization in off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting. Two hundred unselected patients referred for elective primary coronary artery bypass grafting were randomly assigned to undergo off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting with an Octopus tissue stabilizer (Medtronic, Inc, Minneapolis, Minn) or conventional coronary artery bypass grafting with cardiopulmonary bypass by a single surgeon. Revascularization intent determined before random assignment was compared with the revascularization performed. All management followed strict, unbiased, criteria-driven protocols. Patients and nonoperative care providers were blinded to surgical group. Baseline characteristics were similar. The number of grafts performed per patient (mean +/- SD 3.39 +/- 1.04 for off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting, 3.40 +/- 1.08 for conventional coronary artery bypass grafting) and the index of completeness of revascularization (number of grafts performed/number of grafts intended, 1.00 +/- 0.18 for off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting, 1.01 +/- 0.09 for conventional coronary artery bypass grafting) were similar. Likewise, the index of completeness of revascularization was similar between groups for the lateral wall. Combined hospital and 30-day mortalities and stroke rates were similar. Postoperative myocardial serum enzyme measures were significantly lower after off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting, suggesting less myocardial injury. Adjusted postoperative thromboelastogram indices, fibrinogen, international normalized ratio, and platelet levels all showed significantly less coagulopathy after off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting. Patients undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting received fewer units of blood, were more likely to avoid transfusion altogether, and had a higher hematocrit at discharge. Cardiopulmonary bypass was an independent predictor of transfusion (odds ratio 2.42, P =.0073) by multivariate analysis. More patients undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting were extubated in the operating room and within 4 hours. Postoperative length of stay (in days) was shorter for off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting (5.1 +/- 6.5 for off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting, 6.1 +/- 8.2 for conventional coronary artery bypass grafting, P =.005 by Wilcoxon test). One patient (in the conventional coronary artery bypass grafting group) required angioplasty for graft closure within 30 days. When compared with conventional coronary artery bypass grafting with cardiopulmonary bypass, off-pump coronary artery bypass grafting achieved similar completeness of revascularization, similar in-hospital and 30-day outcomes, shorter length of stay, reduced transfusion requirement, and less myocardial injury."}
{"id": "12680495", "title": "Use of aprotinin during cardiopulmonary bypass in a patient with protein C deficiency.", "content": "Use of aprotinin during cardiopulmonary bypass in a patient with protein C deficiency. This case study reviews cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) management in a Protein C deficient patient undergoing reoperation for an atrioventricular (AV) valve replacement with the use of aprotinin. Protein C inhibits factors Va and VIIIa in the coagulation cascade and inactivates tissue plasminogen activator inhibitor, thus maintaining hemostasis. Protein C deficiency can cause hypercoagulability and may result in thrombotic episodes, especially in areas of low blood flow or during activation of the coagulation cascade. A 17-year-old male presented with a functional single ventricle and AV valve regurgitation. The patient had a history of three previous AV valve replacements. Protein C deficiency was first diagnosed after thrombosis of the first valve prosthesis. Other case studies in protein C deficient patients suggested the use of fresh frozen plasma (FFP) before bypass to restore protein C levels, ATIII replacement before heparin administration, and avoidance of aprotinin because of its known competitive inhibition of activated protein C. Two units of FFP were given by anesthesia before the administration of aprotinin, and two units of FFP were added to the pump prime. The full Hammersmith loading dose of aprotinin was administered just before initiation of CPB. The same dose of aprotinin was added to the pump prime just before initiation of CPB. Additional heparin (100 U/kg) was administered every hour during bypass. Activated clotting time tests (ACTs) were performed every 15 min, and thromboelastographs (TEGs) were performed every hour. The patient recovered from surgery without major complications, and there were no perioperative thrombotic events. The patient was discharged on day 41 and is doing well. Postoperative atrial arrhythmias were a contributing factor to his delayed discharge. The use of aprotinin in a protein C deficient patient undergoing open-heart surgery may be safe if protein C levels are restored before administration of aprotinin, and anticoagulation is carefully monitored."}
{"id": "12680493", "title": "Quality of red blood cells using autotransfusion devices: a comparative analysis.", "content": "Quality of red blood cells using autotransfusion devices: a comparative analysis. Cell salvage devices are routinely used to process and wash red blood cells (RBCs) shed during surgical interventions. Although the principle theory of cell saving is the same, the actual process to achieve this is very different from one device to another. The purpose of this study was to compare the quality of washed, concentrated RBC produced by five very different cell-saving devices, specifically the Cobe BRAT 2, Medtronic Sequestra 1000, Haemonetics Cell Saver 5, Medtronic Autolog, and the Fresenius CATS. Reservoir and washed red blood cells were analyzed for hematocrit (Hct), platelets (PLT), leukocytes (WBC), potassium (K+), heparin, plasma-free hemoglobin (PFH), RBC mass recovery and recovery rate. The Haemonetics and BRAT 2 had the highest RBC recovery. All devices adequately removed heparin and potassium. The Medtronic Autolog had the highest removal of platelets and PFH; whereas, the BRAT had the lowest. Although the Autolog had the highest leukocyte removal, leukocytes were not adequately washed out by any of the autotransfusion devices. In conclusion, although all cell-saving devices use the same theory of centrifugation, the actual quality of the washed RBC product differs widely from one device to another."}
{"id": "12675727", "title": "Activation of the complement system by different autologous transfusion devices: an in vitro study.", "content": "Activation of the complement system by different autologous transfusion devices: an in vitro study. The aim of the present investigation was to study whether autologous transfusion devices activate the complement system and whether complement-activated blood is more vulnerable to further activation during processing. Forty-eight blood units were randomized to be processed by one of three different salvage systems: Group 1 underwent whole blood filtration (hemofiltration) (n=16); Group 2 underwent continuous processing, saline washing, and centrifugation (CATS, Fresenius AG ) (n=16); and Group 3 underwent saline washing and centrifugation (Cell-Saver, Haemonetics Corp.) (n=16). Eight blood units for each system were activated with cobra venom factor (CVF) at a concentration of 0.2 U per mL whole blood before processing. C activation was studied by determinations of C4d, Bb, C3a, and SC5b-9. Samples were drawn from whole blood, processed blood, and the waste bags. The concentrations of Bb, C3a, and SC5b-9 in whole blood after activation with CVF were significantly elevated compared to blood that was not activated (p < 0.01). Processed blood from hemofiltration contained significantly higher levels of complement-split products than techniques that use washing and centrifugation. The concentrations of SC5b-9 in blood processed by hemofiltration were higher in the experiments with CVF activation (p < 0.05). The tested autologous transfusion systems did not themselves activate the complement system, and complement-activated blood was not more vulnerable to further activation during processing. A blood-salvaging technique that used washing and centrifugation reduced elevated concentrations of complement-split products, whereas hemofiltration did not."}
{"id": "12651640", "title": "Hemostatic analysis of a patient undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery with argatroban anticoagulation.", "content": "Hemostatic analysis of a patient undergoing off-pump coronary artery bypass surgery with argatroban anticoagulation. This case describes the impact of argatroban and off-pump coronary revascularization on hemostasis as assessed by conventional hemostatic measures and Thrombelastography in a patient with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia."}
{"id": "12643318", "title": "Global anticoagulant effects of a synthetic anti-factor Xa inhibitor (DX-9065a): implications for interventional use.", "content": "Global anticoagulant effects of a synthetic anti-factor Xa inhibitor (DX-9065a): implications for interventional use. Heparin has been conventionally used as an anticoagulant for medical and surgical indications. Because factor Xa is an essential component of the prothrombinase complex and leads to the generation of thrombin, its inhibition has become a focus of newer antithrombotic drug development. The in vitro anticoagulant profile of DX-9065a, a synthetic direct factor Xa inhibitor, was studied using activated clotting time assay, thrombelastography, and global clotting tests, such as prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), diluted aPTT, Heptest, Heptest-HI, dilute Russell's viper venom time (dRVVT), thrombin time, ecarin clotting time, and amidolytic anti-Xa assay. In addition, the effect of DX-9065a on platelet aggregation and inhibition of thrombin generation markers (FPA, F1+2, and TAT) were studied. The pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic profiles of DX-9065a were also studied in a non-human primate (Macaca mulatta) model. DX-9065a produced a concentration-dependent increase in the Hemochron celite ACT and HemoTec ACT. Clotting times of 538 +/- 19 and 401 +/- 12, respectively, were reached at a concentration of 25 microg/mL signifying that DX-9065a may be useful in interventional cardiological procedures. DX-9065a prolonged the r-time on thrombelastography. DX-9065a did not show any effect on adenosine diphosphate (ADP)-, collagen-, epinephrine-, and arachidonic acid-induced platelet aggregation at concentrations up to 10 microgram/mL. DX-9065a exhibited a concentration-dependent prolongation of the PT, aPTT, diluted aPTT, Heptest, dRVVT, and reached the clotting times of 51.6, 132, 193, 47.9, 129.9 seconds, respectively, at a final concentration of 12.5 microgram/mL; compared to a control value of 10.6, 30.2, 41.9, 14, 32.2 seconds, respectively. DX-9065a did not affect the ecarin clotting time and thrombin time at concentrations up to 12.5 microgram/mL. Because DX-9065a prolonged the dRVVT, this may impact diagnostic screening of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus."}
{"id": "12635393", "title": "The effects of a one unit blood donation on auto-haemodilution and coagulation.", "content": "The effects of a one unit blood donation on auto-haemodilution and coagulation. The effect of haemodilution on coagulation has been extensively investigated. We investigated auto-haemodilution following a 10% blood loss (480 ml) and its effect on coagulation. Ten healthy, unstarved volunteers were enrolled. One unit of blood was taken from each volunteer. Concurrently blood was taken from the opposite arm prior to and immediately after the blood donation, and at 1, 2, 4 and 6 hours. It was tested for thrombelastography, haematocrit and endorphins. There was a significant decrease in r-time from the control sample to the sample taken immediately post blood donation. This value returned to baseline at 1 hour post donation and did not change again. There were no other significant changes in thromboelastographic parameters. Fractional plasma noradrenaline changes were significantly raised at 1 hour post donation (P = 0.048), returning to baseline by 2 hours post donation. The haematocrit showed a rapid (approximately 4%) fall during donation followed by a slow, but progressive decrease over six hours, falling by a mean of 8.3% from pre-donation values. A state of relative hypercoagulability is found immediately after a rapid 10% loss in circulating blood volume. This may be related to the rapid immediate haemodilution. It is unlikely that the sympathetic response to blood loss plays a role. However, after the initial drop, slow restoration of circulating blood volume by autodilution takes six to eight hours, and is not associated with enhanced coagulation. Of interest is that a 10% blood loss in a healthy person does not require volume replacement."}
{"id": "12632617", "title": "[Can the salvaged autologous blood transfusion be safe during TIVA?].", "content": "[Can the salvaged autologous blood transfusion be safe during TIVA?]. This study aimed to determine whether the salvaged blood can be safely used after surgery and to examine the blood concentration of anesthetics in salvaged blood processed by autologous transfusion device (Cell Saver 5, Haemonetics Corp.) during propofol anesthesia. Ten consenting patients (aged 48-79 yr, classified ASA physical status I or II) scheduled for total hip arthroplasty were randomly divided into two groups: in the first group, slowing pattern of electroencephalographic activity (moderate-dose group: M) was obtained and in the second group, a burst-suppression (high-dose group: H) was obtained. Employing the electroencephalogram (EEG) and spectral edge frequency, propofol was titrated to maintain the EEG pattern. All patients received propofol anesthesia combined with lumbar epidural anesthesia. The infusion rates of propofol at the end of surgery were 9.6 +/- 1.1 (H) and 7.0 +/- 1.4 mg.kg-1.h-1(M), respectively. The blood concentration of propofol in the H group was significantly greater than that in the M group. But no significant difference was observed in the salvaged blood concentration of propofol between the two groups (H: 0.391 +/- 0.158 microgram.ml-1, M: 0.401 +/- 0.236 microgram.ml-1). The concentrations of propofol in salvaged blood were low, irrespective of the different infusion rates. These results demonstrate that salvaged autologous blood would not contribute to sedative or anesthetic effect."}
{"id": "12632034", "title": "Assessment of blood coagulation in severe liver disease using thromboelastography: use of citrate storage versus native blood.", "content": "Assessment of blood coagulation in severe liver disease using thromboelastography: use of citrate storage versus native blood. Thromboelastography evaluates the viscoelastic properties of blood coagulation. Using native blood, measurement must start soon after sampling. With normal coagulation, native and citrated blood values correlate well. No data exists from cirrhotic patients. We compared native and citrate thromboelastography parameters in 30 cirrhotic patients (20 Child-Pugh C class, two liver failure). Thromboelastography was performed within 4 min using native blood and after recalcification within 1-2 h of citrate storage. Thromboelastography variables (, alpha, ) were compared using the Mann-Whitney test, correlation investigated with the Pearson method and the degree of agreement with the Bland-Altman method. There was no significant difference between citrated and native blood for all variables. Median values for native and citrated were, respectively, 16.4 (range 2.3-22.5) and 15.1 (range 9.8-29.9); 6.3 (range 3.5-11.3) and 6.2 (range 2.8-10.9); 48.3 (range 30.7-62.9) and 46.2 (range 30.4-60.4); angle alpha 30.8 (range 18.7-46.8) and 33.2 (range 19.9-55.8). Correlation for each variable was significant ( 0.01). There was a good degree of agreement for all but two patients (both bleeding) for all variables. Citrated blood can substitute native blood using thromboelastography in cirrhotic patients, allowing more time between sampling and the thromboelastography measurement."}
{"id": "12576335", "title": "Hemostasis and coagulation at a hematocrit level of 0.85: functional consequences of erythrocytosis.", "content": "Hemostasis and coagulation at a hematocrit level of 0.85: functional consequences of erythrocytosis. We have generated a transgenic mouse line that reaches a hematocrit concentration of 0.85 due to constitutive overexpression of human erythropoietin in an oxygen-independent manner. Unexpectedly, this excessive erythrocytosis did not lead to thrombembolic complications in all investigated organs at any age. Thus, we investigated the mechanisms preventing thrombembolism in this mouse model. Blood analysis revealed an age-dependent elevation of reticulocyte numbers and a marked thrombocytopenia that matched the reduced megakaryocyte numbers in the bone marrow. However, platelet counts were not different from wild-type controls, when calculations were based on the distribution (eg, plasma) volume, thereby explaining why thrombopoietin levels did not increase in transgenic mice. Nevertheless, bleeding time was significantly increased in transgenic animals. A longitudinal investigation using computerized thromboelastography revealed that thrombus formation was reduced with increasing age from 1 to 8 months in transgenic animals. We observed that increasing erythrocyte concentrations inhibited profoundly and reversibly thrombus formation and prolonged the time of clot development, most likely due to mechanical interference of red blood cells with clot-forming platelets. Transgenic animals showed increased nitric oxide levels in the blood that could inhibit vasoconstriction and platelet activation. Finally, we observed that plasmatic coagulation activity in transgenic animals was significantly decreased. Taken together, our findings suggest that prevention of thrombembolic disease in these erythrocytotic transgenic mice was due to functional consequences inherent to increased erythrocyte concentrations and a reduction of plasmatic coagulation activity, the cause of which remains to be elucidated."}
{"id": "12545024", "title": "Effect of in vitro hemodilution with hydroxyethyl starch and dextran on the activity of plasma clotting factors.", "content": "Effect of in vitro hemodilution with hydroxyethyl starch and dextran on the activity of plasma clotting factors. A recent thrombelastography study indicated a compromised in vitro blood coagulation after 10:10 (equal parts of blood and infusion) and 10:4 (10 parts blood to four parts infusion) hemodilution with several plasma substitutes. Oncovertin N (Oncovertin) (a 10% dextran 40 solution) had the strongest anticoagulant effect of all solutions tested, and HAES-sterile 10% (HAES) (a 10% hydroxyethyl starch 200/0.5 solution) showed the strongest effect of five different hydroxyethyl starch preparations. The aim of this study was to determine how in vitro hemodilution with HAES and Oncovertin affects the activity of coagulation factors. HAES and Oncovertin were tested to determine the intrinsic effect of colloid molecules, as opposed to hemodilution. Normal saline (NaCl) and nonlactated Ringer solution were used as noncolloidal controls. University research institute. Six healthy volunteers. Twenty milliliters of blood was obtained from each subject. Prothrombin index, activated partial prothrombin time, soluble fibrin monomers, and the activity of coagulation factors I, II, V, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, and XII were measured with the Behring Chromotimer according to the manufacturer's instructions. Two dilution ratios of citrated blood to infusion were used: 10:10 (equal parts of blood and infusion) and 10:4 (10 parts blood to four parts infusion). Baseline was undiluted. Hemodilution with NaCl at both 10:4 and 10:10 influenced the coagulation variables measured. The activities of factors I, VII, and soluble fibrin monomers were less influenced than expected by hemodilution alone. The activities of factors II, V, IX, and XI were significantly (p <.04) lower with both 10:4 and 10:10 dilution with NaCl. In the assays for factors IX, XI, and XII, clots formed immediately after adding the appropriate reagents in the presence of Ringer solution at 10:10 hemodilution, so that the activities of those factors could not be measured. For the other factors and for 10:4 dilution, the outcome after Ringer solution was similar to that of NaCl. The activities were less influenced after 10:4 hemodilution with both HAES and Oncovertin than after dilution with NaCl and Ringer solution, with no significant differences from baseline. At 10:10 hemodilution with both HAES and Oncovertin, several factor activities were significantly (p <.04) lower than baseline. Both NaCl and Ringer solution cause measurable effects on coagulation factors at 10:4 hemodilution that can be explained by hemodilution alone. The effects on clotting factors of 10:4 hemodilution with HAES and Oncovertin were not significant. Even at 10:10 hemodilution with HAES or Oncovertin, the reduction in factor activities, although significantly (p <.04) different from baseline, was less than what was expected by dilution alone."}
{"id": "12542291", "title": "Characterizing the emissions of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans from crematories and their impacts to the surrounding environment.", "content": "Characterizing the emissions of polychlorinated dibenzo-p-dioxins and dibenzofurans from crematories and their impacts to the surrounding environment. This study was set out to characterize PCDD/F emissions from crematories and assess their impacts on the surrounding environment. Two crematories located in southern Taiwan were investigated, including the one (C1) with no air pollution control device installed and the other (C2) installed with a bag filter. Results show the mean PCDD/F emissions (11% oxygen) from the stacks of Cl and C2 were 2.36 and 0.322 ng I-TEQ Nm(-3), respectively. The mean emission factors for C1 and C2 were 13.6 and 6.11 microg I-TEQ body(-1), respectively. The removal efficiency of the bag filter on PCDD/Fs was 55.1%. The estimated PCDD/F emission rate for all crematories in Taiwan was 0.838 g I-TEG yr(-1) accounting for 227% and 112% of the annual emissions from all medical waste incinerators and municipal waste incinerators, respectively. The above results indicate that PCDD/F emissions from crematories were quite significant. To assess the impact of PCDD/F emissions from a crematory to the surrounding environment, ambient air samples were collected from the downwind site of C1 with the maximum ground concentration. We found the estimated maximum ground concentration at the downwind site of C1 (= 0.521 pg I-TEQ Nm(-3)) was much higherthan thatfound atthe background, rural area, residential area, urban area, and industrial area (= 0.006, 0.023, 0.052, 0.093, and 0.190 pg I-TEG Nm(-3), respectively). The above results suggestthat PCDD/F emissions from a crematory did significantly affect its surrounding environment. In conclusion, a proper control strategy should be taken immediately in order to eliminate PCDD/F emissions from crematories."}
{"id": "12538178", "title": "The influence of crystalloid and colloid replacement solutions in acute normovolemic hemodilution: a preliminary survey of hemostatic markers.", "content": "The influence of crystalloid and colloid replacement solutions in acute normovolemic hemodilution: a preliminary survey of hemostatic markers. Acute normovolemic hemodilution (ANH), in which blood for autologous use is collected immediately before the onset of surgical blood loss, is a recommended autologous blood procurement technique for blood conservation. Both crystalloid and colloid replacement fluids have been used to maintain normovolemia during ANH, but few data are available to justify the use of a particular replacement fluid. Therefore, we designed a prospective, randomized study to determine if the replacement fluid choice affects various coagulation variables and perioperative blood loss. Forty adult patients, ASA physical status 1-3, scheduled for ANH during radical prostatectomy were randomly assigned to one of four replacement fluid groups: (a) Ringer's lactate, (b) 5% albumin, (c) 6% dextran 70 (DEX), or (d) 6% hetastarch (HES). After the induction of a standardized general anesthetic, all patients underwent ANH to a final hemoglobin level of 9 g/dL. Complete blood count, prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, fibrinogen, factors V and VIII levels, bleeding time, and thromboelastography (TEG measurements were obtained at similar time points in the procedure. When compared with baseline, activated partial thromboplastin time decreased and factor VIII levels increased in the postanesthesia care unit in both the Ringer's lactate and 5% albumin groups. The DEX and HES groups demonstrated a decrease in TEG maximum amplitude between preoperative and postanesthesia care unit measurements and TEG alpha (angle) was decreased from baseline in the DEX group. The changes in factor VIII, activated partial thromboplastin time, and TEG measurements indicate that HES and DEX may attenuate the hypercoagulability related to surgery."}
{"id": "12505923", "title": "Citrated blood does not reliably reflect fresh whole blood coagulability in trials of in vitro hemodilution.", "content": "Citrated blood does not reliably reflect fresh whole blood coagulability in trials of in vitro hemodilution. Citration and storage of whole blood markedly alter the Thrombelastograph effects of hemodilution on coagulation. The results of hemodilution studies in which citrated blood has been used to study coagulation may not be reliable."}
{"id": "12505922", "title": "The predictive value of modified computerized thromboelastography and platelet function analysis for postoperative blood loss in routine cardiac surgery.", "content": "The predictive value of modified computerized thromboelastography and platelet function analysis for postoperative blood loss in routine cardiac surgery. Hemorrhage after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) remains a clinical problem. Point-of-care tests to identify hemostatic disturbances at the bedside are desirable. In the present study, we evaluated the predictive value of two point-of-care tests on postoperative bleeding after routine cardiac surgery. Prospectively, 255 consecutive patients were studied to compare the ability of modified thromboelastography (ROTEG) as well as a platelet function analyzer (PFA-100) to predict postoperative blood loss. Measurements were performed at three time points: preoperatively, during CPB, and after protamine administration with three modified thromboelastography and PFA tests. The best predictors of increased bleeding tendency were the tests performed after CPB. The angle alpha is the best predictor (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve 0.69) and, in combination with the adenosine diphosphate-PFA test, the predictive accuracy is enhanced (area under the receiver operating characteristic curve 0.73). The negative predictive value for the angle alpha is 82%, although the positive predictive value is small (41%). Thromboelastography is a better predictor than PFA. In routine cardiac surgery, impaired hemostasis as identified by point-of-care tests does not inevitably lead to hemorrhage postoperatively. However, patients with normal test results are unlikely to bleed for hemostatic reasons. Bleeding in these patients is probably caused surgically. The high negative predictive value supports early identification and targeted treatment of surgical bleeding by distinguishing it from a significant coagulopathy. Thrombelastography and platelet function analysis in routine cardiac surgery demonstrate high negative predictive values for postoperative bleeding, which supports early identification and targeted treatment of surgical bleeding by distinguishing it from a significant coagulopathy. The positive predictive values are small. The best predictors are thrombelastography values obtained after cardiopulmonary bypass."}
{"id": "12492800", "title": "The effects of hydroxyethyl starch solutions on thromboelastography in preoperative male patients.", "content": "The effects of hydroxyethyl starch solutions on thromboelastography in preoperative male patients. Hydroxyethyl starches (HES) have been shown to decrease clot strength and to increase coagulation times assessed by thromboelastography (TEG). HES with minimal anticoagulant side-effects is beneficial for plasma volume expansion in the perioperative setting. A comparison of the in vivo effects of high, middle and low molecular weight HES solutions on TEG variables has not been performed so far. Blood was obtained before and after intravenous infusion (10 ml kg-1) of either saline, HES 70/0.5/4 (molecular weight in kDa/degree of substitution/C2:C6 ratio), HES 130/0.4/9, HES 200/0.6/9.4, or HES 450/0.7/4.6 in 50 otherwise healthy patients. Thromboelastography was performed in 360 micro l of 1% celite activated citrated whole blood after recalcification. HES 450/0.7/4.6 prolonged reaction time indicating impairment of the plasmatic coagulation system. TEG parameters indicative for platelet function, including angle alpha, maximum amplitude and coagulation time, deteriorated after infusion of HES 450/0.7/4.6 and HES 70/0.5/4. HES 200/0.6/9.4 and HES 130/0.4/9 impaired platelet contribution to hemostasis only partially, decreasing two or one TEG platelet parameters, respectively. Infusion of HES 450/0.7/4.6 compromises TEG parameters more than the other solutions tested, whereas HES 130/0.4/9 has the smallest effect. Further outcome-related studies are needed in order to assess the clinical relevance of our findings."}
{"id": "19705690", "title": "[Vascular problems in the obstetrics and genecology practice and current opportunities for conservative treatment with Venalot depot].", "content": "[Vascular problems in the obstetrics and genecology practice and current opportunities for conservative treatment with Venalot depot]."}
{"id": "12590956", "title": "Regulation of clot retraction by glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists.", "content": "Regulation of clot retraction by glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists. Binding of fibrinogen to platelet glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa induces clot retraction. Significant differences among GP IIb/IIIa antagonists were previously noted to inhibit thromboelastography in whole blood specimens. The relationship between efficacy of these agents and inhibition of clot retraction is unclear. Here, we use a plasma-free clot retraction assay to evaluate potency of GP IIb/IIIa antagonists to inhibit clot retraction and modulate platelet signaling, and to address whether these effects are realized in the clinically relevant dose range. The potencies for inhibition of clot retraction and aggregation are similar for antagonists with high affinity for resting platelets and slow off-rates, whereas lower affinity and fast off-rate antagonists are disproportionately less effective in blocking clot retraction. A positive correlation is observed between inhibition of clot retraction and inhibition of tyrosine dephosphorylation across a number of GP IIb/IIIa antagonist pharmacophores. For lower affinity and fast off-rate antagonists, the concentrations required for inhibition of clot retraction clearly exceed the clinical dose range. Site occupancy studies combined with clot retraction experiments addressed whether high affinity and slow off-rate compounds can alter clot retraction during the dosing interval. Binding studies using [3H] Roxifiban, a high affinity GP IIb/IIIa antagonist, indicate that occupancy of >95% of GP IIb/IIIa sites is required to inhibit clot retraction. This level of occupancy is not routinely achieved in the clinic and is not tolerated, at least for chronic therapy. These results suggest that inhibition of clot retraction is not necessary for efficacy of GP IIb/IIIa antagonists."}
{"id": "12586127", "title": "Changes of biochemical markers and functional tests for clot formation during long-haul flights.", "content": "Changes of biochemical markers and functional tests for clot formation during long-haul flights. Long-haul flights have been suggested to be associated with an increased risk for thromboembolic events. Until now, changes in the coagulation system during an actual flight have not been investigated. To explore whether any changes occur in the coagulation system during a real long-haul flight molecular markers for coagulation and fibrinolysis were measured in 20 volunteers (10 subjects with a low and 10 with a moderate risk for venous thromboembolism (VTE)) during and after a return flight from Vienna to Washington. In addition, functional measurements of coagulation were performed using activated thrombelastography. Thrombelastographic measurements revealed activation of coagulation in all passengers, who showed an increased activity of FVII and FVIII as well as suppressed fibrinolysis. There was no evidence of a pronounced thrombin and fibrin formation. We did not find any differences between both groups concerning coagulation changes. Long-haul flights induce a certain activation of the coagulation system. This activated coagulation could be a risk factor for VTE during long-haul flights mainly when other risk factors are present."}
{"id": "12561411", "title": "Fibrinogen Pretoria--a clinical and biochemical study of a Pretoria family with fibrinogen dysfunction resulting from a gamma chain defect.", "content": "Fibrinogen Pretoria--a clinical and biochemical study of a Pretoria family with fibrinogen dysfunction resulting from a gamma chain defect."}
{"id": "12529747", "title": "Targeted inactivation of the mouse locus encoding coagulation factor XIII-A: hemostatic abnormalities in mutant mice and characterization of the coagulation deficit.", "content": "Targeted inactivation of the mouse locus encoding coagulation factor XIII-A: hemostatic abnormalities in mutant mice and characterization of the coagulation deficit. Blood coagulation factor XIII (FXIII) promotes cross-linking of fibrin during blood coagulation; impaired clot stabilization in human genetic deficiency is associated with marked pathologies of major clinical impact, including bleeding symptoms and deficient wound healing. To investigate the role of FXIII we employed homologous recombination to generate a targeted deletion of the inferred exon 7 of the FXIII-A gene. FXIII transglutaminase activity in plasma was reduced to about 50% in mice heterozygous for the mutant allele, and was abolished in homozygous null mice. Plasma fibrin gamma-dimerization was also indetectable in the homozygous deficient animals, confirming the absence of activatable FXIII. Homozygous mutant mice were fertile, although reproduction was impaired. Bleeding episodes, hematothorax, hematoperitoneum and subcutaneous hemorrhage in mutant mice were associated with reduced survival. Arrest of tail-tip bleeding in FXIII-A deficient mice was markedly and significantly delayed; replacement of mutant mice with human plasma FXIII (Fibrogammin P) restored bleeding time to within the normal range. Thrombelastography (TEG) experiments demonstrated impaired clot stabilization in FXIII-A mutant mice, replacement with human FXIII led to dose-dependent TEG normalization. The mutant mice thus reiterate some key features of the human genetic disorder: they will be valuable in assessing the role of FXIII in other associated pathologies and the development of new therapies."}
{"id": "12522924", "title": "[Influence of posttransplantation plasmapheresis on results of transplantation of a cadaveric kidney].", "content": "[Influence of posttransplantation plasmapheresis on results of transplantation of a cadaveric kidney]. Plasmapheresis was performed with \"Haemonetics\" (USA), PCS-Ultralite and MCS+ devices. During one procedure 1750-3550 ml of plasma were removed. Results were evaluated by the following parameters: diuresis within 24 hours after surgery, number of hemodialysis sessions after surgery, period of normalization of creatinine in blood. In patients of the study group oligoanuria was seen 4.5 times more rarely than in the control group, they needed less sessions of hemodialysis. Level of creatinine normalized earlier in the study group. Actually survival of patients with potent transplants was higher in the study group than in the controls. It is concluded that plasmapheresis has positive influence on the course of posttransplantation period."}
{"id": "12509219", "title": "Phosphatidylserine exposure in platelet concentrates during the storage period: differences between the platelets collected with different cell separators.", "content": "Phosphatidylserine exposure in platelet concentrates during the storage period: differences between the platelets collected with different cell separators. Platelet alterations occur during the production and storage of platelet concentrates, the so called \"storage lesion\". We studied the platelet alterations during the storage period in apheresis concentrates, employing flow cytometry for phosphatidylserine (PS) detection on platelets during the five days of storage. Twenty-seven single donor platelet concentrates harvested with the Cobe Trima, Baxter Amicus, or Haemonetics MCS+ were analyzed for PS exposure by flow cytometry on the day of production (day 1) and on days 3 and 5 of storage. Furthermore PS expression was analyzed in platelet donors' blood samples withdrawn before plateletpheresis. PS expression on platelets gave the following median values: in blood donors before apheresis it was 1.12% (0.13-1.78) in platelets concentrates on the first day (2 h after apheresis) 2.06% (0.66-15.2), the third day 6.57% (1.98-51.13) and the fifth day 23.04% (3.86-80.23). All differences between median values of PS expression in blood samples before apheresis, and platelets concentrates on days 1, 3 and 5 of storage, are statistically significant. The expression of PS in platelet concentrates was analyzed in relation to the blood cell separator used for the collection procedure and showed the following results: on day 1 the median values of PS in platelet concentrates collected with the three different blood cell separators, Trima, Cobe and MCS, did not show statistically significant differences. On day 3, the platelets concentrates collected with the Trima and with the MCS showed differences that were statistically significant. Those were respectively 10.59% (4.56-51.13) and 3.53% (1.98-12.61), p = 0.005. The PS expression in platelet concentrates collected with the Trima and MCS showed differences that are also statistically significant on day 5 at respectively 32.4% (9.61-80.23) and 8.57% (3.86-48.42), p = 0.005. PS exposure in platelet concentrates on days 3 and 5 rise to levels that could compromise the quality of the platelet units. Improvements in standardized platelet quality controls, and in platelet collection systems are required to reduce the storage lesions in platelets concentrates."}
{"id": "12494413", "title": "Fuji surge technique and continuous in-line filtration to improve the quality of single donor platelet concentrates.", "content": "Fuji surge technique and continuous in-line filtration to improve the quality of single donor platelet concentrates. White blood cell (WBC)-reduced single donor platelet concentrates (SDPs) can be collected by most cell separators. WBC reduction can be achieved directly during plateletpheresis or by filtration. Continuous filtration with low filtration rates provides SDPs of good purity. To compensate the platelet (PLT) loss due to filtration, the PLT yield in the unfiltered primary product should be optimal. Fifty donors underwent plateletpheresis with the MCS+ blood cell separator (Haemonetics) with the new Fuji surge technique and continuous WBC filtration. Twelve SDPs were analysed for PLT yield, red blood cells (RBC), WBC, and pH after collection (Day 0) and at the end of storage (Day 5). Thereafter, further 38 SDPs were measured for PLT and WBC content in routine production at Day 0. PLT were determined electronically, RBC and WBC were counted manually (Neubauer and Nageotte chamber, respectively). For pH measurement, a pH-meter was used. Mean blood volume processed was 2621 +/- 112 ml in a donation time of 76 +/- 10 min. An average PLT yield of 3.45 +/- 0.88 x 10(11) was collected in a product volume of 325 +/- 77 ml. The collection efficiency was 60.0 +/- 5.5%. WBC contamination of all units tested was 0.046 +/- 0.059 x 10(6) and the RBC content of the SDPs analysed at Day 0 was 0.014 +/- 0.003 x 10(9). The pH was well maintained over the storage period of 5 days. The data indicate that Fuji surge technique and continuous in-line leukocyte filtration allow for the collection of SDPs with high platelet yield and low leukocyte contamination, meeting the Council of Europe quality standards."}
{"id": "12487778", "title": "Absence of compensatory platelet activation in patients with severe haemophilia, but evidence for a platelet collagen-activation defect.", "content": "Absence of compensatory platelet activation in patients with severe haemophilia, but evidence for a platelet collagen-activation defect. Severe haemophilia is a serious, haemorrhagic disorder of the plasmatic coagulation system. In this study we investigated, whether 'compensatory' activation of the platelet coagulation system occurs in this situation. Platelet function was investigated with aggregation, adhesion and flow cytometric assays. In addition, we performed clot and platelet plug formation tests and determined endogenous thrombin potentials in patients with severe haemophilia A or B; results were compared to those of healthy controls. Platelet aggregation in response to stimulation with ADP, ristocetin and epinephrine was similar in patients and controls; aggregation in response to collagen was reduced significantly in haemophiliacs. Flow cytometric analysis of P-selectin (CD 62P) and CD 63, of the conformationally changed GP IIb/IIIa with PAC 1 and of thrombospondin bound to CD 36 (GP IV) was performed at baseline and post stimulation. Baseline expression of all markers was similar in haemophiliacs and controls. After stimulation of the platelet thrombin receptors with the thrombin receptor activating peptide (TRAP) 6, the surface expression of all markers increased significantly; again, the expression was similar in haemophiliacs and controls. With thrombelastography and PFA 100 analysis, clot formation under low shear and platelet plug formation under high shear is measured. Both test results revealed a significantly reduced clot and platelet plug formation capacity in severe haemophiliacs. Our results did not reveal signs of enhanced platelet preactivation in haemophiliacs, indicating that baseline platelet reactivity in severe haemophilia remains in a neutral state, despite the severely haemorrhagic condition. As expected, both thrombin and clot formation capacities were impaired significantly in severe haemophilia. The reduced response to collagen-based platelet stimulation tests is indicative of a concomitant platelet function defect. This defect probably contributes to the intensity of bleeding events in patients with severe haemophilia."}
{"id": "12487293", "title": "Coplanar polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) in indoor air.", "content": "Coplanar polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB) in indoor air. Indoor air levels of coplanar polychlorinated biphenyls (mono- and non-ortho substituted PCB) of various buildings were determined. As a consequence of the presence of joint sealings containing PCB, total PCB concentrations in indoor air up to 4,200 ng/m3 were detected (data based on a survey including 29 sampling sites). In a PCB contaminated industrial building, total indoor air PCB levels up to 13,000 ng/m3 were measured. Typical PCB congeners in indoor air include PCB 28, PCB 52, and PCB 101. Concentrations of coplanar (dioxin-like) PCB have been determined for six different sites. The most abundant coplanar PCB congener in indoor air is PCB 118, followed by PCB 105, PCB 123, and PCB 77 in various order. Levels of coplanar PCB, expressed as toxicity equivalents (TEG), do correlate well with the total indoor air PCB concentration: a total PCB level of 1,000 ng/m3 corresponds to a concentration of coplanar PCB of 1.2 pg TEQ/m3. Based on this correlation and on an indoor air PCB level of 6,000 ng/m3 (tentative guideline value for PCB in indoor air in Switzerland based on a daily exposure of 8 h), the maximum daily intake of coplanar PCB via indoor air was estimated to be 0.6 pg TEQ/kg body weight."}
{"id": "12454546", "title": "Early intensive care unit intervention for trauma care: what alters the outcome?", "content": "Early intensive care unit intervention for trauma care: what alters the outcome? This review focuses on early management of multiple trauma patients with traumatic brain injury. Early usage of multislice computed tomography can substantially shorten the time spent on diagnostic workup in the emergency room and, therefore, speeds the initiation of lifesaving interventions for the control of hemorrhage. The important role of hemostatic angiographic embolization and its timing, in addition to surgical control of bleeding in patients suffering from pelvic fracture or organ lesions, is emphasized. The ongoing controversy regarding the strategy of fluid resuscitation is discussed. The concept of permissive hypotension seems to be promising but is absolutely contraindicated in patients with traumatic brain injury. Coagulation management should be guided by coagulation monitoring, including thromboelastography. A novel approach to reduce major bleeding is the application of recombinant factor VIIa. Strong effort should be directed toward the management of traumatic brain injury and the maintenance of cerebral perfusion pressure. The optimization of treatment of patients with multiple trauma, including brain injury, is a multidisciplinary task."}
{"id": "12453943", "title": "In vivo effect of haemodilution with saline on coagulation.", "content": "In vivo effect of haemodilution with saline on coagulation."}
{"id": "12451789", "title": "Indirect coronary angiography: a feasibility study.", "content": "Indirect coronary angiography: a feasibility study. The diagnostic method of choice to proof coronary artery disease and to localize stenoses and to judge the stage of the disease is coronary angiography. A new angiographic technique invented by. Wolffgram and Krieter that works without cannulation of the coronary arteries could simplify the interventional procedure. In addition, a technique like this could be used for angiography after CABG surgery directly on the table for quality assurance reasons. This angiography could be performed by the cardiac surgeon without necessarily involving a cardiologist. A feasibility study was successfully done in a cooperation of the Departments. for Cardiology and Cardiac Surgery, Munich University, Steinbeis Transfer Centre for rHealthcare Technologies, Tuebingen and Fraunhofer Technology Development Group (TEG), Stuttgart."}
{"id": "12434608", "title": "The effect of anesthetic techniques on hemostatic function in arthroscopic surgery: evaluation by thromboelastography.", "content": "The effect of anesthetic techniques on hemostatic function in arthroscopic surgery: evaluation by thromboelastography. Anesthetic techniques are known to affect blood hemostasis, which may be responsible for the pathogenesis of postoperative venous thromboembolism. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of general and spinal anesthesias on blood hemostasis using thromboelastography. Forty patients undergoing arthroscopic knee surgery were enrolled for study and randomly allocated to one of two groups, to receive either general (GA; n = 20) or spinal anesthesia (SA; n = 20). In addition to thromboelastography, prothrombin and activated partial-thromboplastin time, and haematocrit and platelet count were also examined concurrently. Blood was sampled and examined before anesthesia to provide the baseline data (Time 1). Three more evaluations were performed at different time, i.e., twenty minutes after induction of anesthesia and just prior to skin incision (Time 2), thirty minutes after skin incision (Time 3), and three hours after surgery (Time 4). There were no intra- or inter-group differences noted as comparing the measured parameters obtained prior to, during, or three hours after surgery. From the present study, we do not find any individual anesthetic technique which would have effect on the hemostasis of patients who received diagnostic arthroscopic surgery."}
{"id": "12428635", "title": "The in vitro effects of crystalloids and colloids on coagulation.", "content": "The in vitro effects of crystalloids and colloids on coagulation. Classically haemodilution is regarded as causing coagulopathy. However, haemodilution with saline seems to cause a hypercoagulable state both in vivo and in vitro. The aim of the present study was to measure the effect of mild to severe haemodilution using thrombelastography. Blood samples were taken in 12 healthy volunteers and divided into seven aliquots. One aliquot was undiluted and acted as control. The other six were diluted with normal saline, Ringer Acetate, 4% albumin, Dextran 70, 6% and 10% hydroxyethylstarch to 10%, 20%, 40%, 50% and 60% dilution. The dilution was checked by measuring the haemoglobin concentration. Each aliquot was placed in a temperature-controlled thrombelastography channel. Increased coagulation activity, as measured by thrombelastography changes, was detected at low and medium levels of dilution with all the tested solutions. At more than 40% dilution, coagulation returned to normal while in the case of dextran and hydroxyethylstarch coagulopathy developed. For crystalloids and albumin,dilution had to exceed 50% before coagulation was impaired. If these findings can be reproduced in vivo, they may have implications for transfusion practice and prophylaxis against thrombosis."}
{"id": "12428092", "title": "The in vitro analysis of the coagulation mechanism of activated factor VII using thrombelastogram.", "content": "The in vitro analysis of the coagulation mechanism of activated factor VII using thrombelastogram. We investigated the effects of addition of recombinant activated coagulation factor VII (rFVIIa) to coagulation factor-deficient plasma and whole blood, using thrombelastograms (TEGs). The addition of rFVIIa to factor II- or X-deficient plasma did not correct hemostatic parameters, whereas it produced partial responses in factor V-, VIII- or IX-deficient plasma and good responses in factor VII-, XI- or XII-deficient plasma. Furthermore, the addition of rFVIIa and platelets (30-100 x 10(3)/ micro l) to platelet-poor plasma produced marked corrections, producing TEGs similar to those of platelet-rich plasma. These results indicate that factors II and X are essential for the hemostatic effects of rFVIIa, and that factors V and VIII promote these effects. We believe that TEGs are, at present, one of the most useful tools for evaluating in vitro hemostatic effects of rFVIIa."}
{"id": "12415456", "title": "Conventional coagulation and thromboelastograph parameters and longevity of continuous renal replacement circuits.", "content": "Conventional coagulation and thromboelastograph parameters and longevity of continuous renal replacement circuits. To determine the relationship between conventional and thromboelastograph (TEG) coagulation parameters and continuous renal replacement therapy (CRRT) circuit longevity. Conventional coagulation and TEG parameters were measured at the commencement of and during CRRT. Time to circuit cessation was measured and only circuits reaching a predetermined rise from baseline in the pressure gradient across the haemofilter were diagnosed as failing due to clotting. All other circuits were excluded from analysis. A general critical care unit of a metropolitan tertiary hospital. Fourteen consecutive patients requiring CRRT were studied. The CRRT technique used was continuous veno-venous haemodialysis. Thromboelastograph measurements were made prior to the commencement of CRRT and daily thereafter for each circuit. The international normalised ratio (INR), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) and platelet numbers were measured at commencement and 8 hourly thereafter. Heparin was used for anticoagulation unless considered contraindicated. Forty-seven circuits with a mean (SD) circuit life of 33.0 (30.2) h were entered. Twenty-five circuits fulfilled circuit clotting criteria; the mean circuit life was 30.8 (22.1) h. Heparin anticoagulation was found to prolong circuit life significantly despite adequate mean circuit life, 33.2 (35.7) h, in heparin-free circuits. The starting APTT and the TEG variables reaction time (R) and coagulation time (RK) were significantly correlated. The starting APTT, starting RK and mean time taken for the amplitude to increase from 2 to 20 mm (K) were predictive of circuit life. None of these variables predicted which patients would need heparin. While TEG variables more closely predicted circuit longevity than conventional coagulation variables, the clinical benefit of TEG monitoring of anticoagulation for CRRT would appear to be minimal."}
{"id": "12407604", "title": "Differences in arterial and venous thromboelastography parameters: potential roles of shear stress and oxygen content.", "content": "Differences in arterial and venous thromboelastography parameters: potential roles of shear stress and oxygen content. To investigate potential mechanisms for the differences in thromboelastography variables observed between arterial blood samples and venous blood samples. Prospective cohort study. University hospital. Patients undergoing cardiac surgery (n = 33). After the withdrawal of 10 mL of discarded blood (>3 deadspace volumes), 3 blood samples were withdrawn simultaneously from the central venous port of the pulmonary artery catheter (CVP), the radial arterial catheter (ART), and the side port of the 9F sheath introducer (SI). Thromboelastography was done simultaneously on each sample. All thromboelastography analyses were performed with 1% celite and heparinase according to the manufacturer's guidelines. A total of 80 ART, SI, and CVP comparisons were obtained. Mean hematocrit values were not different between sampling sites (27 +/- 4 v 27 +/- 4 v 27 +/- 3). Thromboelastography R time values (mean +/- SD) were CVP, 8 +/- 3; ART, 10 +/- 3; and SI, 13 +/- 5 (p = 0.004). Thromboelastography maximal amplitude (MA) values (mean +/- SD) were CVP, 60.4 +/- 11.7; ART, 56.2 +/- 11.4; and SI, 50.5 +/- 13.2 (p = 0.008). Calculated maximal shear stresses were CVP, 48 dyne/cm(2); ART, 36 dyne/cm(2); and SI, 0.3 dyne/cm(2). Blood samples obtained from the CVP (highest shear stress) resulted in faster (shorter R) and stronger (larger MA) coagulation compared with the arterial site (intermediate shear stress) and sheath introducer (lowest shear stress). These data show that differences exist in thromboelastography values between arterial and venous blood samples and, more importantly, show that the differences observed are not related to differences in oxygen content. These differences seem to be related to differences in catheter lumen diameter and, presumably, shear forces."}
{"id": "12407603", "title": "Prediction of excessive bleeding after coronary artery bypass graft surgery: the influence of timing and heparinase on thromboelastography.", "content": "Prediction of excessive bleeding after coronary artery bypass graft surgery: the influence of timing and heparinase on thromboelastography. To compare the ability of thromboelastography, when done at either 10 or 60 minutes after protamine reversal of heparin, to predict excessive bleeding after coronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery and to investigate, with the use of heparinase, whether heparin contamination was responsible for the difference, if any. Prospective study. University hospital, single institution. Patients undergoing elective CABG surgery (n = 40). Blood samples for thromboelastography and routine coagulation tests were collected before induction of anesthesia and at 10 and 60 minutes after protamine reversal of heparin. Blood loss and blood product use were recorded postoperatively. Of 40 patients undergoing elective CABG surgery, 10 fulfilled the criteria for excessive postoperative bleeding. The sensitivity of thromboelastography to identify patients who bled was better at 60 minutes than at 10 minutes after protamine reversal of heparin (100% v 70%). There was greater specificity (83% v 40% at 10 minutes; 73% v 20% at 60 minutes) and positive predictive value (58% v 28% at 10 minutes; 55% v 29% at 60 minutes) when heparinase was added. At both times, thromboelastography showed only moderate correlation with total blood loss and the use of fresh frozen plasma or platelets or both. Conventional coagulation tests did not predict excessive postoperative bleeding. This study suggests that timing and the use of heparinase influence the predictive ability of thromboelastography, but its usefulness as a sole predictor of post-CABG surgery bleeding is limited."}
{"id": "12407601", "title": "Blood transfusion for cardiopulmonary bypass: the need to answer a basic question.", "content": "Blood transfusion for cardiopulmonary bypass: the need to answer a basic question."}
{"id": "12399218", "title": "Platelet function rather than plasmatic coagulation explains hypercoagulable state in cholestatic liver disease.", "content": "Platelet function rather than plasmatic coagulation explains hypercoagulable state in cholestatic liver disease. As compared to other chronic liver diseases, cholestatic disorders are associated with a better outcome of variceal bleeding and less blood loss at transplantation, suggesting the presence of a hypercoagulable state. We have assessed plasmatic coagulation and platelet function in patients with cholestatic and non-cholestatic liver disease. Thirty-seven patients with chronic cholestatic liver disease (primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC)/primary sclerosing cholangitis (PSC)), 53 patients with chronic hepatitis C (HCV) or alcoholic cirrhosis (C2), and 62 healthy controls were studied. Thrombelastography revealed a hypercoagulable state in non-cirrhotic patients with PBC/PSC, but not in those with HCV (ma-value: 6.54[6.25-6.92, 95%CI] vs. 5.39[5.11-5.58], P < 0.05) possibly due to higher fibrinogen levels in PBC/PSC patients (369[329-418]mg/dl vs. 263[250-275]mg/dl, P < 0.05). PFA-100 closure time was prolonged in HCV/C2 patients with advanced cirrhosis, but not in cirrhotic patients with PBC/PSC (Child B; epinephrine stimulation: 192[161-229]s vs. 132[105-158]s, P < 0.05). Flow cytometric studies of platelet receptors and granules revealed a higher surface expression of CD42b (112[105-119]% vs. 100[95-104]%, P < 0.05) and LIBS-1 (261[184-348]% vs. 121[92-145]%, P < 0.05) in patients with PBC/PSC than in those with HCV/C2. These results indicate that platelet function differs between patients with cholestatic and non-cholestatic liver disease and is stable or even hyperactive in patients with PBC and PSC."}
{"id": "12395966", "title": "The effects of ultrafiltration on e-aminocaproic acid: an in vitro analysis.", "content": "The effects of ultrafiltration on e-aminocaproic acid: an in vitro analysis. Blood conservation strategies have become a standard of practice in cardiac surgery, with the use of antifibrinolytic agents and ultrafiltration two popular techniques. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of continuous ultrafiltration on e-aminocaproic acid (EACA) utilizing functional coagulation analysis. A fibrinolytic assay was developed to detect EACA using the thromboelastograph (TEG) and urokinase (0.138 units 0.360 mL(-1)). Fresh bovine blood (23 +/- 1% hematocrit) was pumped (100 mL min(-1)) through an ultrafiltrator (HPH 400) at 37 degrees C with a transmembrane pressure of 280 mmHg. EACA (0.065 mg mL(-1)) was circulated for 10 minutes before initiating ultrafiltration. Samples (pre- and postultrafiltrator) were obtained at baseline, 5, and 10 min of ultrafiltration and analyzed via the fibrinolytic assay for EACA determination. TEG profiles significantly decreased from concentrations of 0.065 mg to 0.0325 mg of EACA mL(-1) blood (maximum amplitude MA, 75.4 +/- 4.0 versus 63.3 +/- 2.9, p < .05, TEG index 5.4 +/- 0.7 versus 4.0 +/- 0.3, p < .05). Fibrinolysis at 30 min increased as EACA concentrations declined (0.065 mg, 0% versus 0.032 mg, 16.4 +/- 2.8%, p < .05). During ultrafiltration the MA increased significantly from baseline to 10 min postultrafiltrator (68.2 +/- 3.0 versus 75.8 +/- 10.0, p < .05) and from 5 min pre- to 10 min postultrafiltrator (69.7 +/- 4.2 versus 75.8 +/- 10.0, p < .05). The TEG index showed no significant change, and no fibrinolysis was detected at 30 min from any datapoint during ultrafiltration. In conclusion, this study demonstrates that the antifibrinolytic properties of EACA are maintained during ultrafiltration with a 25% reduction in total circulating volume."}
{"id": "12395965", "title": "Expanding perfusion services through mobile point-of-care coagulation monitoring.", "content": "Expanding perfusion services through mobile point-of-care coagulation monitoring. Current trends in cardiac surgery have challenged perfusionists to seek diversification of services. Point-of-care coagulation (POCC) monitoring represents a desirable area of perfusion service expansion. The purpose of the study was to create a series of hemostatic conditions to assess the functionality of POCC monitors to identify specific coagulopathies with identifiable profiles for algorithm development. Fresh (< 4 h) bovine blood, anticoagulated with anticoagulant citrate dextrose, was adjusted to a hematocrit of 30.0 +/- 2.0%. Hypofibrinogenemia < or = 90 mg/dL), thrombocytopenia (< or = 70,000/mm3), platelet dysfunction (850 microg/mL of nitroglycerin/mL of blood) and hyperfibrinolysis (0.40 units of urokinase/mL of blood) were created. Five POCC devices were used to evaluate activated clotting time, thrombin time, fibrinogen, platelet function, prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time and thromboelastograph. Results are reported as percentage change from control for each test (abtract table). [table: see text] Each test performed showed specificity and sensitivity for certain coagulopathies, however variability amongst monitors was encountered. In conclusion, the development of a mobile cart incorporating POCC monitors with knowledge of specific coagulopathic conditions may expand perfusion service."}
{"id": "12393770", "title": "Effects of a new modified, balanced hydroxyethyl starch preparation (Hextend) on measures of coagulation.", "content": "Effects of a new modified, balanced hydroxyethyl starch preparation (Hextend) on measures of coagulation. Hydroxyethyl starch (HES) may affect blood coagulation. We studied the effects of a modified, balanced, high-molecular weight [mean molecular weight (MW) 550 kDa], high-substituted [degree of substitution (DS) 0.7] HES preparation (Hextend) on coagulation in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery. Patients were allocated randomly to receive Hextend) (n=21), lactated Ringer's solution (RL, n=21) or 6% HES with a low MW (130 kDa) and a low DS (0.4) (n=21). The infusion was started after induction of anaesthesia and continued until the second postoperative day to maintain central venous pressure between 8 and 12 mm Hg. Activated thrombelastography (TEG) was used to assess coagulation. Different activators were used (extrinsic and intrinsic activation of TEG) and aprotinin was added to assess hyperfibrinolytic activity (ApTEG). We measured onset of coagulation [coagulation time (CT=reaction time, r)], the kinetics of clot formation [clot formation time (CFT=coagulation time, k)] and maximum clot firmness (MCF=maximal amplitude, MA). Measurements were performed after induction of anaesthesia, at the end of surgery, 5 h after surgery and on the mornings of the first and second days after surgery. Significantly more HES 130/0.4 [2590 (SD 260) ml] than Hextend) [1970 (310) ml] was given. Blood loss was greatest in the Hextend) group and did not differ between RL- and HES 130/0.4-treated patients. Baseline TEG data were similar and within the normal range. CT and CFT were greater in the Hextend) group immediately after surgery, 5 h after surgery and on the first day than in the two other groups. ApTEG MCF also changed significantly in the Hextend) patients, indicating more pronounced fibrinolysis. Volume replacement using RL caused moderate hypercoagulability, shown by a decrease in CT. A modified, balanced high-molecular weight HES with a high degree of substitution (Hextend) adversely affected measures of coagulation in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery, whereas a preparation with a low MW and low DS affected these measures of haemostasis less. Large amounts of RL decreased the coagulation time."}
{"id": "12393117", "title": "Monitoring of hirudin therapy with the Thrombelastograph.", "content": "Monitoring of hirudin therapy with the Thrombelastograph. Lepirudin is a specific thrombin inhibitor that is used for anticoagulation in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia who are also undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). Monitoring of lepirudin during CPB has been carried out with activated clotting time and ecarin clotting time. Correlation is poor with the former method, whereas ecarin clotting time is not widely available. A patient is described with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia who underwent CPB, where coagulation monitoring was accomplished with the Thrombelastograph. This more widely available method may be useful in such patients."}
{"id": "12393106", "title": "Coagulation status using thromboelastography in patients receiving warfarin prophylaxis and epidural analgesia.", "content": "Coagulation status using thromboelastography in patients receiving warfarin prophylaxis and epidural analgesia. To determine the coagulation status of patients receiving postoperative warfarin and epidural analgesia using thromboelastography (TEG(R)).Prospective, observational, clinical study.Orthopedic postoperative division at a university hospital.52 ASA physical status II and III patients undergoing knee arthroplasty and receiving prophylactic warfarin and epidural analgesia.Patients' preoperative and postoperative coagulation status was determined by TEG(R). Daily TEG(R) parameters were obtained until the epidural catheter was removed. TEG(R) parameters include reaction time (R-time or time until the first significant levels of detectable clot formation), K-time (clot firmness), maximum amplitude (MA-clot strength), alpha angle (clot development), and coagulation index (overall coagulation). In addition, daily international normalized ratios (INRs) were obtained as per our routine practice. On the day of catheter removal reaction time was significantly increased compared with preoperative values (p < 0.0001), but it remained within normal ranges. There was no change in the coagulation index. However, INR was abnormal and significantly increased (INR = 1.48+/-0.3; p < 0.0001), compared with preoperative values, on the day when the epidural catheter was removed. When the epidural catheters are removed, overall coagulation status, as measured by TEG(R), and despite an elevated INR (mean INR <1.5), remained within normal limits in patients receiving low-dose warfarin prophylaxis."}
{"id": "12378675", "title": "High-dose tinzaparin in pregnancy and the need for urgent delivery.", "content": "High-dose tinzaparin in pregnancy and the need for urgent delivery. The prolonged anticoagulant effects of high-dose low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) pose problems in pregnant women when unanticipated delivery is required. We present two pregnant women on therapeutic doses of LMWH whose labour did not progress smoothly. The Thrombelastograph coagulation analyser was used to assess the coagulation status periodically. It influenced surgical and anaesthetic management and there was a safe outcome."}
{"id": "12378657", "title": "Effects on coagulation of intravenous crystalloid or colloid in patients undergoing peripheral vascular surgery.", "content": "Effects on coagulation of intravenous crystalloid or colloid in patients undergoing peripheral vascular surgery. This study investigated whether haemodilution-enhanced coagulation can be demonstrated under regional anaesthesia, whether this occurs before surgery, and whether the fluid used influences the effect. Patients were randomly allocated to receive either crystalloid or colloid intravenous fluid. An epidural was administered. Samples of venous blood were taken before fluid administration, after completion of the epidural and initial fluid load, during surgery before heparin, and after 24 h. Thrombelastograph analysis was performed, and full blood count, international normalised ratio, activated partial thromboplastin time, D-dimers and thrombin-antithrombin complex were measured. In the crystalloid group, enhanced coagulation compared with baseline was demonstrated after initial fluid load (mean (SD) r-time 10.1 (4.9) min; P < 0.033; k-time 3.5 (1.7) min; P < 0.01; alpha-angle 54.9 (13.9) degrees; P < 0.01) and before heparin administration (r-time 8.8 (3.9) min; P < 0.01; alpha-angle 54.9 (12.6) degrees; P < 0.02). There was no enhancement of coagulation in the colloid group. There were no changes from baseline after 24 h. This study confirms that the enhanced perioperative coagulation mechanism is related to dilution, rather than surgery, and is triggered by rapid crystalloid haemodilution. Consideration should be given to the use of colloid rather than crystalloid solutions for rapid fluid loading in vasculopathic patients undergoing surgery."}
{"id": "12361636", "title": "Perioperative assessment of coagulability in neurosurgical patients using thromboelastography.", "content": "Perioperative assessment of coagulability in neurosurgical patients using thromboelastography. Thrombelastography is a useful technique for evaluating coagulability. We hypothesized that it could be used to determine postoperative hematologic complications during and after neurologic surgery. Forty-six neurosurgical patients were stratified by diagnosis: subarachnoid hemorrhage from ruptured intracranially aneurysms, intracranial-axial lesions, intracranial-extra-axial lesions, and degenerative spine disease. Thromboelastograms were performed before, during, and after surgery. Hematologic data were collected preoperatively and postoperatively; computed tomography scans and lower extremity Doppler sonography were performed postoperatively. A thrombosis index (TI) was used to assess coagulability. Coagulability increased over the course of surgery for all patients (p < 0.0001). In craniotomy patients, coagulability increased over the course of surgery (p < 0.05) with the most dramatic increase from intubation to skin incision (p < 0.05), and then after tumor removal or aneurysm clipping (p < 0.10). Univariate analysis among craniotomy patients showed that female gender (p < 0.0004) and smoking (p < 0.06) were associated with hypercoagulability. Among craniotomy patients, younger age was associated with hypercoagulability in the preoperative period (p < 0.01). There was no significant association between coagulability and aspirin or NSAID use, or intraoperative fluid volume. No patient developed a postoperative hematoma and one patient (2.2%) developed a lower extremity deep vein thrombosis. Increased coagulability begins between induction of anesthesia and skin incision, and continues to increase throughout surgery. These changes are more pronounced in patients undergoing craniotomy compared to patients undergoing spine procedures."}
{"id": "12358952", "title": "Coagulation effects of in vitro serial haemodilution with a balanced electrolyte hetastarch solution compared with a saline-based hetastarch solution and lactated Ringer's solution.", "content": "Coagulation effects of in vitro serial haemodilution with a balanced electrolyte hetastarch solution compared with a saline-based hetastarch solution and lactated Ringer's solution. The hydroxyethyl starches are a group of compounds that has been associated with impairment of coagulation when large volumes are administered. The thrombelastograph is commonly used to assess point-of-care whole blood coagulation. Little is known about the dose-response relationships of haemodilution, and it is reasonable to assume that a linear association exists. This may not be the case with altered electrolyte compositions of the fluids used for haemodilution. We have therefore conducted an in vitro study of haemodilution of human whole blood using lactated Ringer's solution and two high molecular weight hetastarches, one in a balanced salt solution, the other in a 0.9% saline solution. The thrombelastograph, commonly used for the assessment of the coagulation effects of synthetic colloids, was used as the coagulation assessment device. Serial haemodilution with hetastarch in a balanced salt solution demonstrated a biphasic response (of r-times and k-times, as well as alpha angles), with haemodilution in the 20-40% range causing enhanced coagulation, and higher degrees of dilution causing a decrease in overall coagulation performance. A similar picture was observed with lactated Ringer's solution, but only significantly so in alpha angles. Hetastarch in saline did not display this initial increased coagulability at mild to moderate dilutions. This biphasic response of lactated Ringer's solution and hetastarch in a balanced salt solution reflects the complex interaction of fluids and the coagulation system, and that these effects cannot be attributed to simple haemodilution. On the other hand, there was a linear decrease in maximum amplitude with haemodilution. Maximum amplitude was particularly affected by both starches, which is an expected finding in view of the known interaction between the hydroxyethyl starches and von Willebrand's factor."}
{"id": "12351295", "title": "In vitro fertilization-induced alterations in coagulation and fibrinolysis as measured by thromboelastography.", "content": "In vitro fertilization-induced alterations in coagulation and fibrinolysis as measured by thromboelastography. Supraphysiologic increases in estrogen produced by in vitro fertilization (IVF) promote the expression of hemostatic markers. Although quantitative studies of individual markers have been performed during IVF, their results are conflicting and do not reveal the qualitative effect of each marker on the overall coagulation and fibrinolytic processes. Thrombelastograph (TEG) coagulation analysis, by contrast, provides a global measure of coagulation and fibrinolysis and can indicate the relative contributions of clotting factors, fibrinogen, and platelets to each process. We studied the serum estrogen concentrations and TEG variables in 24 women at the beginning and conclusion of an IVF stimulation cycle. Serum estradiol (E(2)) concentrations (mean +/- SD) increased from 26.9 +/- 8.6 to 2098 +/- 913 pg/mL (P < 0.005) at baseline and oocyte retrieval, respectively. The measured TEG indices demonstrated alterations in coagulation rather than fibrinolysis. Although significant changes were noted in both the clot formation time and the coagulation index (P < 0.005), all TEG values remained within the normal range. In addition, an increased role of fibrinogen in promoting clot strength was observed. These findings may assist in the treatment of IVF patients who ultimately develop thromboembolic complications as a result of ovarian hyperstimulation. IMPLICATIONS. The dramatic changes in estrogen produced by in vitro fertilization therapies result in hemostatic marker alterations. Thrombelastograph coagulation analysis, which provides a global assessment of these changes, demonstrated significant alterations in two coagulation indices (clot formation time, coagulation index), although all variables remained within normal limits. The relative importance of fibrinogen versus platelets in determining clot strength was observed. No significant alterations in fibrinolysis were detected."}
{"id": "12243441", "title": "Thrombelastographic changes in OPCAB surgical patients.", "content": "Thrombelastographic changes in OPCAB surgical patients. The purpose of this study was to determine whether thrombelastography could detect hypercoagulability in the off-pump coronary artery bypass (OPCAB) patient. Seventeen OPCAB and six cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) patients were studied pre- and postprocedure, as well as on each of the first three postoperative days (POD). In the OPCAB patients, there was a small reduction in the postprocedure coagulation index (CI). This was followed by an increase in the CI on each of the next three POD, reaching a level exceeding the mean preprocedure CI by 2.32 units, indicative of a state of relative hypercoagulability. The mean CI for the CPB patients decreased significantly in the postprocedure sample. Over the next 72 h, the CI increased to a level that nearly equaled the preprocedure 'baseline'. We concluded that our study identified a state of relative hypercoagulability in the OPCAB patient 72 h after surgery. The mechanism of this hypercoagulation, as well as the clinical significance of this finding, is yet to be determined."}
{"id": "12219830", "title": "Development and applications of injectable poly(ortho esters) for pain control and periodontal treatment.", "content": "Development and applications of injectable poly(ortho esters) for pain control and periodontal treatment. Poly(ortho esters) with a low glass transition temperature are semi-solid materials so that therapeutic agents can be incorporated at room temperature, without the use of solvents, by a simple mixing procedure. When molecular weights are limited to < 5 kDa, such materials are directly injectable using a needle size no larger than 22 gauge. Somewhat hydrophilic polymers can be produced by using the diketene acetal 3,9-diethylidene-2,4,8,10-tetraoxaspiro[5.5]undecane and triethylene glycol (TEG), while hydrophobic materials can be produced by using the diketene acetal and 1,10-decanediol. Molecular weight can be reproducibly controlled by using an excess of the diol, or by use of an alcohol that acts as a chain-stopper. Erosion rates can be controlled by varying the amount of latent acid incorporated into the polymer backbone. Toxicology studies using the TEG polymer have been completed and have shown that the polymer is non-toxic. Toxicology studies using the decanediol polymer are underway. Development studies using the TEG polymer aimed at providing a sustained delivery of an analgesic agent to control post-surgical pain are under development and human clinical trials using the decanediol polymer for the treatment of periodontitis are also underway."}
{"id": "12218558", "title": "Kaolin-activated thromboelastography.", "content": "Kaolin-activated thromboelastography."}
{"id": "12217599", "title": "Bacterial infection in cirrhosis impairs coagulation by a heparin effect: a prospective study.", "content": "Bacterial infection in cirrhosis impairs coagulation by a heparin effect: a prospective study. Bacterial infections have been postulated as a trigger for variceal bleeding in cirrhotic patients, and impair coagulation evaluated by thrombelastography (TEG). Endogenous heparinoids have been detected after variceal bleeding and during liver transplantation in some cirrhotics using heparinase-modified-TEG. To assess if bacterial infection is associated with endogenous heparinoids in cirrhotics, thus impairing coagulation. Native and heparinase-modified-TEG (cleavage of heparin and heparan-sulphate) was performed in 60 cirrhotics (Grade A, 2; B, 30; C, 28): 30 infected [septicaemia, 6 (culture positive); 6 (culture negative); spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, 10; chest infection, 4; others, 4], 30 not infected, and five infected patients without liver diseases, comparing TEG parameters r, alpha, and ma. Eight cirrhotics were studied before and after infection. The diagnosis of presence and type of infection was based on international standard criteria. A significant heparin effect was found only in infected cirrhotics (28 of 30) with significant changes in r (P=0.0003), alpha (P<0.0001), and ma (P<0.0001), but in none of those not infected. This effect completely reversed in the eight evaluated after resolution of infection. There was no heparin effect in infected non-cirrhotics. A heparin effect was only found in cirrhotic patients with infection, further confirming that infection significantly modifies coagulation in cirrhotic patients."}
{"id": "12201842", "title": "Cytokine levels as performance indicators for white blood cell reduction of platelet concentrates.", "content": "Cytokine levels as performance indicators for white blood cell reduction of platelet concentrates. With the implementation of universal white blood cell (WBC) reduction in the UK, in-process WBC-reduction filters for pooled buffy coat (BC)-derived platelet concentrates (PCs) and apheresis methods are used routinely for the production of WBC-reduced PCs. While these strategies meet the specification for WBC reduction (< 5 x 10(6) WBCs/unit), the products from these processes may differ depending on the process employed and its performance. The aim of this study was therefore to investigate whether PCs prepared using various WBC-reduction processes are sufficiently depleted of WBCs to limit cytokine accumulation during storage and to assess if cytokine levels detected in platelet products can serve as indicators of acceptable platelet activation as a result of the WBC-reduction process. We measured the levels of cytokines predominantly derived from WBCs [e.g. interleukin-8 (IL-8)] and platelets [e.g. regulated on activation, normal, T-cell expressed, and secreted (RANTES) and transforming growth factor-beta(1) (TGF-beta(1))] under the present experimental conditions in different WBC-reduced PCs, i.e. PCs prepared from three different WBC-reduction filters and control non-filtered PCs using pooled BCs from the same donors and three apheresis types. Supernatant plasma was collected at the beginning (day 1) and end (day 5) of the shelf life of each PC, and the cytokine content was determined using appropriate enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays (ELISAs). Process efficiency was assessed by platelet yield and residual WBC count. We found that products from the apheresis process involving a filtration step (Haemonetics MCS+) showed a lower cytokine content on both day 1 and day 5 in comparison with the fluidized bed (COBE Spectra) or elutriation (Amicus) processes. WBC reduction of BC-PCs of the same origin using three different filters showed comparable levels of cytokines on day 1 in all units. After storage for 5 days, the levels of IL-8 remained essentially unchanged in filtered BC-PCs but increased by more than threefold in control non-filtered BC-PCs, suggesting IL-8 release by residual WBCs present in the control PCs. The concentration of platelet-derived cytokines such as RANTES and TGF-beta(1), however, increased significantly in all filtered and control non-filtered PCs during the storage period. These results show that markers of cytokine release from both WBCs and platelets are useful indicators of the performance and efficacy of the WBC-reduction process and of platelet quality."}
{"id": "12193852", "title": "Differential efficacy of different platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists on platelet/fibrin-mediated clot dynamics under different conditions using thrombelastography: the critical need for anticoagulant.", "content": "Differential efficacy of different platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists on platelet/fibrin-mediated clot dynamics under different conditions using thrombelastography: the critical need for anticoagulant. Intravenous GpIIb/IIIa antagonists demonstrate various significant clinical benefits depending on the agent used. In contrast, oral delivery of GpIIb/IIIa antagonists failed in achieving clinical benefits. This raises the question about the differences among different GpII/IIIa antagonists. The effect of various platelet glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa antagonists on the dynamics of platelet/fibrin clot formation and strength was determined using thrombelastography under different conditions. GPIIb/IIIa antagonists with high affinity for resting and activated platelets and with slow rates of dissociation from GPIIb/IIIa (Class I antagonists) demonstrated potent and comparable inhibition of platelet aggregation and platelet-mediated clot strength under different conditions. In contrast to antagonists that dissociate rapidly from GPIIb/IIIa (class II antagonists). Class I antagonists such as the free acid form of roxifiban inhibited platelet-mediated clot strength, with the inhibiting concentration required for 50% effect (IC50) = 70 n mol/l, whereas the IC50 of the class II antagonists such as the free acid forms of orbofiban, sibrafiban, lotrafiban, integrilin or aggrastat ranged from 1 to 15 micromol/l. The IC50s for class II antagonists in inhibiting platelet/fibrin clot formation and strength were substantially greater (10-15 fold) than their clinically achievable concentrations. The limited efficacy for class II antagonists in inhibiting platelet-mediated clot dynamics was enhanced by the combination with heparin. Thus, these data indicated that there are differences in the efficacy of various GPIIb/IIIa antagonists in inhibiting platelet/fibrin clot formation and strength, which might be corrected by heparin. Data also suggest that inhibition of platelet aggregation may not be the sole determinant for the in-vivo efficacy of various GPIIb/IIIa antagonists."}
{"id": "12192311", "title": "Reliability of the thrombelastograph.", "content": "Reliability of the thrombelastograph."}
{"id": "12181832", "title": "[Experience with high-dose immunosuppressive therapy followed by transplantation of autologous stem hematopoietic cells in patients with multiple sclerosis].", "content": "[Experience with high-dose immunosuppressive therapy followed by transplantation of autologous stem hematopoietic cells in patients with multiple sclerosis]. To assess efficiency of immunosuppressive therapy and subsequent autologous transplantation of stem blood cells (SBC) in patients with multiple sclerosis. The trial enrolled 23 patients (4 men and 19 women) with multiple sclerosis (MS) lasting for 3 to 12 years. The age of the patients ranged from 18 to 44 years. The index of the progression was above 1 in all the patients. A remitting, primary-progredient, secondary-progredient course was diagnosed in 3, 3 and 17 patients, respectively. Posttransplantation follow-up was 1 to 1.5 years. The degree of the neurological deficiency (0-6 scores) was estimated by the scale of functional systems damage. Lymphocyte subpopulations were evaluated by enzyme immunoassay according to expression of membrane antigens CD3, CD4, CD8, CD16, CD20, CD25, CD56, CD95 using monoclonal antibodies ICO (Biomedspectr), humoral immunity--by serum levels of IgA, IgM and IgG. SBC mobilization was conducted for 5 days by subcutaneous introduction of neipogen (Roche) in a dose 8.7-10 mcg/kg. Preparation of SBC was made on Haemonetics blood separator on mobilization day 4-5. Cryopreservation was carried out in programmed freezer (Cryomed) with 7% dimethylsulphoxide as a cryoprotector. Pretransplantation conditioning was conducted according to the schemes BEAM + antilymphocytic globulin (protocol N 1) and fludar + melfalan + ALG (protocol N 2). In posttransplantation period most of the patients achieved a fall in intensity of motor and coordination disorders. No recovery of cranial nerve function was observed. The protocols of pretransplantation preparation were compared by efficiency and organic toxicity. Indications to immunosuppressive therapy in MS patients were defined, pathogenetic validation of the immunosuppressive therapy was attempted."}
{"id": "12174620", "title": "[Relation between intraoperative salvaged blood transfusion and postoperative infection after cardiac surgery].", "content": "[Relation between intraoperative salvaged blood transfusion and postoperative infection after cardiac surgery]. In cardiac surgery, several studies have shown bacterial contamination rates of intraoperative salvaged blood ranging from 12.7 to 96.8%. We evaluated the relation between intraoperative salvaged blood transfusion produced by the Cell Saver 5 device (Haemonetics Corp., Braintree, MA, USA) and postoperative infection determined by bacteriological study and the postoperative clinical course after cardiac surgery. Seven cases of cardiac surgery were investigated by bacteriological study. Although bacteria were cultured from all salvaged blood, no bacteria were cultured from the patients' blood 24 hours after salvaged blood infusion. Another 26 patients who underwent cardiac surgery, were divided into groups: group CS (n = 15) with salvaged blood transfusion after operation and group N (n = 11) without salvaged blood transfusion, and were evaluated in relation to the postoperative clinical course. There were no statistically significant differences between group CS and group N in the data of WBC, CRP and maximum body temperature. One case of deep sternal wound infection and 2 cases of local wound infection were observed in group CS, but none in group N (p = 0.18). These complications were treated by primary closure without muscle flaps. We conclude that salvaged blood autotransfusion was not related to postoperative infections in cardiac surgery."}
{"id": "12166815", "title": "Determination of glycols in biological specimens by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry.", "content": "Determination of glycols in biological specimens by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. A simple extraction and derivatization procedure for the analysis of eight glycols (ethylene glycol, EG; diethylene glycol, DEG; triethylene glycol, TEG; 1,2-propanediol, 1,2-PD; 1,3-propanediol, 1,3-PD; 1,2-butanediol, 1,2-BD; 2,3-butanediol, 2,3-BD; and hexylene glycol, HXG) using a 2-microL serum or blood sample is described. Following deproteinisation with acetonitrile, derivatization to its mono or di TMS derivative, glycols were detected using gas chromatography-electron impact mass spectrometry equipped with a split-spitless inlet and a DB-5MS column in the scan mode from 40 to 500 amu. Gamma-hydroxybutyrate-d6 (GHB-d6) was used as the internal standard. The limits of detection and quantitation in 2 pL of serum ranged, respectively, from 0.7 mg/L for EG to 8.5 mg/L for TEG and from 1.3 mg/L for EG to 18.2 mg/L for 1,2-PD. A linear response was observed over the concentration range from 1 to 800 mg/L for EG and 18 from 800 for TEG and 1,2-PD for serum and blood. Coefficients of variation for both intra-assay precision and interassay reproductibility ranged respectively between 1.9% for TEG to 4.9% for 1,2-PD (11.8% for HXG) and 3.5% for DEG to 9% for 2,3-BD (20.4 for HXG) at the 400 mg/L serum level. The method was applied to plasma and whole blood."}
{"id": "12164793", "title": "Leukocyte apheresis using a centrifugal cell separator in refractory ulcerative colitis: a multicenter open label trial.", "content": "Leukocyte apheresis using a centrifugal cell separator in refractory ulcerative colitis: a multicenter open label trial. Recently, successful results of ulcerative colitis (UC) treatments with leukocyte apheresis have been reported by several institutes. To certify the efficacy of leukocyte apheresis in refractory UC patients, a multicenter open label trial was conducted, and results were analyzed. Fifty patients diagnosed with active steroid-resistant UC were enrolled in this study from 14 medical centers. Using a centrifugal cell separator (Component Collection System, Haemonetics), leukocyte apheresis was performed once a week for 5 weeks. General conditions and abdominal symptoms were recorded daily, and laboratory tests were followed weekly. Changes of colonoscopic and histological manifestations of luminal activity through the study period were evaluated. At the end of the study period, stool frequency was decreased to less than 4 times a day in 68.4% (26 of 38) and serum C-reactive protein (CRP) concentration was normalized in 56.7% (17 of 30) of the patients. Colonoscopic remission was achieved in 57.7% (26 of 45), and histological improvement was noted in 54.1% (20 of 37) of the patients tested. Improved disease activity was demonstrated in 74% (37 of 50) of the patients by general assessment criteria. Analysis of the trial data confirmed the valid clinical efficacy of leukocyte apheresis by centrifugal cell separator in refractory UC patients."}
{"id": "12162230", "title": "Decreasing blood product requirements after orthotopic liver transplantation.", "content": "Decreasing blood product requirements after orthotopic liver transplantation. To document the changing blood product transfusion requirements over time during the first 50 orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) operations performed at Groote Schuur Hospital. The first 50 OLT operations were divided into three groups chronologically and blood transfusion requirements were compared across the three groups. Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town. Forty-seven patients undergoing 50 OLT operations between October 1988 and September 1999. The majority of patients had end-stage chronic liver disease. Patients were divided chronologically into three groups of 16, 17 and 17 patients. The number of units of blood products transfused in each group was quantified. During the study period there was a significant decrease in the number of units of packed red cells, fresh frozen plasma (FFP) and platelets (but not cryoprecipitate) transfused intraoperatively. The median number of units of packed cells decreased from 13.5 in our first 16 patients (group 1) to 5.0 in our last 17 (group 3). The median number of units of platelets transfused was 9 in group 1 and 0 in groups 2 and 3. No platelets were transfused in our last 22 patients. The average cost of blood products transfused intraoperatively per patient in the three groups decreased from R13 034 in group 1 to R11 389 in group 2 to R7 396 in group 3. The number of units of blood products transfused during OLT operations has decreased since the programme started 13 years ago. The reasons include increased experience, the use of aprotinin to block fibrinolysis and the selective use of the thromboelastogram to monitor coagulation intraoperatively. OLT need no longer be regarded as wasteful of blood resources. Use of platelets to treat thrombocytopenia need not be empirical."}
{"id": "12154422", "title": "A prospective, randomized comparison of thromboelastographic coagulation profile in patients receiving lactated Ringer's solution, 6% hetastarch in a balanced-saline vehicle, or 6% hetastarch in saline during major surgery.", "content": "A prospective, randomized comparison of thromboelastographic coagulation profile in patients receiving lactated Ringer's solution, 6% hetastarch in a balanced-saline vehicle, or 6% hetastarch in saline during major surgery. To compare the effects of lactated Ringer's solution (LR), 6% hetastarch in a balanced-saline vehicle (HS-BS), and 6% hetastarch in normal saline (HS-NS) on coagulation using thromboelastography. Prospective, randomized double-blinded evaluation of previously published clinical trial. Tertiary-care medical center. Patients undergoing elective noncardiac surgery with an anticipated blood loss >500 mL. A total of 90 patients were enrolled with 30 patients in each group. Patients received a standardized anesthetic. LR, HS-BS, and HS-NS were administered intraoperatively based on a fluid administration algorithm. Hemodynamic targets included maintenance of arterial blood pressure, heart rate, and urine output within a predefined range. Thromboelastography variables for r time, k time, maximum amplitude, and alpha angle (mean +/- SD) were recorded at induction of anesthesia, at the end of surgery, and 24 hours postoperatively. Patients in the LR group showed a state of hypercoagulation at the end of surgery with reductions (p < 0.005) in r time (-3.8 +/- 6.7 mm) and k time (-1.7 +/- 2.5 mm). This state of hypercoagulation continued into the postoperative period. Patients in the HS-NS group showed a state of hypocoagulation with increases (p < 0.05) in r time (+6.2 +/- 8.5 mm) and k time (+1.7 +/- 3.9 mm) and a reduction in maximum amplitude (-8.0 +/- 9.8 mm) at the end of surgery. This state of hypocoagulation was reduced in the postoperative period. Patients in the HS-BS group showed no significant changes in coagulation status at end of surgery, with the smallest changes in r time (-0.3 +/- 4.1 mm), k time (+0.1 +/- 3.1 mm), maximum amplitude (-5.4 +/- 12.3 mm), and alpha angle (0.3 +/- 12.5 degrees ). LR-treated patients exhibited a hypercoagulative profile that persisted into the postoperative period. HS-BS administration was associated with a lesser change in the coagulation profile compared with HS-NS, which was associated with a hypocoagulative state."}
{"id": "12138371", "title": "The frequent Marburg I polymorphism impairs the pro-urokinase activating potency of the factor VII activating protease (FSAP).", "content": "The frequent Marburg I polymorphism impairs the pro-urokinase activating potency of the factor VII activating protease (FSAP). The recently reported plasmatic, Factor Seven Activating Protease (FSAP), has also been found to be a potent activator of pro-urokinase [single-chain plasminogen activator, urinary type (scuPA)]. An initial epidemiological study surprisingly showed that plasmas of 5-10% of healthy blood donors had an impaired potential to activate scuPA. Analysis of the respective genomic DNAs revealed one particular single nucleotide polymorphism of FSAP resulting in an identical amino acid exchange (G511E), which correlates with the reduced activities. The corresponding mutation was named FSAP Marburg I. Thrombelastographies of wild-type and mutant plasmas were performed, facilitating the auto-activation of the intrinsic FSAP pro-enzymes by addition of dextran sulfate (DXS) and accelerated clot lysis by addition of scuPA. On these conditions, tissue-factor-induced coagulation revealed that clot lysis was significantly delayed in the Marburg I mutant plasmas as compared with wild-type plasmas. Furthermore, in the presence of DXS and scuPA, a FSAP-deficient plasma revealed significantly prolonged plasma clot lysis times, whereas the addition of purified FSAP pro-enzyme plus scuPA reversed this effect. These results support the hypothesis that FSAP contributes to the scuPA-dependent plasma fibrinolytic potential, which can be impaired in plasmas containing the FSAP Marburg I polymorphism, for instance."}
{"id": "12126199", "title": "Platelet function testing in apheresis products: flow cytometric, resonance thrombographic (RTG) and rotational thrombelastographic (roTEG) analyses.", "content": "Platelet function testing in apheresis products: flow cytometric, resonance thrombographic (RTG) and rotational thrombelastographic (roTEG) analyses. During storage of platelet concentrates, quality control of the units is mandatory. This includes the important testing of the hemostatic function of platelets. So far, mostly platelet aggregation analyses have been performed. In this study, new approaches were tested to evaluate the applicability of modern techniques for quality monitoring. Plateletpheresis was performed with two different cell separators (AMICUS cell separator, Fenwal, Baxter Healthcare, Deerfield, USA; COBE Spectra, COBE BCT, Lakewood, USA). In each procedure split products (n = 22) were prepared and stored for 1-2 days (n = 22) or 3 5 days (n = 22). Platelet hemostatic capacity was tested by applying flow cytometry. platelet aggregation (platelet-rich-plasma [PRP]+agonist), resonance thrombography (RTG; PRP, no agonist) and rotational thrombelastography (roTEG; PRP+agonist). Flow cytometric analyses did not reveal significant changes in structural (CD41a. CD42b) or activation-dependent antigens (CD62p, CD63, LIBS, RIBS). Also, differences in the data from the flow cytometric reactivity tests were not significant between the two groups. In platelet aggregation assays, shape change (p = 0.8), maximum aggregation (p = 0.4), and maximum gradient (p = 0.8) did not show significant differences between the two groups. In the RTG test, differences between r-time (reaction time; p = 0.4), and f-time (clot formation time [fibrin influence]; p = 0.3), and in roTEG r-time (coagulation time; p = 0.1) and k-time (clot formation time; p = 1.0) were not significant. P-time (clot formation time [platelet influence]) and M (maximum amplitude) in RTG, and k-time and MA (maximum amplitude) in roTEG showed a slight decrease in platelet function (p < or = 0.05). We conclude that platelet function is well maintained during storage. This is reflected by the results of immunological and platelet function assays. Rotational thrombelastography (in the case of PRP) and especially resonance thrombography represent promising methods for quality control of platelet concentrates and rapidly provide information about the status of platelet function and the whole clotting process."}
{"id": "12108924", "title": "The effects of cardiopulmonary bypass with hollow fiber membrane oxygenator on blood clotting measured by thromboelastography.", "content": "The effects of cardiopulmonary bypass with hollow fiber membrane oxygenator on blood clotting measured by thromboelastography. In cardiac surgical patients we investigated the effects of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) with a hollow fiber membrane oxygenator on blood clotting measured by thromboelastography (TEG). We found only a minimal change in the strength of blood clot described either by the TEG parameter MA (maximum amplitude) or by the shear modulus G calculated from MA. After CPB there was also a significant tendency towards hypercoagulation as defined by shortened parameters R, K and increased a-angle. After comparison with published data obtained in cardiac surgical patients using a bubble oxygenator we conclude that currently used extracorporeal technology exerts a less negative influence on blood clotting than had been conceived previously."}
{"id": "12107562", "title": "Concurrent collection of in-line filtered platelets and red blood cells by apheresis.", "content": "Concurrent collection of in-line filtered platelets and red blood cells by apheresis. Multicomponent apheresis procedures offer the possibility to collect standardized blood components as compared to whole blood donations. A new program for the concurrent collection of platelets (PLTs) and red blood cells (RBCs) was evaluated in a prospective study. Apheresis donors ( n=18) underwent concurrent collection of PLTs and RBCs using the Haemonetics MCS+ blood cell separator. Aliquots of PLTs and RBCs were collected during five to six passes of the discontinuous flow procedure. The platelet product was in-line filtered during the last pass of the separation procedure. After collection, saline-adenine-glucose-mannitol (SAGM) preservative solution was automatically added to the RBCs. Thereafter, the RBCs were in-line leukodepleted by gravity filtration at room temperature. The PLTs and RBCs were subsequently stored at 22+/-2 degrees C for 5 days and 4+/-2 degrees C for 35 days, respectively. The following in vitro parameters were evaluated over the storage periods: blood cell counts, glucose, lactate, lactate dehydrogenase, pH, plasma hemoglobin, and potassium. Two ready-to-use blood components from one donor were collected in an average procedure time of 86+/-10 min; 2.47+/-0.74 x 10(11) PLTs were collected in a product volume of 232+/-43 ml. The RBC volume averaged 280+/-20 ml and the hemoglobin content was 56.8+/-2.4 g per unit. The leukocyte contamination of the platelet product was 0.44+/-0.56 x 10(5) and the residual leukocyte content of the RBC product was 0.28+/-0.02 x 10(5). Storage data showed no relevant drop in pH. Day 35 results of the RBC products showed that all of the units had less than 0.8% hemolysis. Standardized PLT and RBC products of good quality can be concurrently collected with the MCS+ blood cell separator. In vitro testing of the products collected and stored for 5 and 35 days, respectively, met the Council of Europe criteria for leukodepleted blood products."}
{"id": "12094933", "title": "Enantiomer ratios, patterns and levels of toxaphene congeners in human milk from Germany.", "content": "Enantiomer ratios, patterns and levels of toxaphene congeners in human milk from Germany. High resolution gas chromatography (HRGC) coupled to quadrupole negative ion chemical ionization (NICI) mass spectrometry (MS) was used to investigate congener patterns, levels and enantiomer distribution of selected toxaphene congeners (#26, #41, #44, #50, #63, B7-1453) in human milk from Germany. #50 and #26 were the most abundant congeners. Furthermore, the identification of B7-1453, B8-1412, #41, #42, #44 and #63 was possible. Levels for the sum of #26, #41, #44 and #50 ranged from 7 to 24 microg kg(-1) milk fat and contributed between 2 and 9% to the total burden of investigated organochlorines such as selected compounds of the chlordane group, HCH, DDT and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCB). Capillaries coated with heptakis-(2,3,6-O-tert-butyldimethylsilyl)-beta-cyclodextrin (TBDMS-CD) or octakis-(2,3,6-tri-O-ethyl)-gamma-cyclodextrin (TEG-CD) were used for the enantioselective separations. Enantiomer ratios (ER) and enantiomer fractions (EF) of the abundant toxaphene congeners #26 and #50 as well as of B7-1453, #41 and #63 were determined. Greatest deviations from a racemic composition in individual human milk samples were found for #41 (1.54-2.37), #50 (1.37-1.72) and #63 (0.53-0.71) whereas ERs for #26 were close to 1. Compared to wildlife biota such as fish and raptors ER changes were more pronounced in human milk but comparable to human adipose tissue."}
{"id": "12071875", "title": "National audit of citrate toxicity in plateletpheresis donors.", "content": "National audit of citrate toxicity in plateletpheresis donors. Citrate toxicity complicating plateletpheresis is not uncommon. However, the scale and severity of the problem have never been formally addressed. In order to answer these questions we undertook a national audit of 13 070-platelet procedures throughout 17 apheresis centres in England over a 3-month period from 1 April to 30 June 2000. A standard form was distributed to each centre to record the symptoms/signs of citrate toxicity which were then graded (grades 1-5) according to their severity. The following variables were studied to determine whether they influenced the frequency and severity of citrate toxicity: 1. The type of manufacturer's cell separator used (Cobe Spectra, Haemonetics, Baxter Amicus and Trima). 2 The type of procedure: single needle, dual needle, single, double or triple dose. 3 The way in which donors were instructed to report symptoms of citrate toxicity. Plateletpheresis is a relatively safe procedure provided that donors who experience severe reactions receive appropriate treatment. The incidence of severe citrate toxicity (0.03% procedures) is comparable to that of severe faints following whole blood donation, indicating a comparable margin of safety. Donors should be warned of the symptoms of citrate toxicity at their first attendance only. More frequent reminders encourage donors to over-report symptoms of mild citrate toxicity."}
{"id": "12067020", "title": "Peripartum management of a patient with Glanzmann's thrombasthenia using Thrombelastograph.", "content": "Peripartum management of a patient with Glanzmann's thrombasthenia using Thrombelastograph. We describe the perioperative management of a 31-yr-old primipara with Glanzmann's thrombasthenia, who required urgent Caesarean delivery at 33 weeks' gestation. Peripartum haemorrhage was inevitable and was pre-empted by transfusion of multiple blood products, the effects of which were monitored by Thrombelastograph. The blood products given are discussed."}
{"id": "12066721", "title": "In vivo effect of haemodilution with saline on coagulation: a randomized controlled trial.", "content": "In vivo effect of haemodilution with saline on coagulation: a randomized controlled trial. Previous studies have shown that 10-30% haemodilution with crystalloid may induce a hypercoagulable state demonstrable by using the Thrombelastograph (TEG). While most are in vitro studies, the few in vivo studies are limited by confounding surgical or 'environmental' factors. We conducted this randomized controlled study to evaluate the coagulation changes associated with in vivo haemodilution. Twenty patients undergoing major hepatobiliary surgery were randomly allocated to one of two study groups. Group H (n = 10) had 30% blood volume withdrawn over 30 min and replaced with saline. Group C (n = 10) did not have any blood withdrawn. Blood samples were taken in both groups at 10, 20 and 30 min. Native TEG, complete blood count, coagulation profile, fibrinogen, antithrombin III, protein C and thrombin-antithrombin complex concentrations were measured. Compared with Group C, Group H patients had significantly greater shortening of r-time at 30 min (-30% vs +36%), greater shortening of k-time at all time points (-36% vs +17% at 10 min; -37% vs +44% at 20 min; -45% vs +49% at 30 min), and greater widening of alpha at 30 min (+71% vs +4%). The decrease in antithrombin III and other natural procoagulants and anticoagulants closely followed that of haematocrit, with the exception of thrombin-antithrombin complex. In vivo haemodilution of up to 30% with saline can induce a hypercoagulable state. The mechanism remains unclear as disproportionate dilution of natural anticoagulants was not detected. Thrombin-antithrombin complex concentration remained stable despite haemodilution in Group H, which may suggest increased thrombin generation."}
{"id": "12062831", "title": "Thrombophilia and pregnancy loss.", "content": "Thrombophilia and pregnancy loss. Thrombophilia is defined as a tendency to thrombosis. The association between specific thrombophilic defects--both inherited and acquired--and pregnancy loss is a rapidly developing field. However, apart from antiphospholipid antibodies (aPL), an acquired thrombophilic defect, the role of other defects in the haemostatic pathways remains to be established. In this invited review we discuss the recent advances in our understanding of aPL related pregnancy loss, the association between genetic thrombophilic mutations and pregnancy outcome and the role of whole blood haemostasis testing in the investigation of women with recurrent miscarriage."}
{"id": "12059821", "title": "The effects of hypertonic saline solution (7.5%) on coagulation and fibrinolysis: an in vitro assessment using thromboelastography.", "content": "The effects of hypertonic saline solution (7.5%) on coagulation and fibrinolysis: an in vitro assessment using thromboelastography. We studied the effects of hypertonic (7.5%) and normal saline on coagulation and fibrinolysis in an in vitro model using thromboelastography of human whole blood. Reaction times increased and alpha angles decreased with hypertonic saline replacement at 7.5% blood volume compared with similar dilution with normal saline. At 10% blood volume replacement with hypertonic saline, reaction and coagulation times were significantly increased and alpha angles were decreased. Clot lysis at 30 min was also significantly reduced. We conclude that 7.5% hypertonic saline solution has anticoagulant effects if it replaces 7.5% or more of blood volume."}
{"id": "12032396", "title": "Effects of recombinant activated factor VII on coagulation measured by thromboelastography in liver transplantation.", "content": "Effects of recombinant activated factor VII on coagulation measured by thromboelastography in liver transplantation. Besides the conventional laboratory tests, thromboelastography (TEG) is used to monitor hemostasis during liver transplantation. A previous pilot study suggested a beneficial effect of recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) on transfusion requirements in liver transplantation. In the present study, we assess the effects of rFVIIa on coagulation variables and TEG. In six study patients, the prothrombin time (PT), the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) and TEG variables [reaction time (r), kinetic time (k), or clot formation time, alpha angle (alpha), and maximal amplitude (MA)] were recorded before and after the administration of a bolus of 80 microg/kg rFVIIa. These patients were compared with six controls who did not receive rFVIIa. In contrast with the control group, a significant shortening of PT (P = 0.028) and aPTT (P = 0.028), r (P = 0.046) and k (P = 0.043) values, and a significant incline of the alpha angle (P = 0.028) were noticed after injection of rFVIIa, whereas MA increased not significantly (P = 0.075). rFVIIa rapidly improved coagulation variables in liver transplant patients including PT and aPTT. Of the TEG variables, r, k and alpha angle significantly improved, and MA showed a trend to increase. These data suggest that rFVIIa not only influences the speed of clot formation, but also the physical properties of the clot, which cannot be detected by routine coagulation tests."}
{"id": "12015682", "title": "[Thrombelastographic coagulation analysis following in vitro and in vivo haemodilution with hydroxyethyl starch (HES)].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic coagulation analysis following in vitro and in vivo haemodilution with hydroxyethyl starch (HES)]. In the study presented the effects of in vitro hemodilution with HES on coagulation are compared with the effects of in vivo hemodilution using thrombelastography (TEG). The in vivo hemodilution was performed by the i. v. infusion of 1000 ml 6 % solution of hydroxyethyl starch HES (2 formulations with HES 130/0.4 and one formulation with HES 200/0.5) in healthy volunteers during 30 min. The in vitro hemodilution was performed with blood samples taken from the volunteers before the infusion was started. These samples were diluted with HES-solution until the same hemoglobin concentration measured at the end of the infusion was attained. The in vivo TEG-parameters remained in the reference range of the method, however all in vitro TEG-parameters are out of the range of normal values. The isolated interpretation of the in vitro data shows an impairment of blood coagulation. The shortening of the reaction time as an indicator for the initiation of blood clotting points to activated coagulation by in vivo hemodilution with HES, whereas in vitro the prolongation of the reaction time is indicative for retardation of clotting. The evaluation of the TEG-parameters and of other clotting parameters determined prior to the beginning of the infusion, at the end of the infusion and four hours after termination of the infusion of HES 130/0.4 and of HES 200/0.5 to healthy volunteers show alterations of blood coagulation parameters caused mainly by dilutional effects. The more pronounced alterations found in vitro cannot be interpreted as impairment of haemostasis in vivo. On the other hand, the likewise haemodilution in vitro causes an impairment of coagulation. Therefore, the effects of in vitro hemodilution with HES on coagulation differ qualitatively and quantitatively from the effects of in vivo hemodilution."}
{"id": "11980635", "title": "Dietary genistein negates the inhibitory effect of tamoxifen on growth of estrogen-dependent human breast cancer (MCF-7) cells implanted in athymic mice.", "content": "Dietary genistein negates the inhibitory effect of tamoxifen on growth of estrogen-dependent human breast cancer (MCF-7) cells implanted in athymic mice. The use of dietary isoflavone supplements by postmenopausal women with breast cancer is increasing. We investigated interactions between the soy isoflavone, genistein, and an antiestrogen, tamoxifen (TAM), on the growth of estrogen (E)-dependent breast cancer (MCF-7) cells implanted in ovariectomized athymic mice. We hypothesized that weakly estrogenic genistein negate/overwhelm the inhibitory effect of TAM on the growth of E-dependent breast tumors. Six treatment groups were used: control (C); 0.25 mg estradiol (E2) implant (E); E2 implant + 2.5 mg TAM implant (2.5 TE); E2 implant + 2.5 mg TAM implant + 1000 ppm genistein (2.5 TEG); E2 implant + 5 mg TAM implant (5 TE), and E2 implant +5 mg TAM implant +1000 ppm genistein (5 TEG). Treatment with TAM (2.5 TE and 5 TE) suppressed E2-stimulated MCF-7 tumor growth in ovariectomized athymic mice. Dietary genistein negated/overwhelmed the inhibitory effect of TAM on MCF-7 tumor growth, lowered E2 level in plasma, and increased expression of E-responsive genes (e.g., pS2, PR, and cyclin D1). Therefore, caution is warranted for postmenopausal women consuming dietary genistein while on TAM therapy for E-responsive breast cancer."}
{"id": "11979750", "title": "[Continuous infusion of recombinant activated factor VII during and after elbow arthroplasty in a hemophilia A patient with inhibitors].", "content": "[Continuous infusion of recombinant activated factor VII during and after elbow arthroplasty in a hemophilia A patient with inhibitors]. Recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa) is a recently added new agent for the treatment of hemophiliacs with inhibitors. A major drawback to the use of rFVIIa is its short half-life, necessitating frequent and intermittent bolus injections. Continuous infusion of rFVIIa has been reported as a feasible, convenient, safe and cost-effective alternative to intermittent bolus injections. We report the use of continuous rFVIIa infusion during and after left elbow arthroplasty in a hemophiliac with a high titer of inhibitor to factor VIII. rFVIIa was administered as a bolus injection (100 micrograms/kg) at the start of the operation, after which continuous infusion (10-30 micrograms/kg/h) was immediately started and continued for 6 days. Tranexamic acid (50 mg/kg/day, p.o.) was also administered as an antifibrinolytic treatment. Laboratory monitoring of hemostatic efficacy was performed in this case using prothrombin time and the thrombelastogram. Finally, effective intra- and postoperative hemostasis and normal healing of the surgical incisions were achieved, except for local thrombophlebitis. Although the optimal maintenance or target level of rFVIIa has been a matter of debate, we consider continuous infusion of rFVIIa to be a feasible, convenient, safe and cost-effective alternative to intermittent bolus injections."}
{"id": "11973205", "title": "The effect of the combined administration of colloids and lactated Ringer's solution on the coagulation system: an in vitro study using thrombelastograph coagulation analysis (ROTEG.", "content": "The effect of the combined administration of colloids and lactated Ringer's solution on the coagulation system: an in vitro study using thrombelastograph coagulation analysis (ROTEG. Gelatin solutions are often given in clinical practice once the maximal dose of a median-weight hydroxyethyl starch (HES) has been reached. Colloids are usually combined with lactated Ringer's solution (RL). Whether the combined administration of colloids and/or crystalloids affects blood coagulation is not known. We diluted blood by 20%, 40%, and 60% with RL, gelatin (Gelofusin), 6% HES 130/0.4 (Voluven), and 6% HES 200/0.5 (Iso-Hes), as well as with combinations of these solutions at a ratio of 1:1 (gelatin/RL, 6% HES 130/0.4:RL, 6% HES 200/0.5:RL, 6% HES 130/0.4:gelatin, 6% HES 200/0.5:gelatin). Thereafter, blood was analyzed by using modified thrombelastograph coagulation analysis (ROTEG) and clotting time, clot formation time, and maximal clot firmness were determined. RL had the least effect on hemostasis. Gelatin administered alone impaired the coagulation system significantly less than each median-weight HES administered alone. We conclude that gelatin combined with 6% HES 200/0.5 or 6% HES 130/0.4 decreases hemostasis <6% HES 200/0.5 or 6% HES 130/0.4 administered alone. The effect of the combined administration of different colloids and/or crystalloids on coagulation is not known. We show that hemostasis is less impaired using a combination of gelatin and median-weight starches than using median-weight starches alone. Furthermore, the combination of lactated Ringer's solution and gelatin decreases the coagulation system to the same extent as the combination of lactated Ringer's solution and 6% hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4."}
{"id": "11967602", "title": "Does coagulation differ between elderly and younger patients undergoing cardiac surgery?", "content": "Does coagulation differ between elderly and younger patients undergoing cardiac surgery? Multiple improvements allow cardiac surgery in an increasingly older population. It is still unclear whether perioperative hemostasis differs between elderly and younger patients. Prospective, observational study. Single institutional study at an urban, university-affiliated hospital. Twenty-one consecutive patients aged over 80 years and 21 consecutive patients aged under 60 years undergoing first-time elective aortocoronary bypass grafting. None. Modified thromboelastography (TEG) using different activators [intrinsic TEG (InTEG); extrinsic TEG (ExTEG); fibrinogen TEG (fibTEG)] was carried out to measure coagulation time [CT = reaction time (r)], clot formation time [CFT = coagulation time (k)], and maximum clot firmness [MCF = maximal amplitude (MA)]. Measurements were performed before surgery, at the end and 5 h after surgery on the intensive care unit (ICU), and on the morning of the 1st postoperative day (POD). Blood loss was slightly higher in the elderly than in the younger patients. Most TEG data were already significantly different between elderly and younger patients at baseline, indicating altered coagulation in the elderly prior to surgery (hypocoagulability). After surgery and on the ICU, elderly patients showed similar alterations in TEG to those of the younger patients (e.g. InTEG-CT: from 183+/-21 to 239+/-28 s versus from 146+/-15 to 186+/-26 s). On the 1st POD, most TEG data had returned almost to baseline values, however, they were still different between elderly and younger patients. Elderly cardiac surgery patients already showed moderately altered coagulation prior to surgery. Thus elderly patients may be at risk of developing postoperative alterations in hemostasis on the ICU. The exact reasons for the impaired coagulation in the elderly remains to be determined."}
{"id": "11961245", "title": "Response to vWF-coated beads and soluble p-selectin to characterize apheresis platelets: a comparison of three cell separators.", "content": "Response to vWF-coated beads and soluble p-selectin to characterize apheresis platelets: a comparison of three cell separators. Plateletpheresis technologies differ among various cell separators. Differences in centrifugation force, centrifugation time, and platelet concentration in the platelet concentrate may affect platelet activation and function. In a three-way crossover design, 12 donors were randomly assigned to three types of cell separators, two continuous flow systems (Amicus DN, Fenwall Division, Baxter and Spectra LRS, Gambro BCT) and one intermittent flow system (MCS+, Haemonetics). The response to vWF-coated beads was determined in the peripheral blood and fresh platelet concentrates to obtain information about the initiating step of platelet aggregation, that is, platelet adhesion. Levels of soluble p-selectin were measured as a marker of platelet activation. Platelet yield and concentration of platelets were higher in platelet concentrates obtained with the Amicus DN than with the Spectra LRS or the MCS+. Maximal aggregation was significantly higher in platelets from the Amicus DN than in platelets from the Spectra LRS or the MCS+. Higher concentrations of soluble p-selectin were seen in platelet concentrates obtained with the Amicus DN than in concentrates from the Spectra LRS or the MCS+, but they did not differ after correction for the number of platelets per component. Different plateletpheresis procedures induced distinct changes of platelet function. Platelets collected using the Amicus DN retained the strongest adhesion capacity irrespective of their activation."}
{"id": "11930561", "title": "[Continuous autotransfusion during liver transplantation].", "content": "[Continuous autotransfusion during liver transplantation]. The advantages and disadvantages of continuous autotransfusion during liver transplantation are investigated in our study compared with blood saving and traditional cell saving techniques. Patients were divided into three groups in this retrospective study; Group 1 (n = 14): continuous autotransfusion was applied; in Group 2 (n = 14): no blood saving technique used; in Group 3 (n = 14): Haemonetics cell saver was used. In Group 1 the number of Child B patients was significantly higher than Child C patients (p < 0.05). The initial values of haemoglobin were significantly lower in Groups 1 and 3 (89 +/- 19 vs. 103 +/- 17 vs. 90 +/- 16.8 g/l; p < 0.03). During hepatectomy in Group 1 lower haemoglobin values were detected than in the other two groups (96 +/- 7 vs. 104 +/- 16 vs. 106 +/- 16.6 g/l; p < 0.05). The quantity of total blood utilisation (donor + autotransfusion) was significantly higher in Group 3 than Group 2 and in Group 1 than Group 2 (21.06 +/- 11.2 vs. 11.07 +/- 3.8 vs. 30.71 +/- 18 U; p < 0.001). Comparing the values of ACT in each group during operation periods no significant difference was found. Treatment time on the ICU of the patients in Group 3 was significantly longer than in the other two groups (11.08 +/- 7.8 vs. 9.17 +/- 3.5 vs. 26.62 +/- 14.6 days; p < 0.03). We found that applying CATS is advantageous during liver transplantation, as the device reduces donor blood requirement. No significant complication was observed."}
{"id": "11918831", "title": "Effect of taurine on platelets and the plasma coagulation system.", "content": "Effect of taurine on platelets and the plasma coagulation system. It is not yet clear what exact mechanisms are at work in hibernating animals that prevent clot formation and maintain tissue perfusion under conditions of very slow blood flow and increased blood viscosity brought about by the low temperatures. It has been shown that the total amino acid pool increases more then two fold in hibernating animals with taurine accounting for about 50% of this increase [Storey et al., Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 1988; 85(21): 8350-4]. This work investigates the effect of taurine on platelets and the plasma coagulation system. Taurine was added at different concentrations in the range between 5 and 25 mM to donor plasma. Using STA/STA Compact coagulation analyzer the following tests were performed: prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), and thrombin time (TT). At the highest concentration tested (25 mM) taurine prolonged TT by 9%. The prolongation was statistically significant but not clinically significant retaining TT within normal limits (16.7-20.7 s). PT and APTT remained unchanged by taurine. The effect of taurine on platelets was assessed by platelet aggregation by thrombin, extent of platelet shape change (ESC) induced by ADP, and thrombelastography. Taurine at 5 mM final concentration inhibited platelet aggregation by 10%. Increasing taurine concentration to 25 mM did not result in a further augmentation of the inhibitory effect. ESC was unaffected by taurine. Clot strength determined by thrombelastography also remained unchanged by taurine."}
{"id": "11911518", "title": "A randomized controlled trial of exercise to improve mobility and function after elective knee arthroplasty. Feasibility, results and methodological difficulties.", "content": "A randomized controlled trial of exercise to improve mobility and function after elective knee arthroplasty. Feasibility, results and methodological difficulties. To assess the feasibility of comparing two types of exercise regime aiming to improve mobility and function following knee arthroplasty. A single-blind randomized controlled trial. Patients with primary, unilateral knee osteoarthritis undergoing elective knee joint replacement. Home-based traditional exercise group (TEG) or home-based functional exercise group (FEG) following discharge from hospital. These included goniometry; a knee-specific pain score, leg extensor power and a walking test. Patients were followed up at three, six and 12 months after surgery. Forty-seven patients met the study criteria, 24 were randomized to the TEG and 23 to the FEG. There were marked improvements in mobility, leg extensor power and pain in the year after surgery (MANOVA p < 0.001). There were no statistically significant differences between the two exercise groups. Knee flexion decreased during the follow-up period and had not recovered by 12 months. Retention of patients was a problem, with nearly 50% lost to follow-up at 12 months. These patients were assessed as having low motivation during inpatient rehabilitation (p < 0.05). There were trends in favour of the FEG that were of clinical relevance. A definitive study would need a sample size of at least 100 patients in each arm. It is essential to develop strategies to combat loss to follow-up."}
{"id": "11897001", "title": "The interaction between primate blood and mouse islets induces accelerated clotting with islet destruction.", "content": "The interaction between primate blood and mouse islets induces accelerated clotting with islet destruction. Mouse islets transplanted under the renal subcapsular space of cynomolgus monkeys are subject to a form of hyperacute rejection, the mechanism of which is unclear. As islets are in contact with whole blood at the time of transplantation, the effect of platelets and the coagulation cascade on islet destruction was assessed. Coagulation was assessed using thromboelastography on citrated/recalcified human blood samples with freshly isolated C57/Bl6 mouse islets. A dynamic islet perifusion system was used to assess the effect of islets on blood cells and coagulation factors. Cytotoxicity was evaluated using (51)Cr labelled islets incubated with human blood and islet destruction was also evaluated using a histological grading system. Continuous PO(2) measurements were made in a static incubation system to assess the role of hypoxia in islet destruction. Mouse islets incubated in human blood induced accelerated coagulation and rapid consumption of platelets within 15 min. Within 1 h of incubation, 52% of mouse islets exposed to xenogeneic human blood showed features of severe damage with necrosis when compared with islets incubated in syngeneic blood. Specific lysis of the xenogeneic islets was demonstrable (Mean percentage lysis: 48%, P < 0.05 vs. control) after 4 h incubation in human blood. Oxygen levels remained constant at a level adequate to maintain islet viability in separate experiments. Mouse islets induce rapid activation of the clotting cascade and platelet consumption in vitro when exposed to human blood, which correlated with histological evidence of significant destruction demonstrable within 1 h of exposure to human or non-human primate blood. This in vitro model has features which appear to correlate with the islet destruction seen in vivo and could be a useful model for the study of the mechanisms underlying the rapid destruction of xenogeneic islets in primate recipients."}
{"id": "11814086", "title": "Autologous plasma and platelet sequestration at the beginning of cardiopulmonary bypass: a pilot investigation in five patients undergoing extended vascular surgery in deep hypothermia.", "content": "Autologous plasma and platelet sequestration at the beginning of cardiopulmonary bypass: a pilot investigation in five patients undergoing extended vascular surgery in deep hypothermia. Platelet dysfunction and loss of procoagulants and platelets leads to impaired hemostasis after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). Preoperative platelet sequestration delays surgery, and the large volume shifts, necessary to harvest therapeutically effective components, may be associated with hemodynamic instability. We performed platelet and plasma sequestration after the initiation of CPB during the cooling period in patients undergoing surgery in deep hypothermic cardiac arrest. Five patients who underwent major vascular surgery in deep hypothermia were enrolled in this pilot study. Platelet and plasma sequestration was performed during cooling with the CATS cell saver using the plasma sequestration set. Before processing, 2 x 1,000 ml of blood were concentrated by means of hemofiltration to reduce dilution effects of CPB. The autologous platelet concentrates were rotated at 24 degrees C, and the plasma was stored at room temperature. The harvested plasma and platelets were re-transfused during modified ultrafiltration after CPB. Platelet count, 20 mmol/L ADP stimulated platelet aggregation, and fibrinogen levels were measured preoperatively in the harvested material and in patient blood before and after transfusion. A heparinase thromboelastogram (TEG) was performed preoperatively before and after re-transfusion. There was a significant increase in the ADP stimulated platelet aggregation, platelet count, fibrinogen level, and maximum amplitude of the TEG after re-transfusion of the harvested material. No patient needed transfusion of fresh frozen plasma or random donor platelet concentrates. No patient needed re-exploration due to hemorrhage. The data presented provide evidence that autologous plasma and platelet sequestration during CPB initiation is effective. The harvested material reveals a high platelet count and fibrinogen level and preserves functional integrity."}
{"id": "11812703", "title": "Are lactated Ringer's solution and normal saline solution equal with regard to coagulation?", "content": "Are lactated Ringer's solution and normal saline solution equal with regard to coagulation? Crystalloids represent an attractive strategy to alleviate intravascular volume deficits. Crystalloid hemodilution was associated with hypercoagulability in in vitro and in vivo studies. The influence of different crystalloids on coagulation in the surgical patient is not well studied. In a prospective, randomized study in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery, we used either lactated Ringer's solution (RL) (n = 21) or 0.9% saline solution (SS) (n = 21) exclusively for intravascular volume replacement over 48 h to maintain central venous pressure between 8 and 12 mm Hg. Activated thrombelastography (TEG) using different activators (intrinsic TEG, extrinsic TEG, heparinase TEG, aprotinin TEG) was used to measure coagulation time, clot formation time, and maximum clot firmness. Measurements were performed after induction of anesthesia (T0), immediately after surgery (T1), 5 h after surgery (T2), and on the morning of the first (T3) and second (T4) postoperative days. RL 18,750 +/- 1890 mL and 17,990 +/- 1790 mL of SS were infused during the study period. Acidosis was seen only in the SS-treated group. Blood loss was not different between the groups. Fibrinogen and antithrombin III decreased similarly at T1 and T2 in both groups, most likely because of hemodilution. Differences in TEG data from normal baseline were seen only immediately after surgery and 5 h thereafter, indicating mild hypercoagulability in the intrinsic TEG (RL, from 147 +/- 130 s to 130 +/- 11 s; SS, from 146 +/- 12 s to 131 +/- 12 s). There were no differences in coagulation between RL- and SS-treated patients. We conclude that in major abdominal surgery intravascular volume replacement with crystalloids resulted in only moderate and abbreviated changes in coagulation. No differences in activated TEG and blood loss were seen between an RL- and an SS-based intravascular volume replacement regimen. In 42 patients undergoing major abdominal surgery, either lactated Ringer's solution or 0.9% saline solution were exclusively used for volume therapy for 48 h. Activated thrombelastography revealed some mild hypercoagulability after surgery. No differences in coagulation were seen between the two intravascular volume replacement strategies."}
{"id": "12396088", "title": "Melanotic neuroectodermal tumour of infancy: a case report.", "content": "Melanotic neuroectodermal tumour of infancy: a case report. Melanotic Neuroectodermal Tumour of Infancy is a rare tumour. Prompt recognition of such a case is essential for the Pediatric Dentist Presented here is a case of a four and a half month old child who reported in the dental out patient department of Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital with a swelling in the right anterior maxillary ridge region."}
{"id": "12022205", "title": "Rupture uterus--changing Indian scenario.", "content": "Rupture uterus--changing Indian scenario. A total of 60 cases of rupture uterus managed in last five years in the department of obstetrics and gynaecology at the University College of Medical Sciences and Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Delhi were reviewed. Of these 77% cases reported to the hospital with rupture uterus while in 23% cases rupture occurred after admission. The factor responsible for rupture in admitted patients was either oxytocin induction/augmentation in scarred uterus or obstetrical manipulation in unscarred uterus; 80% cases were totally unsupervised during antenatal period. Previous uterine scar was responsible for rupture in as high as 63.3% cases. The commonest previous surgery was caesarean section mostly for non-recurrent causes. Obstructed labour was responsible for rupture in 26.6% cases while traumatic rupture was seen in 10% cases. Repair of uterine rent was performed in 54% cases while rest required hysterectomy. Bladder injury was associated in 9 cases and was repaired at the time of laparotomy. Maternal mortality was 3.33% and foetal mortality was 78.66%. The changing trends observed in the present study are those of low maternal mortality and decreasing incidence of obstructed labour in the aetiology of rupture uterus."}
{"id": "11791769", "title": "A prospective randomised concurrent comparison of the COBE Spectra version 4.7, COBE Spectra version 6 (auto PBSC) and Haemonetics MCS+ cell separators for leukapheresis in patients with haematological and non-haematological malignancies.", "content": "A prospective randomised concurrent comparison of the COBE Spectra version 4.7, COBE Spectra version 6 (auto PBSC) and Haemonetics MCS+ cell separators for leukapheresis in patients with haematological and non-haematological malignancies."}
{"id": "11791764", "title": "Leukodepletion of platelet concentrates and plasma collected with haemonetics MCS+ apheresis system. Experience of EFS-Alsace.", "content": "Leukodepletion of platelet concentrates and plasma collected with haemonetics MCS+ apheresis system. Experience of EFS-Alsace. The prevention of transfusion reactions and transmission of infectious diseases partly relies on the systematic removal of leukocytes from blood products. Apheresis platelets and plasma collected on the Haemonetics MCS+ collection system require filtration to obtain low levels of residual leukocytes. This filtration step is automated for platelet concentrates, whereas plasma filtration requires sterile docking of a leukoreduction filter. Our experience shows residual leukocyte levels of approximately 10(5) for platelets (the French requirements are 10(6) per unit) and 10(2) for apheresis plasma (no existing standard in France). Leukocyte residuals in platelets are highly dependent on the filtration rate, which should be as slow as possible. Whereas the current method of filtration is convenient for platelets, the connection of an in-line filter for plasma causes some organizational problems and is also associated with a loss of plasma. Haemonetics' latest development, the use of a filtering core bowl, should avoid the requirement for the connection of an additional filter for plasma filtration and will ensure continuous filtration of platelets, reducing, even further, the residual leukocyte count in platelet concentrates."}
{"id": "11778073", "title": "Comparison of intermittent- and continuous-flow cell separators for the collection of autologous peripheral blood progenitor cells in patients with hematologic malignancies.", "content": "Comparison of intermittent- and continuous-flow cell separators for the collection of autologous peripheral blood progenitor cells in patients with hematologic malignancies. The transplantation of autologous peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPCs) after high-dose chemotherapy is a valuable therapy for patients with hematologic and solid malignancies. Several methods are used for harvesting PBPCs. The efficiency of intermittent- and continuous-flow blood cell separators in collecting progenitor cells from the blood of patients undergoing myeloablative treatment for cancer was compared. PBPC components (n = 133) were obtained from 72 patients by leukapheresis with continuous-flow machines (Spectra, COBE; CS 3000 Plus, Baxter) and with an intermittent-flow machine (MCS 3P, Haemonetics). The data were analyzed retrospectively. Blood samples obtained from the patients before leukapheresis and samples of the leukapheresis components themselves were analyzed for their content of RBCs, WBCs, platelets, and CD34+ cells. The Spectra processed more than twice the blood volume in the shortest time (15 L in 178 min), whereas the Baxter CS 3000 Plus (10 L in 185 min) and the MCS 3P (4.8 L in 239 min) processed significantly smaller volumes in a longer time. The mean ACD consumption was 403 mL with the MCS 3P, 900 mL with the CS 3000 Plus, and 1000 mL with the Spectra. The product volumes were 50 mL (CS 3000 Plus), 69 mL (MCS 3P), and 166 mL (Spectra). In all groups, differences in the preapheresis hemograms were not significant, but the Spectra group had fewer CD34+ cells than the other groups. Despite this, the differences in the number of CD34+ cells in the leukapheresis components of all groups were without statistical significance. In the Spectra group, the collection of MNCs of 104 percent and CD34+ cells of 154 percent was significantly more efficient than that in the MCS 3P group (42.2% and 56%, respectively) or the CS 3000 Plus group (50.8% and 47.15%) as related to the patients' blood volume. PBPC collection can be performed successfully with continuous-flow and intermittent-flow blood cell separators. The Spectra had the best recovery of CD34+ cells within the shortest time. Leukapheresis with the MCS 3P is indicated if only a single venous access is available."}
{"id": "11761274", "title": "The evaluation of microbial contamination in platelet concentrates prepared by two different methods.", "content": "The evaluation of microbial contamination in platelet concentrates prepared by two different methods. The microbial contamination of platelet concentrates (PCs) prepared by two different methods both with a high risk of bacterial contamination during preparation and storage were evaluated. For apheresis platelets, the concentrates were obtained using the Haemonetics MCS 3P device. For the random method, platelets were obtained by two phase centrifugation, in the Heraeus Cryofuge 8500 I device using the Kansuk 3-way bags which permit storage for five days. 1620 plateletpheresis units prepared by apheresis, and 9838 units prepared by the random method, were included in the study. Of the 11,458 PCs studied. 32 (0.27%) were false positives and 24 (0.2%) were real positives. All of the positive results occurred in platelets prepared by the random method. C. xerosis and S. epidermidis, S. hominis, Alpha-hemolytic streptococci, all flora of the skin, were isolated in the contaminated concentrates. The risk of microbial contamination of PCs, prepared both by apheresis and from whole blood, continues at a low rate although the products were collected into specific bags following rules including appropriate disinfection of the skin, correct centrifugation collection time and optimal storage conditions including temperature and agitation. These results again emphasize the importance of: obeying phlebotomy rules and hand disinfection of the person who collects the blood as well as the need for careful skin decontamination of the donor, during donation."}
{"id": "11759889", "title": "Successful surgical treatment of a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm without homologous blood transfusion in a Jehovah's Witness: report of a case.", "content": "Successful surgical treatment of a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm without homologous blood transfusion in a Jehovah's Witness: report of a case. We report herein the case of a 47-year-old woman of the Jehovah's Witness faith in whom Y-grafting for a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm was successfully performed without a homologous blood transfusion. We used a Cell Saver (Haemonetics, Braintree, MA. USA) red cell salvaging device and an aortic occlusion balloon catheter, and performed gentle and minimal dissection during the operation. Postoperatively. the patient was kept heavily sedated and required hypothermic therapy for only 14h. We treated her severe anemia using conventional drugs, including iron and folic acid, and her hemoglobin increased smoothly. Although her hemoglobin level decreased to 2.8g/dl during the operation, her postoperative course was uneventful."}
{"id": "11758183", "title": "[Effect of hormone replacement therapy on hemorheology in postmenopausal women].", "content": "[Effect of hormone replacement therapy on hemorheology in postmenopausal women]. Our study is to observe the effects of conjugated equine estrogen (CEE) combined with medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA) on hemorheology in postmenopausal women in order to evaluate mechanism responsible for the increase in the incidence of cardiovascular disease after menopause and also to provide proper instruction and advice of hormone replacement therapy (HRT) for postmenopausal women. 60 healthy postmenopausal women were assigned to 3 groups randomly, 20 cases in each group. Group A: CEE 0.625 mg/d + MPA 2 mg/d + calcium carbonate co. (Ca-D) 600 mg/d. Group B: CEE 0.3 mg/d + MPA 2 mg/d + Ca-D 600 mg/d. Group C: Ca-D 600 mg/d only served as control. Measurements of hemorheological parameters were performed before and 6 months after treatment. After 6 months of HRT, group A: blood viscosity under the shear rate of 94.5 s-1 dropped from (5.23 +/- 0.37) mPa.s to (5.03 +/- 0.43) mPa.s (P < 0.05), plasma viscosity dropped from (1.66 +/- 0.19) mPa.s to (1.58 +/- 0.15) mPa.s (P < 0.05), erythrocyte deformability dropped from (4.76 +/- 0.32) mPa.s to (4.54 +/- 0.34) mPa.s (P < 0.05). Group B: blood viscosity under the shear rate of 94.5 s-1 dropped from (5.10 +/- 0.30) mPa.s to (4.87 +/- 0.30) mPa.s (P < 0.05), erythrocyte deformability dropped from (4.65 +/- 0.34) mPa.s to (4.43 +/- 0.29) mPa.s (P < 0.05). No change was found in the control group. After treatment, the levels of plasma viscosity and fibrinogen in group A were much lower than that in group C (P < 0.05). The whole blood viscosity and plasma viscosity in group B were much lower than that in group C (P < 0.05). Thrombelastogram study demonstrated no change regardless HRT or not (P > 0.05). Both different dosages of CEE have favor effects on blood viscosity and erythrocyte deformabillity, which could play the role in preventing cardiovascular disease in postmenopausal women."}
{"id": "11755957", "title": "Influence of blood coagulation factor XIII and FXIII Val34Leu on plasma clot formation measured by thrombelastography.", "content": "Influence of blood coagulation factor XIII and FXIII Val34Leu on plasma clot formation measured by thrombelastography. Blood coagulation factor XIII (FXIII) plays an important role in the final stage of the blood coagulation process. Thrombelastography (TEG) enables global assessment of the hemostatic function. The present study tested for the first time the specificity and sensitivity of the rotation thrombelastography (ROTEG: rotation thrombelastography) method for the influence of FXIII and the FXIIIVal34Leu polymorphism on thrombelastograms measured in citrated plasma. Three thrombelastographic parameters were determined in (a) citrated pool plasma, (b) FXIII-deficient plasma, (c) different mixtures of both, and (d) in 60 plasma samples genotyped for FXIIIVal34Leu. Thrombelastograms from FXIII-deficient plasma were significantly smaller than those from pool plasma (8 mm vs. 20.9 mm). Increasing amounts of pool plasma added to FXIII-deficient plasma led to an increase in maximum clot firmness (MCF). FXIIIVal34Leu showed an influence on clot formation time (CFT) values, which decreased with increasing number of Leu alleles. The difference between the wild type and the homozygote mutant genotype was statistically significant (median 185.3 vs. 86.0 s, P=.031). ROTEG is a simple but effective method for the investigation of FXIII function in plasma. The ROTEG method has shown to be not only specific for the FXIII influence, as effects exclusively dependent on FXIII could be observed, but also sensitive, as already smallest amounts of FXIII could be detected. Additionally, the impact of a common genetic polymorphism on ROTEG could be shown for the first time."}
{"id": "11754883", "title": "Changes in coagulability as measured by thrombelastography following surgery for proximal femoral fracture.", "content": "Changes in coagulability as measured by thrombelastography following surgery for proximal femoral fracture. The effect of surgery for femoral neck fracture on whole blood coagulation and the relationship of altered coagulation to deep venous thrombosis were investigated in 250 patients. Whole blood coagulation was measured using thrombelastography preoperatively, in the early postoperative period and at 6-week review. Significant hypercoagulability was demonstrated after surgery and persisted to 6-week review. A significant correlation between hypercoagulability and the development of deep venous thrombosis is demonstrated. Hypercoagulability is shown to be a major factor in thrombosis formation following proximal femoral neck fracture surgery."}
{"id": "11748531", "title": "Management of fulminant fibrinolysis during abdominal aortic surgery.", "content": "Management of fulminant fibrinolysis during abdominal aortic surgery."}
{"id": "11746529", "title": "Unintentional platelet removal by plasmapheresis.", "content": "Unintentional platelet removal by plasmapheresis. Therapeutic plasmapheresis may remove platelets as well as plasma. Unintentional platelet loss, if not recognized, may lead to inappropriate patient assessment and treatment. A patient with thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura-hemolytic uremic syndrome (TTP-HUS) is reported in whom persistent thrombocytopenia was interpreted as continuing active disease; thrombocytopenia resolved only after plasma exchange treatments were stopped. This observation prompted a systematic study of platelet loss with plasmapheresis. Data are reported on platelet loss during 432 apheresis procedures in 71 patients with six disease categories using three different instruments. Comparing the first procedure recorded for each patient, there was a significant difference among instrument types (P<0.001); platelet loss was greater with the Fresenius AS 104 (17.5%, N = 21) than with the COBE Spectra (1.6%, N = 26) or the Haemonetics LN9000 (2.6%, N = 24). With all procedures, platelet loss ranged from 0 to 71%. Among disease categories, platelet loss was greater in patients with dysproteinemias who were treated for hyperviscosity symptoms. Absolute platelet loss with the first recorded apheresis procedure, in the 34 patients who had a normal platelet count before the procedure, was also greater with the AS 104 (2.23 x 10(11) platelets) than with the Spectra (0.29 x 10(11) platelets) or the LN9000 (0.37 x 10(11) platelets). In 39 patients in whom data were collected on consecutive days, platelet removal by plasmapheresis correlated with a decreased patient platelet count (r = 0.40, P = 0.011). In these 39 patients, the platelet counts were significantly decreased at 24 hours (P = 0.002)."}
{"id": "11734662", "title": "Disintegration and reorganization of fibrin networks during tissue-type plasminogen activator-induced clot lysis.", "content": "Disintegration and reorganization of fibrin networks during tissue-type plasminogen activator-induced clot lysis. In this study, we investigated tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA)-induced lysis of glutamic acid (glu)-plasminogen-containing or lysine (lys)-plasminogen-containing thrombin-induced fibrin clots. We measured clot development and plasmin-mediated clot disintegration by thromboelastography, and used scanning electron microscopy (SEM) to document the structural changes taking place during clot formation and lysis. These events occurred in three overlapping stages, which were initiated by the addition of thrombin, resulting first in fibrin polymerization and clot network organization (Stage I). Autolytic plasmin cleavage of glu-plasminogen at lys-77 generates lys-plasminogen, exposing lysine binding sites in its kringle domains. The presence of lys-plasminogen within the thrombin-induced fibrin clot enhanced network reorganization to form thicker fibers as well as globular complexes containing fibrin and lys-plasminogen having a greater level of turbidity and a higher elastic modulus (G) than occurred with thrombin alone. Lys-plasminogen or glu-plasminogen that had been incorporated into the fibrin clot was activated to plasmin by tPA admixed with the thrombin, and led directly to clot disintegration (Stage II) concomitant with fibrin network reorganization. The onset of Stage III (clot dissolution) was signaled by a sustained secondary rise in turbidity that was due to the combined effects of lys-plasminogen presence or its conversion from glu-plasminogen, plus clot network reorganization. SEM images documented dynamic structural changes in the lysing fibrin network and showed that the secondary turbidity rise was due to extensive reorganization of severed fibrils and fibers to form wide, occasionally branched fibers. These degraded structures contributed little, if anything, to the structural integrity of the residual clot, and eventually collapsed completely during the course of progressive clot dissolution. These results provide new perspectives on the major structural events that occur in the fibrin clot matrix during fibrinolysis."}
{"id": "11726426", "title": "Hemostatic analysis of a patient with hereditary angioedema undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting.", "content": "Hemostatic analysis of a patient with hereditary angioedema undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting. Hereditary angioedema is a disease associated with acute complement-mediated inflammation and swelling of the airway and other vital organs. This case describes the impact of hereditary angioedema and cardiopulmonary bypass on hemostasis as assessed by thrombelastography."}
{"id": "11724980", "title": "In vivo and in vitro characteristics of double units of RBCs collected by apheresis with a single in-line WBC-reduction filter.", "content": "In vivo and in vitro characteristics of double units of RBCs collected by apheresis with a single in-line WBC-reduction filter. A novel apheresis procedure for a blood separator (MCS+, Haemonetics) enables the collection of 2 WBC-reduced RBC units in a single donation by using one disposable set with one in-line WBC-reduction filter (RC2H, Pall Corp.). The objective of this study was to evaluate the filtration performance in connection with different prefiltration RBC storage conditions and with the in vitro and in vivo storage quality of the filtered units. Sixty-six 2-unit RBC collection and gravity-filtration procedures were completed at three sites, resulting in 132 RBC units. Filtration of the double RBC units was performed at room temperature (RT) within 8 hours of collection (n = 36) and under refrigeration (1-6 degrees C) for up to 24 hours (n = 10) and 72 hours (n = 20) before filtration. RBC quality was compared to that of nonfiltered apheresis RBC units (n = 10). Median filtration time was 6.5 and 14 minutes for units stored at RT and under refrigeration, respectively. All 132 RBC units had residual WBC counts <0.4 x 10(6). The refrigerated units showed a greater mean log reduction in WBCs: 5.06 +/- 0.16 (24 hour) and 4.74 +/- 0.48 (72 hour), respectively, than did RT units: 4.47 +/- 0.28 (p<0.05). RBC loss was less than 12 percent in all cases (mean, 7.8 +/- 1.8%). Minimal differences in volume were observed between the paired RBC units. In vitro RBC storage characteristics of the filtered units were as expected and similar to those of the nonfiltered units. For RBC units held at RT (n = 24), the mean in vivo 24-hour recovery was 81.8 +/- 8.4 percent (double-label). Satisfactory filter performance in terms of WBC removal and RBC loss was observed with all 66 procedures, irrespective of storage conditions before filtration."}
{"id": "11703860", "title": "Autologous platelet-rich plasma isolated using the Haemonetics Cell Saver 5 and Haemonetics MCS+ for the preparation of platelet gel.", "content": "Autologous platelet-rich plasma isolated using the Haemonetics Cell Saver 5 and Haemonetics MCS+ for the preparation of platelet gel. We compared three methods of isolating platelet-rich plasma (PRP) using the Haemonetics Cell Saver 5 and one method of isolating PRP by plateletpheresis using the Haemonetics MCS+. PRP contains both platelets and fibrinogen, which are used in the preparation of haemostatic agents. When the Haemonetics Cell Saver 5 was used, 500 ml of blood from each of 30 normal volunteer donors was collected into 70 ml of citrate-phosphate-dextrose (CPD) anticoagulant. In a further 14 normal volunteers, the Haemonetics MCS+ was used to isolate PRP by plateletpheresis using an acid citrate dextrose (ACD) to blood ratio of 1 : 9. In a separate study, CPD-anticoagulated whole blood from another 30 volunteers was used for measurement of fibrinogen levels in the plasma and cryoprecipitate. A larger volume of PRP can be collected using the Haemonetics Cell Saver 5 than by using the Haemonetics MCS+. The platelet concentration and the total number of platelets were higher in the PRP isolated using the Haemonetics MCS+ than in the PRP isolated by the three methods used with the Haemonetics Cell Saver 5, with differences in platelet concentration and PRP volume among the four methods. The mean fibrinogen level in the plasma was 253 mg % +/- 47 (SD) and in the cryoprecipitate was 1085 mg % +/- 304 (SD). The most appropriate method of PRP isolation for preparation of platelet gel is dependent upon the specific surgical procedure to be undertaken and the patient's needs."}
{"id": "11702330", "title": "[Is it safe and cost effective... Danaparoid (Orgaran) as an anticoagulant for mechanical autotransfusion with Cell Saver 5 (Hemonetics),Anaesthesist (2001) 50:26-31].", "content": "[Is it safe and cost effective... Danaparoid (Orgaran) as an anticoagulant for mechanical autotransfusion with Cell Saver 5 (Hemonetics),Anaesthesist (2001) 50:26-31]."}
{"id": "11685044", "title": "Thromboelastography: a reliable test?", "content": "Thromboelastography: a reliable test? The thromboelastograph (TEG), a measure of global haemostasis, is routinely used during cardiac and hepatic surgery to optimize blood product selection and usage. It has recently been suggested that it may also be a useful tool to screen patients with hypercoagulable states. Limited published data on performance characteristics has led to speculation regarding its consistency and, therefore, validity of the results. This study was designed to assess the effect of stability of blood samples prior to testing, repeated sampling, intra- and inter-assay variability using the native, celite, tissue factor (TF) and Reopro-modified TEG. Analysis of native and celite samples after storage over 90 min showed a period of instability up to 30 min. Thereafter, all parameters between 30 and 90 min were stable [P = not significant (NS)]. When the same sample was repeatedly assayed, both native and celite TEG parameters showed a significant change towards hypercoagulability (P < 0.01), whereas the TF and Reopro-modified TEG showed no change. Intra- and inter-assay variability on samples tested after 30 min showed excellent reproducibility for all parameters (P = NS). The data suggest that the TEG is a useful tool in haemostasis but requires a formal standard operating procedure to be adopted that takes into account the initial period of sample instability."}
{"id": "11684993", "title": "Sevoflurane inhibits unstimulated and agonist-induced platelet antigen expression and platelet function in whole blood in vitro.", "content": "Sevoflurane inhibits unstimulated and agonist-induced platelet antigen expression and platelet function in whole blood in vitro. Previous studies have reported conflicting results about the effect of sevoflurane on platelet aggregation. To clarify this point, we investigated the effects of sevoflurane on platelet antigen expression and function in vitro. Human whole blood was incubated for 1 h with 0.5 and 1 minimum alveolar concentration sevoflurane, 21% O(2), and 5% CO(2). A control sample was kept at the same conditions without sevoflurane. After stimulation with adenosine diphosphate or thrombin receptor agonist peptide 6, samples were stained with fluorochrome conjugated antibodies, and the expression of platelet glycoproteins GPIIb/IIIa, GPIb, and P-selectin, as well as activated GPIIb/IIIa, were measured with two-color flow cytometry. In addition, platelet function was assessed by means of thromboelastography and using the platelet function analyzer 100. Already in subanesthetic concentrations, sevoflurane inhibits unstimulated and agonist-induced GPIIb/IIIa surface expression and activated GPIIb/IIIa expression on platelets in whole blood. The agonist-induced redistribution of GPIb into the open canalicular system was also impaired by sevoflurane, whereas no effect on P-selectin expression in activated platelets could be found. Sevoflurane significantly reduced the maximum thromboelastographic amplitude. Furthermore, platelet function analyzer 100 closure times were significantly prolonged. The results show that sevoflurane significantly impairs platelet antigen expression in vitro. It is especially the inhibition of GPIIb/IIIa expression and activation that impairs bleeding time as reflected in thromboelastographic measurements and platelet function analyzer 100 closure times. The exact inhibitory mechanism remains unclear."}
{"id": "11684986", "title": "The effects of aprotinin on thromboelastography with three different activators.", "content": "The effects of aprotinin on thromboelastography with three different activators. Thromboelastography is used for assessment of hemostasis. Adherence to thromboelastography-guided algorithms and aprotinin administration each decrease bleeding and blood product usage after cardiac surgery. Aprotinin, through inhibition of kallikrein, causes prolongation of the celite-activated clotting time and the activated partial thromboplastin ratio. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of aprotinin on the thromboelastography trace. Three activators were used in the thromboelastography: celite (which is widely established), kaolin, and tissue factor. Assessment was performed on blood from volunteers and from patients before and after cardiac surgery. The tissue factor-activated thromboelastography trace was unaffected by the addition of aprotinin. When celite and kaolin were used as activators in the presence of aprotinin, the reaction time (time to clot formation) of the thromboelastography trace was prolonged (P < 0.0001) and the maximum amplitude (clot strength) was decreased (P < 0.05). With celite as an activator, the addition of aprotinin decreased (P < 0.05) the thromboelastography alpha angle (rate of clot extension). The reaction time of the celite-activated trace correlated with the activated partial thromboplastin ratio (P < 0.01). The reaction time of the tissue factor-activated trace correlated with the international normalized ratio (P < 0.01). The thromboelastography trace is altered in the presence of aprotinin when celite and kaolin are used as activators but not when tissue factor is the activator."}
{"id": "11680729", "title": "Assessment of the resonance thromboelastograph CS-3 for differentiation of coagulation disorders: a pilot in vitro investigation of simulated post-cardiopulmonary bypass coagulopathies.", "content": "Assessment of the resonance thromboelastograph CS-3 for differentiation of coagulation disorders: a pilot in vitro investigation of simulated post-cardiopulmonary bypass coagulopathies. Resonance thromboelastography (RTG), a further development of the thromboelastogram (TEG), has been designed for improved differentiation of the effect of the plasmatic coagulation factors (increasing F-leg) and platelets (decreasing P-leg) on clot formation. It is based on the effect of clot elasticity on the resonance of a swinging wire. We assessed the RTG for its ability to differentiate coagulation disorders that frequently occur after cardiac surgery. The RTG was performed with a CS-3 Analyzer. Samples from 10 healthy volunteers were investigated after the following preparations: (1) baseline values, (2) dilution to a hematocrit of 30% and 20% with either hydroxyl ethyl starch (HES) 10% or plasma; (3) addition of 0.25, 0.5, and 1.0 IU/mL porcine heparin with and without heparinase; and (4) addition of 1.0, 3.0, 4.0, and 5.0 microg/mL of the antiplatelet agent abciximab (ReoPro). Increasing concentrations of abciximab led to a slower decrease or in the case of higher concentrations, to a persistent elevation of the platelet leg of the RTG. Dilution of the hematocrit with plasma had no effect on the fibrin and platelet leg; whereas, dilution with HES 10% led to an inhibition of the fibrin and platelet leg. Dilution of the plasmatic coagulation factors resulted in an inhibition of both the fibrin and the platelet leg. The addition of 0.25 and 0.5 IU/mL of heparin led to an increased coagulation time and inhibition of the fibrin and platelet legs. These effects were eliminated by the addition of heparinase. The RTG enables the evaluation of platelet function under the condition of a nonimpaired plasma coagulation system. Depletion of plasma coagulation factors and the administration of small amounts of heparin do not enable the distinction between residual effects of an anticoagulant, coagulation factor deficiency, or impaired platelet function. However, the heparin effects can be eliminated by the addition of heparinase. Further improvement may be achieved using a modified RTG by adding plasma coagulation factors in one channel for an improved evaluation of platelet function, even under the condition of a loss of procoagulants."}
{"id": "11680728", "title": "Evaluation of post-cardiopulmonary bypass coagulation disorders by differential diagnosis with a multichannel modified thromboelastogram: a pilot investigation.", "content": "Evaluation of post-cardiopulmonary bypass coagulation disorders by differential diagnosis with a multichannel modified thromboelastogram: a pilot investigation. We assessed a modified multichannel thromboelastogram for differentiation of the causes of coagulopathy after cardiopulmonary bypass and its suitability as a therapy guide. Thirty adult patients undergoing surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass, who revealed a coagulopathy as observed by a prolonged activated clotting time of >150 sec after the application of protamine, were enrolled. Therapy was based on the results obtained by the computerized four-channel thromboelastogram with baseline, heparinase (2 IU/mL), heparinase/abciximab (5 microg/mL), and heparinase/fresh frozen plasma (25%) channels. The mean activated clotting time before therapy was 162.2+/-7.8 sec. Based on differential diagnosis with the modified multichannel thromboelastogram, two patients received protamine (30 mg), five desmopressin (0.4 microg/kg), 19 patients three units of fresh frozen plasma, two patients platelet transfusions, and two patients both protamine (30 mg) and three units of fresh frozen plasma. After therapy, there was a significant (p < .01) decrease of the activated clotting time to a mean value of 127+/-8.3 sec. Therapy based on the synoptic modified multichannel thromboelastogram analysis provides a guide for effective therapy of coagulopathy. However, elaboration is desirable, and larger clinical trials are necessary for a final evaluation of the protocol."}
{"id": "11679989", "title": "Aprotinin in orthotopic liver transplantation: evidence for a prohemostatic, but not a prothrombotic, effect.", "content": "Aprotinin in orthotopic liver transplantation: evidence for a prohemostatic, but not a prothrombotic, effect. Aprotinin reduces blood transfusion requirements in orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). Concern has been voiced about the potential risk for thrombotic complications when aprotinin is used. The aim of this study is to evaluate the effects of aprotinin on the two components of the hemostatic system (coagulation and fibrinolysis) in patients undergoing OLT. As part of a larger, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, we compared coagulation (fibrinogen level, activated partial thromboplastin time [aPTT], prothrombin time, and platelet count) and fibrinolytic variables (tissue-type plasminogen activator [tPA] antigen and activity, plasminogen activator inhibitor activity, and D-dimer), as well as thromboelastography (reaction time [r], clot formation time, and maximum amplitude) in 27 patients administered either high-dose aprotinin (2 x 10(6) kallikrein inhibitor units [KIU] at induction, continuous infusion of 1 x 10(6) KIU/h, and 1 x 10(6) KIU before reperfusion; n = 10), regular-dose aprotinin (2 x 10(6) KIU at induction and continuous infusion of 0.5 x 10(6) KIU/h; n = 8), or placebo (n = 9) during OLT. Blood samples were drawn at seven standardized intraoperative times. Baseline characteristics were similar for the three groups. During the anhepatic and postreperfusion periods, fibrinolytic activity (plasma D-dimer and tPA antigen levels) was significantly lower in aprotinin-treated patients compared with the placebo group. Interestingly, coagulation times (aPTT and r) were significantly more prolonged in aprotinin-treated patients than the placebo group. No difference was seen in the incidence of perioperative thrombotic complications in the entire study population (n = 137). Aprotinin has an anticoagulant rather than a procoagulant effect. Its blood-sparing (prohemostatic) effect appears to be the overall result of a strong antifibrinolytic and a weaker anticoagulant effect. These findings argue against a prothrombotic effect of aprotinin in patients undergoing OLT."}
{"id": "11669429", "title": "Haemodilution-induced enhancement of coagulation is attenuated in vitro by restoring antithrombin III to pre-dilution concentrations.", "content": "Haemodilution-induced enhancement of coagulation is attenuated in vitro by restoring antithrombin III to pre-dilution concentrations. Moderate haemodilution enhances coagulability in vitro and in vivo as measured by thrombelastography (TEG). The mechanism has never been established. We have conducted an in vitro study to determine whether the effect can be moderated or prevented when the reduction in antithrombin III caused by dilution is prevented by supplementation. Blood from 20 volunteers was divided into four samples. One sample was not diluted and served as control (C). Another was diluted (by 20%) with saline (S). The third was diluted by 20% with saline plus two units of antithrombin (AT III) (SA). The fourth remained undiluted, with two units of added AT III (CA). Coagulation was measured in all four samples using the TEG. In a separate laboratory study, the levels of AT III were measured in control samples and compared with levels after 20% dilution, and 20% dilution with two units of AT III added to the diluent. Enhanced coagulation was demonstrated in saline-diluted samples (S) by shortening of r- and k-times, and increased alpha angle. In the SA samples, r-time shortening was prevented; k-time shortening and alpha-angle increase persisted, but to a reduced degree (difference from saline-only dilution P<0.051). There were no differences between samples C and CA. A predictable drop of AT III (24.2%) occurred with saline dilution, while AT III levels in the AT III/Saline group were similar to the undiluted control. Haemodilution-induced coagulation enhancement is attenuated, but not prevented, if AT III levels are maintained in the normal range. This is in keeping with the established concept of an antithrombin threshold preventing positive coagulation feedback into the intrinsic pathway."}
{"id": "11606349", "title": "[Reproducibility and interchangeability of the Thromboelastograph, Sonoclot and Hemochron activated coagulation time in cardiac surgery].", "content": "[Reproducibility and interchangeability of the Thromboelastograph, Sonoclot and Hemochron activated coagulation time in cardiac surgery]. Despite their common use in cardiac surgery, few studies have evaluated the reproducibility of the Thromboelastograph (TEG), of the Sonoclot (SCT), and of the activated coagulation time with celite (ACT-C) or kaolin (ACT-K) measured with the Hemochron, in clinical conditions of on-site monitoring of hemostasis. This study determined the reproducibility of those measurements, and evaluated the ability of various devices to substitute for the ACT-C. Blood samples collected from 20 volunteers and 21 patients undergoing myocardial revascularization were analyzed in the two channels of the TEG, in two SCT and four Hemochron analyzers. The overall of TEG and SCT coagulation profiles were analyzed by a computerized TEG and an experienced observer respectively. The variation rate (V%) was calculated for each variable. The ability of ACT-K and SCT to substitute for ACT-C under different clinical conditions was evaluated. ACT-C and ACT-K V% ranged between 5.6% and 10.8% and between 6.7% and 12.4% respectively. TEG and SCT V% ranged between 3.1% and 9.5% and between 5.8% and 33.6% respectively, according to different conditions and parameters. In volunteers and non-heparinized patients, the ACT-C and ACT-K were interchangeable. No other test can substitute for the ACT-C when patients are heparinized during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). In the clinical conditions of use, on-site hemostasis monitoring devices providing the most reproducible measurements are, in decreasing order, the TEG, the Hemochron and the SCT. In heparinized patients and during CPB, results from different tests are not interchangeable, stressing the importance of establishing appropriate instrument-specific values for monitoring anticoagulation during cardiac surgery."}
{"id": "11583738", "title": "Comparison of the effect of different platelet GPIIb/IIa antagonists on the dynamics of platelet/fibrin-mediated clot strength induced using thromboelastography.", "content": "Comparison of the effect of different platelet GPIIb/IIa antagonists on the dynamics of platelet/fibrin-mediated clot strength induced using thromboelastography. The effect of various platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa (GPIIb/IIIa) antagonists on the dynamics of platelet-fibrin clot formation and strength induced by various stimuli was measured by thromboelastography (TEG). GPIIb/IIIa antagonists with high affinity for resting and activated platelets and with slow rates of dissociation from GPIIb/IIIa (Class I antagonists) demonstrated potent and comparable inhibition of platelet aggregation and tissue factor (TF), lipopolysaccharide (LPS), Factor Xa, and thrombin-induced clot strength, in contrast to antagonists that dissociate rapidly from GPIIb/IIIa (Class II antagonists). For example, the Class I antagonist XV459 (the free acid form of roxifiban) inhibited TF, endotoxin, Factor Xa, and thrombin-induced maximal clot strength and platelet aggregation with an IC(50)=30-70 nM, whereas the IC(50) of the Class II antagonist YZ211 (the free acid form of sibrafiban) for altering clot formation and strength was 0.3-4.7 microM. Moreover, the IC(50)'s of sibrafiban, and another Class II antagonist, orbofiban, for inhibiting platelet-fibrin clot formation and strength were substantially greater than their clinically achievable concentrations. Further, although aspirin treatment improved the efficacy of all GPIIb/IIIa antagonists, it did not alter the differences between Classes I and II antagonists. Thus, these data indicate that there are differences in the efficacy of various GPIIb/IIIa antagonists in inhibiting platelet-fibrin clot formation and strength. They also suggest that inhibiting platelet aggregation may not be the sole determinant for the in vivo efficacy of various GPIIb/IIIa antagonists."}
{"id": "11579893", "title": "Human susceptibility to Schistosoma japonicum in China correlates with antibody isotypes to native antigens.", "content": "Human susceptibility to Schistosoma japonicum in China correlates with antibody isotypes to native antigens. Antibody isotypic responses (IgE, IgA, IgG1, IgG2, IgG3 and IgG4) to Schistosoma japonicum antigens--adult worm (AWA), soluble egg (SEA) and the recombinant proteins TEG (22.6-kDa tegumental antigen, Sj22) and PMY (paramyosin, Sj97)--were measured (in 1998) in a cohort of 179 Chinese subjects 2 years post-treatment. Subjects in the highest intensity re-infection group (> 100 eggs per gram faeces) had significantly higher levels of IgG1 and IgG4 against AWA. Analysis of IgG4/IgE ratios for AWA and SEA linked IgG4 excess to re-infection and IgE excess to non-re-infection. Two years after chemotherapeutic cure, 29 subjects, who were re-infected or never infected but highly water-exposed, were classified as epidemiologically susceptible (n = 15) or epidemiologically insusceptible to infection (n = 14). IgG4 levels against native antigens (AWA and SEA) were higher in susceptible and IgE levels were higher in insusceptible but antibody responses to the recombinant proteins (PMY and TEG) showed no clear pattern or difference between susceptibility groups. These and earlier findings provide evidence that immunity develops against schistosomiasis japonica in China and that susceptibility/resistance correlates with antibody isotypes against native schistosome antigens."}
{"id": "11575418", "title": "Comparison of coagulation and blood loss during anaesthesia with inhaled isoflurane or intravenous propofol.", "content": "Comparison of coagulation and blood loss during anaesthesia with inhaled isoflurane or intravenous propofol. Propofol has been reported to affect blood coagulation. This prospective, randomized study compared coagulation and blood loss during anaesthetic maintenance with target-controlled intravenous propofol infusion vs. inhaled isoflurane. Thirty-eight ASA I-III patients undergoing head and neck surgery were allocated randomly to receive either inhaled isoflurane at end-tidal concentration 1-1.5% (group I, n=20) or target-controlled infusion (TCI) of propofol at target concentration 2-5 microg ml(-1) (group P, n=18). Thrombelastography on recalcified whole blood was performed pre-induction, and at 15, 30, 60, 90, 120 min post-induction and 30 min after anaesthesia in both groups. Blood loss was estimated from weighing swabs and the volume in suction bottles. Induced hypotension was not used, and perioperative body temperature was similar between groups. There were no significant differences in thrombelastographic coagulation (R-time, K-time, maximum amplitude and angle) or fibrinolytic variables (lysis index at 30 and 60 min) at all times between groups. Total blood loss was also not significantly different (median group I: 350 ml, range 20-1200 ml; group P: 200 ml, range 50-800 ml). Shortening of R-time and widening of angle developed over time in both groups (P<0.05 groups I and P, repeated measures ANOVA). We conclude that maintenance of anaesthesia with propofol TCI at 2-5 microg ml(-1) does not cause detectable coagulation changes on thrombelastography nor increase surgical blood loss when compared to inhaled isoflurane."}
{"id": "11574351", "title": "Hemostatic changes in pediatric neurosurgical patients as evaluated by thrombelastograph.", "content": "Hemostatic changes in pediatric neurosurgical patients as evaluated by thrombelastograph. Thromboembolic events are a known complication in neurosurgical patients. There is evidence to suggest that a hypercoagulable state may develop perioperatively. Thrombelastograph (TEG) coagulation analysis is a reliable method of evaluating hypercoagulability. We evaluated coagulation by using TEG data in pediatric neurosurgical patients undergoing craniotomy to determine whether a hypercoagulable state develops intraoperatively or postoperatively. Thirty children undergoing craniotomy for removal of a tumor or seizure focus were studied. Blood was analyzed with TEG) data by using native and celite techniques, at three time points for each patient: preoperatively after induction of anesthesia; intraoperatively during closure of the dura; and on the first postoperative day. Compared with preoperative indices, closing and postoperative celite TEG values were indicative of hypercoagulability with shortened coagulation time values (P < 0.001), prolonged alpha angle divergence values (P < 0.001), and above-normal TEG coagulation indices (P < or = 0.002). Reaction time values were shortened, and maximal amplitude of clot strength values were prolonged but did not reach statistical significance. Hypercoagulation develops early after resection of brain tissue in pediatric neurosurgical patients as assessed by using TEG data. Further studies are needed to determine the clinical significance of this hypercoagulable state. Hypercoagulability in postoperative neurosurgical patients has been demonstrated in the adult population, but few studies have dealt with the pediatric population. We found that children undergoing craniotomy for focal resection, lobectomy, and hemispherectomy are hypercoagulable as detected by thrombelastograph coagulation analysis. Further studies are needed to determine whether this is clinically significant."}
{"id": "11574349", "title": "Bleeding in a patient receiving platelet aggregation inhibitors.", "content": "Bleeding in a patient receiving platelet aggregation inhibitors. We describe a patient who experienced intraoperative bleeding after being treated with platelet receptor glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonist eptifibatide. We used Sonoclot and Thrombelastograph to monitor antiplatelet effects of eptifibatide."}
{"id": "11573637", "title": "Reduced haemostatic factor transfusion using heparinase-modified thrombelastography during cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Reduced haemostatic factor transfusion using heparinase-modified thrombelastography during cardiopulmonary bypass. We set out to determine if the heparinase-modified thrombelastogram using anticoagulated blood from patients during cardiac surgery could guide treatment with haemostatic components. In 60 patients a simple algorithm predicted a possible 60-80% decrease in the use of haemostatic components. In a second series, 30 patients were allocated to receive components using this intra-operative algorithm and 30 using clinical criteria and laboratory-based tests. Ten patients in the clinical group received a total of 16 units of fresh frozen plasma and nine platelet concentrates compared with five patients transfused with five units of fresh frozen plasma and one platelet concentrate in the algorithm group. Twelve-hour chest tube losses [algorithm group 470 (295-820) ml, clinically managed group 390 (240-820) ml (median, quartile values)] were not different between groups despite the threefold reduction in the use of haemostatic products, showing that intra-operative monitoring of coagulation in the anticoagulated patient can be used to guide treatment."}
{"id": "11573588", "title": "Does prior administration of enoxaparin influence the effects of levobupivacaine on blood clotting? Assessment using the Thrombelastograph.", "content": "Does prior administration of enoxaparin influence the effects of levobupivacaine on blood clotting? Assessment using the Thrombelastograph. The low molecular weight heparin, enoxaparin (by inhibition of factors Xa and IIa) and amide local anaesthetics (by altering platelet function) exert anti-clotting effects. Although these agents are often used in combination during the perioperative period, their potential interactive effect on clotting has not been defined. Blood from 10 ASA I-II patients who received enoxaparin 0.5 mg kg(-1) s.c. was studied using a Thrombelastograph (TEG) either alone or in combination with levobupivacaine (2.5 mg ml(-1) or 2.5 microg ml(-1)) or saline (50% dilution). In blood from patients who had received enoxaparin 0.5 mg kg(-1) s.c. 12 h previously, levobupivacaine 2.5 mg ml(-1) (but not 2.5 microg ml(-1)) produced significant changes in TEG clotting parameters (mean (SD) 15.7 (4.8) mm, 29.6 (25.6) mm, 34.4 (14.6) mm, 34.3 (12.2) degrees compared with control values of 6.1 (1.3) mm, 2.5 (0.5) mm, 63.5 (6.4) mm and 74.1 (2.9) degrees for r, K, MA, and alpha angle respectively)."}
{"id": "11552215", "title": "Aprotinin reduces red blood cell transfusion in orthotopic liver transplantation: a prospective, randomized, double-blind study.", "content": "Aprotinin reduces red blood cell transfusion in orthotopic liver transplantation: a prospective, randomized, double-blind study. The effect of an aprotinin infusion on blood and blood product transfusion during adult primary orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) was investigated in a prospective, randomized, double-blind study. Sixty-three patients were enrolled; 33 patients were administered an aprotinin regimen of a 1,000,000-KIU loading dose, followed by a 250,000-KIU/h infusion during surgery, and 30 patients were administered equivalent volumes of normal saline. Red blood cell (RBC) and blood product transfusion intraoperatively and for the first 24 hours postoperatively was by protocol. Intraoperative coagulation testing and thromboelastography (TEG; Hemoscope Corp, Skokie, IL) were performed. Intraoperative RBC transfusion was significantly less in the aprotinin group versus controls: median, 5 units (interquartile range [IQR], 3 to 9 units) versus 7 units (IQR, 5 to 16 units; P =.0016). No significant differences were found for intraoperative blood product transfusion or transfusion of RBCs or blood products in the 24-hour postoperative period. No significant differences were observed in intraoperative coagulation testing or TEG parameters. We conclude that aprotinin infusion reduces RBC transfusion requirements in OLT."}
{"id": "11544618", "title": "A cytokine analysis of the effect of cell saver on blood in coronary bypass surgery.", "content": "A cytokine analysis of the effect of cell saver on blood in coronary bypass surgery. Increasing concern about the transmission of viral disease has generated greater interest in the use of salvaged blood as a means of alleviating the demand for homologous blood and expediting resuscitation during massive hemorrhage. Autologous blood processed by autotransfusion devices has become increasingly common in major surgery and is now largely viewed as safe and efficacious. However, there may be serious complications and sequelae associated with the use of processed blood, such as adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and renal failure. Complement cascade activation resulting from blood coming into contact with autotransfusion equipment leads to enrollment of leukocytes and release of large concentrations of cytokines, which may contribute to the development of organ failure. Our study evaluated cytokine release during cell saver (CS) blood salvage in the course of coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) surgery. Forty-five patients randomly selected for CABG were evaluated. All had received at least one unit of autotransfused blood by means of the Haemonetics Cell Saver System 5 (Haemonetics Corp., Braintree, MA). Each patient had four blood samples taken (pre-operative, CS container, autotransfusion from the blood bag, and one hour post-transfusion). These samples were then centrifuged and the sera were collected. An enzyme linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) test, using the Biosource Cytoscreen solid phase \"sandwich\" ELISA kit (Biosource International, Camarillo, CA) was conducted to determine levels of the cytokines Interleukin (IL) 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10, tumor necrosis factor (TNF), intracellular adhesion molecule (ICAM), and vascular cell adhesion molecule (VCAM). Significantly increased concentrations of the pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-1, 2, 4, 6, and 8, TNF, ICAM, and VCAM were noted throughout all time periods studied. The same effect was observed for the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10. Statistically significant increases in both the circulating levels of the pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory cytokines studied were recorded. It is our contention that the presence of IL-10, a down-regulator of inflammation, is responsible for attenuating the possible deleterious effects of the pro-inflammatory cytokines observed. However, morbidity and mortality, as well as the future patency of the bypass grafts, have not been correlated with the use of the autologous method of transfusion."}
{"id": "11515618", "title": "Cellular contamination of plasma collected with various apheresis systems.", "content": "Cellular contamination of plasma collected with various apheresis systems. Efforts to improve the purity of blood products have mainly focused on reducing white blood cell (WBC) levels in cellular blood products. Relatively little attention has been given to the cellular purity of plasma. We evaluated plasma units collected on six apheresis systems: Dideco Excel, Haemonetics-MCS+, Fresenius-AS-Tech 204, Baxter-Amicus, Gambro BCT COBE Spectra and Gambro BCT-Trima. Collected plasma volumes averaged 300-350 ml for the various systems. Plasma samples were analyzed for platelet (PLT) content (Technicon H3, Bayer) and residual WBC (Imagn 2000). Results are given below. Platelet levels were consistently low for MCS+, COBE Spectra and Trima (all <50 x 10(3) microl(-1)), and were highest with AS204. Residual WBC levels were relatively low in all systems except MCS+. Extremely low levels were observed in Trima plasma. All of the Trima and Spectra units contained <1 x 10(6) WBC per product. With Excel, AS-Tech 204 and Amicus, 1 to 2 units were found to have >1 x 10(6) WBC, while almost all units from MCS+ exceeded this limit. Different levels of plasma purity were obtained with different apheresis systems. The Gambro BCT COBE Spectra and Trima systems were found to achieve consistently low levels of both platelets and WBC."}
{"id": "11515616", "title": "A prospective randomised concurrent comparison of the COBE Spectra Version 4.7, COBE Spectra Version 6 (auto PBSC) and Haemonetics MCS+ cell separators for leucapheresis in patients with haematological and non-haematological malignancies.", "content": "A prospective randomised concurrent comparison of the COBE Spectra Version 4.7, COBE Spectra Version 6 (auto PBSC) and Haemonetics MCS+ cell separators for leucapheresis in patients with haematological and non-haematological malignancies. A prospective study of the CD34+ cell collection efficiency of three cell separators was undertaken comparing the mononuclear cell, CD34+ cell and CFU-GM yield. Twenty patients were entered in the study, all had received mobilising chemotherapy and daily G-CSF (5 microg/kg subcutaneously). The first leucapheresis was performed when the peripheral blood absolute CD34+ cell count was > or = 20 cells/microl. All patients underwent two leucaphereses on consecutive days. The patients were randomised to undergo either the first or second leucapheresis using the COBE Spectra Version 4.7 and then randomised to either the COBE Spectra Version 6 or Haemonetics MCS+ for the other leucapheresis. The target durations of the procedure on the COBE Spectra Version 4.7 and Version 6 were 180 min or two total blood volumes (TBV), and for the Haemonetics MCS+ was 20 cycles with four recirculations. All machines were operated on the 1997 software supplied by the respective manufacturers. The time taken for the procedure was significantly longer with both the Haemonetics MCS+ and the COBE Spectra Version 6 than the COBE Spectra Version 4.7. Both COBE Spectra versions processed significantly larger volumes of blood than the Haemonetics MCS+. The absolute yield of mononuclear cells, CFU-GM and CD34+ cells were all significantly lower with the Haemonetics MCS+ compared with both COBE Spectra Versions, as were the yields per unit volume of blood processed. There was no significant difference in the reduction in the platelet count following leucapheresis with any of the machines."}
{"id": "11515614", "title": "Red cell apheresis in autologous preoperative blood donation.", "content": "Red cell apheresis in autologous preoperative blood donation. Preoperative autologous blood donation (PAD) is a commonly used technique for elective surgical procedures with a predictable blood loss. The conventional method is to collect one unit whole blood weekly several times within the shelf-life of red cell concentrates. Erythrapheresis with the Haemonetics cell separator MCS-3p or plus makes it possible to collect two units of red cells in one single session and with this option the time interval and operation can be prolonged to three weeks to improve erythropoiesis. 295 patients, who were scheduled for hip replacement or knee endoprothesis were evaluated retrospectively calculating the net profit of red cells after donating two units of red cells by erythrapheresis. The median net profit of red cells was 140 ml red cells but with a wide range. The patients who profit most of PAD were those with a predonation hct below 42% who had net profits up to 300 ml red cells due to an increased erythropoiesis, which compensate for the withdrawal of the red cells. Thus erythrapheresis with the Haemonetics MCS-3p or Haemonetics MCS plus is recommended for patients with a predonation hct lower than 42% and who can be scheduled for PAD at least 3 weeks before operation when two units of red cells are the target for PAD."}
{"id": "11505075", "title": "Thrombelastography.", "content": "Thrombelastography. Thrombelastography is a 'near patient' test of coagulation. It is easy to perform and can provide information on a patient's coagulation status within 30 min. Despite more than 25 years of clinical experience, however, several basic questions relating thromboelastograph (TEG) parameters to standard coagulation tests remain unanswered, and the value of the TEG is established only in the setting of orthotopic liver transplantation and cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. This review will focus on the principles and practise of the TEG(R), and data supporting the current accepted uses. Potential future uses will also be discussed including evaluation of hypercoagulable states, and investigating the mechanism of coagulopathies due to drugs or disease that standard tests have failed to unravel."}
{"id": "11493497", "title": "Isolated reduction of haematocrit does not compromise in vitro blood coagulation.", "content": "Isolated reduction of haematocrit does not compromise in vitro blood coagulation. Low haematocrit values are generally well tolerated in terms of oxygen transport but a low haematocrit might interfere with blood coagulation. We thus sampled 60 ml of blood in 30 healthy volunteers. The blood was centrifuged for 30 min at 2000 g and separated into plasma, which contained the platelet fraction, and packed red blood cells. The blood was subsequently reconstituted by combining the entire plasma fraction with a mixture of packed red blood cells, 0.9% saline, so that the final haematocrit was either 40, 30, 20, or 10%. Blood coagulation was assessed by computerized Thrombelastograph analysis. Data were compared using repeated measures analysis of variance and post-hoc paired t-tests with Bonferroni correction. Decreasing the haematocrit from 40 to 10% resulted in a shortening of reaction time (r) and coagulation time (k), and an increase in angle alpha, maximum amplitude (MA) and clot strength (G) (all P<0.02). This pattern represents acceleration of blood coagulation with low haematocrit values. The isolated reduction in haematocrit, therefore, does not compromise in vitro blood coagulation."}
{"id": "11490184", "title": "Abnormal coagulation during pediatric craniofacial surgery.", "content": "Abnormal coagulation during pediatric craniofacial surgery. This prospective study of children undergoing major craniofacial surgery was undertaken to determine whether abnormal hemostasis occurred and to characterize any coagulopathy found. Coagulation tests, blood loss and blood product transfusions were recorded perioperatively. Packed red blood cells (PRBC) were transfused to maintain target hematocrit. Patients with blood loss >100 ml/kg (group A, n = 5) were compared to patients with blood loss <100 ml/kg (group B, n = 22) using Mann-Whitney U test (p < 0.05). Twenty-seven children (age range 2.9--27.9 months) had median total blood loss of 64 ml/kg. At completion of surgery, median coagulation values differed significantly between groups for prothrombin time (A: 16.6 s; B: 13.8 s), partial thromboplastin time (A: 44 s; B: 29 s), thrombin time (A: 28 s; B: 23 s), thromboelastograph reaction time (A: 7 mm; B: 4 mm), prothrombin fragment F1.2 (A: 1.9 nmol/l; B: 3.3 nmol/l) and platelet count (A: 174 K/mm(-3); B: 239 K/mm(-3)). Fibrinolysis was not associated with blood loss. Median units transfused were in group A 3 units and group B 1 unit (p = 0.001). All patients received PRBC transfusions but only group A patients received other blood products (fresh frozen plasma, platelets). Children transfused with PRBC during craniosynostosis repair can become coagulopathic from coagulation factor depletion when hemorrhage approaches 1.5 times estimated blood volume."}
{"id": "11487382", "title": "Studies on the improvement of leucodepletion performance of the Haemonetics MCS+ for production of leucodepleted platelet concentrate.", "content": "Studies on the improvement of leucodepletion performance of the Haemonetics MCS+ for production of leucodepleted platelet concentrate. With the implementation of universal leucodepletion, an in-line, negatively charged LRF6H leucodepleting filter became an essential part of the Haemonetics MCS+ plateletpheresis system. A larger-scale (968) study using the standard protocol revealed a 2.79% leucodepletion failure rate (standard < 5 x 10(6) leucocytes per adult therapeutic dose). Factors influencing the efficacy of the filter were investigated. The pH of the filtrate was 7.0, the temperature 28 degrees C and filtration rate 80 ml/min. Reduction of the filtration rate to 30 ml/min (784 doses) reduced leucodepletion failure to 0.38%. Measurement of the leucocyte count, pre- and post-filtration of the platelet products, revealed that donations from 1% of donors contained substantially larger numbers of leucocytes in pre-filter samples (300-1500/microl) than in control samples (35-70/microl). This number tends to increase progressively with subsequent donations in these individuals, leading to leucodepletion failure, whilst peripheral leucocyte counts remain normal. The new continuous filtration protocol (version C) using a less impact filter LRF-XL and a lower (7 ml/min) head pressure was also effective but failure still occurred twice on one of the donors who persistently showed high pre-filter count. We conclude that leucodepletion failures in the Haemonetics system are related to both donor leucocyte (i.e., being light and non-adherent) and operational/filter performance."}
{"id": "11473892", "title": "Thromboelastography: another point of view.", "content": "Thromboelastography: another point of view."}
{"id": "11473843", "title": "Arterial and venous Thrombelastograph variables differ during cardiac surgery.", "content": "Arterial and venous Thrombelastograph variables differ during cardiac surgery. The Thrombelastograph (TEG; Haemoscope Corp., Skokie, IL) coagulation analyzer is an effective point-of-care monitor for routine clinical practice and clinical research. Prior investigators have used either arterial or venous samples of blood for TEG measurements. We conducted this prospective cohort study to determine potential differences in TEG variables between arterial and venous blood samples. Arterial and venous samples were drawn from 40 cardiac surgical patients, yielding 134 pairs for comparison. Twenty-nine comparisons (control) were between arterial and arterial samples and were not significantly different. For the arterial and venous comparisons (n = 105), mean (+/-sd) arterial and venous values were the following: reaction time, 10 +/- 2 mm vs 13 +/- 4 mm, P = 0.004; maximum amplitude, 59 +/- 9 mm vs 49 +/- 12 mm, P < 0.001; alpha angle, 61 +/- 10 degrees vs 51 +/- 14 degrees, P < 0.001; K, 5 +/- 2 mm vs 8 +/- 4 mm, P = 0.007; and lysis, 2.5 +/- 1.7 vs 2.5 +/- 2.0 (not significant), arterial versus venous, respectively. Arterial blood samples demonstrated TEG values reflecting stronger (larger maximum amplitude) and faster (shorter reaction time and K value, wider alpha angle) clot formation. The results suggest that users of TEG coagulation analyzers should be consistent with the site of blood sampling given the potential differences obtained. Thrombelastograph (TEG) values obtained from venous blood samples differ from values obtained from arterial blood samples. When the TEG coagulation analyzer is used for clinical purposes, it is important to be consistent in the blood collection site."}
{"id": "11467444", "title": "Effects of ultrafiltration on enoxaparin: an in vitro analysis.", "content": "Effects of ultrafiltration on enoxaparin: an in vitro analysis. The use of low molecular weight heparins (LMWH) as an anticoagulant in the heparin-resistant patient poses challenges during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). The ultrafiltrability of LMWH has not been previously examined. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of continuous ultrafiltration on the concentraton of a LMWH, enoxaparin. An in vitro analysis was performed using fresh whole human blood and an extracorporeal circuit containing four parallel ultrafiltrators and a cardiotomy reservoir with an integrated heat exchanger. Constant conditions included temperature (37 degrees C), flow (0.20 L-min(-1)) transmembrane pressure (200 mmHg), and hematocrit (25 +/- 2%). Samples were collected at the inlet, outlet, and ultrafiltrate line at one and three min for one control trial and again for each of the four hemoconcentrators following the bolus of enoxaparin. Coagulation measurements included a viscoelastic monitor (TEG), activated clotting time (ACT), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), and quantitative analysis utilizing a membrane-based electrode for potentiometric measurement of polyanionic concentrations of enoxaparin. Enoxaparin concentration, from inlet to outlet, increased from 2.95 +/- 0.64 to 5.89 +/- 0.95 (p < .001) at 1 min and 4.24 +/- 0.49 to 7.89 +/- 0.606 (p < .001) at 3 min. Kinetic clot activity, as assessed by the TEG index, decreased from -3.8 +/- 2.5 vs. -10.5 +/- 6.0; (p < .01) pre- to postultrafiltrator samples after 3 min. ACT and aPTT results demonstrated no significant change. In conclusion, this study demonstrates enoxaparin is concentrated with the use of continuous ultrafiltration. Functional coagulation studies also indicate a concentrating effect, primarily via the TEG."}
{"id": "11467435", "title": "Quantitative evaluation of hypothermia, hyperthermia, and hemodilution on coagulation.", "content": "Quantitative evaluation of hypothermia, hyperthermia, and hemodilution on coagulation. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effects of temperature change on the coagulation time of blood at two different hematocrit levels by using various coagulation-monitoring devices. The devices used in this study were the Bayer Rapid Point Coag Analyzers, Hemochron Jr. Signature, Hemochron Response, Medtronic ACT II, and Haemoscope Thrombelastograph. One unit of human bank blood was used in this study. The hematocrit level was adjusted to 40% and 20%. A control bath and experimental bath were set up. Control blood was maintained at 37 degrees C and tested every 45 +/- 15 min throughout the experimental period of 6 h to demonstrate the stability of the model. The experimental blood was tested at temperature points of 37, 32, 27, 32, 37, 42, and 37 degrees C. Activated clotting time (ACT) tended to increase when the temperature was initially decreased from 37 to 27 degrees C, which reached a statistically significant level when measured by the Hemochron Response at both the 20% (147 +/- 10.7 to 159.3 +/- 11.0, p < .0332) and 40% hematocrit level (130 +/- 14.9 to 152.1 +/- 19.7, p < .0148). ACT was decreased significantly (p < .05) when the temperature was increased to 42 degrees C as measured by all machines except the Hemochron Jr. Signature at the 20% hematocrit level. ACT was significantly higher (p < .05) at a 20% hematocrit level as compared to that at a 40% hematocrit level on all devices for the majority of temperature points. These data suggested that hypothermia only increased ACT when measured by a macrosample device requiring a milliliter sample (Hemochron Response). However, hemodilution induced anticoagulatory effects and hyperthermia caused an acceleration in coagulation by all devices utilized in this study."}
{"id": "11454258", "title": "Impact of plasmapheresis on platelet hemostatic capacity in healthy voluntary blood donors detected by the platelet function analyzer PFA-100.", "content": "Impact of plasmapheresis on platelet hemostatic capacity in healthy voluntary blood donors detected by the platelet function analyzer PFA-100. Previous flow cytometry studies showed that platelet activation may occur during cytapheresis, cardiopulmonary bypass and hemodialysis. The aim of this pilot study was to determine if the impact of plasmapheresis leads to alterations in platelet hemostatic capacity. Plasmapheresis was carried out in 30 volunteers using an Autopherese C (Baxter) and an MCS3p (Haemonetics). Blood samples were collected and analyzed immediately before and after plasmapheresis. As a result of the plasmapheresis on the Autopherese C, the mean closure time (CT) for collagen/epinephrine (Col/Epi) increased from 118.2 +/- 25.1 to 149.9 +/- 35.0 s and from 88.7 +/- 16.9 to 98.5 +/- 26.3 s for collagen/ADP (Col/ADP), respectively. Seven subjects showed impaired CTs after plasmapheresis for Col/Epi. For Col/ADP, five subjects showed impaired CTs after apheresis. Statistical analysis (McNemar test) showed a significant difference before and after apheresis for Col/Epi (P = 0.024) but not for Col/ADP (P = 0.088). Similar results were shown for plasmapheresis carried out with the MCS3p. These findings show that plasmapheresis can cause an impairment of platelet function in healthy volunteers as measured by the PFA-100, an effect of so far unknown clinical significance."}
{"id": "11452163", "title": "A multicenter study of in vitro and in vivo values in human RBCs frozen with 40-percent (wt/vol) glycerol and stored after deglycerolization for 15 days at 4 degrees C in AS-3: assessment of RBC processing in the ACP 215.", "content": "A multicenter study of in vitro and in vivo values in human RBCs frozen with 40-percent (wt/vol) glycerol and stored after deglycerolization for 15 days at 4 degrees C in AS-3: assessment of RBC processing in the ACP 215. The FDA has approved the storage of frozen RBCs at -80 degrees C for 10 years. After deglycerolization, the RBCs can be stored at 4 degrees C for no more than 24 hours, because open systems are currently being used. Five laboratories have been evaluating an automated, functionally closed system (ACP 215, Haemonetics) for both the glycerolization and deglycerolization processes. Studies were performed at three military sites and two civilian sites. Each site performed in vitro testing of 20 units of RBCs. In addition, one military site and two civilian sites conducted autologous transfusion studies on ten units of previously frozen, deglycerolized RBCs that had been stored at 4 degrees C in AS-3 for 15 days. At one of the civilian sites, 10 volunteers received autologous transfusions on two occasions in a randomized manner, once with previously frozen RBCs that had been stored at 4 degrees C in AS-3 for 15 days after deglycerolization and once with liquid-preserved RBCs that had been stored at 4 degrees C in AS-1 for 42 days. The mean +/- SD in vitro freeze-thaw-wash recovery value was 87 +/- 5 percent; the mean +/- SD supernatant osmolality on the day of deglycerolization was 297 +/- 5 mOsm per kg of H(2)O, and the mean +/- SD percentage of hemolysis after storage at 4 degrees C in AS-3 for 15 days was 0.60 +/- 0.2 percent. The paired data from the study of 10 persons at the civilian site showed a mean +/- SD 24-hour posttransfusion survival of 76 +/- 6 percent for RBCs that had been stored at 4 degrees C for 15 days after deglycerolization and 72 +/- 5 percent for RBCs stored at 4 degrees C in AS-1 for 42 days. At the three sites at which 24-hour posttransfusion survival values were measured by three double-label procedures, a mean +/- SD 24-hour posttransfusion survival of 77 +/- 9 percent was observed for 36 autologous transfusions to 12 females and 24 males of previously frozen RBCs that had been stored at 4 degrees C in AS-3 for 15 days after deglycerolization. The multicenter study showed the acceptable quality of RBCs that were glycerolized and deglycerolized in the automated ACP 215 instrument and stored in AS-3 at 4 degrees C for 15 days."}
{"id": "11452162", "title": "In vivo survival of apheresis RBCs, frozen with 40-percent (wt/vol) glycerol, deglycerolized in the ACP 215, and stored at 4 degrees C in AS-3 for up to 21 days.", "content": "In vivo survival of apheresis RBCs, frozen with 40-percent (wt/vol) glycerol, deglycerolized in the ACP 215, and stored at 4 degrees C in AS-3 for up to 21 days. The FDA has approved the storage of frozen RBCs at -80 degrees C for 10 years and the postwash storage at 4 degrees C for no more than 24 hours. The 4 degrees C postwash storage period is limited to 24 hours, because the current deglycerolization systems are functionally open systems. Two units of RBCs were collected from each of 13 healthy male volunteers. The RBCs were collected in CP2D by the FDA-approved protocol for an automated apheresis device (MCS, LN8150, Haemonetics) and were stored at 4 degrees C in AS-3 for 6 days. Using a single disposable glycerolization set in an automated, functionally closed system (ACP 215, Haemonetics) each unit was transferred to a 1000-mL PVC plastic bag and glycerolized to a concentration of 40-percent (wt/vol) glycerol and frozen at -80 degrees C. A single disposable deglycerolization set in the ACP 215 was used to deglycerolize the 2 units from the same donor. The deglycerolized RBCs were stored at 4 degrees C in AS-3 for as long as 21 days. The mean +/- SD freeze-thaw-wash recovery value was 89.4 +/- 3 percent. The residual hemolysis in the RBCs stored at 4 degrees C in AS-3 for 21 days after deglycerolization was 0.9 +/- 0.2 percent, and the units were negative for both aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. The mean Nageotte WBC count was 9 x 10(6) per unit. When the deglycerolized RBCs were given as an autologous transfusion after storage at 4 degrees C in AS-3 for the 7- to 18-day period, the mean +/- SD 24-hour posttransfusion survival was 77 +/- 7 percent, and the index of therapeutic effectiveness was 69 +/- 8 percent. Two units of human RBCs collected from a single donor by apheresis in the MCS using an LN8150 set can be glycerolized sequentially with a single disposable set and deglycerolized sequentially with another single disposable set in the ACP 215. The previously frozen RBCs stored in AS-3 for 7 to 18 days at 4 degrees C had acceptable hemolysis and an acceptable mean 24-hour posttransfusion survival value and index of therapeutic effectiveness."}
{"id": "11452161", "title": "The effect of two additive solutions on the postthaw storage of RBCs.", "content": "The effect of two additive solutions on the postthaw storage of RBCs. Sterile systems for freezing and for washing thawed blood will allow the storage of RBCs for more than 24 hours after removal of the cryoprotectant glycerol. This study assessed the effect of two ASs in maintaining deglycerolized RBCs. Twenty-four RBC units were stored for 6 days, pooled in groups of 4, realiquoted, sterilely glycerolized, and frozen. One month later, the units were thawed, sterilely deglycerolized by using an automated system (H215; Haemonetics), and stored for 5 weeks in either 100 or 200 mL of AS-3 or an experimental AS (EAS-61). Sterile samples were taken weekly for chemical and morphometric analysis. The glycerolization and deglycerolization process produced highly comparable RBC units, but it caused a marked reduction of RBC pH, to about 6.4 at the beginning of storage. The addition of acidic AS-3 further reduced the pH, which in turn reduced glucose consumption, lactate formation, and RBC ATP concentrations. Alkaline EAS-61 increased these measures. Hypotonic EAS-61 caused increased cell swelling and hemolysis, despite better RBC morphology. Automation of sterile glycerolization and deglycerolization with the H215 works well, but the solutions should be reformulated for extended postthaw storage. This would best be accomplished by raising the pH of the wash solutions by the addition of disodium phosphate or sodium bicarbonate or both, by using alkaline ASs, and by matching the osmolality of the wash solution and ASs."}
{"id": "11447514", "title": "Influence of coconut water on hemostasis.", "content": "Influence of coconut water on hemostasis. Coconut water (CNW) can be used as short-term intravenous hydration and resuscitation fluid. We investigated the influence of coconut water on plasma coagulation in vitro. Either CNW or physiological saline (PS) was added to citrated plasma of 8 healthy volunteers. Coagulation capability of diluted plasma was evaluated by thrombelastography (TEG). Replacement of up to 50 % of citrated plasma by CNW or PS did not influence initiation of coagulation as indicated by split point and reaction time, respectively. Strength of fibrin clot as expressed by maximum amplitude (MA) of TEG recording dose dependently declined in both groups. Replacing 50 % of citrated plasma by CNW or PS reduced MA by 39% and 32%, respectively. The influence of coconut water on hemostasis as assessed by TEG does not differ from the effect caused by an identical volume of PS."}
{"id": "11431897", "title": "[Evaluation of the mental state of elderly diabetic patients in education].", "content": "[Evaluation of the mental state of elderly diabetic patients in education]. Maintaining to good glycemic control is necessary to treat diabetes effectively and it is also necessary to understand the mental characteristics of elderly patients with diabetes. We investigated evaluation of the mental state, using self-depressive scale (SDS) and the Tokyo university egogram form (TEG), of 356 asymptomatic diabetic patients (254 non-elderly, 102 elderly) admitted for educational about diabetes. On TEG, we studied evaluation of five ego states for the following showing: critical parent (CP), nurturing parent (NP), adult (A), free child (FC) and adapted child (AC). First of all, we studied evaluation of mental characteristics of the elderly, NP and A of TEG were higher in the elderly than in the non-elderly (p < 0.01). Furthermore, the SDS was lower on discharge than on admission in both groups (p < 0.01). The group showing improvement had a significantly higher SDS score on admission than the group showing aggravation (p < 0.01). We classified the group with an SDS score 50 or more SDS as the depressed group; those with a 40 to 49 score as the slight distress group; and a score of 39 or less score was considered normal. The depressed group had significantly lower A and FC, and a higher AC on TEG, than other groups (p < 0.01). Therefore, elderly diabetic patients seem to be rational and obliging. This study revealed the mental effects of diabetic education to be similar in elderly and non-elderly diabetic patients."}
{"id": "11429335", "title": "The accuracy of coagulation tests during spinal fusion and instrumentation.", "content": "The accuracy of coagulation tests during spinal fusion and instrumentation. Patients undergoing major spine surgery may acquire a perioperative coagulopathy from dilution of coagulation factors and/or platelets or fibrinolysis. The mechanisms of the coagulopathy and role of coagulation testing during these procedures are poorly defined. Theoretically, coagulation tests could be used perioperatively to determine which patients are at risk for significant bleeding and guide transfusion therapy. We retrospectively evaluated the sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy of coagulation tests in predicting excessive surgical bleeding in 244 consecutive patients undergoing thoracic, lumbar, or sacral spinal fusion with or without instrumentation. Excessive bleeding was reported by the surgeon in 39 of the patients and was defined as recurrent microvascular bleeding despite adequate use of electrocautery and suture or decreased clot formation of blood pooled within the surgical field. Patients with excessive clinical bleeding sustained larger estimated blood losses than those with normal hemostasis. The total number of allogeneic red blood cells, platelets, and fresh frozen plasma units were also larger in patients with excessive bleeding noted during surgery. The intraoperative coagulation tests with the most sensitivity and specificity were the international normalized ratio (INR), prothrombin time (PT), and activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT). The INR had a sensitivity of 94%, a specificity of 88%, and an accuracy of 0.9 at a value of 1.4 (normal, 0.8-1.2). The PT had a sensitivity of 90%, a specificity of 64%, and an accuracy of 0.73 at a value of 13.5 s (normal, 8.4-12.0 s). The aPTT had a sensitivity of 85%, a specificity of 64%, and an accuracy of 0.71 at a value of 30.9 s (normal, 23-37 s). The thromboelastogram values were of marginal use. We conclude that the INR, PT, and aPTT may be helpful in guiding transfusion therapy in patients undergoing major spine surgery. Patients undergoing major surgery to the spine often acquire a perioperative coagulopathy. The prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin time had the greatest sensitivity and specificity for predicting bleeding in major surgery of the spine. The test values that differentiated normal from excessively bleeding patients could be used to guide transfusion therapy during surgery."}
{"id": "11426361", "title": "Influence of a new hydroxyethylstarch preparation (HES 130/0.4) on coagulation in cardiac surgical patients.", "content": "Influence of a new hydroxyethylstarch preparation (HES 130/0.4) on coagulation in cardiac surgical patients. To compare volume therapy with HES 130/0.4, a new hydroxyethylstarch (HES) solution with a gelatin-based fluid replacement strategy. Prospective, randomized, safety study. Urban, university-affiliated hospital (single institution). Forty-two patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery. Patients were prospectively randomized into 2 groups: In group 1 (n = 21), gelatin was given perioperatively for volume support until the 1st postoperative day to keep the central venous pressure (CVP) between 10 and 14 mmHg; in group 2 (n = 21) HES 130/0.4 was administered using the same protocol as in group 1. Standard coagulation variables and modified thromboelastography (TEG) were used. Using different activators for extrinsic and intrinsic activation and heparin inactivation by heparinase, the onset of coagulation (coagulation time), kinetics of clot formation (clot formation time), and maximum clot firmness were measured. Measurements were performed after induction of anesthesia (T0), at the end of surgery (T1), 4 hours after surgery (T2), and on the morning of the 1st postoperative day (T3). A total of 3310 +/- 810 mL of gelatin and 3070 +/- 570 mL of HES 130/0.4 were used in the 2 groups during the study period. The 2 groups did not differ with regard to postoperative bleeding or in use of packed red blood cells or fresh frozen plasma. Standard coagulation variables were similar between the 2 groups. All TEG variables were within the normal range at baseline. Coagulation time and clot formation time data were significantly elevated after surgery and in the intensive care unit, without showing specific differences between the 2 volume replacement groups. Intrinsic TEG and heparinase TEG clot formation times remained significantly higher until the end of the study period. No differences were seen between HES-treated and gelatin-treated patients. Volume replacement with the new HES preparation was as safe as gelatin-based volume replacement with regard to coagulation in cardiac surgical patients. HES 130/0.4 is an alternative plasma substitute to treat volume deficits."}
{"id": "11413430", "title": "The efficacy of antifibrinolytics in the reduction of blood loss during complex adult reconstructive spine surgery.", "content": "The efficacy of antifibrinolytics in the reduction of blood loss during complex adult reconstructive spine surgery. Controlled study to assess the efficacy of aprotinin and Amicar in reducing blood loss during complex spinal fusions. To compare blood loss and the clotting profile with a thromboelastogram in patients with spinal deformities undergoing sequential anterior and posterior spinal fusions treated intraoperatively with either aprotinin or Amicar. Spinal fusion for correction of adult spinal deformities is associated with large blood losses despite the implementation of multiple factors to reduce this blood loss. The antifibrinolytics aprotinin and Amicar have both been shown to reduce blood loss in other surgical procedures with the potential for large blood loss. Hence, we compared their efficacy for reducing blood loss in complex spinal fusions. Sixty patients for elective sequential anteroposterior thoracolumbosacral fusions were randomly assigned to three groups: control, aprotinin, and Amicar. Patients were assessed for blood loss, transfusion requirements, postoperative complications, and coagulation profile using a thromboelastogram. The study demonstrated a significant reduction in total blood loss (aprotinin 3628 mL, Amicar 4056 mL, control 5181 mL) and transfusion requirements using the half-dose aprotinin regimen compared with Amicar or control. Aprotinin also preserved the thromboelastogram mean clot formation time, clot strength, and clotting index compared with Amicar or control. For complex spinal operations with large blood losses, the half-dose aprotinin regimen will reduce blood loss and the need for blood components and may have a role in reducing postoperative lung injury."}
{"id": "11391364", "title": "Epidural anesthesia-analgesia shortens length of stay after laparoscopic segmental colectomy for benign pathology.", "content": "Epidural anesthesia-analgesia shortens length of stay after laparoscopic segmental colectomy for benign pathology. Aggressive postoperative care plans after open colectomy may allow earlier discharge, especially in conjunction with preoperative thoracic epidural anesthesia-analgesia using a local anesthetic and narcotic. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the role of thoracic epidural anesthesia-analgesia using bupivacaine and fentanyl citrate in reducing lengths of stay after laparoscopic colectomy (LAC). A consecutive cohort of patients who underwent LAC and who received perioperative thoracic epidural anesthesia-analgesia (TEG) was compared with a standard group of patients (STD) undergoing LAC during the 2 months preceding the implementation of the epidural management protocol. Patients with TEG received 6 to 8 mL bupivacaine (0.25%) and fentanyl citrate (100 microg) through a T8-9 or a T9-10 epidural catheter before the incision was made and a postoperative infusion of bupivacaine (0.1%) and fentanyl citrate (5 microg/mL) at 4 to 6 mL/h for 18 hours. STD patients had supplemental intravenous morphine. The postoperative care plan was otherwise identical between the 2 groups. Patients were matched by sex, age, and type of segmental resection. Discharge criteria included tolerance of 3 general diet meals, passage of flatus or stool, and adequate oral analgesia. Length of stay was defined as the time from admission for the surgical procedure to discharge from the hospital. Statistical analysis included a Student t test, Wilcoxon rank sum test, chi-square trend test, and Fisher exact test where appropriate. Data are presented as mean +/- SEM. Procedures performed were: right hemicolectomy-ileocolectomy (TEG, n = 5; STD, n = 5); or sigmoid colectomy-rectopexy (TEG, n = 17; STD, n = 17). There was no significant difference with respect to operating room (OR) time (TEG, 102 +/- 12 minutes; STD, 87 +/- 17 minutes), body mass index (TEG, 26 +/- 2; STD, 26 +/- 2), or American Society of Anesthesiologists class (I-III) distribution (TEG, 3/12/10; STD, 4/11/7), or mean incision length (TEG, 3.5 +/- 0.4 cm; STD, 3.7 +/- 0.3 cm.) No postoperative complications or readmissions occurred in either group. The length of stay decreased in the TEG group (TEG, 2.8 +/- 0.2 days; STD, 3.9 +/- 0.3; P <.001) and the median length of stay for the 2 groups was similarly less (TEG, 2 days; STD, 3 days). These data suggest that thoracic epidural anesthesia-analgesia has a significant and favorable impact on dietary tolerance and length of stay after LAC. A thoracic epidural appears to be an important component of a postoperative care protocol, which adds further advantage to LAC without the need for labor-intensive and costly patient care plans."}
{"id": "11382826", "title": "[Blood coagulation monitoring during liver transplantation: Sonoclot analysis and laboratory tests].", "content": "[Blood coagulation monitoring during liver transplantation: Sonoclot analysis and laboratory tests]. Aim of this paper is to validate blood coagulation data obtained using the Sonoclot thromboelastographic analyser (Sienco Inc., Morrison, USA) by means of standard laboratory tests during orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). comparative study between laboratory data and Sonoclot analysis on simultaneously collected blood samples. National Health System Liver Transplantation Center. fifty-one patients, both males and females, affected by terminal hepatic disease submitted to OLT were enrolled in the study. simultaneous blood samples were collected during the pre-anhepatic, anhepatic and post-reperfusion phases of OLT; coagulation status was assessed by means of either standard Laboratory tests (INR, aPTT, Fibrinogen, PLT, D-Dimer) and Sonoclot analyser data (SonACT, Rate, Time to Peak, Downward Deflection); a statistical analysis was performed (Pearson s chi(2) test). A statistically significative correlation between the analysed data was found. The Sonoclot analyser was useful in identifying platelets dysfunction and was more sensitive to detect fibrinolysis. The Sonoclot thromboelastographic analyser is a reliable device for monitoring coagulation during OLT."}
{"id": "11375811", "title": "Hemostatic changes in patients receiving hydroxyethyl starch: the influence of ABO blood group.", "content": "Hemostatic changes in patients receiving hydroxyethyl starch: the influence of ABO blood group. Hydroxyethyl starches (HES) interfere with coagulation because of their molecular structure and the amount infused during surgery. Coagulation defects include platelet dysfunction and a decrease of the VIII/von Willebrand factor complex (VIII/vWF). We examined the effects of 6% HES 200/0.6 on hemostasis by using an in vitro platelet function analyzer, the usual coagulation tests, the VIII/vWF complex assessment, and TEG analysis in patients undergoing abdominal surgery. The influence of the blood group was investigated. HES infusion induced primary hemostasis alterations, assessed by a prolonged platelet function analyzer closure time in the presence of epinephrine and adenosine diphosphate, which was not correlated with the platelet count. The decrease in VIII/vWF complex was proportional to the volume of infused HES (20 and 30 mL/kg) and was more pronounced in patients of the O blood group. The preoperative hypercoagulability status assessed by TEG analysis was reversed 24 h after HES infusion. In conclusion, 6% HES 200/0.6 induced immediate hemostasis alterations. Patients of the O blood group were likely to develop a von Willebrand-like syndrome after HES infusion. We conclude that intraoperative use of 6% HES 200/0.6 should be restricted in patients of the O blood group undergoing surgical procedures with high risk for bleeding."}
{"id": "11369429", "title": "Induction of acquired factor IX inhibitors in cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis): a new primate model of hemophilia B.", "content": "Induction of acquired factor IX inhibitors in cynomolgus monkey (Macaca fascicularis): a new primate model of hemophilia B. Inherited hemophilia dog and other transient hemophilic animal models have been used for evaluation of hemostatic agents for use in treatment of hemophilia. We established the first nonhuman primate hemophilic model by immunizing cynomolgus monkeys with human FIX (hFIX) in adjuvants. FIX activities of all three hFIX-immunized monkeys decreased transiently to less than 10% in accordance with prolongation of activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT). Forty micrograms of human factor VIIa (hFVIIa) per kilogram body weight (that was reported to be clinically effective) was administered to the monkey with the highest inhibitor titer to evaluate its usefulness as a hemophilia inhibitor model. Results of thromboelastography (TEG) after the injection demonstrated that the hemostatic effect of FVIIa in this model would be similar to that in hemophiliacs with inhibitors. The antibodies purified from the monkey's plasma by hFIX-immobilized gel were composed of two types: Ca(2+)-dependent and -independent antibodies, with features of IgG(1) and IgG(4). Both types of antibodies reacted to cynomolgus FIX, and only Ca(2+)-dependent antibodies also expressed inhibitory activity against cynomolgus FIX. Immunoblotting analyses of Ca(2+)-dependent antibodies using hFIX and its derivatives suggested that they recognized the Ca(2+)-dependent conformation related to the gamma-carboxyglutamic acid (Gla) domain. Comparison of FIX cDNA from human, cynomolgus monkey, and other species, and the results of immunization of various animals (goats, beagle dogs, rabbits, and rats) with hFIX in adjuvants strongly suggested that the development of acquired FIX inhibitors in the monkeys might be due to high cross-reactivity of the antibodies to molecular mimic antigens, hFIX, and cynomolgus FIX."}
{"id": "11323357", "title": "The effect of magnesium on coagulation in parturients with preeclampsia.", "content": "The effect of magnesium on coagulation in parturients with preeclampsia. Preeclampsia is associated with complex coagulation abnormalities that include altered platelet function and consumption and activation of the fibrinolytic system. Magnesium sulfate, which is used as a therapeutic modality for the prevention of seizures in preeclamptic parturients, has anticoagulant and antiplatelet effects. We sought to determine the effects of magnesium on various components of the coagulation system in patients with preeclampsia. We assessed the coagulation status of 18 parturients with preeclampsia being treated with magnesium. The assessment was performed with the thromboelastograph test, which provides an overall assessment of blood coagulation via the coagulation index. Thromboelastography was performed before beginning magnesium therapy and 30 min and 2 h after a 6-g bolus of IV magnesium. The R value (time to first clot formation) was found to be significantly slower (P < 0.05) at 30 min after the magnesium bolus. This result suggests increased coagulant factor activity resulting from the magnesium bolus. However, there was no effect of magnesium on the overall coagulation, as evidenced by the lack of change in the coagulation index either at 30 min or at 2 h after the completion of the initial magnesium bolus. Therefore, this therapy should have no effect on the use of neuraxial techniques. On the basis of the thromboelastography assessment, we found that the current practice of administering magnesium did not influence overall coagulation in preeclamptic women. Therefore, magnesium administration should not affect the use of neuraxial techniques."}
{"id": "11314811", "title": "Cascade filtration (CF) with the Haemonetics MCS+: a new technical adaptation.", "content": "Cascade filtration (CF) with the Haemonetics MCS+: a new technical adaptation. CF was introduced in clinical medicine in 1980. Up to now, exclusively two-vein procedures have been carried out with some limitations to expansion of this technique. In this report we describe the very first application of single-needle CF carried out with Haemonetics MCS + apparatus. Twenty procedures were completed without any untoward effect in patients suffering from TTP, post-hepatitic cryoblobulinemia, familial hypercholesterolemia and acute Guillan-Barr\u00e8 Syndrome. From 1 to 4 sessions were carried out per patient with the expected laboratory and clinical results. The only limit is the procedure time that averages 231 +/- 48 min., approximately 40% longer than two needle procedures."}
{"id": "11302471", "title": "Factor XIIIA and clot strength after cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Factor XIIIA and clot strength after cardiopulmonary bypass. Reduced factor XIIIA levels and decreased clot strength have been associated with increased bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). The purpose of this study was to evaluate the relationship between hemostatic factors, including factor XIIIA, and clot strength before, during and after CPB. Factor XIIIA antigen, platelet counts, fibrinogen, factor V activity, tissue plasminogen activator and clot strength (by thromboelastograph) were measured at baseline, after 45 min of CPB, at the end of CPB and 4 h post-operatively in 34 patients. Baseline factor XIIIA antigen was 5.2 +/- 1.4 mg/l. On average, factor XIIIA levels dropped to 64% and clot strength to 77% of baseline values after 45 min on CPB and remained below baseline during the immediate post-operative period. Clot strength was significantly correlated (r = 0.81) with platelet count and fibrinogen but not plasma factor XIIIA levels. Addition of 10 mg/l recombinant factor XIII[a2] significantly increased clot strength. Postoperative bleeding at 2 h was inversely correlated with platelet count, factor XIIIA antigen and clot strength measured at the end of CPB. Maintenance of adequate platelet counts and factor XIIIA levels at the end of CPB may play a role in maintaining clot strength and reducing blood loss."}
{"id": "11292193", "title": "Global anticoagulant effects of a novel sulfated pentomanan oligosaccharide mixture.", "content": "Global anticoagulant effects of a novel sulfated pentomanan oligosaccharide mixture. PI-88 is a potent antiproliferative agent, which is developed for various indications in cancer. This agent is obtained from yeast fermentation and is primarily composed of pentamannose and tetramannose oligosaccharide units. PI-88 is capable of producing anticoagulant effects, which are mediated by heparin cofactor II. The purpose of this study was to determine the anticoagulant properties of PI-88 in native whole blood, freshly drawn from human volunteers, supplemented with PI-88 at various concentrations (0-100 microg/mL). Whole blood activated clotting time (ACT) was measured using Hemochron instruments. PI-88 produced a strong anticoagulant effect at 100 microg/mL (479.0+/-59.5 sec). This anticoagulant effect was comparable to that observed in interventional cardiology and open-heart surgery. At the lower level, PI-88 produced concentration-dependent effects on ACT. Using thromboelastographic techniques (TEG), the effect of PI-88 was measured in terms of various parameters. PI-88 produced potent anticoagulant effects in the TEG studies. At the concentration of 25 microg/mL, it produced a complete anticoagulant effect in whole blood. Whole blood samples supplemented with PI-88 showed a concentration-dependent decrease in the generation of various markers of clotting activation. These results clearly suggest that PI-88 exerts an anticoagulant effect in whole blood. Because of the low-molecular-weight nature and a novel mechanism of action, this new drug may be considered for further development, particularly in cancer patients."}
{"id": "11292191", "title": "Anticoagulant and antiprotease profiles of a novel natural heparinomimetic mannopentaose phosphate sulfate (PI-88).", "content": "Anticoagulant and antiprotease profiles of a novel natural heparinomimetic mannopentaose phosphate sulfate (PI-88). Heparinomimetic mannopentaose phosphate sulfate (PI-88) (Progen Industries Ltd. Brisbane, Australia), currently developed as an anticoagulant and antiproliferative agent, mainly is composed of a pentomannan. However, tetrasaccharide and disaccharide components are also present. The molecular profile and the anticoagulant potency of PI-88 are investigated in this study. Gel permeation chromatography and polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis analyses were carried out to determine the molecular profile and separation of components of PI-88, respectively. Potentiation of antithrombin III (ATIII) and heparin cofactor-II (HC-II) activity were measured using chromogenic substrate assay. In order to determine anticoagulant and antiprotease effects of PI-88, various global anticoagulant tests, such as the prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), thrombin time (TT), Hep-test (Haemachem Inc., St. Louis), ecarin clotting time (ECT), activated clotting time (ACT), and thromboelastography (TEG) were used. Anti-Xa and anti-IIa activities also were measured. The effect of PI-88 on the release of tissue factor pathway inhibitor (TFPI) was performed in nonhuman primates who received PI-88 and in endothelial cell culture systems. The relative susceptibility of PI-88 to heparinase I, protamine sulfate (PS), and platelet factor 4 (PF4) also was evaluated. The high-performance liquid chromatography profiles of PI-88 showed that its average molecular weight is approximately 2300 Da. Separation and gradient electrophoretic patterns of PI-88 showed that it is composed of five different fractions. This agent activates HC-II through inhibiting the thrombin generation but not inhibiting ATIII. Although PI-88 produced a concentration-dependent prolongation of all of the clotting tests, ECT gave the best correlation in the dose-response curve (ECT, r2 = 0.94; TT, r2 = 0.84; APTT, r2 = 0.69). Heparinomimetic mannopentaose phosphate sulfate (PI-88) exhibited marked inhibition of FIIa, but not of FXa. Heparinase I failed to produce significant neutralization of PI-88 in all the assays used, whereas PS and PF4 partially neutralized the effects of this compound. Heparinomimetic mannopentaose phosphate sulfate (PI-88) produced fivefold increase in the TFPI levels at 15 minutes after intravenous (IV) injection to primates. The incubation of PI-88 in endothelial cell culture system also showed a strong effect on TFPI release. These results suggest that PI-88 exhibited strong antithrombotic and anticoagulant activity in addition to its known antiproliferative properties. Because of the molecular characteristics and the dual nature of the pharmacologic action of PI-88, this agent represents an attractive pharmacologic agent for the control of thrombotic and proliferative disorders."}
{"id": "11285943", "title": "Thromboelastography: where is it and where is it heading?", "content": "Thromboelastography: where is it and where is it heading?"}
{"id": "11283475", "title": "[Extended total gastrectomy: indications in the 3rd millennium].", "content": "[Extended total gastrectomy: indications in the 3rd millennium]. Total extended gastrectomy (TEG) is indicated in the treatment of gastric cancer for necessity or to achieve an oncologic radicality. By this surgical treatment the stomach and other organs or a part of them involved by primitive tumor are removed. The authors report a study about 15 patients, out of 116 cases of gastric cancer, operated by TEG between 1990-1998. The middle-age of this patients was 63 years (range 45-76) and their general conditions were good in 9 cases and not-good in 6. The postoperative total parenteral nutrition (TPN) was carried out in all the patients, while preoperatively only in the most compromised patients. The surgical treatments were: 2 TG (total gastrectomy)+splenecomy; 3 TG+splenectomy+pancreatic resection; 4 TG+splenectomy+pancreatic resection+distal esophageal resection; 1 TG+distal esophageal resection; 2 TG+atypic hepatic resection; 1 TG+ atypic hepatic resection+duodenum resection; 2 TG+large intestine resection. While 10 patients were operated on to obtain radicality, 5 patients had a palliative treatment. There was not perioperative mortality, but we have observed: one dehiscence of the duodenal stump and one pancreatic fistula treated with conservative therapy; one left subfrenic abscess treated with surgical therapy. The survival has been higher in the patients treated with radicality. On the basis of these cases, the authors consider: 1) the possibility to obtain radicality by TEG; 2) the gastric localizations more often associated to extravisceral neoplastic localization; 3) the role of extensive lymph node resection (III and IV level) to obtain oncological radicality or neoplastic reduction. CONCLUSIONS. On the basis of their personal experience and related literature, the authors conclude that TEG is indicated to: 1) obtain a better lymphadenectomy; 2) obtain an oncologic radicality; 3) reduce the neoplastic mass in order to facilitate adjuvant therapy; 4) avoid or treat neoplastic complications; 5) improve the quality of life."}
{"id": "11259890", "title": "Celite-activated thrombelastography in children.", "content": "Celite-activated thrombelastography in children. To quantify global coagulation and establish normal ranges for the celite-activated thrombelastograph (TEG) in healthy pediatric patients. Prospective observational study. Operating suite of a university-based hospital. 110 healthy pediatric patients in four age groups and 25 healthy adult patients. Blood sampling for the celite-activated TEG was carried out after anesthetic induction. TEG indices: R time (reflecting time to fibrin formation), K time and alpha angle (fibrinogen-platelet interaction), maximum amplitude (reflecting maximal clot strength, platelet and fibrinogen function), TEG index (mathematical incorporation of the prior four measurements), and percent fibrinolysis at 30 minutes, were all recorded. Statistically significant differences between <12-month group in angle (compared to 25-48 month group) and % fibrinolysis (compared to all other pediatric groups). Significant differences in angle between two pediatric groups and adult group, and in the TEG index between three pediatric groups and adult group (all differences p < 0.05). These data identify changes of small magnitude in three celite-TEG parameters in healthy children compared to adults, without implication of abnormal coagulation between groups. Changes do not seem to be consistently related to age and will be useful for clinicians using the TEG to monitor (ab) normal coagulation in pediatric patients."}
{"id": "11256126", "title": "[Microbiological contamination of intraoperatively collected erythrocyte concentrate in mechanical autotransfusion in tumor surgery].", "content": "[Microbiological contamination of intraoperatively collected erythrocyte concentrate in mechanical autotransfusion in tumor surgery]. Intraoperative autotransfusion is an effective method of the autologous haemotherapy. Gamma irradiation of the salvaged erythrocyte concentrates leads to inactivation of malignant cells and allows retransfusion in oncologic surgery. The risk of microbiological contamination of the autologous blood product has not been systematically studied in this field of surgery. During the evaluation of intraoperative autotransfusion in oncologic surgery at the University Hospital of Leipzig, the salvaged blood of 46 patients who underwent tumour surgery (urology, gynaecology and neurosurgery) was processed to a washed erythrocyte concentrate with a Cell Saver 5 or a Haemolite 2 (Haemonetics). Specimens for microbiological studies were taken from the area of surgery, the reservoir bottle of the autotransfusion system and the salvaged erythrocyte concentrates. The investigation with plate cultures and the identification of microorganisms were performed according to standard procedures of microbiological diagnosis. The ethics committee of the University Hospital of Leipzig approved the study protocol. We found a microbiological contamination in 10 of 46 salvaged erythrocyte concentrates (22%), above all the growth of saprophytes (Streptococcus, Staphylococcus and Neisseria species). We also identified bacteria which have their habitats in the intestinal tract (E. coli and Enterococcus). The highest rate of microbial contaminated erythrocyte concentrates was found in urologic oncosurgery (37%). In neurosurgery (laminectomy and craniotomy including tumour extirpation), there was no bacterial growth in the salvaged erythrocyte concentrate. Intraoperative autotransfusion should be avoided during surgery touching the urinary tract, e.g. prostatectomy and cystectomy. In neurosurgery, it seems to be safe as far as microbiological contamination is concerned. To assess the real risk of microbiological contamination of the salvaged erythrocytes, more investigations are necessary to determine not only the extent and nature of contamination but also the clinical effects."}
{"id": "11233222", "title": "[Reserve capacities of blood coagulation and total lytic activities in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia].", "content": "[Reserve capacities of blood coagulation and total lytic activities in patients with benign prostatic hyperplasia]. Prior to and after the double local arm hypoxia test, whole blood thromboelastography under lowered contact activation was used to examine hemostasis and total blood lytic activity in 27 males aged 59-68 years who had moderate benign prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) as assessed by the International Scale. The control group included 25 apparently healthy males. Only 40.7% of patients were found have adequate reserve capacities of the study systems. BPH induced tension of reserve capacities of total blood lytic activity in 37% of cases and their depletion in 22.3%, even then moderate symptoms of the disease occurred."}
{"id": "11226080", "title": "Thromboelastography for monitoring prolonged hypercoagulability after major abdominal surgery.", "content": "Thromboelastography for monitoring prolonged hypercoagulability after major abdominal surgery. Despite clinical and laboratory evidence of perioperative hypercoagulability, there are no consistent data evaluating the extent, duration, and specific contribution of platelets and procoagulatory proteins by in vitro testing. We tested the hypothesis that the parallel use of standard and abciximab-cytochalasin D-modified thromboelastography (TEG) can assess 7 days' postoperative hypercoagulability and can estimate the independent contribution of procoagulatory proteins and platelets. Thromboelastograms were performed before surgery, at the end of surgery, 6 h after surgery, and on postoperative days 1, 2, 3, and 7; they were analyzed for the reaction time and the maximal amplitude (MA). We calculated the elastic shear modulus of standard MA (G(t)) and modified MA (G(c)), which reflect total clot strength and procoagulatory protein component, respectively. The difference was an estimate of the platelet component (G(p)). There was a 10% perioperative increase of standard MA, corresponding to a 50% increase of G(t) (P < 0.0001) and an 86%-90% contribution of the calculated G(p) to G(t). We conclude that serial standard and modified thromboelastography may reveal prolonged postoperative hypercoagulability and the independent contribution of platelets and procoagulatory proteins to clot strength. Postoperative hypercoagulability, occurring for at least 1 wk after major abdominal surgery, may be demonstrated by standard and modified thromboelastography. This hypercoagulability is not reflected by standard coagulation monitoring and seems to be predominantly caused by increased platelet reactivity."}
{"id": "11226079", "title": "The influence of intravascular volume therapy with a new hydroxyethyl starch preparation (6% HES 130/0.4) on coagulation in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery.", "content": "The influence of intravascular volume therapy with a new hydroxyethyl starch preparation (6% HES 130/0.4) on coagulation in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery. A new hydroxyethyl starch (HES) preparation with a mean molecular weight of 130,000 daltons and a degree of substitution of 0.4 shows favorable pharmacokinetic properties. We conducted a study of the influence of the new HES specification on coagulation and compared it with another colloidal intravascular volume replacement regimen using gelatin. According to a prospective, random sequence, 42 patients undergoing major abdominal surgery received either HES 130/0.4 (n = 21) or gelatin (n = 21) until the first postoperative day (POD) to keep central venous pressure between 10 and 14 mm Hg. From arterial blood samples, standard coagulation variables were measured, and modified thrombelastogram (TEG) measurements using different activators were performed. A total of 2830 +/- 350 mL of gelatin and 2430 +/- 310 mL of HES 130/0.4 were administered until the morning of the first POD. The use of allogeneic blood/blood products and standard coagulation variables did not differ significantly between the two groups. After induction of anesthesia, all TEG data for both groups were within normal range. Coagulation time and maximum clot firmness did not change significantly in any TEG measurements during the study period. The kinetics of clot formation (clot formation time) significantly increased immediately after surgery, but without showing significant group differences. On the morning of the first POD, the clot formation time returned to almost normal levels, except for aprotinin-activated TEG(R). We conclude that administration of moderate doses of the new HES 130/0.4 preparation in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery results in similar coagulation alterations as those after using an established gelatin-based volume-replacement regimen. We compared the effects of infusion of a new hydroxyethyl starch preparation (6% hydroxyethyl starch; mean molecular weight 130,000 daltons; degree of substitution 0.4) on coagulation with a gelatin-based intravascular volume replacement regimen in patients undergoing major abdominal surgery. After moderate doses of hydroxyethyl starch (2430 +/- 310 mL until the morning of the first postoperative day), coagulation monitoring, including modified thrombelastography, did not show impaired hemostasis."}
{"id": "11226077", "title": "Thromboelastography: the next step.", "content": "Thromboelastography: the next step."}
{"id": "11220255", "title": "[Danaparoid (Orgaran) as an antiocoagulant for mechanical autotransfusion with Cell Saver 5 (Hemonetics)].", "content": "[Danaparoid (Orgaran) as an antiocoagulant for mechanical autotransfusion with Cell Saver 5 (Hemonetics)]. We investigated Danaparoid Sodium (Orgaran) as anticoagulant using three different concentrations (9, 4,5 or 3 U/ml anticoagulant solution) for the use in the autotransfusion device Cell Saver 5 (Haemonetics). Fresh units of whole blood packs were mixed in the reservoir in a proportion of 5:1 with the anticoagulant solution. Having started the Cell Saver 5 in the automatic mode, the amount of Danaparoid in the retransfusion blood was determined (chromogenic Antifactor-Xa test). The lowest concentration of the anticoagulant was applied in 4 patients with Heparin-induced Thrombocytopenia Type II undergoing total hip arthroplasty. There was a correlation between the concentration in the reservoir and in the retransfusion blood. None of the patients showed a disturbance of his coagulation system. One of them had slight clotting in the reservoir. We recommend the use of the lower concentrations tested: 4,5 U/ml or, particularly for patients with renal insufficiency or low body weight or expected high retransfusion volumes, 3 U/ml as anticoagulant concentrations. If the autotransfusion device is used according to the manufacturer's instructions there may be virtually no risk of clotting in the Cell Saver or of inhibition of the coagulation system in the patient."}
{"id": "11176088", "title": "Anticoagulation during cardiopulmonary bypass in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia type II and renal impairment using heparin and the platelet glycoprotein IIb-IIIa antagonist tirofiban.", "content": "Anticoagulation during cardiopulmonary bypass in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia type II and renal impairment using heparin and the platelet glycoprotein IIb-IIIa antagonist tirofiban. Patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia type II require an alternative to standard heparin anticoagulation. However, in patients with renal impairment, anticoagulation during cardiopulmonary bypass with agents such as danaparoid sodium or r-hirudin are associated with hemorrhage. Anticoagulation with unfractionated heparins combined with prostacyclin, a potent platelet aggregation inhibitor, is associated with severe hypotension. The authors investigated a new concept using unfractionated heparins after platelet inhibition with the short-acting platelet glycoprotein IIb-IIIa antagonist tirofiban. Ten patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia type II and renal impairment were enrolled in the investigation. All had heparin-induced thrombocytopenia type II antibodies present as proved by the heparin-induced platelet aggregation assay, the heparin-platelet factor 4 enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, or both. In all patients, preoperative anticoagulation to an activated partial thromboplastin time of 40-60 s was performed with r-hirudin. Anticoagulation during cardiopulmonary bypass was achieved with a bolus of 400 IU/kg unfractionated heparins after a bolus of tirofiban 10 microg/kg followed by an infusion of tirofiban at a rate of 0.15 microg x kg(-1) x min(-1) until 1 h before conclusion of cardiopulmonary bypass. Additional unfractionated heparins were only administered if activated clotting time decreased below 480 s. Coagulation was monitored by a abciximab-modified TEG and the adenosine diphosphate-stimulated (20 microm) platelet aggregometry. D-dimer concentrations, as a marker of venous thromboembolism, were measured before and 12, 24, and 48 h after surgery. Postoperative antithrombotic therapy was started immediately with r-hirudin to anticoagulation to an activated partial thromboplastin time of 40-60 s. The postoperative blood loss ranged from 110 to 520 ml. No patient needed reexploration. In no patient was there clinical evidence of thrombosis or embolism in the postoperative period or of a critical increase of the D-dimer concentrations, suggesting venous thromboembolism. Transfusion of platelets was necessary in only two patients. The protocol is easy to perform and no increased postoperative bleeding and no thromboembolic complications occurred. The combination of unfractionated heparins and tirofiban may be an alternative to other anticoagulation strategies in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia."}
{"id": "11794132", "title": "Discontinuous automated calcium supplementation during thrombocytapheresis with the haemonetics MCS+ version C.", "content": "Discontinuous automated calcium supplementation during thrombocytapheresis with the haemonetics MCS+ version C."}
{"id": "11341213", "title": "[Changing of the guard--tribute to Ya'acov Rotem].", "content": "[Changing of the guard--tribute to Ya'acov Rotem]."}
{"id": "11194058", "title": "The effects of nitric oxide on coagulation during simulated extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.", "content": "The effects of nitric oxide on coagulation during simulated extracorporeal membrane oxygenation. Extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) is associated with profound alterations in hemostasis, with platelet dysfunction often being implicated as a causative factor for transfusion. Nitric oxide (NO) has shown to be a rapid yet temporary inhibitor of platelet function. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effects of NO on platelet number and function in an in vitro ECMO model. Eight silicone membrane oxygenators were primed with fresh, heparinized, bovine blood and allowed to circulate for 48 hours. The treatment group (NO) consisted of four oxygenators that had an end concentration of 20 ppm NO applied to the sweep gas. Platelet counts, methemoglobin levels, plasma-free hemoglobin levels, activated clotting times, and thromboelastographic (TEG) studies were performed at baseline, 1, 6, 12, and 24 h. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM) was performed on sample areas from each oxygenator. The treatment group maintained an average of 25% higher platelet counts than the control group (85.1 +/- 32.0, x 10(3) versus 66.5 +/- 30.9 x 10(3)) although statistical significance was not achieved. Methemoglobin levels were significantly elevated in the treatment circuit at hours 12 and 24 (p < .05). This could be attributed to the lack of a biological interaction that would break down this toxic by-product. TEG indices steadily declined in both groups from baseline (-0.4 +/- 3.6) to (-17.2 +/- 3.3 p < .0007) treatment and (-20 +/- 4.5, p < .0001) control, with the treatment circuit maintaining only slightly improved indices over the most of the study. SEM data showed increased fibrin and cellular deposits in the control group (p = .05) when compared with the treatment group. NO added to the sweep gas of a simulated ECMO circuit at 20 ppm had little effect on the maintenance of platelet number and function."}
{"id": "11134740", "title": "Thrombelastographic evidence of hyperfibrinolysis during liver transplantation for familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy ATTR met 30.", "content": "Thrombelastographic evidence of hyperfibrinolysis during liver transplantation for familial amyloidotic polyneuropathy ATTR met 30."}
{"id": "11124689", "title": "Prospective randomised concurrent comparison of the COBE spectra version 4.7, COBE spectra version 6 (Auto PBSCtrade mark), and haemonetics MCS+ cell separators for leucapheresis in patients with haematological and non haematological malignancies.", "content": "Prospective randomised concurrent comparison of the COBE spectra version 4.7, COBE spectra version 6 (Auto PBSCtrade mark), and haemonetics MCS+ cell separators for leucapheresis in patients with haematological and non haematological malignancies. A prospective study of three cell separators was undertaken to compare the mononuclear cell, CD34+ cell and CFU-GM yield. Twenty patients were entered in the study; all had received chemotherapy and daily G-CSF (5 microg/kg subcutaneously) up to and including the first day of leucapheresis. The first leucapheresis was performed on the first day the peripheral blood absolute CD34+ cell count was > or =20 cells/microl. All patients underwent two leucaphereses on consecutive days. The patients were randomised to undergo either the first or second leucapheresis using the COBE Spectra Version 4.7 and then randomised to either the COBE Spectra Version 6 or Haemonetics MCS+ for the other leucapheresis. The target durations of the procedure on the COBE Spectra Version 4.7 and Version 6 were 180 minutes or 2 total blood volumes (TBV), and for the Haemonetics MCS+ was 20 cycles with four recirculations. All machines were operated on the 1997 software supplied by the respective manufacturers. The time taken for the procedure was significantly longer with both the Haemonetics MCS+ and the COBE Spectra Version 6 than the COBE Spectra Version 4.7. Both COBE Spectra versions processed significantly larger volumes of blood than the Haemonetics MCS+. The absolute yield of mononuclear cells, CFU-GM and CD34+ cells were all significantly lower with the Haemonetics MCS+ compared with both COBE Spectra versions, as were the yields per unit volume of blood processed. The product volume was significantly higher with the COBE Spectra Version 4.7 compared to the other two machines. There was no significant difference in the reduction in the platelet count following leucapheresis with any of the machines. The COBE Spectra Version 6 is particularly useful for patients with potentially poor peripheral venous access because of its increased interface stability."}
{"id": "11103204", "title": "Preparation for regional anaesthesia induces changes in thromboelastography.", "content": "Preparation for regional anaesthesia induces changes in thromboelastography."}
{"id": "11099891", "title": "Single automated donor plateletpheresis increases the plasma level of proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha which does not associate with endothelial release markers von Willebrand factor and fibronectin.", "content": "Single automated donor plateletpheresis increases the plasma level of proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor-alpha which does not associate with endothelial release markers von Willebrand factor and fibronectin. The effect of plateletpheresis on endothelium, which has strong effects on blood coagulation, fibrinolysis and platelet function, is not known. Activation of leukocytes and subsequent generation of proinflammatory cytokines during the extracorporeal circulation may activate the endothelium. To test this hypothesis we measured plasma levels of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha as a prototype of the proinflammatory cytokines, and von Willebrand factor (vWF) and fibronectin as endothelial release/damage markers before and after a single plateletpheresis procedure on an intermittent-flow machine Haemonetics MCS 3p in 17 healthy donors. We found a significant increase in median plasma level of TNF-alpha following plateletpheresis (3.5 vs 26.5 pg/ml, P=0.02). Such increases in vWF and fibronectin were not observed. The increase in plasma TNF-alpha indicates that a single plateletpheresis procedure causes leukocyte activation which does not seemingly impair endothelial cell function. The relation of plateletpheresis-induced proinflammatory cytokine release to some adverse effects observed in both donors and recipients, and the effect of repeated plateletpheresis on endothelium deserve further studies."}
{"id": "11099662", "title": "The survival, function, and hemolysis of human RBCs stored at 4 degrees C in additive solution (AS-1, AS-3, or AS-5) for 42 days and then biochemically modified, frozen, thawed, washed, and stored at 4 degrees C in sodium chloride and glucose solution for 24 hours.", "content": "The survival, function, and hemolysis of human RBCs stored at 4 degrees C in additive solution (AS-1, AS-3, or AS-5) for 42 days and then biochemically modified, frozen, thawed, washed, and stored at 4 degrees C in sodium chloride and glucose solution for 24 hours. A study was done to assess the quality of RBCs stored at 4 degrees C in AS-1, AS-3, or AS-5 for 42 days before biochemical modification and freezing. RBCs were stored at 4 degrees C for 42 days in AS-1, AS-3, or AS-5 and then biochemically modified with pyruvate, inosine, phosphate, and adenine solution (Rejuvesol), frozen with 40-percent (wt/vol) glycerol, and stored at -80 degrees C for at least 2 months. The RBCs were deglycerolized by the use of a cell washer (Haemonetics 115), and stored for 24 hours at 4 degrees C in a 0.9-percent sodium chloride and 0.2-percent glucose solution before the autologous transfusion. The mean freeze-thaw-wash recovery process produced RBC recovery values of 85 percent, with the mean 24-hour posttransfusion survival at 75 percent, and the mean index of therapeutic effectiveness at 64 percent for the RBCs stored at 4 degrees C in AS-1, AS-3, or AS-5 for 42 days before biochemical modification and freezing. All the units exhibited normal or slightly higher than normal 2,3 DPG levels after deglycerolization and postwash storage at 4 degrees C for 24 hours. RBCs stored in AS-1, AS-3, or AS-5 at 4 degrees C for 42 days and then biochemically modified with pyruvate, inosine, phosphate, and adenine and glycerolized, frozen, washed, and stored at 4 degrees C for 24 hours before autologous transfusion had acceptable in vitro and in vivo measurements."}
{"id": "11049922", "title": "Thromboelastography identifies sex-related differences in coagulation.", "content": "Thromboelastography identifies sex-related differences in coagulation. Thromboelastography is an in vitro, point-of-care monitor of whole blood coagulation. Thromboelastography studies have demonstrated a hypercoagulable state during pregnancy. Perhaps the hypercoagulability is attributable to female sex hormones. The aim of the study was to determine if sex, in addition to pregnancy, affected thromboelastography variables by studying male and female (pregnant and nonpregnant) volunteers. Thromboelastography showed significant (P:<0.01) differences in sex, with a significant (P: < 0. 0001) trend of increasing whole blood coagulability from men through nonpregnant to pregnant women. The thromboelastograph, used as a diagnostic tool, shows that women have more whole blood coagulability than men. The thromboelastograph, used as a diagnostic tool, shows that women have more whole blood coagulability than men."}
{"id": "11049889", "title": "Thromboelastography as a perioperative measure of anticoagulation resulting from low molecular weight heparin: a comparison with anti-Xa concentrations.", "content": "Thromboelastography as a perioperative measure of anticoagulation resulting from low molecular weight heparin: a comparison with anti-Xa concentrations. Low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) is commonly used to prevent postoperative thromboembolism. Currently, there is no convenient test to measure the degree of anticoagulation from LMWH. This prospective study examines the relationship of thromboelastography and serum anti-Xa concentration in patients treated with enoxaparin. Twenty-four adult patients scheduled for orthopedic surgery using epidural anesthesia were enrolled. Epidural catheters were removed the morning after surgery before the commencement of subcutaneous enoxaparin 30 mg twice daily. Venous blood samples were obtained at 1) the induction of anesthesia (baseline), 2) immediately before the third dose of enoxaparin postoperatively (Day 2-trough), 3) 4 h after the third dose postoperatively (Day 2-peak), and 4) immediately before the fifth dose postoperatively (Day 3-trough). Whole blood samples were obtained for thromboelastography, activated clotting time, and anti-Xa level analyses at each of the four time intervals. At the four sample intervals, the r time (mean +/- SEM). (20 +/- 1, 25 +/- 2, 51 +/- 6, 31 +/- 3 mm) and the k time (9 +/- 0. 7, 12 +/- 1, 27 +/- 5, 14 +/- 2 mm) of the thromboelastograph were significantly correlated with the expected peak and trough levels of LMWH and serum anti-Xa levels (P: < 0.05). At the Day 3-trough, thromboelastograph r times exceeded the normal range in 6 of 25 patients (25%). Prolongation of r time and k time on postoperative Day 3 may indicate an exaggerated response to LMWH. Thromboelastography is a test that could potentially correlate with the degree of anticoagulation produced by low molecular weight heparin. Thromboelastography is a test that could potentially correlate with the degree of anticoagulation produced by low molecular weight heparin. The r time from the thromboelastogram correlates with serum anti-Xa concentration."}
{"id": "11046211", "title": "Low- and medium-molecular-weight hydroxyethyl starches: comparison of their effect on blood coagulation.", "content": "Low- and medium-molecular-weight hydroxyethyl starches: comparison of their effect on blood coagulation. High-molecular-weight hydroxyethyl starch (HES) compromises blood coagulation more than medium-molecular-weight HES. The authors compared medium molecular weight HES (200 kd [HES200]) and low-molecular-weight HES (70 kd [HES70]). In a prospective, double-blind, randomized-sequence crossover study, 22 male volunteers received 15 ml/kg HES200 and HES70. Blood samples were taken before and 5 min, 30 min, 1 h, 2 h, 4 h, 8 h, and 24 h after infusion. The following parameters were analyzed at all time points: prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, fibrinogen, factor VIII, antigenetic and functional von Willebrand factor, platelets, Thrombelastograph analysis parameters (reaction time, coagulation time, maximum amplitude, angle alpha, and clot lysis 30 and 60 min after maximum amplitude), ionized calcium, hematocrit, HES plasma concentration, molecular weight (weight average and number average), molar substitution, and polydispersity (weight average/number average). Repeated-measures analysis of variance (P < 0.05) was used to compare the response of the aforementioned parameters to the infusion of HES70 and HES200. Both HES solutions had a significant impact on all parameters. A slightly greater compromise with HES200 was found in activated partial thromboplastin time (P = 0.010), factor VIII (P = 0.009), antigenetic von Willebrand factor (P = 0.041), functional von Willebrand factor (P = 0.026), maximum amplitude (P = 0.008), and angle alpha (P = 0.003). No difference was established with the other parameters. HES concentration (P < 0.001), weight average (P < 0.001), number average (P < 0.001), and polydispersity (P < 0.001) were higher with HES200. There was no difference with molar substitution (P = 0.091). Low-molecular-weight hydroxyethyl starch (70 kd) compromises blood coagulation slightly less than HES200, but it is unclear whether this is clinically relevant."}
{"id": "11030529", "title": "Thromboelastograph assay for measuring the mechanical strength of fibrin sealant clots.", "content": "Thromboelastograph assay for measuring the mechanical strength of fibrin sealant clots. In order to provide sustained hemostasis or tissue sealing, fibrin sealants must generate adhesive clots with mechanical properties capable of resisting forces, such as shear, that might break or tear the clot. Commercial preparations of fibrin sealants should generate clots of adequate and consistent mechanical strength. The mechanical strength of fibrin sealants is often measured as bonding strength in in vivo or ex vivo animal wound models. These tests can be useful predictors of clinical efficacy. However, these, as well as many in vitro tensile strength tests for fibrin sealant, tend to be laboratory specific and require extensive reagent preparation time and analyst training. The thromboelastograph has historically been used to screen for plasma protein and platelet disorders that lead to defective clot formation. The authors have developed a simple in vitro test, using a standard thromboelastograph that can provide reliable, reproducible information on the rheology of clots generated by fibrin sealant preparations. Using this method, the shear strength of fibrin sealant clots was measured and shown to correlate with the fibrinogen, but not the thrombin, concentration in the sealant. Shear strength was also shown to correlate with the sealant concentration of the fibrin cross-linking proenzyme, factor XIII. Sealants containing lysine, which can act as an alternate substrate for factor XIII enzyme and prevent efficient fibrin chain cross-linking, were shown by this method to generate clots of substantially reduced shear strength. The method distinguished between thrombin-catalyzed clot formation and other fibrinogen clotting mechanisms as evidenced by the significantly lower shear strength associated with batroxobin-generated fibrin clots."}
{"id": "11028733", "title": "Coagulation effects of a recently developed hydroxyethyl starch (HES 130/0.4) compared to hydroxyethyl starches with higher molecular weight.", "content": "Coagulation effects of a recently developed hydroxyethyl starch (HES 130/0.4) compared to hydroxyethyl starches with higher molecular weight. Hydroxyethyl starches (HES) are known to interfere with blood coagulation according to molecular weight, the degree of substitution and the C2/C6 ratio. A recently developed low molecular hydroxyethyl starch (HES 130/0.4) was designed to reduce the blood compromising potency. In this study, effects of a 30% in vitro haemodilution with the new HES preparation (HES 130/0.4) in comparison to HES 200/0.5, HES 450/0.7 and sodium chloride solution were investigated using intrinsic and extrinsic activated thrombelastography (TEG) and plasmatic coagulation tests. Whereas plasmatic tests revealed no prolongation of coagulation by HES in comparison to sodium chloride, the TEG variables clotting time, clot formation time and maximal clot firmness showed a significant (P<0.05) inhibition by all the HES preparations. The inhibition was most pronounced in HES 450 (P<0.05 vs HES 130) while HES 130 did not show a statistically significant difference in extrinsic activated maximal clot firmness when compared to sodium chloride. These in vitro results demonstrate that hydroxythyl starches especially compromise clot polymerisation. The new preparation HES 130/0.4 seems to inhibit platelet function to a lesser extent than hydroxyethyl starch preparations with a higher molecular weight and degree of substitution."}
{"id": "11022243", "title": "Effects of low-density lipoproteins on blood coagulation and fibrinolytic activity.", "content": "Effects of low-density lipoproteins on blood coagulation and fibrinolytic activity. In vitro experiments showed that copper-oxidized low-density lipoproteins activate factors of the prothrombin complex in the whole blood and inhibit fibrin generation in both blood and plasma. Moreover, oxidized low-density lipoproteins inhibit fibrinolysis and impair the structure of fibrin clot, which results in hypercoagulation."}
{"id": "11020881", "title": "Coagulation and cytokine profile after major hepatobiliary surgery in Chinese patients.", "content": "Coagulation and cytokine profile after major hepatobiliary surgery in Chinese patients. Hypercoagulability and increased circulating cytokine levels have been separately reported after surgical operations. We investigated whether the cytokine level and postoperative coagulation profile would change similarly in Chinese patients undergoing major hepatobiliary surgery. Serial serum levels of IL-6, IL-1 beta and TNF-alpha were measured by colorimetric ELISA. Serial coagulation profile was measured by thrombelastography. Hemoglobin and white cell counts were also measured serially. Only mild hypercoagulability was found at the 12th and 144th hours, evidenced by shortening of r-time and k-time on thrombelastography (P < 0.05). IL-6 and IL-1 beta levels were significantly raised from the 12th hour (P < 0.01) while TNF-alpha level was unchanged. From the 3rd hour to the 48th hour, there was negative correlation between IL-6 levels and various thrombelastographic parameters such as coagulation index (r = -0.777, P < 0.001); k-time (r = 0.478, P < 0.05); maximum amplitude (r = -0.688, P < 0.01) and angle (r = -0.665, P < 0.01). We observed a much milder degree of hypercoagulability in Chinese patients after major hepatobiliary surgery as compared to those reported in other operations in non-Chinese patients. Unlike in sepsis where a close link between increased cytokine levels and hypercoagulability has been reported, increase in IL-6 was associated with less hypercoagulability in Chinese patients after major hepatobiliary surgery."}
{"id": "11011805", "title": "Comparative efficacy of different low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWHs) and drug interactions with LMWH: implications for management of vascular disorders.", "content": "Comparative efficacy of different low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWHs) and drug interactions with LMWH: implications for management of vascular disorders. The low-molecular-weight heparins (LMWHs) are more efficacious and safer than unfractionated heparin (UFH) in the prevention and treatment of venous thrombosis and to a certain extent in the treatment of acute ischemic syndromes. Because of their predictable pharmacokinetics and bioavailability after subcutaneous administration, LMWHs can be more convenient for outpatient use than UFH. Differences in the manufacturing process of LMWHs result in significant structural and molecular weight differences; thus, LMWHs have individual biochemical and pharmacological profiles and are not interchangeable on the basis of either mass or anti-Xa activity. Using thromboelastograph (TEG) and platelet aggregometry, this investigation compared the in vitro efficacy among various LMWHs and examined the interactions between LMWHs and platelet glycoprotein (GP) IIb/IIIa antagonists. TEG was used to determine the ability of platelet and fibrin interactions to augment blood clots, an effect measured under conditions of maximal platelet activation during clot formation accelerated by recombinant human tissue factor (TF). The comparative efficacy of LMWHs on different mediator-induced clot retraction in human blood was assessed by TEG, which demonstrated the potency of different LMWHs to inhibit various mediator-induced clot formations under shear. Tinzaparin was relatively more effective in inhibiting TF-, lipopolysaccharide-, factor (f) Xa-, and thrombin-induced clot formation under shear. Under these conditions, platelets significantly enhance clot strength (eightfold vs. platelet-free fibrin clots). LMWHs appear to have broader efficacy than other anticoagulants. Abciximab and roxifiban further inhibited clot strength by affecting the transmission of platelet contractile force to fibrin by platelet GPIIb/IIIa receptors. Subtherapeutic doses of tinzaparin combined with abciximab or roxifiban resulted in a distinct synergy that improved anticoagulant and antiplatelet efficacy mediated by TF, fXa, or thrombin. As these data suggest, the combination of low-dose tinzaparin with low-dose GPIIb/IIIa antagonists (abciximab, roxifiban) may be efficacious in the prevention and treatment of various thromboembolic disorders."}
{"id": "11004032", "title": "The effect of hydroxyethyl starch 200 kD on platelet function.", "content": "The effect of hydroxyethyl starch 200 kD on platelet function. We evaluated the effects of hydroxyethyl starch with a molecular weight of 200 kD (HES 200 kD) on platelets to gain insight into the potential mechanisms involved in the anticoagulant effects of HES 200 kD. Blood was obtained before and after an IV infusion (10 mL/kg) of either saline (n = 15) or HES 200 kD (n = 15) in otherwise healthy patients scheduled for minor elective surgery. Flow cytometry was used to assess the expression of glycoprotein (GP) IIb-IIIa, GP Ib, and P-selectin on agonist-activated platelets. Overall platelet function was evaluated by assessing thromboelastographic maximum amplitude (MA) in celite-activated blood and platelet function analyzer-closure times by using collagen/adenosine diphosphate cartridges. Saline infusion had no effects on platelet variables, whereas HES 200 kD reduced GP IIb-IIIa expression and MA and prolonged platelet function analyzer-closure times, without affecting the expression of P-selectin and GP Ib. In vitro experiments extended these observations by a concentration-related inhibiting effect of HES 200 kD on GP IIb-IIIa expression. This study demonstrates that cellular abnormalities with decreased availability of platelet GP IIb-IIIa are involved in the anticoagulant effects of HES 200 kD."}
{"id": "10988316", "title": "Cytokines in WBC-reduced apheresis PCs during storage: a comparison of two WBC-reduction methods.", "content": "Cytokines in WBC-reduced apheresis PCs during storage: a comparison of two WBC-reduction methods. Several studies have suggested that cytokine accumulation during storage of platelet concentrates (PCs) may mediate nonhemolytic febrile transfusion reactions and that a reduction in WBC numbers prevents the generation of cytokines. Despite efforts to minimize WBC contamination in apheresis PCs, high numbers of WBCs and increased cytokine levels may still occur, depending on the quality of the apheresis device employed. This study was undertaken to investigate whether PCs collected with WBC-reduction devices (Spectra LRS, COBE;or MCS+ LDP, Haemonetics) were sufficiently depleted of WBCs to limit cytokine accumulation during storage. The study evaluated 1) the levels of cytokines of WBC and platelet origin in two types of apheresis PCs during storage and 2) the effects of prestorage filtration on cytokine levels in the Spectra LRS PCs. In the Spectra LRS PCs, low levels of IL-6, IL-8, and monotype chemoattractant protein 1 (MCP-1) were detected in Day 1 PCs, and they remained consistent during the shelf life. RANTES, platelet factor 4 (PF4), beta-thromboglobulin (beta-TG), and transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1 were also detected in these PCs, and their levels increased significantly on storage. Prestorage filtration of Spectra LRS PCs did not further reduce the levels of IL-6, IL-8, MCP-1, PF4, beta-TG, and TGF-beta1 in the filtered component. In the MCS+ LDP PCs, IL-6 was detected on Day 1, and its level increased significantly on storage, whereas the levels in the Spectra PCs remained steady. IL-8 levels were lower in MCS+ LDP PCs than in Spectra LRS PCs of the same age. MCP-1 levels were similar in both products on Day 1 and marginally increased in stored MCS+ LDP PCs. Substantial amounts of RANTES, PF4, beta-TG, and TGF-beta1 occurred in Day 1 MCS+ LDP PCs, and, on storage, these levels rose significantly. Despite a significant reduction in levels of WBC-derived cytokines, platelet-derived cytokines were present in different amounts in the two products."}
{"id": "10928437", "title": "Evaluation of the effects of levobupivacaine on clotting and fibrinolysis using thromboelastography.", "content": "Evaluation of the effects of levobupivacaine on clotting and fibrinolysis using thromboelastography. Amide local anaesthetics inhibit platelet function. We hypothesized that residual anaesthetic in the epidural space could decrease efficacy of an epidural blood patch in preventing postdural puncture headache. Levobupivacaine has recently been approved for epidural anaesthesia. Its effects on coagulation have not previously been studied. The aim of this study was to determine the effects of levobupivacaine on clotting using thromboelastography. Ten ASA Class I volunteers were studied. Venous blood samples were analysed using a Haemoscope 2000D TEG analyser. Whole blood, a 50% saline control and two levobupivacaine solutions (2.5 mg mL(-1) and 2.5 microg mL(-1) in blood) were compared. The former reproduces that produced in the epidural space by blood (20 mL for an epidural blood patch) and levobupivacaine 0.5% (20 mL). The latter approximates plasma concentrations following epidural injection of levobupivacaine 0.5% (20 mL). P < 0.05 was considered significant. Maximum amplitude (MA), a measure of clot strength, is decreased by levobupivacaine 2.5 mg mL(-1). Levobupivacaine 2.5 mg mL(-1) decreases clot strength and may reduce efficacy of a prophylactic epidural blood patch."}
{"id": "10928014", "title": "Difference in pre-intervention and post-intervention thromboelastography times.", "content": "Difference in pre-intervention and post-intervention thromboelastography times."}
{"id": "10885039", "title": "[Leukocyte elastase in blood plasma from tuberculosis patients and its role in disturbances of blood coagulation regulatory processes].", "content": "[Leukocyte elastase in blood plasma from tuberculosis patients and its role in disturbances of blood coagulation regulatory processes]. 53 patients with lung tuberculosis were divided in 3 groups in accordance with severity of disease. Leukocyte elastase, cationic proteins in neutrophils, activities of alpha 1-proteinase and alpha 2-macroglobulin were determined in patients' plasma. Thromboelastographic, coagulating, fibrinolytic indices, and antithrombin III activity were also determined in 28 patients of all 3 groups. Results demonstrated the high level of leukocyte elastase (6-fold more than normal) in plasma of patients with acute tuberculosis process. This group of patients demonstrated activation of intravascular coagulation proceeded on the background of significant decrease (up to 60%) of AT III activity. Acuity and severity of tuberculosis process in lung may be characterized by high activity of leukocyte elastase. Degranulating activity of neutrophils and releasing of elastase are the reason of AT III deficiency and increasing of intravascular coagulating activity in tuberculosis patients."}
{"id": "10866882", "title": "Tranexamic acid reduces red cell transfusion better than epsilon-aminocaproic acid or placebo in liver transplantation.", "content": "Tranexamic acid reduces red cell transfusion better than epsilon-aminocaproic acid or placebo in liver transplantation. We evaluated the efficacy of the prophylactic administration of epsilon-aminocaproic acid and tranexamic acid for reducing blood product requirements in orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) in a prospective, double-blinded study performed in 132 consecutive patients. Patients were randomized to three groups and given one of three drugs prophylactically: tranexamic acid, 10 mg. kg(-1). h(-1); epsilon-aminocaproic acid, 16 mg. kg(-1). h(-1), and placebo (isotonic saline). Perioperative management was standardized. Coagulation tests, thromboelastogram, and blood requirements were recorded during OLT and in the first 24 h. There were no differences in diagnosis, Child score, or preoperative coagulation tests among groups. Administration of packed red blood cells was significantly reduced (P = 0.023) during OLT in the tranexamic acid group, but not in the epsilon-aminocaproic acid group. There were no differences in transfusion requirements after OLT. Thromboembolic events, reoperations, and mortality were similar in the three groups. Prophylactic administration of tranexamic acid, but not epsilon-aminocaproic acid, significantly reduces total packed red blood cell usage during OLT. In a randomized study of 132 consecutive patients undergoing liver transplantation, we found that tranexamic acid, but not epsilon-aminocaproic acid, reduced intraoperative total packed red blood cell transfusion."}
{"id": "10850560", "title": "Management and monitoring of recombinant activated factor VII.", "content": "Management and monitoring of recombinant activated factor VII. Recombinant factor VIIa (rFVIIa) has recently been introduced as a new 'bypassing' agent to improve haemostasis in haemophilia patients with inhibitors to factor (F) VIII or FIX. In noninhibitor patients, levels of circulating FVIII or FIX can be used to assess the quality of substitution therapy. In contrast, laboratory monitoring of haemostatic efficacy in patients treated with rFVIIa has proved more complex. Evaluation of patient samples saved during rFVIIa treatment have revealed some correlation between FVII:C levels and improved haemostasis, while whole blood elasticity, as determined by thromboelastography, has been shown to improve following rFVIIa treatment. The investigation aimed to study the efficacy of rFVIIa in activating FX:C and in shortening the whole blood clotting time (WBCT) using the newly-developed roTEG coagulation instrument. Results indicated a substantial and apparently dose-dependent activation of FX:C by rFVIIa. In addition, the presence of FIX appeared to influence FX:C activation. In-vitro and ex-vivo roTEG thromboelastograph measurements showed that FVIIa shortened WBCT, although normalization did not occur. The results presented here are based on a small number of observations in a few patients and further studies should be planned to test the efficacy of these monitoring principles in clinical treatment practice with rFVIIa."}
{"id": "10844845", "title": "Anticoagulant-induced pseudothrombocytopenia in a patient presenting for coronary artery bypass grafting.", "content": "Anticoagulant-induced pseudothrombocytopenia in a patient presenting for coronary artery bypass grafting. A 73-yr-old man with severe ischaemic heart disease presented for coronary artery bypass grafting. His preoperative platelet count, obtained from an ethylene diamine tetraacetic acid (EDTA) sampling bottle, was 61 x 10(9) litre-1, but he had no history of bleeding problems. Previous platelet counts demonstrated results ranging from 16 x 10(9) litre-1 to 254 x 10(9) litre-1 with variable degrees of in vitro platelet clumping. Preoperative thrombelastography reflected a normal coagulation profile. The laboratory findings and the absence of a history of haemorrhagic complications suggested a diagnosis of EDTA-dependent pseudothrombocytopenia. We present the perioperative implications of this in vitro phenomenon and methods of detecting the functional and numerical integrity of circulating platelets."}
{"id": "10843240", "title": "A prospective study of thromboelastography (TEG) and filter life during continuous veno-venous hemofiltration.", "content": "A prospective study of thromboelastography (TEG) and filter life during continuous veno-venous hemofiltration. Anticoagulants are commonly used to prolong circuit life during continuous hemofiltration. However, a clear correlation between routinely performed blood coagulability tests and circuit life has not been demonstrated. This lack of correlation may derive from the limited ability of such tests to describe the likelihood of in vivo clotting. We hypothesized that thromboelastography (TEG), which derives its variables from a closer reproduction of in vivo coagulation, would significantly correlate with filter life. Accordingly, we conducted a prospective pilot study of the correlation between filter life and TEG-derived variables in 21 hemofilters used in 6 critically ill patients admitted to a tertiary intensive care unit. It involved the performance of TEG during steady state anticoagulation, measurement of circuit life, and of routine coagulation variables. The results showed that the mean circuit life was 20.7+/-4.0 h despite an average aPTT of 67.7+/-12.8 s and a mean heparin dose of 472.5+/-96.2 IU/h. The mean INR was 1.4+/-1 and the mean platelet count was 118+/-16 x 10(3)/mm3. Although several TEG variables correlated with heparin dose (p < 0.03), no correlation was found between any of the routine coagulation variables or any of the TEG variables and circuit life. In conclusion, no significant correlation between TEG derived variables or routinely measured coagulation variables and circuit life could be demonstrated. These findings suggest that such tests are not useful indicators of circuit anticoagulation adequacy and that factors other than blood coagulability may play a role in circuit failure."}
{"id": "10838518", "title": "Are all leucodepleted platelet concentrates equivalent? Comparison of Cobe LRS Turbo, Haemonetics MCS+ LD, and filtered pooled buffy-coat-derived platelets.", "content": "Are all leucodepleted platelet concentrates equivalent? Comparison of Cobe LRS Turbo, Haemonetics MCS+ LD, and filtered pooled buffy-coat-derived platelets. A number of technologies are available for the production of leucocyte-depleted platelet concentrates (PCs). This study compared the characteristics of PCs prepared by three commonly used techniques. In total, fifteen units of leucocyte-depleted PCs prepared by the Cobe LRS Turbo apheresis system, Haemonetics MCS+ with in-line filter and filtration of PCs derived from pooled buffy coats (BCs) were transferred into the same standard container. Markers to assess status/activation and microvesiculation of platelets as well as platelet injury were measured. pH was well maintained in all types of PCs. The expression of CD62P was higher in Cobe LRS Turbo on day 1 but became equivalent between the three methods on day 5. A significant correlation was found between the expression of CD62P on platelet surface and soluble CD62P in the plasma. The degree of phosphatidylserine (PS) exposure was slightly higher in Cobe LRS Turbo and BC-PCs than Haemonetics MCS+ on day 1. However, on day 5 both apheresis PC values were higher than BC-PCs. A significant correlation was found between PS exposure and microvesiculation. Leucodepleted PCs prepared by the three methods were different in terms of storage lesion and microvesiculation. The clinical significance of these findings remains to be investigated."}
{"id": "10831919", "title": "The role of in process qualification in quality improvement of the haemonetics MCS plus leucodepleted platelet concentrate.", "content": "The role of in process qualification in quality improvement of the haemonetics MCS plus leucodepleted platelet concentrate. With the implementation of universal leucodepletion in UK all leucodepletion processes have gone through a standard process qualification and quality improvement. The Haemonetics MCS system is a well established automated platelet collection system for the production of double dose leucoreduced platelet concentrate (WBC approximately 70x10(6)/dose). Recently an automated post collection filtration harness system has been introduced (MCS plus LDP) in which platelets are filtered, using an in-line PALL polyester filter (LRFH6 PALL) to reduce the WBC level to below 5x10(6) WBC/dose. This system passed our Phase I evaluation process based on 20-40 runs. However, some changes in the final volume of the products were needed to conform to national guidelines. Large scale trials using the new volume adjusted protocol revealed occasional failure in the leucocyte content. Therefore, 100% testing had to be implemented on all products. A national evaluation was carried out to determine whether changing the filter to a more efficacious one, the LRFXL (PALL) or slowing the filtration flow rate can influence the overall outcome. To reduce donor variability, known donor population were used with identical apheresis conditions. A more consistent and systematic drop in leucocyte content was observed by reducing the flow rate whereas a similar failure (i.e. 1-3%) rate was found both in controls and LRFXL when using the standard head pressure, which is recommended by the manufacturer. A similar failure rate was found using three different low leucocyte counting technologies (Nageotte, flow cytometry and Imagn 2000). It is recommended that a process qualification/validation program should be implemented when even a small modification in the collection system is introduced."}
{"id": "10825314", "title": "Rapid evaluation of coagulopathies after cardiopulmonary bypass in children using modified thromboelastography.", "content": "Rapid evaluation of coagulopathies after cardiopulmonary bypass in children using modified thromboelastography. Complex coagulopathies follow cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) in children. However, objective laboratory data that can be acquired rapidly to guide their management are lacking. Because thromboelastography has proven useful in this regard, we evaluated the use of celite or tissue factor (TF) activation and heparinase modification of blood samples to allow rapid determination of thromboelastogram data in children younger than 2 yr undergoing CPB. Celite or TF activation shortened the initiation of clotting and, thus, the time required for the important thromboelastogram alpha and maximum amplitude values to begin evolving. Although thromboelastogram alpha and maximum amplitude values were increased with these activators, correlations persisted between platelet count or fibrinogen level and each of these values. The additional use of heparinase allowed thromboelastograms to be obtained during CPB with values not different from those obtained without heparinase after protamine administration. Therefore, celite- or TF-activated, heparinase-modified thromboelastograms begun during CPB allow objective data to be available by the conclusion of protamine administration to help restore hemostasis after CPB in children. Thromboelastography identified transient fibrinolysis during CPB in some children that resolved by the conclusion of protamine administration. Future investigations of the effectiveness of modified thromboelastography-guided coagulopathy management after CPB in children are needed. Thromboelastography is useful in assessing the coagulopathies that follow cardiopulmonary bypass in children. Modifying blood samples with celite or tissue factor and heparinase allows thromboelastography begun before the termination of cardiopulmonary bypass to become a rapid point-of-care monitor to provide objective data for guiding blood component therapy to manage these coagulopathies."}
{"id": "10800406", "title": "Effects of unfractionated heparin, low-molecular-weight heparin, and heparinoid on thromboelastographic assay of blood coagulation.", "content": "Effects of unfractionated heparin, low-molecular-weight heparin, and heparinoid on thromboelastographic assay of blood coagulation. Thromboelastography (TEG) has been used increasingly as an intraoperative hemostasis monitoring device. Low-molecular-weight heparins are given increasingly to reduce the development of antibodies against the heparin-platelet factor 4 complex, and heparinoids are given to patients who have developed the antibody. We studied the effect of unfractionated heparin, a low-molecular-weight heparin (enoxaparin sodium [Lovenox]), and a heparinoid (danaparoid sodium [Orgaran]) on blood clotting assayed with TEG (TEG clotting) in vitro and the efficacy of protamine sulfate and heparinase for reversing the effect. Heparin, enoxaparin, and danaparoid all caused a dose-dependent inhibition of TEG clotting of normal blood. Concentrations of enoxaparin and danaparoid that totally inhibited TEG clotting only minimally prolonged the activated partial thromboplastin time. While inhibition of TEG clotting by heparin and enoxaparin was reversed by protamine sulfate and heparinase, inhibition by danaparoid was reversed only by heparinase. Abnormal TEG clotting was observed in patients receiving enoxaparin whose plasma level of the drug was more than 0.1 antiXa U/mL. However, the degree of TEG abnormality did not always coincide with plasma levels of the drug."}
{"id": "10793606", "title": "Preparation for regional anaesthesia induces changes in thrombelastography.", "content": "Preparation for regional anaesthesia induces changes in thrombelastography. The effects of crystalloid and colloid infusions on coagulation measured by thrombelastography (TEG) present a confused picture. The influence of environmental factors may explain the disparity between previous studies. We studied two groups of 20 women presenting at term for elective Caesarean section. In the first group, TEG analysis was performed before and after infusion of Gelofusine 500 ml over 15 min. The second group was treated in the same way except that subjects did not receive fluid. We found significant changes in r and k values in both groups, suggesting enhanced coagulation. As hypercoagulable changes were also seen in the group that did not receive fluid preload, the hypothesis that moderate haemodilution causes hypercoagulability must be questioned. The influence of environmental factors can explain differences reported between in vivo and in vitro studies."}
{"id": "10789572", "title": "Pre-operative coagulopathy management of a neonate with complex congenital heart disease: a case study.", "content": "Pre-operative coagulopathy management of a neonate with complex congenital heart disease: a case study. Severe coagulation defects often develop in neonates undergoing cardiac surgery, both as a result of the surgical intervention, and as pre-existing defects in the hemostatic mechanisms. The following case report describes a newborn patient with complex congenital heart disease and respiratory failure whose pre-operative coagulopathy was aggressively managed prior to surgical correction. A 5-day-old, 2.5 kg child presented with interrupted aortic arch, ventricular septal defect, atrial septal defect, and patent ductus arteriosus. On admission, he was in respiratory arrest suffering from profound acidemia. In addition, the child was hypothermic (30.1 degrees C), septic (Streptococcus viridans), and coagulopathic (disseminated intravascular coagulation-DIC). The patient was immediately intubated and initial coagulation assessment revealed the following: prothrombin time (PT) 48.9 s (international normalized ratio (INR) 15.7), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) >106 s, platelet count 30,000 mm(3), fibrinogen 15 mg dL(-1) and antithrombin III (AT-III) 10%. Before cardiac surgery could be performed, the patient's DIC was corrected with the administration of cryoprecipitate (15 ml), fresh frozen plasma (300 ml), and platelets (195 ml). In spite of the large transfusion of fresh frozen plasma, the AT-III activity, measured as a percentage, remained depressed at 33. Initial thromboelastographic (TEG) determination revealed an index of +2.02, and following 100 IU administration of an AT-III concentrate, declined to -2.32. Sequential TEG profiles were performed over several days, with the results used to guide both transfusion and medical therapy. The congenital heart defect correction was subsequently performed with satisfactory initial results, but the patient developed a fungal infection and expired on the 16th post-operative day. The present case describes techniques of coagulation management for a newborn with both a severe hemostatic defect and congenital heart disease."}
{"id": "10784307", "title": "Inhaled prostacyclin and platelet function after cardiac surgery and cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Inhaled prostacyclin and platelet function after cardiac surgery and cardiopulmonary bypass. To study the effects of 6 h inhalation of aerosolized prostacyclin (PGI2) on platelet function. In a prospective, double-blind, randomized study, 28 patients scheduled for elective cardiac surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), received either 0.9% sodium chloride (n = 8), PGI2 5 microg x ml(-1) (n = 10) or PGI2 10 microg x ml(-1) (n = 10) as an aerosol for 6 h postoperatively. Cardiothoracic intensive care unit at a university hospital. All patients were studied immediately after surgery during mechanical ventilation and sedation. The PGI2 solutions or saline were administered with a jet nebulizer. Bleeding time and chest tube drainage were measured. Blood samples for platelet aggregation, thrombelastography (TEG) and analysis of coagulation parameters and the stable prostacyclin metabolite 6-keto-PGF1alpha were obtained immediately before inhalation and after 2, 4 and 6 h of inhalation. After 6 h of PGI2 inhalation, regardless of administered dose, there was a lower rate of platelet aggregation and a lower maximal increase in light transmission in response to adenosine diphosphate (ADP) than in the control group. The TEG variable reaction time (R) was prolonged after 4 and 6 h of inhalation in the PGI2 group receiving 10 microg x ml(-1). There were no differences between groups with respect to bleeding time and chest tube drainage or any of the other variables examined. Inhalation of PGI2 for 6 h in patients after cardiac surgery is associated with impaired platelet aggregation detected by in vitro techniques, with no in vivo signs of platelet dysfunction."}
{"id": "10781457", "title": "The use of citrated whole blood in thromboelastography.", "content": "The use of citrated whole blood in thromboelastography."}
{"id": "10781268", "title": "Citrate storage affects Thrombelastograph analysis.", "content": "Citrate storage affects Thrombelastograph analysis. Thrombelastograph analysis (TEG) is used to evaluate blood coagulation. Ideally, whole blood is immediately processed. If impossible, blood may be citrated and assessed after recalcification. No data describe the effect of such treatment and storage on TEG parameters. Three studies were performed in 90 surgical patients. In 30 patients, blood was citrated (1:10, 0. 129 M) and recalcified (20 microl 2 M CaCl2 to 340 microl citrated blood), and TEG was performed with native blood and after recalcification after 0, 15, and 30 min of citrate storage. In another 30 patients, TEG was performed with citrated blood recalcified immediately and after 1-72 h storage. In a third study, thrombin-antithrombin complex, prothrombin fragment 1+2, and beta-thromboglobulin were measured (using enzyme-linked immunoabsorbant assay tests) at corresponding time points. Data were compared using repeated-measures analysis of variance and post hocpaired t tests. TEG parameters were different in recalcified citrated blood compared with native blood (P < 0.05) and changed significantly during 30-min (P < 0.025) and 72-h (P < 0.001) citrate storage. TEG parameters measured between 1 and 8 h of citrate storage were stable. Thrombin-antithrombin complex and prothrombin fragment 1+2 values were not elevated in native blood. After 30 min of citrate storage a gradual thrombin activation was observed, as evidenced by increasing thrombin-antithrombin complex and prothrombin fragment 1+2 values (P < 0.05). beta-Thromboglobulin level was increased after 2 and 8 h of citrate storage (P < 0.01). Analysis of native blood yields the most reliable TEG results. Should immediate TEG processing not be possible, citrated blood may be used if recalcified after 1-8 h."}
{"id": "10781265", "title": "Thromboelastography: past, present, and future.", "content": "Thromboelastography: past, present, and future."}
{"id": "10764688", "title": "Comparative in vitro efficacy of different platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists on platelet-mediated clot strength induced by tissue factor with use of thromboelastography: differentiation among glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists.", "content": "Comparative in vitro efficacy of different platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists on platelet-mediated clot strength induced by tissue factor with use of thromboelastography: differentiation among glycoprotein IIb/IIIa antagonists. In the present study, the in vitro efficacy of different platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa (GPIIb/IIIa) antagonists on platelet-fibrin-mediated clot strength under shear was compared with the antiaggregatory efficacy by using tissue factor (TF) thromboelastography (TEG). The ability of platelets to augment the elastic properties of blood clots under shear conditions was measured by computerized TEG under conditions of maximal platelet activation accelerated by recombinant TF. Under these conditions, platelets significantly enhance clot strength 8-fold (relative to platelet-free fibrin clots). This effect was inhibited to a different extent by various platelet GPIIb/IIIa receptor antagonists; this inhibition appears to be dependent on the transmission of platelet contractile force to fibrin via the GPIIb/IIIa receptors. The GPIIb/IIIa antagonists with high binding affinity for resting and activated platelets and slow platelet dissociation rates (class I) but not those with fast platelet dissociation rates (class II) demonstrated potent and comparable inhibition of platelet aggregation and TF-TEG clot strength. Platelet GPIIb/IIIa antagonists of class I, such as XV459 (free-acid form of roxifiban), DMP802, XV454, and c7E3, demonstrated comparable inhibitory dose responses of TF-TEG clot strength and platelet aggregation, with an IC(50) of 50 to 70 nmol/L. In contrast, platelet GPIIb/IIIa antagonists from class II, with comparable antiaggregatory efficacy, such as DMP728, YZ202 (free-acid form of orbofiban), YZ211 (free-acid form of sibrafiban), YZ751, and other antagonists, have a much lower efficacy in altering the strength of TF-mediated clot formation (IC(50) >1.0 micromol/L). These data suggest differential efficacy among different GPIIb/IIIa antagonists in inhibiting platelet-fibrin clot retraction despite of equivalent antiaggregatory potency."}
{"id": "10758466", "title": "A retrospective survey of fibrinolysis as an indicator of poor outcome after cardiopulmonary bypass and a possible early sign of systemic inflammation syndrome.", "content": "A retrospective survey of fibrinolysis as an indicator of poor outcome after cardiopulmonary bypass and a possible early sign of systemic inflammation syndrome. A retrospective survey was undertaken of 142 adults who had undergone cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary bypass. According to the manufacturer's instructions for thromboelastography, patients were identified as showing evidence of fibrinolysis if after coming off bypass the Ly30 index was > or =7.5%. In the 20 fibrinolytic patients, fibrinolysis was readily corrected by tranexamic acid but these patients needed more colloid and more vasopressor support than the non-fibrinolytic patients. There were three deaths, all in the fibrinolytic patients. It is possible that fibrinolysis is a marker for onset of systemic inflammation syndrome. It is recommended that, until the association between fibrinolysis and worse outcome is investigated further, patients showing fibrinolysis early after cardiopulmonary bypass should not be discharged too soon from intensive care."}
{"id": "10735778", "title": "The effect of In vitro hemodilution with gelatin, dextran, hydroxyethyl starch, or Ringer's solution on Thrombelastograph.", "content": "The effect of In vitro hemodilution with gelatin, dextran, hydroxyethyl starch, or Ringer's solution on Thrombelastograph. To determine the effects of progressive in vitro hemodilution with various plasma substitutes on whole blood coagulation, blood was obtained from six healthy volunteers. The Thrombelastograph((R)) (TEG; Haemoscope Corp., Morton Grove, IL) variables of reaction time, coagulation time, maximum amplitude, and growth angle were determined. The following plasma substitutes were tested: two gelatin solutions (4% gelatin polysuccinate and 5.5% oxypolygelatin); two dextrans (10% dextran 40 and 6% dextran 60); and five hydroxyethyl starch (HES) preparations (6% HES 70/0.5-0.55, 3% HES 200/0.5, 6% HES 200/0.5, 10% HES 200/0.5, and 6% HES 450/0.7). Ringer's solution was also tested to assist analyzing the intrinsic effect of colloid molecules on blood coagulation. The dilution ratios of citrated blood volume to plasma substitute volume were 10:2, 10:4, and 10:10. Blood coagulation was affected by plasma substitutes when the dilution ratios of citrated blood volume to colloid solution volume were 10:4 and 10:10. TEG variables did not change significantly after in vitro hemodilution with lactated Ringer's solution. The tested gelatin solutions showed less intrinsic effect on blood coagulation than other plasma substitutes. All HES preparations showed similar intrinsic effects as 6% dextran 60. The plasma substitute of 10% dextran 40 had the strongest effect on coagulation. Coagulation time was the most markedly affected TEG variable. Blood coagulation may be compromised when the dilution ratio of blood volume to colloid solution volume is >10:4. Whereas gelatin solutions have less intrinsic effect on blood coagulation, 10% dextran 40 has the strongest effect on coagulation. Blood coagulation may be compromised when the dilution ratio of blood volume to colloid solution volume is >10:4. Whereas gelatin solutions have less intrinsic effect on blood coagulation than hydroxyethyl starch or dextran, 10% dextran 40 has the strongest effect on coagulation."}
{"id": "10704661", "title": "Thrombelastography in healthy volunteers, patients with stable angina and acute chest pain.", "content": "Thrombelastography in healthy volunteers, patients with stable angina and acute chest pain."}
{"id": "10701043", "title": "Postoperative fibrinolysis diagnosed by thrombelastography.", "content": "Postoperative fibrinolysis diagnosed by thrombelastography. Thrombelastography is a useful method for the monitoring of bedside coagulation, especially for fibrinolysis. We report a case where thrombelastography facilitated early detection of fibrinolysis with significant clinical bleeding in a patient immediately following hip replacement surgery. The early diagnosis enabled institution of antifibrinolytic therapy and monitoring of the patient's response. It is likely to have led to less blood product transfusion and may possibly have prevented unnecessary surgical re-exploration."}
{"id": "10674526", "title": "Phospholipase A2-induced coagulation abnormalities after bee sting.", "content": "Phospholipase A2-induced coagulation abnormalities after bee sting. We will examine the correlation between various bee venom phospholipase A2 (PLA2) concentrations and several parameters of coagulation in human plasma in order to offer a rationale for requesting a particular laboratory coagulation test after bee sting(s). We will also evaluate in vitro the influence of clinically available drugs with a noncompetitive inhibitory effect on PLA2 on the anticoagulant effect of bee venom PLA2. Prothrombin index (PTi), partial thromboplastin time (PTT), antithrombin III (AT III), soluble fibrin monomers (SFM), the activity of coagulation factors I, II, V, and VIII, and thrombelastography (TEG) parameters (split point [Sp], reaction time [R], kinetic time [K], coagulation time [R + K], maximal amplitude [MA], and the growth angle [alpha]) were determined before and after addition of 1.4, 2.7, and 4.1 units (1, 2, and 3 microg protein respectively) of bee venom PLA2. Linear regression was used to determine the significance of the relationship between these coagulation parameters and bee venom PLA2 concentrations used. To study the influence of ketamine, lidocaine, magnesium, furosemide, and cromolyn on the anticoagulant effect of bee venom PLA2, PTi and factor II- and V-activities were measured before and after addition of 2.7 units of PLA2 and PLA2 plus one of the tested substances. Determinations of F II, PTi, F V, and F VIII showed a negative correlation to bee venom PLA2 concentration (r = -0.88, -0.86, -0.81, and -0.79 respectively). A positive correlation was found for PTT (r = 0.69). FII- activity and PTi correlated better with bee venom PLA2 concentration than other parameters. F I, AT III, and SFM showed no changes. Whereas Sp, R, and K were prolonged by bee venom PLA2 and a was reduced, there was no correlation to the PLA2 concentration. Addition of none of the 5 substances could correct the effects of bee venom PLA2 on the coagulation. In a patient with toxic reaction or a severe anaphylactic reaction after bee sting(s) we suggest determinations of FII and/or PTi. This will allow a quick and economical assessment of coagulation abnormalities after bee sting(s). Noncompetitive PLA2-inhibitors (ketamine, lidocaine, magnesium, furosemide, and cromolyn) are unable to correct in vitro the anticoagulant effect of bee venom PLA2. They cannot be recommended at this stage for this purpose. Further investigations with competitive PLA2-inhibitors are warranted."}
{"id": "10648317", "title": "An assessment of the effects on coagulation of midtrimester and final-trimester amniotic fluid on whole blood by Thrombelastograph analysis.", "content": "An assessment of the effects on coagulation of midtrimester and final-trimester amniotic fluid on whole blood by Thrombelastograph analysis. The Thrombelastograph((R)) test (TEG; Haemoscope Corporation, Skokie, IL) was used to assess the effects of midtrimester and final-trimester amniotic fluid (AF) on whole blood coagulation. Different volumes of midtrimester and final-trimester AF were added to whole blood from nonpregnant volunteers in a series of TEG tests. The addition of both midtrimester and final-trimester AF resulted in significant decreases in reaction time (P < 0.001) and time from reaction to a fixed level of clot firmness (P < 0.05) and significant increases in angle (P < 0.05) and coagulation index (P < 0.05) values. This reflects accelerated clot initiation and propagation. There was no significant change in the maximal amplitude or % lysis at 30 and 60 min with the addition of either midtrimester or final-trimester AF. There was no significant difference between the effects of midtrimester and final-trimester AF on whole blood TEG. TEG may be an additional useful tool in the treatment of coagulopathy in AF embolism. We used the Thrombelastograph((R)) test (Haemoscope Corporation, Skokie, IL) to assess the effects of midtrimester and final-trimester amniotic fluid (AF) on whole blood coagulation. Results demonstrate that AF accelerates clot initiation and propagation. The Thrombelastograph((R)) test may be useful in assessing coagulopathy in patients with AF embolism."}
{"id": "10639080", "title": "Synthesis of polyamide oligomers based on 14-amino-3,6,9, 12-tetraoxatetradecanoic acid.", "content": "Synthesis of polyamide oligomers based on 14-amino-3,6,9, 12-tetraoxatetradecanoic acid. A series of oligomers of polyamides based on 14-amino-3,6,9, 12-tetraoxatetradecanoic acid monomers (ATTAn) was synthesized. These materials were designed as monodisperse analogues of poly(ethylene glycol) for use in biomedical applications where reproducible behavior is important. Synthesis of the monomer was evaluated using two routes. For small-scale preparations, tetraethylene glycol (TEG) was monoprotected with dihydropyran, converted to an alkoxide, and alkylated with ethyl bromoacetate. On larger scales, TEG was alkylated directly by treatment with sodium, followed by ethyl bromoacetate. The amine function was introduced by mesylation followed by treatment with sodium azide. Reduction of the azide to amino groups was performed over Pd/C using either hydrogen or formic acid as proton sources. Assembly of the oligomers was accomplished using standard DCC/NHS chemistry and an iterative dimerization sequence after appropriate deprotection of a pair of monomers. The amino group was protected by retaining the azido group as a latent amine. A series of ATTAn oligomers was prepared (n = 1-8). A lipid conjugate of the octamer, ATTA8-DSPE, was synthesized."}
{"id": "10844384", "title": "Clinical utility of available methods for determining platelet function.", "content": "Clinical utility of available methods for determining platelet function. Determination of platelet function has become increasingly important as new antiplatelet drugs are being developed. Objective means to monitor the pharmacological effects of these agents, in order to maximize efficacy and minimize toxicity, is needed. The available methods for determination of platelet function at the current time are reviewed, including platelet aggregometry, the PFA-100, flow cytometry, platelet contractile force, the rapid platelet function assay, the clot signature analyzer, Sonoclot, and thromboelastography. The principle, advantages, disadvantages, and clinical utility of each method is presented. The uses of the various methods of determining platelet function reported in the literature are summarized, in an effort to provide information regarding the applicability of those different methods."}
{"id": "10754382", "title": "The FVII activating protease cleaves single-chain plasminogen activators.", "content": "The FVII activating protease cleaves single-chain plasminogen activators. A serine protease isolated from plasma sharing structural characteristics with a hepatocyte growth factor activator-like protease has been demonstrated recently to activate FVII. Accordingly, it was named 'FVII activator'. Until now an impact of this protease on the fibrinolytic system has not been reported. We islolated the protease from cryo-poor plasma by subsequent ion exchange chromatography and adsorption to immobilized heparin and/or aprotinin. Incubation of single-chain plasminogen activators (sc-PAs) with the FVII activator revealed significant activation of urokinase sc-PA (scu-PA) and tissue sc-PA (sct-PA) in vitro. It was enhanced in the presence of calcium and heparin. Compared to kallikrein, a more efficient activation of scu-PA was observed, whereas sct-PA appeared to be a poorer substrate for the FVI activator. At low protease concentrations and in the presence of heparin the scu-PA activation was comparable to plasmin. Employing recalcified whole blood thrombelastography, the lysis of initially formed fibrin was observed after addition of a combination of scu-PA and the FVII activator, whereas the scu-PA alone had a negligible effect at the concentration used. The study results as presented demonstrate that the FVII activator is a potent activator of sc-PAs in vitro. Whether it plays a physiological role in fibrinolysis deserves further investigation. Its comparatively high affinity to heparin assumes a function in cell surface or matrix events."}
{"id": "10732304", "title": "Coagulation and fibrinolysis in viable mid-trimester pregnancies of normal, intrauterine growth retardation, chromosomal anomalies and hydrops fetalis and their eventual obstetric outcome.", "content": "Coagulation and fibrinolysis in viable mid-trimester pregnancies of normal, intrauterine growth retardation, chromosomal anomalies and hydrops fetalis and their eventual obstetric outcome. A total of 71 pregnant women diagnosed by ultrasound to have viable fetus in late mid- trimester pregnancies of normal, IUGR, hydrops fetalis and chromosomal anomalies were studied for their coagulation, fibrinolytic and inhibitor levels with association on eventual obstetrics outcome. A hypercoagulable state was observed in all the pregnancies studied. However, higher hypercoagulation evidenced by significantly raised prothrombin formation and clot elasticity together with higher levels of D-dimer, uPA antigen and PAI-1 than observed in normal pregnancy suggests a hyperfibrinolytic/inhibitor state in hydrops fetalis pregnancy associated with bad obstetric outcome. In IUGR pregnancy associated with good outcome further enhanced clot elasticity was seen whilst no significant differences were observed in pregnancy with chromosomal anomalies when compared to uncomplicated normal pregnancy. Our study suggests that in hydrops fetalis pregnancy, further enhanced prothrombin formation and hyperfibrinolysis/inhibitor at late mid-trimester is associated with a poor obstetric outcome."}
{"id": "10725985", "title": "Effects on hemostasis after two-year use of low dose combined oral contraceptives with gestodene or levonorgestrel.", "content": "Effects on hemostasis after two-year use of low dose combined oral contraceptives with gestodene or levonorgestrel. We studied 67 healthy women who were randomly allocated to receive third generation gestodene (Gynera) or second generation levonorgestrel (Microgynon 30) combination of low-dose estrogen oral contraceptives (OCs) for their hemostatic effects over 2 years. Hemostatic changes were apparent within 3 months of OC use. Hematocrit (Hct) was not affected, but hemoglobin (Hb) concentration decreased by 18 months. Shortened prothrombin time (PT) and activated plasma thromboplastin time (APTT) were associated with elevated fibrinogen within the 12-month use of both OCs. Factor VII was reduced only in Micro 30 during the 18 months of use. Enhanced thrombin-antithrombin (TAT)-complex level was seen at 18 months of Gynera use. Prothrombin fragment1+2 (F1+2) rise was seen at 3 months with Micro 30. Reduced antithrombin III (ATIII) activity was seen at 18 months with Gynera and at 24 months with Micro 30. Increased protein C activity was seen at 3 months and reduced protein S occurred at 18 months of Gynera use. Tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA) activity was enhanced for 6 months in both OCs with raised D-dimer levels for 12 months with Gynera and 6 months with Micro 30. Decreased t-PA antigen was seen at 18 months and decreased urokinaselike plasminogen activator (u-PA) antigen occurred throughout the 24 months of both OCs use. Enhanced u-PA activity was only seen in Gynera users. Elevated plasminogen levels were apparent throughout both OCs use. PAI-1 levels were significantly decreased with Micro 30. With Gynera, the decreased PAI-1 activity was seen only at 18 months and PAI-1 antigen at 12 months. No change in platelets and von Willebrand factor (vWF) were seen in long-term OC use except that beta-thromboglobulin (beta-TG) showed decreased trends reaching statistical significance by 18 and 24 months of Micro 30 use and by 24 months of Gynera use. A further significant decrease in beta-TG, u-PA antigen, ATIII, and protein S levels were seen 3 months after pill stoppage compared with pretreatment levels. Activated protein C resistance (APCR) was negative in all subjects before and during OC use. The study indicated dynamic balance between coagulation and fibrinolysis with no endothelial activation. However, because some hemostatic markers showed wide fluctuations during OC use, a longer term study is warranted to investigate any adverse hemostatic changes that might enhance the risks of venous thromboembolism in Asian subjects known to be less prone to thrombosis."}
{"id": "10724781", "title": "Peripheral blood stem cell collection and transplantation using the haemonetics multicomponent system.", "content": "Peripheral blood stem cell collection and transplantation using the haemonetics multicomponent system."}
{"id": "10711779", "title": "Haemorheological and fibrinolytic activity in hypertensive Nigerians.", "content": "Haemorheological and fibrinolytic activity in hypertensive Nigerians. Hypertension is the most significant cardiovascular risk factor to emerge in developing countries. 64 hypertensives (40 old hypertensives and 18 newly diagnosed hypertensives) and 40 age and sex matched normotensives controls were studied. Plasma fibrinogen concentration (PFC), euglobulin lysis time (ELT) and relative plasma viscosity (RPV) and relative whole blood viscosity (RWBV) were estimated. The PFC, RPV, RWBV and ELT were significantly higher in new and old hypertensives (P < 0.005), respectively, compared with controls, while the RPV was significantly higher (P < 0.005) in new hypertensives than old hypertensives. The significantly higher PFC, RPV and ELT in new hypertensives correspond to higher BP in the new hypertensives than old hypertensives. There were consistence significance levels in PFC, RPV and ELT in both female hypertensives and controls (P < 0.005), respectively, with higher BP in male than female. Though there were no significant mean differences between the hypertensive patients in the first two years of the disease, there were cumulative consistent increase in fibrinogen levels and euglobulin lysis time from two years; while RPV shows inconsistence variation until the 5th year. We conclude that a defective rheology and fibrin-clearing mechanism may contribute to aetiology of vascular complications in hypertensive patients especially in the long term."}
{"id": "10711770", "title": "The role of erythrocytapheresis in secondary erythrocytosis therapy.", "content": "The role of erythrocytapheresis in secondary erythrocytosis therapy. In chronic respiratory insufficiency secondary erythrocytosis (SPC), causing pulmonary hypertension and dx ventricular insufficiency, is often noticed. An alternative therapy to phlebotomy for SPC is isovolemic large volume erythrocytapheresis performed with cell separator (CSE) in order to quickly remove a large volume of red blood cells (RBC) while saving plasma proteins and clotting factors. In order to evaluate the efficiency and safety of CSE in SPC we reported a retrospective analysis of our experience with 61 SPC patients: from April 1996 to May 1998 we performed 208 CSE using Haemonetics MCS3P (TAE protocol). Before every apheresis procedure we verified Hb (in median 18.8 g/dl), Ht (in median 58.4%), viscometry, coagulation test, EGA, PFR and ECG. 11 patients were treated with 1 CSE, 12 with 3, 29 with 4 and 9 with 5. The mean volume of RBC removed was 576 ml (range 426-800); Hb post CSE averaged 14.4 g/dl and Ht post CSE averaged 42.7%; hematic viscosity post CSE was significantly reduced while tissue oxygen tension increased: the improvement of symptomatology and hematochemical parameters was maintained on the average for 6.5 months. All the procedures were well tolerated and light side effects (paresthesias citrate-depending in 27 apheresis) were easily controlled. CSE, compared to phlebotomy, has the advantage of selectively removing RBC without loss of clotting factors, platelets and plasma proteins. Although CSE has relatively high costs we noticed a decrease of hospital recurrence (about 50-65%) in SPC patients treated with apheresis."}
{"id": "10621555", "title": "Peripheral blood stem cell collection and transplantation using the Haemonetics Multi Component System.", "content": "Peripheral blood stem cell collection and transplantation using the Haemonetics Multi Component System. To assess clinical usefulness of an intermittent-flow blood cell separator in peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) collection and transplantation. The Haemonetics Multi Component System (Multi) was used to collect PBSC (52 aphereses in 17 patients). The mean processing blood volume and the mean PBSC yield were 7407 ml and 2.16 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg, respectively. When CD34+ cells exceeded 0.3% of the peripheral WBC, more than 2.0 x 10(6) CD34+ cells/kg could be collected by a single apheresis. Eight patients underwent PBSC transplantation after high-dose chemotherapy. Hematopoietic recovery was achieved in a median period of 10 days. (1) A single-arm, light-weight machine has sufficient capability to collect PBSC. (2) The percentage of CD34+ cells in the peripheral WBC is a good predictor of the CD34+ cell yield of the collection."}
{"id": "10618952", "title": "Pro-coagulant effect of in vitro haemodilution is not inhibited by aspirin.", "content": "Pro-coagulant effect of in vitro haemodilution is not inhibited by aspirin. We have conducted an in vitro coagulation study, using the thrombelastograph (TEG), to determine if the enhanced coagulability of whole blood after haemodilution with normal saline can still be demonstrated after administration of an antiplatelet agent. Aspirin inhibits the platelet-endothelial interaction that is part of the coagulation process. We investigated the role of aspirin in the phenomenon of haemodilution-induced coagulability to identify if the platelet-endothelial system is involved in the process. Previous work showed that the TEG is not altered by oral ingestion of aspirin. Blood from 20 volunteers was divided into two aliquots of 4 ml each. One sample was diluted by 20% by addition of 0.9% saline 1 ml while the other was not diluted and served as a control. Coagulation studies were performed using the TEG and enhanced coagulation was seen in the saline diluted samples. Subjects then received soluble aspirin 375 mg daily for 3 days, after which the tests were repeated. There was no difference in the control TEG values and saline enhancement of coagulation was preserved in all subjects after 3 days of aspirin administration. We conclude that aspirin had no effect on the observation that haemodilution with saline enhances the coagulability of whole blood."}
{"id": "10613656", "title": "The inhibitory effect of recombinant human soluble thrombomodulin on initiation and extension of coagulation--a comparison with other anticoagulants.", "content": "The inhibitory effect of recombinant human soluble thrombomodulin on initiation and extension of coagulation--a comparison with other anticoagulants. Recombinant human soluble thrombomodulin (rhsTM) was compared with various anticoagulants for in vitro anticoagulant effects on thrombin generation, clotting time, and thromboelastography. rhsTM as well as APC reduced the level of the peak of the thrombin generation curve, but we did not observe any time-delay to reach the peak. This effect of rhsTM was diminished in PC-deficient plasma and was closely associated with the inhibitory effect on prothrombinase and factor Va. On the other hand, hirudin and argatroban delayed the time to reach the level of the peak, without reducing it. rhsTM and other anticoagulants except for activated protein C (APC) were found to have concentration-dependent anticoagulant activity by conventional clotting tests. However, the concentration of rhsTM for clotting time was slightly affected by anti-protein C antibody. Moreover, the concentration of rhsTM required to inhibit thrombin activity directly was 50 times higher than that needed to inhibit thrombin generation. The effect of rhsTM on clot development was compared with that of other anticoagulants by thromboelastography; rhsTM reduced the growth of the clot but had little effect on the time to activate clotting, while the other anticoagulants had the opposite effect. This effect of rhsTM was completely abolished by the addition of anti-protein C or anti-protein S antibody. These findings suggest that rhsTM attenuates blood clotting by reducing the level of generated thrombin through protein C activation and subsequent factor Va inactivation and prothrombinase inhibition."}
{"id": "10608724", "title": "Evaluation of efficacy in platelet collection by the Haemonetics Component Collection System.", "content": "Evaluation of efficacy in platelet collection by the Haemonetics Component Collection System. Platelet concentrate product derived from plateletpheresis from a single donor is preferable in terms of reducing the risks of adverse reactions in platelet transfusion. This study evaluated the status of platelet transfusion and the efficacy and safety of plateletpheresis machines. The average number of donors of platelet product per patient has been decreasing and recently reached nearly 1.0; however, some patients still receive multiple random donor platelet products. Platelet collection efficacy was comparable between the Haemonetics Component Collection System (CCS) and the Multi Component System (Multi). However, the CCS has been shown to be effective in terms of processed blood volume and procedure time, especially in donors with lower hematocrits. These results suggest that the CCS may be preferable and safer for donors with lower hematocrits and lighter body weights. Blood centers should collect platelets more effectively to achieve platelet transfusion with the use of platelets derived from a single donor using effective equipment."}
{"id": "10589626", "title": "Assessing platelet and fibrinogen contribution to clot strength using modified thromboelastography in pregnant women.", "content": "Assessing platelet and fibrinogen contribution to clot strength using modified thromboelastography in pregnant women. The monoclonal antibody fragment c7E3 Fab (ReoPro), by binding to platelet surface fibrinogen receptors (glycoprotein, GPIIb/IIIa), inhibits platelet aggregation and its interaction with fibrinogen. In this study, we used thromboelastography with ReoPro to evaluate the independent contribution of fibrinogen and platelets to clot strength. Thromboelastography was performed in 21 healthy, term parturients scheduled for elective cesarean delivery with 360 microL of celite-activated whole blood and with 5 microL of (2 mg/mL) ReoPro added to 355 microL of celite-activated whole blood. The contribution of platelets to clot strength (MAplt) was derived by subtracting MAfib (maximal amplitude with ReoPro) from MAwb (maximal amplitude with whole blood). Thus, MAwb - MAfib = MAplt. The value for MAwb (mean +/- SD) was 73+/-4 mm, for MAfib it was 33+/-5 mm, and for MAplt it was 40+/-3 mm. The contribution of fibrinogen and platelets to the MAplt was 45% and 55%, respectively. Modified thromboelastography using ReoPro in healthy parturients can be used to determine the contribution of fibrinogen and platelets to blood clot strength. Determining the independent contribution of platelets and fibrinogen to the maximal amplitude of thromboelastography using c7E3 Fab may further improve the use of thromboelastography in detecting and treating coagulation defects."}
{"id": "10551401", "title": "Correction of both prothrombin time and primary haemostasis by recombinant factor VII during therapeutic alcohol injection of hepatocellular cancer in liver cirrhosis.", "content": "Correction of both prothrombin time and primary haemostasis by recombinant factor VII during therapeutic alcohol injection of hepatocellular cancer in liver cirrhosis. We evaluated the efficacy of recombinant factor VII to correct impaired haemostasis in a patient with liver cirrhosis requiring an invasive procedure. A test intravenous bolus of 80 microg/kg of recombinant factor VII was given to a Jehovah's Witness, with a solitary 4.4-cm hepatocellular carcinoma and underlying hepatitis C virus cirrhosis, in an attempt to correct his haemostatic disorders and safely inject the tumour with alcohol. An extensive portal block had precluded consideration of liver transplantation. Haemostasis was evaluated by clotting assays, bleeding time and thromboelastography 10 min before and 10 min and 1, 2, 4, 8 and 24 h after factor VII infusion. Parameters of both coagulation (prothrombin time) and platelet function (bleeding time and the alpha and ma parameters of thrombelastography) were improved 10 min after factor VII infusion; improvements lasted 4 to 8 h or more. Platelet count did not change and there was no evidence of disseminated intravascular coagulation. The improvements in haemostatic parameters correlated significantly with the increases in factor VII plasma concentrations (p<0.04). Factor VII clearance was 25.1 U/h/kg and its half-life was 5.8 h. The same dose of recombinant factor VII was given to the patient 1 week later, just before the alcohol injections. The patient had no subsequent bleeding or other complication, with no change in haemoglobin levels over 24 h. Thus, recombinant factor VII represents a therapeutic advance, as it can correct fully both coagulation and platelet function defects in cirrhosis and allow invasive procedures to be performed safely."}
{"id": "10549713", "title": "In vitro studies on the biochemistry and pharmacology of low molecular weight heparins.", "content": "In vitro studies on the biochemistry and pharmacology of low molecular weight heparins. Low molecular weight heparins (LMWHs) are obtained from unfractionated heparin by diverse chemical and enzymatic processes and findings with one LMWH cannot be extrapolated to another. Functional assays performed in vitro, evaluating antiprotease activity mediated via antithrombin III, heparin cofactor II interactions, antithrombin III binding, and plasma protein binding, showed wide variations between LMWHs, indicating that compositional differences among the LMWHs have a major impact on function. Evaluation in vitro showed varying potency in United States Pharmacopeia (USP) and anti-Xa assays. LMWHs tested at anti-Xa-adjusted concentrations exhibited varying potencies with anti-IIa, Heptest, and activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) assays. Evaluation of these assays showed differences between LMWHs and a link with molecular weight. Each LMWH also varied in the in vitro neutralization by platelet factor 4, thrombin, and heparinase. LMWHs also varied in platelet interactions as assessed by whole blood clotting, thromboelastography and P-selectin expression, and in tissue factor pathway inhibitor release in cell culture. It was concluded that compositional variations in LMWHs give each product a unique biochemical profile. This profile, plus varying endogenous interactions and pharmacokinetic profiles may give rise to the clinical differences observed with LMWHs in specific indications."}
{"id": "10545849", "title": "Collection of heparinized plasma by plasmapheresis.", "content": "Collection of heparinized plasma by plasmapheresis. Heparinized plasma can be used for exchange transfusions in neonates and is usually collected by drawing whole blood using heparin as anticoagulant. The heparinized red blood cells and buffy coat cannot be used and are therefore discarded. To collect heparinized plasma more efficiently, a method was developed using an apheresis machine. With an MCS3p apheresis machine (Haemonetics), plasma was collected from volunteer donors as anticoagulant, heparin in saline (30,000 IU/l) was added in a 1:9 ratio. The activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) of the donors was measured before and immediately after the procedure, and various parameters were determined in the collected plasma. In 2 collection cycles, an average of 456+/-52 ml (mean +/- SD; n = 20) of heparinized plasma was collected, and 504+/-57 ml (n = 2; donors with a high hemoglobin level) when 3 cycles were performed. The leukocyte and platelet contamination in the plasma (n = 22) was 1.11+/-0.92x10(6) and 0. 05+/-0.22x10(9) per unit, respectively, which conformed to national specifications. Sodium levels were normal, but due to dilution of the plasma with heparin solution, potassium and calcium levels were about 20% lower than the serum levels in the donors. The donor APTT values were slightly longer after the procedure than before, but remained all within normal values. For the collection of heparinized plasma, apheresis has the advantage that (1) high-quality heparinized plasma can be harvested; (2) no blood components need to be discarded; (3) more plasma can be harvested with each donation, and (4) these procedures can be performed more often than whole blood donations."}
{"id": "10544364", "title": "Evaluation of developmentally appropriate programs for adolescent tobacco cessation.", "content": "Evaluation of developmentally appropriate programs for adolescent tobacco cessation. Despite introduction of numerous smoking prevention programs in schools, tobacco use has not declined among adolescents. Schools face the dilemma of what to do with students who smoke and are not ready to quit. This study evaluated two programs based on the stages of change model. The educational program, the Tobacco Education Group (TEG), was designed for adolescents not yet thinking about quitting. The cessation program, the Tobacco Awareness Program (TAP), was intended for adolescents who want to quit. Evaluation was completed on 351 students at six public high schools. Compared to a control group of adolescent smokers not assigned to programs, both intervention groups significantly decreased tobacco use. Self-reported use was validated biochemically. Self-efficacy for quitting increased in both programs. Posttest use was predicted by posttest self-efficacy, peer support, and parental support, after controlling for initial use and initial self-efficacy."}
{"id": "10540068", "title": "The effect of ionised magnesium on coagulation using thromboelastography.", "content": "The effect of ionised magnesium on coagulation using thromboelastography. Magnesium is an ionised mineral with therapeutic uses. There is laboratory evidence that it may have an anticoagulant activity although recent research has been to the contrary. The clinical implications of the effect of a therapeutic dose of magnesium on coagulation have yet to be resolved conclusively. In our study, 10 healthy volunteers were given 4 g of magnesium sulphate intravenously. Thromboelastographs were recorded and blood analysed for haematological indices, before and after the infusion. All variables associated with coagulation remained unchanged except the alpha angle on the thromboelastograph which increased significantly. We conclude that in our in vivo study, the effect of magnesium sulphate on coagulation is not clinically significant."}
{"id": "10520855", "title": "Disseminated intravascular coagulation in liver cirrhosis: fact or fiction?", "content": "Disseminated intravascular coagulation in liver cirrhosis: fact or fiction? Cirrhosis is commonly associated with haemostatic dysfunction. The similarities of laboratory tests of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) to those found in cirrhosis has led to the belief that DIC is a feature of the haemostatic failure of cirrhosis. The aim of this study was to determine whether DIC is part of the coagulopathy of cirrhosis by applying quantitative tests for prothrombin fragment 1 + 2, antithrombin III, thrombin-antithrombin complex, and specific fribrinogen degradation products levels (XDP), as well as the thrombelastograph for detecting the Clot Lysis Index. Fifty-two stable cirrhotic patients (33 men, 19 women; mean age, 58.8 yr; range, 24-72 yr) with differing etiologies were studied. On tests of thrombin generation: thrombin-antithrombin complexes, fibrin(ogen) degradation products, and prothrombin fragments 1 + 2 were not found to be significantly different from an age- and gender-matched control group (p = 0.18, 0.3, and 0.67, respectively), whereas albumin, Factor V, fibrinogen, antithrombin III, and alpha2-antiplasmin were all significantly low (p = 0.0004, 0.002, 0.06, 0.004, and 0.004, respectively), reflecting reduced synthetic function and correlation in ascitic and non-ascitic patients. There was no correlation between impaired synthesis (antithrombin III and alpha2-antiplasmin) and indices of DIC (prothrombin fragment 1 + 2, thrombin-antithrombin complexes, and XDP) (p = not significant). The percentage of patients with high prothrombin fragments 1 + 2 and thrombin antithrombin levels in each Child grade group was similar. Thrombin time was significantly elevated in the cirrhotic group (a manifestation of low fibrinogen levels). The Clot Lysis Index as measured by thrombelastography was significantly abnormal, indicating mild hyperfibrinolysis. We conclude that DIC is not part of the coagulopathy in stable liver cirrhosis without recent complications."}
{"id": "10517085", "title": "[Psychogenic lower urinary tract dysfunction in women: patho-physiological investigation for psychogenic frequency-urgency syndrome and psychogenic urinary retention].", "content": "[Psychogenic lower urinary tract dysfunction in women: patho-physiological investigation for psychogenic frequency-urgency syndrome and psychogenic urinary retention]. Psychogenic lower urinary tract dysfunction (PLUTD) is composed of two syndromes; psychogenic frequency-urgency syndrome (PFUS) and psychogenic urinary retention (PUR). We evaluated the patho-physiology of PFUS and PUR, and explored the different pathogenesis in these syndromes. Forty five patients with PLUTD, consisting of 23 patients with PFUS and 22 patients with PUR were investigated by using the psychological tests: CMI (Cornell Medical Index) and TEG (Todai's Egogram), a quantitative perspiration test in 45 females (23 patients with PFUS and 22 patients with PUR), and simultaneous measurements of voiding cysto-urethrography and urodynamic studies using the Life-Tech 6 channel polygraph in 35 patients (17 patients with PFUS and 18 patients with PUR). The prevalence in ages revealed two peaks, 20 years and 50 to 60 years. Over 25% of them had pyuria more than 10/hpf of WBC. Peak flow rate measured by uroflowmetry showed normal range in PFUS group and decreased in PUR group. The functional vesical volume was less than 100 ml in most patients with PFUS. Residual urine in PUR group was significantly greater. Capacity of the PFUS group were able to hold over 400 ml of contrast instilled through the urethral catheter, despite increased desire to void. Over 15% of the study group with PFUS showed uninhibited systolic contraction of detrusor (> 15 cm H2O) during filling phase. The measurement value of urodynamic parameters demonstrated that a periodic follow-up survey of the upper urinary tract should be performed because of the low compliance bladder in the patients with PLUTD. During voiding phase, the women with PFUS had a tendency to be divided into two groups, hypercontractile or acontractile detrusor. The voiding cysto-urethrography (VCUG) showed a tendency of bladder neck opening on patients with PFUS during filling phase. Most of PLUTD cases demonstrated a round to triangle shape on vesical configuration, which led to a spastic condition of detrusor muscle. We attempted to measure the quantitative perspiration using 3 kinds of loading tests; respiratory, arithmetic and psychological load. In the psychological loading test, we asked 98 questions about their daily lives including occupation, living condition, family relationship and sexual activities. Arithmetic loading test consisted of counting in reverse, subtraction and multiplication. The quantitative perspiration rate resulted in a \"positive\" in many patients with PFUS. Respiration loading test was performed to measure the respiration volume during 3 large inhales. Most patients with PUR tested within the normal range for respiration except for those patients with decreased or no perspiration during the psychiatric loading test. These results may reflect the psychological elements including suppression and subconscious defense mechanism. Neurosis which was diagnosed as having type III to type IV of the Cornell Medical Index was demonstrated in less than under 40% of patients with PFUS and more than 55% patients with PUR. There was no significant trend or difference between PFUS and PUR detected from Todai's Egogram. Due to the reflection of many psychological responses, it is necessary to investigate from various examinations including psychological, autonomical and classical urological studies for accurate diagnosis of PLUTD."}
{"id": "10515036", "title": "[Nicotinamide in combined treatment of chronic pancreatitis].", "content": "[Nicotinamide in combined treatment of chronic pancreatitis]. To evaluate effects of nicotinamide on insulin secretion in glucose tolerance test and on blood clotting in patients with chronic pancreatitis (CP). 30 patients with CP of alcoholic etiology received combined treatment with enzyme medicines. In addition, some of them were administered nicotinamide as 2.5% solution for 2 weeks (1 ml twice a day). Before the treatment and during its course, measurements were made of fasting and post glucose test values of insulin secretion and thromboelastogram. Both basal and stimulated insulin secretion in CP patients was low compared to control subjects. Nicotinamide significantly increased basal secretion of insulin and insignificantly aroused its glucose-stimulated secretion. Nicotinamide promoted reduction of hypercoagulation and time to remission. Nicotinamide administration is thought valid for correction of endocrine pancreatic function and hemocoagulation in patients with alcoholic CP."}
{"id": "10481860", "title": "[Acute massive hemorrhage and disseminated intravascular coagulation].", "content": "[Acute massive hemorrhage and disseminated intravascular coagulation]."}
{"id": "10475284", "title": "Use of abciximab-modified thrombelastography in patients undergoing cardiac surgery.", "content": "Use of abciximab-modified thrombelastography in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Thrombelastography (TEG) is a reliable coagulation monitoring system that can guide blood product transfusion in cardiac surgery. The maximum amplitude (MA) of TEG measures clot strength, which is dependent on both fibrinogen level and platelet function. Inhibition of platelet function with abciximab-fab is suggested to permit quantitative assessment of the contribution of fibrinogen to clot strength. We hypothesized that abciximab-modified TEG permits prediction of plasma fibrinogen levels and that the difference of standard MA and abciximab-modified MA (deltaMA) is a correlate for platelet function. We correlated abciximab-modified MA with plasma fibrinogen levels and deltaMA with platelet count in patients undergoing coronary revascularization. Correlation between plasma fibrinogen levels and abciximab-modified MA was significant (adjusted r2: 0.8; P < 0.0001). Correlation of deltaMA with platelet count was not significant when calculated in millimeters (adjusted r2: 0.04; P = 0.73). However, when deltaMA was calculated in dynes per square centimeter (deltaGMA), it correlated significantly with platelet count (adjusted r2: 0.51; P < 0.0001). We conclude that abciximab-modified TEG may therefore help to discriminate between hypofibrinogenemia and platelet dysfunction as a cause of decreased MA. We examined the use of abciximab-modified thrombelastography in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Modification of thrombelastography with abciximab-fab allows prediction of fibrinogen levels, despite coagulation altered by cardiac surgery. The difference of standard maximum amplitude and abciximab-modified maximum amplitude correlates with platelet function when expressed in dynes per square centimeter."}
{"id": "10468251", "title": "Coagulation tests during cardiopulmonary bypass correlate with blood loss in children undergoing cardiac surgery.", "content": "Coagulation tests during cardiopulmonary bypass correlate with blood loss in children undergoing cardiac surgery. To examine whether coagulation tests, sampled before and during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), are related to blood loss and blood product transfusion requirements, and to determine what test value(s) provide the best sensitivity and specificity for prediction of excessive hemorrhage. Prospective. University-affiliated, pediatric medical center. Four hundred ninety-four children. Coagulation tests. Demographic, coagulation test, blood loss, and transfusion data were noted in consecutive children undergoing cardiac surgery. Laboratory tests included hematocrit (Hct), prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time (PTT), platelet count, fibrinogen concentration, and thromboelastography. Stepwise linear regression analysis indicated that platelet count during CPB was the variable most significantly associated with intraoperative blood loss (in milliliters per kilogram) and 12-hour chest tube output (in milliliters per kilogram). Other independent variables associated with blood loss were thromboelastography maximum amplitude (MA) during CPB, preoperative PTT, preoperative Hct, and preoperative thromboelastography angle and shear modulus values. Thromboelastography MA during CPB was the only variable associated with total products transfused (in milliliters per kilogram). Of all tests studied, platelet count during CPB (< or = 108,000/microL) provided the maximum sensitivity (83%) and specificity (58%) for prediction of excessive blood loss (receiver operating characteristic analysis). Blood loss was inversely related to patient age; neonates received the most donor units (median, 8 units; range, 6 to 10 units). During cardiac surgery, coagulation tests (including thromboelastography) drawn pre-CPB and during CPB are useful to identify children at risk for excessive bleeding. Platelet count during CPB was the variable most significantly associated with blood loss."}
{"id": "10468250", "title": "Sonoclot coagulation analysis: a study of test variability.", "content": "Sonoclot coagulation analysis: a study of test variability. To test the reproducibility of Sonoclot coagulation analysis (SCA; Sienco Inc, Morrison, CO). The authors wished to determine if the mix/release of the preloaded celite activator in standard Sono-cuvettes could be responsible for the high variation coefficients for SCA parameters with citrated whole blood and if citrated whole blood is optimal for SCA. A prospective trial. A large academic teaching medical center. Eight healthy volunteers. Repeated blood sampling was performed through indwelling radial artery catheters. Seven different Sonoclot analyzers were used to test seven different types of analysis procedures in the volunteers, involving activators of different types and amounts and in different forms, and the use of citrated or native whole blood. Two-way and one-way ANOVA, variance, variance analysis, and Tukey's test were used to evaluate differences in SCA methods and volunteer influence. A high variance, with SDs up to 200% of the median values of the SCA parameters with recalcified citrated blood and the standard Sono-cuvette, was confirmed. SCA with native blood and/or the use of other types of preloaded activators, ie, kaolin, significantly (p < 0.05) reduced this variance. Repeated SCAs further reduced the variance to 10% to 35% of the variance for a single analysis (standard cuvette and native blood). Improvement of the activator in the Sonocuvette, use of native whole blood, and repeated Sonoclot analyses reduced the previously reported high variability of this instrument."}
{"id": "10465049", "title": "Antibody isotype responses, infection and re-infection for Schistosoma japonicum in a marshland area of China.", "content": "Antibody isotype responses, infection and re-infection for Schistosoma japonicum in a marshland area of China. Antibody isotype responses to adult worm antigen (AWA) of Schistosoma japonicum and two recombinant proteins (paramyosin (PMY) and a 22 kDa tegumental membrane-associated antigen (TEG)) were analyzed in 137 individuals from an area moderately endemic for schistosomiasis in the Dongting Lake region, Hunan Province, China. The prevalence and geometric mean (GM) intensity of infection before the implementation of curative chemotherapy were 28.5% and 234.4 epg, respectively, but 9 months after treatment the prevalence (6.6%) and intensity (38.3 epg) had decreased. There was no significant difference in either the prevalence or intensity of infection between males and females. Specific IgG (total), IgG4, IgG2, IgA and IgE responses to AWA, PMY and TEG were measured by ELISA. Males produced significantly (P < 0.05) more anti-AWA total IgG, IgE, IgA, IgG4 and IgG2 antibodies, and anti-TEG IgG2 antibody than their female counterparts. The OD450 levels of anti-AWA, PMY and TEG antibody isotypes did not present clear age-dependent trends except for peak levels of anti-AWA IgG4 antibodies evident among subjects 20-29 years of age. The total IgG and IgG4 antibody profiles against AWA correlated well with current S. japonicum infections while anti-AWA IgG2, IgA and IgE antibodies did not show such an association. Anti-AWA-specific IgE antibody levels were positively correlated (r = 0.55) with anti-AWA specific IgG4 antibody levels. In addition, the overall percentage of responders (using a cut-off value obtained from normal controls) to all isotypes to AWA were higher than those observed for both the recombinant antigens. Only 18.2%, 16.8% and 7.3% of the study population were IgE responders to AWA, PMY and TEG. A longer follow-up period is required before we can more fully understand the role of IgE, if any, in protective immunity against schistosomiasis japonica."}
{"id": "10460568", "title": "The effects of ropivacaine hydrochloride on coagulation and fibrinolysis. An assessment using thromboelastography.", "content": "The effects of ropivacaine hydrochloride on coagulation and fibrinolysis. An assessment using thromboelastography. Amide local anaesthetics impair coagulation by inhibition of platelet function and enhanced fibrinolysis. The potential therefore exists that the presence of amide local anaesthetics in the epidural space could contribute to the therapeutic failure of an epidural autologous blood patch. Ropivacaine is an aminoamide local anaesthetic increasingly used for epidural analgesia and anaesthesia, particularly in obstetric practice. This study was undertaken to investigate whether concentrations of ropivacaine in blood, which could occur clinically in the epidural space, alter coagulation or fibrinolysis. Thromboelastography was used to assess clotting and fibrinolysis of blood to which ropivacaine had been added. Although modest alterations in maximum amplitude, coagulation time and alpha angle were observed, the effect of ropivacaine on clotting and fibrinolysis was not clinically significant. We conclude that it is unlikely that the presence of ropivacaine in the epidural space would reduce the efficacy of an early or prophylactic epidural blood patch."}
{"id": "10458035", "title": "[State of the hemostasis and fibrinolysis systems in cesarean section under combined ketamine anesthesia].", "content": "[State of the hemostasis and fibrinolysis systems in cesarean section under combined ketamine anesthesia]. The reserve potentialities of the hemostasis and fibrinolysis systems were studied by thromboelastography in 34 women with normal pregnancy aged 18-34 years at different stages of cesarean section under combined ketamine anesthesia. Three types of responses were observed: compensated, subcompensated, and decompensated. In women with subcompensated response removal of the fetus from the uterus involved in 30.1% cases depletion of the reserve potential of anticoagulant mechanisms, which led to abnormal blood loss in 34.7% cases."}
{"id": "10450445", "title": "The role of thromboelastography in the management of children with snake-bite in southern Africa.", "content": "The role of thromboelastography in the management of children with snake-bite in southern Africa. In the absence of a direct laboratory test of envenomation, there is a need for an alternative mechanism for the early recognition of envenomation following snake-bite in children. A severe clinical diathesis may result either from envenomation or from the release of an inappropriate tourniquet applied as 'first-aid' often several hours before presentation to hospital. Abnormalities of clotting are associated with both events. A normal thromboelastogram (TEG) provides early recognition of patients in whom the clinical course is likely to be benign (sensitivity = 94%). An abnormal TEG identifies patients of whom 50% will develop a severe clinical diathesis. A TEG is a more accurate predictor of disease severity than International Normalized Ratio alone. The TEG does not supplant clinical observation in the management of snake-bite in children but allows stratification into high- and low-risk categories."}
{"id": "10445771", "title": "Bupivacaine inhibits whole blood coagulation in vitro.", "content": "Bupivacaine inhibits whole blood coagulation in vitro. Epidural anesthesia decreases the risk of postoperative deep venous thrombosis in selected patients. Intravascular local anesthetic levels resulting from epidural anesthesia may contribute to this effect by impacting coagulation. We studied the effects of bupivacaine (1-10 micromol/L) on whole blood coagulation measured by thrombelastography (TEG) and activated clotting time (ACT). We incubated whole blood with bupivacaine (1, 2, and 10 micromol/L) or Tyrode's solution (control) for 60 minutes and measured TEG and ACT clotting parameters. Bupivacaine (1 or 10 micromol/L) prolonged ACT when compared with control. The thromboxane A2 (TX) receptor antagonist SQ29548 also prolonged ACT significantly. The combination of SQ29548 and bupivacaine was equally effective as bupivacaine alone, compatible with the hypothesis that bupivacaine at these concentrations blocks TX signaling. Because SQ29548 + bupivacaine prolonged ACT more than did SQ29548 alone, bupivacaine likely inhibits processes in addition to TX signaling. This was evaluated further using TEG. After incubation with 2 microm bupivacaine, TEG reaction time and clot growth time increased significantly, and maximal amplitude decreased. Bupivacaine in clinically relevant concentrations influences whole blood clotting characteristics as measured by TEG and ACT. Thromboxane receptor antagonism increases ACT, confirming a role for TX in coagulation. Bupivacaine may also inhibit TX signaling, but seems to block additional factors as well. These findings might partly explain the beneficial effects of epidural anesthesia on postoperative thrombotic events."}
{"id": "10443606", "title": "The effect of prophylactic epsilon-aminocaproic acid on bleeding, transfusions, platelet function, and fibrinolysis during coronary artery bypass grafting.", "content": "The effect of prophylactic epsilon-aminocaproic acid on bleeding, transfusions, platelet function, and fibrinolysis during coronary artery bypass grafting. Antifibrinolytic medications administered before skin incision decrease bleeding after cardiac surgery. Numerous case reports indicate thrombus formation with administration of epsilon-aminocaproic acid (epsilon-ACA). The purpose of this study was to examine the efficacy of epsilon-ACA administered after heparinization but before cardiopulmonary bypass in reducing bleeding and transfusion requirements after primary coronary artery bypass surgery. Seventy-four adult patients undergoing primary coronary artery bypass surgery were randomized to receive 125 mg/kg epsilon-ACA followed by an infusion of 12.5 mg x kg(-1) x h(-1) or an equivalent volume of saline. Coagulation studies, thromboelastography, and platelet aggregation tests were performed preoperatively, after bypass, and on the first postoperative day. Mediastinal drainage was recorded during the 24 h after surgery. Homologous blood transfusion triggers were predefined and transfusion amounts were recorded. One patient was excluded for surgical bleeding and five patients were excluded for transfusion against predefined criteria One patient died from a dysrhythmia 2 h postoperatively. Among the remaining 67, the epsilon-ACA group had less mediastinal blood loss during the 24 h after surgery, 529+/-241 ml versus 691+/-286 ml (mean +/- SD), P < 0.05, despite longer cardiopulmonary bypass times and lower platelet counts, P < 0.05. Platelet aggregation was reduced in both groups following cardiopulmonary bypass but did not differ between groups. Homologous blood transfusion was similar between both groups. Prophylactic administration of epsilon-ACA after heparinization but before cardiopulmonary bypass is of minimal benefit for reducing blood loss postoperatively in patients undergoing primary coronary artery bypass grafting."}
{"id": "10439733", "title": "Quantitative measurement of thromboelastography as a function of platelet count.", "content": "Quantitative measurement of thromboelastography as a function of platelet count."}
{"id": "10421115", "title": "Influence of different autotransfusion devices on the quality of salvaged blood.", "content": "Influence of different autotransfusion devices on the quality of salvaged blood. Cardiopulmonary bypass causes a systemic inflammatory response and impaired hemostasis. We investigated whether intraoperative blood salvage with the cardiotomy suction contributes to these alterations. Furthermore, an alternative autotransfusion device (Haemonetics cell-saving device) was examined. In 10 patients, interleukin-6, interleukin-8, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, thrombin-antithrombin complex, plasmin-antiplasmin complex, free hemoglobin, and the percentage of CD62+ thrombocytes were determined in the systemic circulation during cardiopulmonary bypass, in the cardiotomy suction tube, and in the blood from the cell-saving device. Additionally, bacterial contamination was examined. Median levels of interleukin-6 (52 versus 10 microg/L; p = 0.005), interleukin-8 (26 versus 20 microg/L; p = 0.017), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (24 versus 1 microg/L; p = 0.005), thrombin-antithrombin complex (113 versus 43 microg/L; p = 0.005), plasmin-antiplasmin complex (566 versus 489 microg/L; p = 0.022), and free hemoglobin (61 versus 30 mg/dL; p = 0.005) were higher in the cardiotomy suction tube compared with the systemic circulation. After processing the blood from the cell-saving device, interleukin-8, thrombin-antithrombin complex, and free hemoglobin remained above reference range, and in 90% of the cases bacterial contamination was observed. Cardiotomy suction additionally contributes to the release of proinflammatory cytokines, activation of coagulation, and hemolysis. Because blood salvage with a Haemonetics cell-saving device led to normalization of some, but not all, parameters and bacterial contamination was common, the alternative use seems at least questionable."}
{"id": "10414779", "title": "Biochemical effects of some pesticides on lipid peroxidation and free-radical scavengers.", "content": "Biochemical effects of some pesticides on lipid peroxidation and free-radical scavengers. Oxidative stress was studied in blood samples obtained from lindane, malathion and propoxur poisoning cases admitted to the Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Delhi and evaluated for lipid peroxidation, oxygen free radical (OFR) scavenging enzymes, and glutathione (GSH) and related enzymes. Acetylcholine esterase (AChE), gamma glutamyl transpeptidase (GGT) and GSH level were also assayed in lymphocytes. The level of thiobarbituric acid reacting substances and activities of superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase, glutathione-S-transferase and GGT were increased and GSH level was decreased in pesticide poisoning. Apparently lindane (at the concentration examined) was more potent than malathion and propoxur in producing alteration in lipid peroxidation, GSH related parameters and OFR scavenging enzymes. However, AChE activity and GSH level in lymphocytes of malathion poisoning cases were reduced and GGT activity was enhanced in comparison to control subjects. The present results suggest that OFR scavenging enzymes were induced while combating oxidative stress in a differential manner in organochlorine, organophosphate and carbamate poisoning. Increased lipid peroxidation, coupled with altered levels of GSH and OFR scavenging enzymes in the blood are discussed in the light of oxidative stress."}
{"id": "10413281", "title": "Platelet surface p-selectin, platelet-granulocyte heterotypic aggregates, and plasma-soluble p-selectin during plateletpheresis.", "content": "Platelet surface p-selectin, platelet-granulocyte heterotypic aggregates, and plasma-soluble p-selectin during plateletpheresis. Plateletpheresis components have been shown to contain p-selectin-positive platelets after collection and storage. P-selectin mediates binding of activated platelets to granulocytes and monocytes. This study was undertaken to assess platelet activation, granulocyte activation, platelet-granulocyte heterotypic aggregate formation, and the plasma-soluble p-selectin level during plateletpheresis performed on a particular instrument (MCS+, Haemonetics). Flow cytometry was used to assay platelet surface p-selectin, granulocyte iC3b receptor, and platelet-granulocyte aggregates in the platelet component, residual blood in the disposable polycarbonate bowl of the MCS+, and in the donor blood with and without the addition of in vitro agonists before, during, and after plateletpheresis. The plasma-soluble p-selectin levels in the platelet component, disposable bowl, and donor venous blood were measured by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay. Levels of p-selectin-positive platelets, activated granulocytes, and platelet-granulocyte aggregates were greater in the disposable bowl than in the preapheresis donor blood. Levels of p-selectin-positive platelets, activated granulocytes, and platelet-granulocyte aggregates in the postapheresis donor blood were similar to those in the preapheresis donor blood. The platelet components contained no activated granulocytes or detectable platelet-granulocyte heterotypic aggregates, and only about 10-percent activated platelets. The plasma-soluble p-selectin level in the platelet component was significantly greater than that in the preapheresis donor blood, the residual blood in the disposable bowl, or the postapheresis donor blood. Measurements of platelet surface p-selectin, platelet-granulocyte heterotypic aggregates, and plasma-soluble p-selectin can be used to detect platelet activation during plateletpheresis."}
{"id": "10396719", "title": "Lidocaine and bupivacaine exert differential effects on whole blood coagulation.", "content": "Lidocaine and bupivacaine exert differential effects on whole blood coagulation. To compare bupivacaine to lidocaine's effects on blood clotting at two concentrations, and to characterize and determine relative effects of two equianalgesic bupivacaine and lidocaine concentrations. Prospective, dual-controlled, whole blood equal volume admixture thrombelastographic (TEG) study. University of Pennsylvania Medical Center operating rooms. 20 ASA physical status I and II patients' blood comprised control groups and anesthetic groups. Analysis of whole blood clotting used six TEG channels for untreated and saline controls and four final concentrations (1.0% lidocaine, 0.5% lidocaine, 0.25% bupivacaine, and 0.125% bupivacaine) of local anesthetics. Saline control and the local anesthetic-treated specimens underwent 8.3% hemodilution. Blood was studied. Saline control or four anesthetic solutions (30 microliters) were added in random order two 5 TEG cuvettes. Whole blood (330 microliters) was mixed ex vivo at 37 degrees C. A sixth channel with untreated whole blood (360 microliters) acted as an undiluted control. Data for four TEG parameters [reaction time (r), angle (alpha), maximum amplitude (MA), and percent decrease in TEG amplitude from MA 30 minutes after MA acquisition (Lysis 30)] for undiluted control and saline volumetric controls were compared to each other using Student's t-test for paired observations. Lidocaine and bupivacaine groups' TEGs were compared to the paired saline control analysis of variance for repeated measures. A p-value less than 0.05 was considered significant. There was no difference between whole blood and saline control TEGs. All local anesthetics produced significant hypocoagulable changes from control. Angle alpha and MA were significantly decreased in all local anesthetic groups. Ther time was prolonged only in the high lidocaine-treated blood. Lysis was a feature of the low lidocaine and bupivacaine solutions. Equianalgesic lidocaine produced more profound hypocoagulable effects than did bupivacaine. Lidocaine and bupivacaine both significantly impaired TEG coagulation in a concentration-dependent manner. Lidocaine was significantly more hypocoagulable than bupivacaine at two similarly analgesic concentrations."}
{"id": "10392682", "title": "Efficacy of epsilon-aminocaproic acid in children undergoing cardiac surgery.", "content": "Efficacy of epsilon-aminocaproic acid in children undergoing cardiac surgery. To compare coagulation test results, blood loss, and blood product transfusions between patients receiving prophylactic epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA) and a control group matched for age, resternotomy, and surgery in children undergoing cardiac surgery. Nested case-control study. University-affiliated, pediatric medical center. Same study period; 70 patients in EACA group and 70 patients in control group. Prophylactic EACA administered intravenously (load, 150 mg/kg, infusion; 30 mg/kg/h) to 70 patients at increased risk for bleeding (reoperation or Ross procedure). Coagulation test values were measured before, during, and after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). Intraoperative blood loss, postoperative chest tube output, and allogenic blood product transfusions were recorded. Comparison of demographic and surgical data indicated close matching of the EACA and control groups. The EACA group ([median, 25th to 75th quartile] 15.6 mL/kg; 9.2 to 26.3 mL/kg) had less intraoperative blood loss than the control group (22.2 mL/kg; 14.3 to 36.3 mL/kg; p = 0.02). Postoperative chest tube output at 6 hours (p = 0.08), 12 hours (p = 0.07), and 24 hours (p = 0.08) was not significantly different between groups. Fewer EACA group patients required reexploration for bleeding (p < 0.05). There was no difference between groups in blood products transfused (in milliliters per kilogram or allogenic exposure per patient). Thromboelastography values (maximum amplitude [MA], whole blood clot lysis index at 30 minutes after MA) during CPB were better preserved in the EACA group. EACA reduced intraoperative blood loss but did not significantly decrease blood product transfusions. Lack of efficacy may be related to relative underdosing and should be further studied."}
{"id": "10365689", "title": "The effects of intentional hyperthermia on the Thrombelastograph and the Sonoclot analyser.", "content": "The effects of intentional hyperthermia on the Thrombelastograph and the Sonoclot analyser. The effect of whole-body hyperthermia (WBH) on viscoelastic properties of whole blood, as measured by the thrombelastogram (TEG) and Sonoclot analyser, was investigated in 10 patients undergoing WBH-carboplastin therapy for metastatic disease. Blood was taken from an existing central line at baseline (37 degrees C), during warming (39 and 41 degrees C) and cooling (39 and 37 degrees C). Sonoclot and TEG samples were analysed simultaneously at 37 degrees C and at the patient's temperature with a temperature-compensated unit, except at 41 degrees C for the Sonoclot (maximum temperature adjustment of 40 degrees C). TEG measurements included R time (time to initial fibrin formation [mm]), K time (mm) and alpha angle (degrees) (both reflecting fibrinogen-platelet interaction), maximum amplitude (representing qualitative platelet function [mm]) and per cent fibrinolysis at 30 and 60 min. The Sonoclot ACT (SonACT-secs), initial rate of clot formation (%), time to peak amplitude (min) and peak amplitude of the Sonoclot signature (mm) were recorded. Decreased R time of the TEG compared to a marginally elevated baseline was found at all times during warming and cooling (p < 0.05). The K time was decreased at 41 degrees C compared to a normal baseline (p < 0.05). The SonACT was decreased (from an elevated baseline) at all other times, without differences in measures at patient temperature versus 37 degrees C (p < 0.05). The data suggest acceleration of fibrin formation during WBH to 41 degrees C in patients with malignancy. Implications for defining thromboembolic risk require further investigation."}
{"id": "10364989", "title": "Thrombelastogram reveals hypercoagulability after administration of gelatin solution.", "content": "Thrombelastogram reveals hypercoagulability after administration of gelatin solution. We have compared the effects of gelatin, low molecular weight hydroxyethyl starch (HES) or albumin on tests of haemostasis and on the thrombelastogram in 42 ASA I patients undergoing total hip or knee replacement. Patients were allocated randomly to receive one of the three blood substitutes to obtain moderate intraoperative haemodilution. Blood loss and packed red cell infusion was the same in each group. A greater amount of gelatin was given (1.5 times the measured blood loss) because of its shorter half-life. There was a statistically significant but clinically negligible decrease in platelets count, prothrombin time and fibrinogen, and an increase in bleeding time in all groups. Platelets were slightly but significantly lower after HES. Haemodilution was comparable between groups. TEG showed a state of hypercoagulability in the gelatin group with a significant decrease in r, r + k and an increase in alpha angle."}
{"id": "10353455", "title": "Assessment of ego state in anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa.", "content": "Assessment of ego state in anorexia nervosa and bulimia nervosa. To clarify the effects of ego states on anorexia nervosa (AN) and bulimia nervosa (BN), the questionnaire of the Tokyo University Egogram (TEG) with critical parent, nurturing parent, adult, free child and adapted child scales was administered to 32 female AN patients aged 14 to 32 years (mean age 20 years) and 49 female BN patients aged 14 to 33 years (mean age 23 years). The scores on the critical parent and adapted child scales for AN were significantly lower than those for BN. A multiple logistic regression analysis including all of the TEG scales, age, duration of illness and education showed that the adapted child scale significantly discriminated between AN and BN. The adaptive ego state is suggested for differentiating between the two disorders."}
{"id": "10325846", "title": "Effect of 20% in vitro haemodilution with warmed buffered salt solution and cerebrospinal fluid on coagulation.", "content": "Effect of 20% in vitro haemodilution with warmed buffered salt solution and cerebrospinal fluid on coagulation. We have conducted an in vitro coagulation study consisting of two separate groups of 20 subjects using the thrombelastograph. In the first group, haemodilution was performed with a physiological balanced salt solution similar to plasma, with the exception of calcium, and buffered to a normal pH (Plasmalyte B) at 37 degrees C on blood obtained from consenting volunteers. In the second group, a protein-poor body fluid (cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)) obtained from parturient patients undergoing spinal anaesthesia for Caesarean section was used as the diluent. There were statistically significant differences between the warmed Plasmalyte B treated samples and their untreated controls for all variables measured by the thrombelastograph, except for maximum amplitude, and between the CSF treated samples and their untreated controls for all variables. We conclude that electrolyte and acid-base composition of the diluent fluid had no effect on the observation that crystalloid haemodilution produces hypercoagulability. The marked increase in coagulability produced by addition of CSF cannot be explained on a simple haemodilution basis and confirms previous suggestions of the presence of a procoagulant factor in CSF."}
{"id": "10321849", "title": "Effect of haemofiltration on pathological fibrinolysis due to severe sepsis: a case report.", "content": "Effect of haemofiltration on pathological fibrinolysis due to severe sepsis: a case report. Bleeding due to coagulopathy is a frequent complication of severe sepsis, especially in burn patients. The primary treatment is aimed at the underlying cause but additional supportive measures, consisting mainly of coagulation factor replacement, are frequently necessary. We describe the salutary effect of continuous veno-venous haemofiltration (CVVH) with predilution on diffuse haemorrhage in a patient with severe septic shock and renal failure. The diffuse haemorrhage was initially treated with replacement of coagulation factors. Prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time became normal while diffuse bleeding continued and the thrombelastogram showed evidence of fibrinolysis. A short period of CVVH lead to the cessation of bleeding which was reflected by a normal thrombelastogram."}
{"id": "10320157", "title": "Hextend, a physiologically balanced plasma expander for large volume use in major surgery: a randomized phase III clinical trial. Hextend Study Group.", "content": "Hextend, a physiologically balanced plasma expander for large volume use in major surgery: a randomized phase III clinical trial. Hextend Study Group. Hextend (BioTime, Inc., Berkeley, CA) is a new plasma volume expander containing 6% hetastarch, balanced electrolytes, a lactate buffer, and physiological levels of glucose. In preclinical studies, its use in shock models was associated with an improvement in outcome compared with alternatives, such as albumin or 6% hetastarch in saline. In a prospective, randomized, two-center study (n = 120), we compared the efficacy and safety of Hextend versus 6% hetastarch in saline (HES) for the treatment of hypovolemia during major surgery. Patients at one center had a blood sample drawn at the beginning and the end of surgery for thromboelastographic (TEG) analysis. Hextend was as effective as HES for the treatment of hypovolemia. Patients received an average of 1596 mL of Hextend: 42% received >20 mL/kg up to a total of 5000 mL. No patient received albumin. Hextend-treated patients required less intraoperative calcium (4 vs 220 mg; P < 0.05). In a subset analysis of patients receiving red blood cell transfusions (n = 56; 47%), Hextend-treated patients had a lower mean estimated blood loss (956 mL less; P = 0.02) and were less likely to receive calcium supplementation (P = 0.04). Patients receiving HES demonstrated significant prolongation of time to onset of clot formation (based on TEG) not seen in the Hextend patients (P < 0.05). No Hextend patient experienced a related serious adverse event, and there was no difference in the total number of adverse events between the two groups. The results of this study demonstrate that Hextend, with its novel buffered, balanced electrolyte formulation, is as effective as 6% hetastarch in saline for the treatment of hypovolemia and may be a safe alternative even when used in volumes up to 5 L. Hextend (BioTime, Inc., Berkeley, CA) is a new plasma volume expander containing 6% hetastarch, balanced electrolytes, a lactate buffer, and a physiological level of glucose. It is as effective as 6% hetastarch in saline for the treatment of hypovolemia but has a more favorable side effects profile in volumes of up to 5 L compared with 6% hetastarch in saline."}
{"id": "10228839", "title": "Thrombelastographic patterns during cryotherapy for recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma.", "content": "Thrombelastographic patterns during cryotherapy for recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma. A cirrhotic patient with recurrent hepatocellular carcinoma and thrombocytopenia undergoing cryotherapy showed: 1) transient hyperfibrinolysis shortly after platelet transfusion, and 2) evidence of activation of coagulation after freezing and thawing of tumor as measured on the thrombelastography. No anti-fibrinolytic treatment was required for the hyperfibrinolysis which subsided spontaneously in this patient. This case report highlights that: 1) in patients with chronic liver disease, platelet transfusion might potentially worsen rather than improve the hemostatic function by activation of fibrinolysis, and 2) activation of coagulation may underlie the perioperative coagulation changes seen in cryotherapy."}
{"id": "10220271", "title": "Safety issues of plateletpheresis: comparison of the effects of two cell separators on the activation of coagulation, fibrinolysis, and neutrophils and on the formation of neutrophil-platelet aggregates.", "content": "Safety issues of plateletpheresis: comparison of the effects of two cell separators on the activation of coagulation, fibrinolysis, and neutrophils and on the formation of neutrophil-platelet aggregates. Although many donors undergo repeated plateletpheresis, data on the consequences of plateletpheresis for the donor's health remain scarce. Thus, the effect of plateletpheresis on the activation of coagulation, fibrinolysis, and neutrophils was investigated. Part 1: Sixteen healthy men were randomly assigned to undergo plateletpheresis on a cell separator (AMICUS, Fenwal Baxter; or MCS 3p, Haemonetics). The effects of plateletpheresis on plasma levels of prothrombin fragment (F(1+2)), D-dimer, plasmin-plasmin inhibitor (PPI) complexes, and plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI-1); on the activation of neutrophils (% L-selectin+); and on the frequency of platelet-neutrophil aggregates (% CD41+ neutrophils) were compared. Part 2: Ten healthy men received infusions of ACD-A and placebo without apheresis in a randomized, double-blind crossover study to control for the pharmacologic effects of citrate. Part 1: No change in F(1+2) occurred (p>0.05), which indicated that plateletpheresis did not enhance coagulation. Levels of D-dimer, PPI, and PAI-1 decreased over time on the AMICUS (p<0.001). Plateletpheresis did not activate neutrophils (p>0.05), but it decreased the percentage of CD41+ neutrophils (p<0.003). An approximately 80-percent drop in mononuclear cells was observed in the extracorporeal circulation of the AMICUS (p<0.001 vs. baseline and p = 0.005 vs. MCS 3p), and circulating lymphocyte and monocyte counts decreased concomitantly. Part 2: Infusion of ACD-A slightly decreased D-dimer levels (p<0.05), and both infusions decreased the circulating lymphocyte counts. Plateletpheresis can be regarded as safe with respect to the activation of coagulation or neutrophils. The consequences for the donor's health of the decrease in D-dimer, PPI, and PAI-1 may deserve further investigation."}
{"id": "10215215", "title": "A prospective, randomized study of cardiopulmonary bypass temperature and blood transfusion.", "content": "A prospective, randomized study of cardiopulmonary bypass temperature and blood transfusion. We hypothesized that normothermic cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) would be associated with decreased blood loss and allogeneic transfusion requirements relative to hypothermic CPB. After obtaining institutional review board approval and informed patient consent, we conducted a prospective, randomized study of 79 patients undergoing CPB for a primary cardiac operation at normothermic (37 degrees C) (n = 44) or hypothermic temperature (25 degrees C) (n = 35). Blood loss and transfusion requirements in the operating room and for the first 24 hours in the intensive care unit were determined. A paired t test and rank sum tests were used. A p value of less than 0.05 was considered significant. The normothermic and hypothermic CPB groups did not differ in demographic variables, CPB or cross-clamp duration, heparin sodium or protamine sulfate dose, prothrombin time, or thromboelastogram results. There were no differences between the two CPB groups in blood loss or transfusion requirements. We found that when there was no difference in duration of CPB, normothermic and hypothermic CPB groups demonstrated similar blood loss and transfusion requirements even though other studies have shown hypothermia induces platelet dysfunction and alters the activity of the coagulation cascade."}
{"id": "10204988", "title": "Modified acrylic bone cement with high amounts of ethoxytriethyleneglycol methacrylate.", "content": "Modified acrylic bone cement with high amounts of ethoxytriethyleneglycol methacrylate. One cause of arthroplasty failure is the brittle mechanical behavior of bone cements. However, the improvement of cement formulations must also be accompanied by the maintenance of a wide variety of characteristics. New bone cements were obtained by the substitution of high percentages, up to 60% (v/v), of methyl methacrylate (MMA) by a higher molecular weight and more hydrophilic monomer, ethoxytriethyleneglycol methacrylate (TEG). The essential advantages of these materials were the decrease of maximum temperature together with a decrease in the residual monomer content with respect to conventional cement formulations. The water absorption process obeyed diffusion laws and the equilibrium water content increased by the introduction of higher percentages of the hydrophilic component. This characteristic had an appreciable effect on the viscoelastic behavior analyzed by DMTA. These modified bone cements had reduced polymerization shrinkage and similar levels of porosity. Tensile test revealed that the introduction of TEGMA gave rise to an important modification of the mechanical behavior, with a noticeable increase in the fracture strain. This fact was also confirmed by means of the analysis of the fracture surfaces by SEM."}
{"id": "10199038", "title": "[Stages of disseminated intravascular coagulation after resuscitation in patients with massive hemorrhage and severe multiple trauma].", "content": "[Stages of disseminated intravascular coagulation after resuscitation in patients with massive hemorrhage and severe multiple trauma]. Changes in blood coagulation and fibrinolysis were followed up in 255 patients of intensive care wards during 5 days after effective treatment of grave and terminal stages of traumatic hemorrhagic shock. Four stages in the development of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) were distinguished. Special attention is paid to the time course of the third stage with repeated hypercoagulation, suppressed fibrinolysis, and microthrombolysis in organs and tissues leading to multiple organ failure. The fourth stage of DIC is described, when involvement of the organs and generalized inflammation or sepsis is associated with remote (on days 3-5 and later) hemorrhages. These hemorrhages are apparently caused by disorders in fibrin production but not by acute fibrinolysis and consumption coagulopathy, as during the second stage of DIC."}
{"id": "10198764", "title": "[The effect of compounds with antioxidant properties on thrombocyte functional activity].", "content": "[The effect of compounds with antioxidant properties on thrombocyte functional activity]. The effect of antioxidant compounds ionol and mexidol and the new phenol derivative N9-imidazo-(1,2 alpha)-benzymidazol (PY-185) on the functional activity of blood platelets was studied. All the compounds under study effectively inhibited blood platelet aggregation both in vitro and in administration into rats, a result of which the blood thrombogenic potential reduced."}
{"id": "10194608", "title": "Synthesis and properties of disodium tetraethyleneglycol-bis-(alpha-carboxybenzylpenicillin).", "content": "Synthesis and properties of disodium tetraethyleneglycol-bis-(alpha-carboxybenzylpenicillin). Disodium tetraethyleneglycol-bis-(alpha-carboxybenzylpenicillin) (TEG-carbenicillin), a tetraethyleneglycol (TEG) diester of carbenicillin, was synthesized to develop a carbenicillin prodrug with enhanced acid stability for oral administration. Antimicrobial activities of TEG-carbenicillin tested against gram-negative Escherichia coli (TG-1) and gram-positive Staphylococcus aureus (ATCC-12228) and Bacillus subtilis (NA-1) were comparable to that of carbenicillin. Stability of the beta-lactam ring of TEG-carbenicillin was determined by iodometry at pH 6.8, pH 4.5, and pH 2.0 at varied time intervals and was compared to that of carbenicillin. In 26 hr, both of the compounds were stable at pH 6.8. At pH 4.5, about 41% of the carbenicillin was decomposed, while TEG-carbenicillin was not appreciably decomposed. At pH 2.0, carbenicillin was decomposed about 61% after 6 hr, while TEG-carbenicillin was decomposed about 21% during the same period."}
{"id": "10094951", "title": "Infection and hemostasis in decompensated cirrhosis: a prospective study using thrombelastography.", "content": "Infection and hemostasis in decompensated cirrhosis: a prospective study using thrombelastography. Bacterial infections are common complications in decompensated cirrhosis, but their relationship with hemostasis has not been studied. We prospectively assessed whether infection affects hemostasis in cirrhosis using routine hemostasis tests and thrombelastography (TEG), a global test of hemostatic function. Eighty-four cirrhotic patients (Child-Pugh B: 26; C: 58) without overt bleeding or blood-product transfusion were prospectively evaluated with routine hemostasis tests and TEG on admission and/or the first day with signs of infection and 5 days later. There were 30 patients with infection; 15 had infection on admission, and 15 developed infection in hospital. In the patients who developed infection in hospital, there was a significant deterioration in all routine hemostasis tests except platelet count (PLT) and in all TEG parameters, on the first day of infection compared with 7 +/- 3 days previously. The same parameters significantly improved from the first day of infection to day 5 and after (P <.02) only in the 22 patients whose infection resolved, while the r, k, and alpha TEG parameters significantly worsened in the 8 patients with persistent infection. In those who developed infection in hospital and were cured (n = 11), the 5-day parameters did not differ from their preinfection values. In conclusion, bacterial infections frequently impair hemostasis in decompensated cirrhotic patients. Successful treatment of infection usually restores hemostasis parameters to preinfection levels in 5 days. Thus, infection may have a role in the bleeding diathesis of cirrhosis."}
{"id": "10069286", "title": "Near-site monitoring of the antiplatelet drug abciximab using the Hemodyne analyzer and modified thrombelastograph.", "content": "Near-site monitoring of the antiplatelet drug abciximab using the Hemodyne analyzer and modified thrombelastograph. This investigation examines the hypothesis that the antiplatelet effect of abciximab and its reversal can be monitored using the Hemodyne (Hemodyne, Inc, Midlothian, VA) analyzer and modified Thrombelastograph (Haemoscope, Skokie, IL). In vitro dose-response and reversal study. Anesthesia Research (Dallas, TX) and Special Studies Coagulation Laboratories (Washington, DC). Nine healthy volunteers. The addition of increasing concentrations of abciximab, 0 to 10 microg/mL, and purified fibrinogen, 50 to 400 mg/dL. The reversal of abciximab, 4 microg/mL, with the addition of fresh platelet-rich plasma (PRP) sufficient to increase the platelet concentration by approximately 10%. Platelet aggregation and platelet contractile force using the Hemodyne analyzer were used as platelet-specific measurements. The Thrombelastograph maximum amplitude (MA) for platelets (MA(PLT)) was calculated by subtracting the MA from a platelet-poor plasma (PPP) sample (MA(ppp)) determined in one thromboelastography well from that of whole-blood MA (MA(WB)) run simultaneously in the second thromboelastography well. The addition of abciximab, 0 to 10 microg/mL, resulted in significant concentration-dependent reductions in platelet aggregation (p < 0.001), platelet contractile force (p < 0.001), and MA(PLT) (p < 0.001). Platelet contractile force (p < 0.03) and MA(PLT) (p < 0.05) were significantly more responsive than MA(WB) to the effect of abciximab, 4 microg/mL, and its reversal with the addition of fresh PRP. Purified fibrinogen concentration directly correlated with thromboelastography MA (r(s) = 0.97; p < 0.001), yet had no effect on platelet contractile force. The addition of abciximab had no measurable influence on the MA(ppp). This in vitro study suggests that the Hemodyne analyzer and modified Thrombelastograph might be clinically useful methods to monitor the platelet inhibitory effects of agents such as abciximab."}
{"id": "10027032", "title": "In vitro effects of propofol on blood coagulability and fibrinolysis by the use of thromboelastograph technique.", "content": "In vitro effects of propofol on blood coagulability and fibrinolysis by the use of thromboelastograph technique. To investigate the in vitro effects of propofol on blood coagulability and fibrinolysis by the use of thromboelastograph (TEG) technique. The blood samples, obtained from 14 healthy volunteers, were divided into two groups: propofol (n = 7) and intralipid (n = 7), and 360 microliters volumes of whole blood were incubated with 2 microliters of 1% propofol and with its solvent intralipid, respectively. The incubated sample was then used for TEG measurements. The maximum amplitude (MA), which reflects coagulability, in the intralipid group significantly increased by about 7% and 16% compared to the control and propofol groups, respectively (P < 0.05), whereas the MA in the propofol group did not change. The fibrinolytic rate (FR) in the propofol group significantly increased by about 170% and 210% compared to the control and intralipid groups, respectively (P < 0.05), whereas the FR in the intralipid group did not change. Propofol, per se, has at the concentration of 55.6 micrograms.ml-1 an in vitro accelerative effect on blood fibrinolysis detected by TEG."}
{"id": "9972747", "title": "Thromboelastography-guided transfusion algorithm reduces transfusions in complex cardiac surgery.", "content": "Thromboelastography-guided transfusion algorithm reduces transfusions in complex cardiac surgery. Transfusion therapy after cardiac surgery is empirically guided, partly due to a lack of specific point-of-care hemostasis monitors. In a randomized, blinded, prospective trial, we studied cardiac surgical patients at moderate to high risk of transfusion. Patients were randomly assigned to either a thromboelastography (TEG)-guided transfusion algorithm (n = 53) or routine transfusion therapy (n = 52) for intervention after cardiopulmonary bypass. Coagulation tests, TEG variables, mediastinal tube drainage, and transfusions were compared at multiple time points. There were no demographic or hemostatic test result differences between groups, and all patients were given prophylactic antifibrinolytic therapy. Intraoperative transfusion rates did not differ, but there were significantly fewer postoperative and total transfusions in the TEG group. The proportion of patients receiving fresh-frozen plasma (FFP) was 4 of 53 in the TEG group compared with 16 of 52 in the control group (P < 0.002). Patients receiving platelets were 7 of 53 in the TEG group compared with 15 of 52 in the control group (P < 0.05). Patients in the TEG group also received less volume of FFP (36 +/- 142 vs 217 +/- 463 mL; P < 0.04). Mediastinal tube drainage was not statistically different 6, 12, or 24 h postoperatively. Point-of-care coagulation monitoring using TEG resulted in fewer transfusions in the postoperative period. We conclude that the reduction in transfusions may have been due to improved hemostasis in these patients who had earlier and specific identification of the hemostasis abnormality and thus received more appropriate intraoperative transfusion therapy. These data support the use of TEG in an algorithm to guide transfusion therapy in complex cardiac surgery. Transfusion of allogeneic blood products is common during complex cardiac surgical procedures. In a prospective, randomized trial, we compared a transfusion algorithm using point-of-care coagulation testing with routine laboratory testing, and found the algorithm to be effective in reducing transfusion requirements."}
{"id": "9952141", "title": "Assessment of changes in coagulation in parturients with preeclampsia using thromboelastography.", "content": "Assessment of changes in coagulation in parturients with preeclampsia using thromboelastography. Preeclampsia is associated with a risk of abnormal hemostasis that occurs most commonly secondary to thrombocytopenia. Thromboelastography measures whole blood coagulation and has been used to manage coagulation defects in obstetric patients. The authors conducted this investigation in a large number of preeclamptic women to assess changes in coagulation using thromboelastography. Thromboelastography and platelet counts were performed in 52 healthy pregnant women, 140 mild preeclamptic women, and 114 severe preeclamptic women in active labor using disposable plastic cups and pins and native whole blood. In preeclamptic patients with a platelet count <100,000/mm3, conventional coagulation tests were also performed. Epidural analgesia was provided in some women when they requested pain relief. Fifteen percent of all preeclamptic women (38 of 254) and 2% (1 of 52) of healthy pregnant women had a platelet count <100,000/mm3. The incidence of thrombocytopenia <100,000/mm3 was 3% (4 of 140) and 30% (34 of 114) in mild preeclamptic patients and severe preeclamptic patients, respectively. Severe preeclamptic patients with a platelet count <100,000/mm3 were significantly hypocoagulable when compared to the other study groups. Ten severe preeclamptic women with a platelet count <100,000/mm3 had a maximum amplitude <54 mm (the lower limit of maximum amplitude in healthy pregnant women enrolled in this investigation). None of the mild preeclamptic women had a maximum amplitude <54 mm. Five severe preeclamptic women with a platelet count <100,000/mm3 had an abnormal coagulation profile, whereas all four mild preeclamptic women with a platelet count <100,000/mm3 had a normal coagulation profile. This study shows that severe preeclamptic women with a platelet count <100,000/mm3 are hypocoagulable when compared to healthy pregnant women and other preeclamptic women."}
{"id": "9933854", "title": "Harvesting of peripheral blood progenitor cells with different programmes of discontinuous flow systems.", "content": "Harvesting of peripheral blood progenitor cells with different programmes of discontinuous flow systems. From a technical point of view two problems arise during the collection of peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPC): first, the volume of the apheresis product is often large, requiring volume reduction prior to cryopreservation. Second, the platelet (PLT) loss due to the harvesting of the buffy coat is an unwanted side effect. With respect to these problems, the present study was designed to compare programs for PBPC collection with discontinous-flow cell separators. Three different protocols for PBPC harvesting were investigated in 32 patients with malignancies. In the first protocol, the blood cell separator Haemonetics MCS 3p was used. In the second protocol using the same machine, the opening and closure of the stem cell valve was modified in combination with a centri surge to reduce the PLT loss. The MCS+ device with another configuration of the valves was used in the third protocol. PBPC were mobilised by chemotherapy plus cytokine administration or application of growth factor alone. Blood counts and CD34 antigen-expressing cells were determined before apheresis and in the PBPC product. Colony-forming unit granulocyte/macrophage (CFU-GM) were determined in the apheresis product. 55 PBPC collections were carried out with a median end product volume of 105 ml. The median counts for CD34+ antigen-expressing cells and CFU-GM were 1.5x10(6 )and 2.5x10(4)/kg body weight, respectively. PLT loss was significantly lower in protocol III. The study reported here revealed that PBPC could be easily collected in a reduced product volume by the intermittent-flow cell separators. No additional centrifugation prior to cryopreservation was necessary to remove the plasma from the apheresis product. Patient's PLT loss was reduced by the centri surge technique but this still has to be improved."}
{"id": "10399512", "title": "Preoperative evaluation and postoperative prediction of hemostatic function with thromboelastography in patients undergoing redo cardiac surgery.", "content": "Preoperative evaluation and postoperative prediction of hemostatic function with thromboelastography in patients undergoing redo cardiac surgery. Patients who receive cardiac procedures, in particular \"redo\" ones, often suffer complications from massive bleeding, largely due to bypass-induced coagulopathies. Cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) may cause damage of the blood components, both in terms of quality and quantity. In order to investigate the qualitative changes of blood constituents with special regard to coagulation resulting from the complex insult of previous cardiac surgery, thromboelastography (TEG) was used to analyze the whole clotting process. Seventy-four patients who underwent cardiac surgery with CPB were prospectively studied. Of them, 32 patients received \"redo\" cardiac surgery. Blood samples for routine laboratory coagulation tests (RCT) and TEG examination were drawn before and after cardiopulmonary bypass. Clinically significant bleeding was defined if the chest tube drainage was greater than 100 ml/h for 3 consecutive h or greater than 300 ml in 1 h during the first 8 h after surgery. Prebypass and postbypass coagulation parameters were compared and the percentage of accuracy, false positive and false negative rate were deduced from calculation. In the TEG tracings, preoperative alpha angle and maximum amplitude were significantly decreased in the \"redo\" group when compared with primary group, indicating less competent platelet function and platelet-fibrin interaction. Lower platelet count was also found by conventional coagulation tests in \"redo\" patients. Postoperatively, higher percentage of excessive hemorrhage was also noted in the \"redo\" group (42.8% vs. 27.5% in primary group). However, a much lower predictive accuracy was found in \"redo\" patients in comparison with primary cardiac patients (53.5% vs. 90%). We concluded that thromboelastography failed to predict postoperative hemorrhage in \"redo\" cardiac patients and the graphic recordings derived could not be treated as a guide of transfusion therapy. We thought that inferior preoperative hemostatic status and severer coagulopathy might be responsible for the differences between \"redo\" and primary cardiac patients."}
{"id": "10327795", "title": "Prevalence and pattern of psychiatric morbidity in children.", "content": "Prevalence and pattern of psychiatric morbidity in children. Present study was carried out at child guidance clinic of Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Delhi. Sample consisted of 300 children (175 boys and 125 girls of aged 2-12 years) from November, 1994 to October, 1996. Diagnoses were made by using ICD-10 criteria. The major diagnoses were mental retardation (20.6%), epilepsy (20%), hysterical conversion reaction (6.3%), ADHD (5%) and childhood depression (6%)."}
{"id": "10189856", "title": "Thrombelastographic changes and early rebleeding in cirrhotic patients with variceal bleeding.", "content": "Thrombelastographic changes and early rebleeding in cirrhotic patients with variceal bleeding. Routine coagulation tests do not necessarily reflect haemostasis in vivo in cirrhotic patients, particularly those who have bleeding varices. Thrombelastography (TEG) can provide a global assessment of haemostatic function from initial clot formation to clot dissolution. To evaluate TEG changes in cirrhotic patients with variceal bleeding and their association with early rebleeding. Twenty cirrhotic patients with active variceal bleeding had serial TEG and routine coagulation tests daily for seven days. The TEG variables before the day of rebleeding (n = 6) were compared with those of patients without rebleeding (n = 14). Baseline characteristics of the rebleeding and non-rebleeding groups were comparable apart from a higher incidence of uncontrolled infection on the day of rebleeding in the rebleeding group (p = 0.007). The patients in the rebleeding group were more hypocoagulable before the day of rebleeding as shown by longer r (42 v 24 mm, p < 0.001) and k (48 v 13 mm, p < 0.001) and smaller a (12 v 38 degrees, p < 0.001) compared with the mean of daily results of the non-rebleeding group. Routine coagulation tests, however, showed no significant differences between the two groups. The results of serial TEG measurements suggest that hypocoagulability may be associated with early rebleeding in cirrhotic patients."}
{"id": "10185696", "title": "Blood-borne virus-related discrimination in dental services.", "content": "Blood-borne virus-related discrimination in dental services. While the risk of infection through occupational exposure to blood-borne viruses is a major concern of dental health care workers, the National HIV/AIDS Strategy and many health, AIDS and discrimination-related agencies have identified discrimination related to HIV/AIDS as a priority area for action. In 1995 the Commonwealth Department of Health and Family Services selected the School of Medical Education at the University of New South Wales to conduct a national project to reduce discrimination related to blood-borne viruses within dental services (Godwin, Meihubers & Rotem 1997). This paper provides an overview of the study and its major findings. The study focused on quality of care issues which may cause or manifest discrimination. Key stakeholders were invited to review policies, procedures, organisational arrangements and other systemic issues which influence the quality of oral health services to populations within selected geographical regions."}
{"id": "10182118", "title": "Hematological abnormalities in neonatal patients treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO).", "content": "Hematological abnormalities in neonatal patients treated with extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO). The physical process of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) results in derangement of the hemostatic mechanism, which may lead to increased morbidity, secondary to the disease process. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the hematological status of neonates undergoing ECMO therapy, and to evaluate coagulation tests in predicting hemorrhagic risk. Following Institutional Review Board approval, 30 patients undergoing ECMO treatment were retrospectively entered into this study. Medical records were reviewed and indicators of hemostasis, transfusion, morbidity, and outcomes recorded. Assessment of coagulation was determined through serial analysis of platelet count, fibrinogen concentration, prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), antithrombin III, fibrin split products, D-dimers, plasma free hemoglobin, activated clotting time, ionized calcium, and thrombelastography (TEG). Median total transfusion requirements for all patients were 1.79 ml/kg/ECMO hr. Fifty-seven percent of the 30 patients were diagnosed as coagulopathic according to Extracorporeal Life Support Organization standards. Patients were separated into either a hemorrhagic group (HEM, > 2.0 ml/kg/ECMO hr, n = 13) or a nonhemorrhagic group (N-HEM, n = 17), with HEM patients requiring twice the transfusion volume of N-HEM (p < 0.0001). Hemorrhagic complications were reported in 53.8% of the HEM patients vs. 35.3% in the N-HEM group. HEM patients were transfused with significantly greater quantities of platelets on days 1, 3, 5, and 8 and packed red blood cells on day 7 when compared to N-HEM (p < 0.05). TEG determination showed significant differences between groups on days 3 and 6 (p < 0.005), and 8 (p < 0.05). Derangements in hemostasis resulting from ECMO are profound, with methods of assessing coagulation complicated by both the variability in patient condition and lack of specificity of laboratory tests. Interpretation of TEG data has shown to be a valuable supplement for managing this challenging patient population."}
{"id": "10048893", "title": "An alternate method for calibrating the thromboelastograph.", "content": "An alternate method for calibrating the thromboelastograph. This study evaluated various substances that could be used to calibrate the Thrombelastograph. Prospective, controlled comparison. Operating room laboratory at a tertiary care university hospital. None. Six substances commonly available in the operating room setting (ointments, creams, and gels) were analyzed by thromboelastography for 3 minutes. Sixty measurements were made for each substance. Thromboelastographic analysis of the ointments and cream preparations had an amplitude variability that exceeded 10 mm within the 3-minute recording period. The conductive gel had the most reproducible thromboelastography tracing with a mean amplitude of 62.5 +/- 1.1 mm (analysis of variance, p < 0.0005). There was a significant correlation between the reported viscosity of the three gels and the deflection amplitude (linear regression, R2 = 0.97; p < 0.0001). Conductive gel is a useful substance for quickly checking the functional status of the Thrombelastograph at an operational stage. Calibration of the Thrombelastograph using a gel of known viscosity is clinically relevant and may be more practical than testing with thromboelastographic-defined normal and abnormal blood analogs."}
{"id": "9973811", "title": "Major surgery (radical cystectomy with urethrectomy) in a patient with von Willebrand's disease type I. Reliability and limits of hemocoagulative tests.", "content": "Major surgery (radical cystectomy with urethrectomy) in a patient with von Willebrand's disease type I. Reliability and limits of hemocoagulative tests. Patients with bleeding disorders frequently need medical or surgical care. The case is reported of a man with von Willebrand's disease type I undergoing radical cystectomy with urethrectomy for multicentric bladder cancer with neoplastic involvement of prostatic urethra, who developed serious bleeding complications which can not be predicted with conventional coagulation in laboratory. The use of the thromboelastograph (TEG) in the critical postoperative period was decisive. The tracing alterations allowed to assess the clotting disorder, constantly counterbalancing the baseline deficit and the blood loss."}
{"id": "9919464", "title": "Factors that influence early extubation: bleeding.", "content": "Factors that influence early extubation: bleeding. Excessive bleeding after cardiac surgery is an important factor that can prevent early extubation. Hemostatic derangement is well recognized to be associated with cardiopulmonary bypass, with many possible contributing factors resulting in coagulation defects and fibrinolytic pathway activation. Measures to optimize hemostasis are critical when managing patients for whom early extubation and hospital discharge are goals. The intraoperative evaluation of the hemostatic system with tests like the thrombelastogram and the use of therapeutic agents such as aprotinin are simple, safe, and effective methods of achieving these goals."}
{"id": "9874863", "title": "The effect of coagulation protection with combination of epsilon aminocaproic acid and plasma saver in open-heart surgery.", "content": "The effect of coagulation protection with combination of epsilon aminocaproic acid and plasma saver in open-heart surgery. Bleeding remains a major complication and a major determinant in the prognosis of open-heart surgery. Coagulopathy related to cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) seems to be the culprit. Since homologous blood transfusion in many occasions is not only responsible for mobidity and mortality but also increases medical costs. Therefore, the application of autologous blood transfusion including components such as PRBC, FFP and platelets concentrate is inevitable and comes in its stead. To reduce the use of homologous plasma and platelets transfusion in open-heart surgery, we designed a study to utilize the combination of autologous platelet rich plasma (PRP) and epsilon aminocaproic acid (EACA) to evaluate its effects on blood loss and blood component transfusion in open-heart patients. Sixty patients who received elective cardiac surgery were randomly divided into 3 groups: 1. Control group; 2. EACA group (150 mg/kg, i.v. before CPB); 3. PRP-EACA group (PRP 10 ml/kg harvested with a plasma saver followed by i.v. EACA 150 mg/kg). Anesthesia was uniform in all patients. Coagulation profile was evaluated by thromboelastography (TEG) during the operation. Blood loss during operation and the amount of drainage from the chest tubes in the postoperative period were recorded and compared between groups. Patients who were given EACA injection before CPB saw less blood loss perioperatively and received less transfusion of blood components. TEG analysis showed that patients who received EACA injection had a better coagulation profile and the platelet function was also better after CPB. However, no additive effect can be attained from combination of autologous PRP transfusion and EACA injection. With Pre-CPB EACA as protection, reduction of both blood loss and blood transfusion could be realized in open-heart surgery."}
{"id": "9873262", "title": "A method for the quantitative assessment of platelet-induced clot retraction and clot strength in fresh and stored platelets.", "content": "A method for the quantitative assessment of platelet-induced clot retraction and clot strength in fresh and stored platelets. The changes that occur in platelets as they undergo storage have been documented by aggregometry as well as by flow cytometry. However, one of the most essential platelet functions, the induction of clot retraction, has not been quantitatively assessed in stored platelets. We describe two potentially useful methods, platelet-induced clot retraction and clot strength, to assess effect of storage of platelets in blood banks or of platelet preparations subjected to freezing or freeze-drying. These methods have previously been developed for bedside monitoring of patients receiving c7E3 (Reopro(R)). Platelet-induced clot retraction (PICR) and clot strength were measured with the Hemodyne and Thromboelastograph, respectively. Paired Study: Fresh platelet concentrates (n = 3) were obtained from leukapheresis donors and divided into two equal units; one unit was tested within 4 h of collection and the other stored for 5 days at 22 degrees C in a platelet incubator and tested. Unpaired Study: Fresh platelet concentrates (n = 15) were obtained from leukapheresis donors and tested within 4 h of collection and compared to outdated platelets (n = 30; random or single donor) that had been stored for 5 days at 22 degrees C in a platelet incubator. Alternative Preservation Methods: Lyophilized platelets, platelets chilled to 4 degrees C, platelets frozen at -70 degrees C in 5% dimethyl sulfoxide (DMSO) or in the absence of a cryoprotectant. Paired Study: Stored platelets demonstrated an increase in PICR; the difference was not significant (p = 0.55). There was no difference in clot strength between fresh and outdated platelets (p = 0.90). Unpaired Study: When compared to fresh platelets, stored platelets demonstrated a 2-fold higher PICR (p = 0.0011). On the other hand, there was no difference in the time to onset of PICR (p = 0.08) and there was no difference in clot strength between fresh and outdated platelets (p = 0.14). Alternate Preservation Methods: In contrast, PICR and clot strength were reduced in platelets frozen at -70 degrees C in 5% DMSO and absent in lyophilized platelets, in platelets frozen at -70 degrees C in the absence of cryoprotectants or stored at 4 degrees C. The data indicate that the ability of platelets to induce clot retraction and to enhance clot strength is not altered by storage, despite functional abnormalities in aggregation and agglutination. These data suggest that quantitative measurements of PICR and clot strength may be simple, useful tools for assessing the function of stored platelet concentrates, platelets that have undergone freezing or exposure to alternative buffers and for evaluating platelet functions relevant to PICR."}
{"id": "9869162", "title": "Effects of recombinant human soluble thrombomodulin (rhs-TM) on clot-induced coagulation in human plasma.", "content": "Effects of recombinant human soluble thrombomodulin (rhs-TM) on clot-induced coagulation in human plasma. Recent studies have suggested that clot-bound thrombin plays an important role in thrombus growth. In this study, we examined the effects of recombinant human soluble thrombomodulin (rhsTM) on clot-induced coagulation. rhsTM enhanced the activation of protein C by clots, and attenuated clot-induced thrombin generation and fibrinopeptide A (FPA) production in a dose-dependent manner. The inhibitory effect of rhsTM was abolished by anti-protein C antibody. The inhibitory effect of rhsTM on clot-induced thrombin generation continued for over 60 min after the addition of the clot, while an active site-directed thrombin inhibitor, argatroban, produced a more transient inhibition. rhsTM also inhibited the regrowth of the clot in (125)I-fibrinogen-supplemented plasma. We also examined the effect of rhsTM by thromboelastography, rhsTM reduced the growth of the clot but had little effect on the time to begin clotting, while heparin and Fragmin (low molecular weight heparin) had effects opposite to those of rhsTM. These findings suggest that rhs-TM attenuates the growth of the clot by activating protein C and inhibiting further thrombin generation in the clot."}
{"id": "9863403", "title": "[Treatment of chronic Wilson's disease in 2 patients using plasmapheresis--clinico-biochemical observations].", "content": "[Treatment of chronic Wilson's disease in 2 patients using plasmapheresis--clinico-biochemical observations]. The introduction of penicillamine in the treatment of Wilson's disease (hepatolenticular degeneration) was a historical event [1]. D-pericillamine (d-PAM) showed some potential side effects such as myasthenia, kidney toxicity, etc. In previous decade the treatment of Wilson's disease (WD) with zinc sulphate started successfully [4]. Danks [7] described the use of exchanged transfusions, peritoneal dialysis and plasmapheresis in the treatment of young patients with WD in acute liver failure. These patients had acute copper poisoning. The results of this study were beneficial. Therapeutic plasmapheresis (PF) has been used in many diseases in which immunological mechanisms are proved [8, 9]. We started with using PF in the treatment of two young chronic patients with Wilson's disease. The clinical picture of patients became worse, probably due to the decrease in cupriuretic effect of d-PAM. One patient (1) did not take d-PAM regularly. In this study PF was performed with the use of haemonetics V-50 and filter 704. During the treatment with PF, 2000 ml of plasma was always exchanged, i.e. removed. During the treatment with PF the patients were hospitalized at the Department of Neurology and Psychiatry of Children and Young People. Patient No. 1. A 24-year-old man, born in 1965, came with a coarse tremor. He has been diagnosed as WD at the age of 18. Kayser-Fleischer rings were found in the cornea by slit-lamp examination. The disease began when he was 15 years old with polymorphous difficulties. In time tremor became more severe. It was apparent when the patient made any movement. The first treatment with PF (1) lasted from February 13 to March 16, 1989. The patient had 10 PF without any side effect. During the treatment with PF the patient felt better. After PF-tremor was reduced significantly, and subjective and objective condition ameliorated. The patient (1) was readmitted to the hospital on June 24, 1991 for continuation of the treatment with PF. Anamnestic data and neurological examination revealed progression of the disease. His condition became worse, especially tremor. He could not write a single letter (Figures 1-5) and walk without help of the others. His tremor became the severest when he made any kind of voluntary movement. The second treatment with PF started on June 25, 1991 and finished on July 16, 1991. He received 9 PF in this series. The treatment was without side effects. Tremor was reduced approximately by 15%. Plasma copper examined before and after 9 PF showed different values (Table 2). This difference (2.79 mumol/l; 23.70%) in plasma copper level was removed from circulation. Patient No. 2. A 23-year-old man, born in 1966, came to the hospital with acute exacerbation of WD. At the age of 16 latent psychosis was diagnosed. One year later diagnosis of WD was established in the hospital when he was 17 years old. Kayser-Fleischer rings were found in the cornea by slit-lamp examination. The treatment with d-PAM and other drugs (BAL, symptomatic therapies, sedatives, antidepressants, etc.) has been accompanied with good and long-term remissions and short exacerbation. A few years later exacerbation became longer and longer and worse and worse. He was admitted to the hospital on November 28, 1989 with acute relapse of WD. His condition was very difficult, completely bedridden. The treatment with PF started on December 26, 1989 and lasted to January 25, 1990. The treatment with PF was without d-PAM. He was only given symptomatic therapies. After a few PF he demonstrated side effects with nausea, sometimes vomiting, face sweating, pulse rate of about 120/min while blood pressure was normal. Therefore he was given human albumin in the next day, and no side effects were observed. The removal of little plasma copper from blood circulation correlated well with a small improvement in clinical symtpomatology. The rigidity was reduced and voluntary movements bec"}
{"id": "9854677", "title": "Platelet concentrate effects on thromboelastography.", "content": "Platelet concentrate effects on thromboelastography."}
{"id": "9854659", "title": "Fibrinolysis in pediatric patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Fibrinolysis in pediatric patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass. Thromboelastographic evaluation of the influence of fibrinolysis on blood loss and blood product transfusions in children during cardiac surgery. Prospective study. University-affiliated, pediatric medical center. Two hundred seventy-eight consecutive children undergoing cardiac surgery. Blood sampling for coagulation tests, including native and protamine-modified thromboelastography. Blood coagulation tests were measured before, during, and after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). Demographic data, perioperative blood loss, and blood product transfusions were prospectively recorded. Fibrinolysis was defined as thromboelastography of A30/MA less than 0.85 (MA, maximum amplitude; A30, amplitude 30 minutes after MA) and was noted in 3% of children pre-CPB, 16% during CPB, and 3% post-CPB. Fibrinolysis before CPB was associated with poor cardiac output. Fibrinolysis during CPB occurred in young children (aged 350 +/- 836 days) undergoing complex surgery with prolonged CPB (119 +/- 48.8 minutes) and deep hypothermia (25.6 degrees C +/- 4.7 degrees C). These patients received blood products after CPB and were not fibrinolytic after transfusion. They incurred similar blood loss (in mL/kg) and received similar volumes of blood products (mL/kg) as age-matched and surgery-matched patients without fibrinolysis. A group of children at risk for fibrinolysis during CPB was identified. However, fibrinolysis during CPB did not influence blood loss or the total volume of blood products transfused."}
{"id": "9852409", "title": "Evaluation of in vivo and in vitro quality of apheresis-collected RBC stored for 42 days.", "content": "Evaluation of in vivo and in vitro quality of apheresis-collected RBC stored for 42 days. New technological developments make it possible to collect red blood cells (RBCs) by apheresis, which allows for better product consistency and has the potential for improved RBC quality. The purpose of these studies was to evaluate the quality and consistency of units of RBCs collected by apheresis using the MCS+(R) machine (Haemonetics Corp., Braintree, Mass., USA). Two studies were performed. In study 1 (n = 10), using containers and CP2D/AS-3 solutions from Medsep Corp. (Covina, Calif. USA), one-unit apheresis RBCs were compared to manually collected RBCs in a random crossover design. In study 2 (n = 12), 6 subjects had one unit collected, while the remaining 6 subjects had two units of RBCs collected with comparison to previously manually collected RBCs from the same donors. Haemonetics containers and solutions were used in study 2. Low RBC volume variability was found for the apheresis collections with a standard deviation of only 6 ml difference between actual and target volumes. Combining the data from the two studies (n = 21 pairs), at 42 days of storage, the apheresis units showed slightly lower hemolysis (0.44+/-0.26 vs. 0.61+/-0.50%), lower supernatant potassium levels (50+/-3 vs. 53+/-3 mEq/l), and improved tolerance to osmotic shock (47+/-3 vs. 49+/-3%) as compared to manual units (p < 0.05). There was no statistically significant difference in RBC ATP (3.0+/-0.6 vs. 2.9+/-0.5 micromol/g Hb) or in 24-hour percent recoveries (81+/-6 for apheresis vs. 81+/-4% for apheresis red cells). Apheresis RBC quality was not affected by the manufacturer (Haemonetics vs. Medsep) of solutions and containers. RBC units collected by apheresis demonstrated low variability in volume of RBC mass collected, and showed similar RBC properties as compared to manually collected RBCs after processing and after 42 days of storage."}
{"id": "9836037", "title": "The usefulness of celite-activated thromboelastography for evaluation of fibrinolysis.", "content": "The usefulness of celite-activated thromboelastography for evaluation of fibrinolysis. Although thromboelastography is useful for measuring both coagulability and fibrinolysis, it takes about two hours to measure all parameters including fibrinolytic rate. The present study aimed to investigate the usefulness of celite-activated thromboelastography (TEGc) to evaluate fibrinolytic status in non-cardiac surgery. Whole blood samples were obtained from 30 patients for non-cardiac surgery, and used for measurements of both native TEG (TEGn) and TEGc. The final concentration of 1% (w/v) celite was used for TEGc. Time for measurement of the fibrinolytic rate (FR) of TEGc in patients (56.7 +/- 4.0 min) was less than half that of FR of TEGn (123.3 +/- 15.6 min) (P < 0.05), suggesting a more rapid assessment of fibrinolytic status. A linear relationship was observed between FR values of TEGc and those of TEGn (r = 0.93, P < 0.0001), suggesting the usefulness of the fibrinolytic parameter of TEGc. TEGc is a useful technique for a more rapid assessment of fibrinolytic status."}
{"id": "9809097", "title": "Hydroxyethyl starch impairs in vitro coagulation.", "content": "Hydroxyethyl starch impairs in vitro coagulation. Artificial colloids affect haemostasis. Particularly hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solutions may have detrimental effects on haemostatic mechanisms. In a crossover study blood was withdrawn from ten volunteers. Ringer's acetate, 6% low molecular weight HES (MW 120,000/molar substitution ratio 0.7), 10% low molecular weight HES MW 200,000/0.5) and 6% high molecular weight HES (MW 400,000/0.7) or 4% albumin was added to venous blood samples to make either 20 vol.% or 50 vol.% concentrations of each of the solutions. Samples were analyzed by thrombelastography (TEG). All HES solutions at 20 vol.% concentration impaired haemostasis as demonstrated by decreased clot formation rate (alpha-angle and maximum amplitude (MA)). In contrast, Ringer's acetate and albumin improved coagulability at 20 vol.% concentrations. Coagulation time (r + K) was prolonged at 50 vol.% dilutions of all solutions. The median r + K was greater with HES 400 (P < 0.05) and HES 200 (N.S.) than with HES 120. We conclude that HES at 20 and 50 vol.% concentrations has an adverse effect on in vitro measures of coagulation. A 50% dilution with high molecular weight HES seems to impair coagulation more than low molecular weight HES. Ringer's acetate and albumin caused a hypercoagulable state at a concentration of 20 vol.%, but the higher concentration decreased coagulability."}
{"id": "9807604", "title": "The effect of low-dose heparin on hypercoagulability following abdominal aortic surgery.", "content": "The effect of low-dose heparin on hypercoagulability following abdominal aortic surgery. The effect of low-dose heparin on postoperative hypercoagulability was assessed using thrombelastography (TEG) in eighteen patients undergoing elective abdominal aortic surgery. Patients received unfractionated heparin 5000IU bd SC commencing on the first postoperative day. Native whole blood TEG was performed preoperatively and on day two postoperatively. A heparinase-modified TEG was performed at the same time as the native whole blood TEG on day two. There were no significant changes in the postoperative native whole blood TEG variables (r, K, alpha, MA) relative to preoperative controls. In contrast, there were significant decreases in r and K, and increases in alpha in the heparinase-modified TEGs postoperatively (P < 0.01). There were significant differences between the postoperative native whole blood and heparinase-modified TEGs for all TEG variables (P < 0.01). The results indicate that low-dose heparin reduces postoperative hypercoagulability following abdominal aortic surgery as assessed by thrombelastography."}
{"id": "9806670", "title": "Compromised blood coagulation: an in vitro comparison of hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 and hydroxyethyl starch 200/0.5 using thrombelastography.", "content": "Compromised blood coagulation: an in vitro comparison of hydroxyethyl starch 130/0.4 and hydroxyethyl starch 200/0.5 using thrombelastography. We compared the effects of progressive in vitro hemodilution (30% and 60%) on blood coagulation in 80 patients receiving one of two different 6% hydroxyethyl starch (HES) solutions using thrombelastography (TEG). The newly developed solution has a mean molecular weight of 130 kD and a degree of substitution, defined as the average number of hydroxyethyl groups per glucose moiety, of 0.4 (HES 130/0.4); the conventional solution has a mean molecular weight of 200 kD and a degree of substitution of 0.5 (HES 200/0.5). Both HES solutions significantly compromised blood coagulation, as seen by an increase in reaction time and coagulation time and a decrease in angle alpha, maximal amplitude, and coagulation index (all P < 0.05). There was no difference between HES 130/0.4 and HES 200/0.5 diluted blood (P > 0.05 for all TEG variables). When analyzing the intrinsic HES effect by taking hemodilution with 0.9% saline into account, progressive hemodilution with both HES solutions resulted in an increasing clot lysis (P < 0.05 after 60 min). Again, there was no difference between HES 130/0.4 and HES 200/0.5 diluted blood. We conclude that HES 130/ 0.4 and HES 200/0.5 compromise blood coagulation to the same degree. Progressive in vitro hemodilution using hydroxyethyl starch (HES) compromises blood coagulation. We observed similar effects of a new HES solution with a mean molecular weight of 130 kD and a degree of substitution of 0.4 (HES 130/0.4), compared with the conventional HES 200/0.5."}
{"id": "9801973", "title": "Effect of heparin-bonded pulmonary artery catheters on the activated coagulation time.", "content": "Effect of heparin-bonded pulmonary artery catheters on the activated coagulation time. This study evaluated the effect of a heparin-bonded pulmonary artery catheter (PAC) on the activated coagulation time (ACT). A prospective, controlled comparison. A tertiary care university hospital. Adult cardiac surgery patients. Celite ACTs were measured from arterial and central venous blood samples before and after the insertion of a heparin-bonded PAC. Thromboelastograms were also obtained from central venous blood samples before and 2 minutes after PAC insertion. There was no significant difference between the sample sites before PAC insertion. After PAC insertion, the central venous ACTs were significantly increased compared with the corresponding arterial measurements at 2, 5, 10, and 20 minutes (p < 0.005, analysis of variance [ANOVA] for repeated measures, Fisher's protected least significant difference [PLSD]). The 2-minute post-PAC reaction time from the central venous blood sample was greater than 60 minutes in all cases. The heparin-bonded PAC was associated with a localized, time-dependent alteration in the ACT. Whenever possible, blood samples for baseline ACT measurements should be obtained from an arterial catheter to minimize the anticoagulant effects from the PAC."}
{"id": "9784670", "title": "Intrapatient comparison of an intermittent and a continuous flow cell separator for the collection of progenitor and stem cells from the blood.", "content": "Intrapatient comparison of an intermittent and a continuous flow cell separator for the collection of progenitor and stem cells from the blood. Continuous-flow and intermittent-flow blood cell separators (CFCS and IFCS) are both used to collect stem cells from the blood to rescue patients undergoing myeloablative treatment for cancer. We designed a study to compare the collection efficiency of the two systems. The continuous-flow Cobe Spectra and the intermittent-flow Haemonetics MCS-3P were used to collect cells on consecutive days from 9 patients mobilised with G-CSF with or without chemotherapy. Blood obtained before leukapheresis and the leukapheresis product were analysed for their content of red and white cells, platelets, CD34-positive cells, GM-CFC, CFC-E, and BFU-E. An extraction ratio was calculated. We found that the CFCS extracted about 4 times more mononuclear cells per unit time, 3 times more CD34-positive, and 4 times more clonogenic cells than the IFCS. The subject acceptability of the two systems was similar. The CFCS is a more efficient system for stem cell collection. IFCS requires a longer harvesting time for the same result."}
{"id": "9771171", "title": "The effect of potato starch derived and corn starch derived hydroxyethyl starch on in vitro blood coagulation.", "content": "The effect of potato starch derived and corn starch derived hydroxyethyl starch on in vitro blood coagulation. We have compared the effects of progressive in vitro haemodilution (30% and 60%) with potato starch derived hydroxyethyl starch and corn starch derived hydroxyethyl starch on blood coagulation in 80 patients using thrombelastography. Both solutions significantly compromised blood coagulation as evidenced by an increase in coagulation time and decrease in angle alpha, maximum amplitude and coagulation index (p < 0.05). Blood coagulation was more compromised during haemodilution with potato starch derived hydroxyethyl starch as compared with corn starch derived hydroxyethyl starch (p < 0.05). When taking the effect of haemodilution with 0.9% saline into account, haemodilution with both hydroxyethyl starch solutions also augmented clot lysis (p < 0.05), with potato starch derived hydroxyethyl starch having a greater effect than corn starch derived hydroxyethyl starch (p < 0.05). We conclude that potato starch derived hydroxyethyl starch compromises in vitro blood coagulation more than corn starch derived hydroxyethyl starch."}
{"id": "9748754", "title": "[Thromboelastography--an instrument for the researcher or clinician?].", "content": "[Thromboelastography--an instrument for the researcher or clinician?]. Thromboelastography is a method which is used experimentally since 1948. Since the end of the eighties it is experiencing a certain revival also in clinical medicine. The submitted case-record presents this technique as a very useful aid in the differential diagnosis of postoperative haemorrhagic conditions in cardiosurgery. Its application can facilitate aimed treatment of some typical disorders of haemocoagulation."}
{"id": "9725399", "title": "Hematologic and economic impact of aprotinin in reoperative pediatric cardiac operations.", "content": "Hematologic and economic impact of aprotinin in reoperative pediatric cardiac operations. Aprotinin consistently reduces blood loss and transfusion requirements in adults during and after cardiac surgical procedures, but its effectiveness in children is debated. We evaluated the hemostatic and economic effects of aprotinin in children undergoing reoperative cardiac procedures with cardiopulmonary bypass. Control, low-dose aprotinin, and high-dose aprotinin groups were established with 15 children per group. Platelet counts, fibrinogen levels, and thromboelastographic values at baseline and after protamine sulfate administration, number of blood product transfusions, and 6-hour and 24-hour chest tube drainage were used to evaluate the effects of aprotinin on postbypass coagulopathies. Time needed for skin closure after protamine administration and lengths of stay in the intensive care unit and the hospital were recorded prospectively to determine the economic impact of aprotinin. Coagulation tests performed after protamine administration rarely demonstrated fibrinolysis but did show significant decreases in platelet and fibrinogen levels and function. The thromboelastographic variables indicated a preservation of platelet function by aprotinin. Decreased blood product transfusions, shortened skin closure times, and shortened durations of intensive care unit and hospital stays were found in the aprotinin groups, most significantly in the high-dose group with a subsequent average reduction of nearly $3,000 in patient charges. In children undergoing reoperative cardiac surgical procedures, aprotinin is effective in attenuating postbypass coagulopathies, decreasing blood product exposure, improving clinical outcome, and reducing patient charges."}
{"id": "9714995", "title": "Preeclampsia: haemostatic status and the short-term effects of methyldopa and isradipine therapy.", "content": "Preeclampsia: haemostatic status and the short-term effects of methyldopa and isradipine therapy. To determine the haemostatic status in preeclampsia and to investigate the effects of short-term use of anti-hypertensive drugs, methyldopa and isradipine. Thirty preeclamptic (PE) women admitted to the hospital for observation and treatment were randomized to receive either methyldopa or isradipine for 2 weeks. Their blood pressure were monitored for 24 h before treatment and again at 7 days and 14 days after treatment using the programmable automated ambulatory blood pressure (ABP) monitoring system. Blood sampling was performed before commencement of anti-hypertensive treatment, 7 days and 14 days after treatment and the haemostatic parameters studied was compared before treatment with normal pregnancy and the effect of anti-hypertensive treatment. Nineteen normal pregnant subjects with a total of 30 blood sampling at various gestation and good pregnancy outcome served as controls. The following haemostatic parameters were determined; thrombelastography, fibrinogen, antithrombin III (ATIII), thrombin-antithrombin (TAT)-complex, beta-thromboglobulin (beta-TG), plasminogen activators (t-PA, u-PA), plasminogen activator inhibitors (PAI-1, PAI-2), and plasminogen. Significant lowering of blood pressure was evident at Days 7 and 14 of therapy with either methyldopa or isradipine. Increased mean plasma fibrinogen and decreased ATIII levels were seen in preeclampsia together with decreased u-PA and t-PA activity levels in contrast to increased t-PA antigen and beta-TG. No significant differences were seen for TAT-complex, PAI-1, plasminogen and D-dimer levels although their mean levels were higher than observed in non-pregnant subject except for PAI-2, the level was significantly reduced when compared with normal pregnancy. Two-way analysis of variance showed no significant alteration on all haemostatic parameters studied in preeclamptic women receiving either methyldopa or isradipine after 7 and 14 days of therapy. Enhance activation of coagulation was observed together with raised fibrinolysis in normal pregnancy and PE. However, in PE a further reduction in ATIII, u-PA and PAI-2 with increased fibrinogen and platelet activation could lead to an imbalance in the coagulation/fibrinolysis equilibrium which favours fibrin deposition. All these changes seen in PE including the coagulation kinetics were not altered by the short term effects of methyldopa and isradipine even though significantly lowered blood pressure were observed during therapy."}
{"id": "9702614", "title": "Differential effects of serial hemodilution with hydroxyethyl starch, albumin, and 0.9% saline on whole blood coagulation.", "content": "Differential effects of serial hemodilution with hydroxyethyl starch, albumin, and 0.9% saline on whole blood coagulation. To determine by thrombelastography assessed coagulation, the effects of progressive hemodilution with three intravascular volume expanders. Prospective, controlled, whole blood, volumetric ex vivo hemodilution study. University of Pennsylvania Medical Center Operating Rooms. 60 ASA physical status I and II patients; phlebotomy prior to administration of IV fluids or medications. Analysis of whole blood clotting determined by six thrombelastographic channels for control and five volumetric hemodilutions (11%, 25%, 33%, 50%, and 75%) with 0.9% saline, 5% albumin, and 6% hydroxyethyl starch (n = 20 for each diluent group). Thrombelastographic parameters R (minutes), angle alpha (degree), MA (mm), and lysis (%) were measured and compared to the sample control for each dilution of the same specimen. There was no significant difference between control groups in any thrombelastographic variable (R, angle alpha, MA, or lysis). No changes were seen in any variable from any diluent at 11% hemodilution. Seventy-five percent hemodilution caused significantly hypocoagulable changes from control for all thrombelastographic parameters for all three diluents. Thrombelastographic indices differed significantly from controls at intermediate hemodilutions. Both colloids caused decreases in measured angle alpha and MA at lower hemodilution than did 0.9% saline. Albumin 5% caused significant hypocoagulable changes from control values at lower hemodilution than did either 0.9% saline or 6% hydroxyethyl starch for all thrombelastographic parameters. Saline 0.9% increased angle alpha significantly at 50% hemodilution. Abnormal lysis did not occur at any dilution. Differing ex vivo effects of three different intravascular fluids thrombelastography assessed coagulation are found. No differences were found after 11% hemodilution with any volume expanders. Hemodilution with up to 50% saline maintained thrombelastographic indices. Albumin produced early and profound hypocoagulable effects. Significant hypocoagulability occurred for all three diluents at 75% hemodilution. The study supports the use of albumin in patients at risk for thrombosis, and saline in patients with a need for normal hemostasis."}
{"id": "9702004", "title": "Effects of wine on plasma fibrinolytic and coagulation systems.", "content": "Effects of wine on plasma fibrinolytic and coagulation systems. The in-vitro effects of citrus, red and white wines on human plasma fibrinolytic enzymes were compared. When citrus wine was added to plasmin, H-D-Val-Leu-Lys-pNA (S-2251) amidolysis was not changed. Although, it was significantly inhibited when red and white wines were added. The pyro-Glu-Gly-Arg-pNA (S-2444) amidolysis of the plasminogen activator urokinase was inhibited by all types of wine. Since the same amount of Et-OH as the wine's content did not effect on these inhibitions, it can be assumed to be due to other unknown substances in wines besides alcohol. In in-vivo test of 20 normal volunteers (ages 20-52) with various wines equivalent to 30-60 ml of alcohol content, the coagulation parameters of gamma and kappa values on thromboelastography were not so much changed after 1-2 hrs of the application. Also, there was not much difference of the fibrinolytic parameters in terms of the plasma euglobulin clotlysis time, S-2444 amidolysis, and Ma values on thromboelastography. However, the protein concentration and the enzyme activity of the urokinase-like plasminogen activator, which were extracted from the plasma of volunteers who had the citrus wine 1 hr before the test were higher than twice of the before control. The main molecular form of this enzyme was proved to have a molecular weight of about 30,000 by zymography. It is concluded that not only wines induce the endogenous plasminogen activator just like other alcoholic beverages but also wines contain a fibrinolysis inhibitor which works directly to the enzyme dissolubility. This finding warns that extremely complex results can be expected depending on the test method."}
{"id": "9691864", "title": "In vivo investigation into the effects of haemodilution with hydroxyethyl starch (200/0.5) and normal saline on coagulation.", "content": "In vivo investigation into the effects of haemodilution with hydroxyethyl starch (200/0.5) and normal saline on coagulation. We have investigated the effects of haemodilution with either saline or hydroxyethyl starch (200/0.5) (HES) on blood coagulation in healthy volunteers in vivo. Standard haematological tests (packed cell volume (PCV), platelets, prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), fibrinogen, antithrombin III, bleeding time and platelet aggregation), and thrombelastography (TEG) were performed before and after administration of either 0.9% saline 1000 ml or HES 1000 ml i.v. over a 30-min period. Dilution of PCV and platelet concentrations as a result of volume load were 9% in the saline group and 19% in the HES group. Reductions in fibrinogen (18.6% and 28.8%) and antithrombin III (25.5% and 37.8%) were significantly greater than could be explained by haemodilution alone in both groups. Indices of platelet aggregation were significantly enhanced by saline haemodilution, but not by HES, which inhibited epinephrine-induced aggregation and prolonged bleeding time. TEG in the saline group showed significantly shortened r and k times (24% and 26%, respectively), and increased alpha angle (24%) and maximum amplitude (MA, 6%). HES haemodilution decreased MA (11%) but did not affect other TEG variables. We conclude that haemodilution of normal blood exerted a procoagulant effect, possibly by enhancement of thrombin formation. Circulating concentrations of antithrombin III were depleted more than could be explained by haemodilution alone, leading to a hypercoagulable state. This effect was offset by an antiplatelet action of HES, which was not seen with saline. The mechanism is unknown."}
{"id": "9688200", "title": "Bacteriology of burns.", "content": "Bacteriology of burns. A retrospective study was undertaken at University College of Medical Sciences and Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Delhi, to examine the bacterial isolates from the Burns unit and to determine the antibiograms of the isolates to commonly used antimicrobial agents. A total of 600 pus samples from as many patients received, over a period of 5 years (June 1993-June 1997) yielded 920) isolates. Pseudomonas spp. was the most common (36%) followed by Staphylococcus aureus (19%), Klebsiella spp. (15.54%), Proteus spp. (11.19%), Enterococcus faecalis (8.5%), Escherichia coli (5.10%), Acinetobacter spp. (1.1%), Salmonella senftenberg (0.8%) and other (3%). Pseudomonas spp. was the most susceptible to ceftazidime (83% susceptible) and cefoperazone (82% susceptible), whereas the drugs most effective in other Gram-negative organisms were amikacin, netilmicin and ciproflox. Vancomycin was effective in 100% of Gram-positive organisms. The infection of burn wounds with multiple organisms, with the superadded problem of drug resistance, necessitate the institution of a drug policy by the hospitals for burn patients."}
{"id": "9676926", "title": "Comparative study of different biological glues in an experimental model of surgical bleeding in anesthetized rats: platelet-rich and -poor plasma-based glue with and without aprotinin versus commercial fibrinogen-based glue.", "content": "Comparative study of different biological glues in an experimental model of surgical bleeding in anesthetized rats: platelet-rich and -poor plasma-based glue with and without aprotinin versus commercial fibrinogen-based glue. The use of fibrin glue in cardiovascular surgery has been associated with decreased operative time, effective control of localized bleeding, and reduced postoperative blood loss. All preparations of fibrin glue mimic the final common pathway of the coagulation cascade in which fibrinogen is converted to fibrin in the presence of thrombin and calcium. The goal of the study was to compare five different types of fibrin glue, with or without aprotinin, on a surgical bleeding model in the rat. In 70 anesthetized Wistar rats, after laparotomy, a 3 cm liver incision was performed. After randomization, seven groups were studied. In the first group, Biocol was used as a pinpoint application to the bleeding site. Four groups received a fibrin glue obtained from a single human donor plasma using Cell Saver V (Haemonetics). The sealant was applied as a two-component system. The first component of the glue was either platelet-rich-plasma (PRP) or platelet-poor-plasma (PPP). The second component consisted of a mixture of 0.5 ml CaCl 10% with 1000 U of human thrombin, with or without 400KUI of aprotinin (AP). The last two groups, control and aprotinin were treated using saline solution or topical aprotinin respectively. Hemoglobin and hematocrit were measured before surgery and 30 min after application of the glue. The decrease in hemoglobin (Hb) and hematocrit (Hct) was the primary efficacy variable. Before surgery, there was no difference regarding Hb and Hct values between groups. Thirty min after the application of the glue, the decrease in hemoglobin expressed as percent of the control values is only significantly lower in the Biocol group when compared to control. No significant difference was observed with the other groups in comparison to control. The commercial fibrin glue (Biocol) is more efficient than other preparations. This efficacy is likely due to a higher fibrinogen concentration."}
{"id": "9670675", "title": "[The coagulating and fibrinolytic activities of the blood in smokers].", "content": "[The coagulating and fibrinolytic activities of the blood in smokers]. A total of 110 essentially healthy male subjects 23 to 32 years old, with 80 of these smoking tobacco (cigarettes) were studied for the condition of coagulative and fibrinolytic activity with the aid of thromboelastograph and coagulograph. Measured in the venous blood plasma was concentration of fibrinogen. Also studied in the above male population were such parameters as completion of clot formation, time of reaction, time of coagulation, maximal elasticity of the clot, thromboelastographic index, maximum amplitude, and amplitude 10 minutes of the commencement of retraction and fibrinolysis, percentage of fibrinolysis. Smoking tobacco has been found out to make for enhancement of blood coagulative and fibrinolytic activities, particularly in persons with a more that 10-year history of smoking."}
{"id": "9659071", "title": "Point-of-care coagulation monitoring: applications of the thromboelastography.", "content": "Point-of-care coagulation monitoring: applications of the thromboelastography."}
{"id": "9651146", "title": "Species specificity of the anticoagulant activity of human urinary soluble thrombomodulin.", "content": "Species specificity of the anticoagulant activity of human urinary soluble thrombomodulin. The anticoagulant activities of human urinary soluble thrombomodulin (UTM) in blood taken from various species using several anticoagulant assay systems were compared; it was examined which coagulant assay system is appropriate for evaluation of the antithrombotic effects of UTM and how the species specificity of UTM is involved in the mechanisms of action of UTM. When anticoagulant activities were compared using activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), thromboelastography (TEG), and thrombin generation test (TGT), the effect of UTM was found to be the strongest in humans among various species tested. Among the anticoagulant assays tested, TGT reflecting protein C (PC) activation by UTM, appeared to be more sensitive than APTT and TEG in detection of thrombomodulin activity. In the study of the mechanisms of action of UTM, UTM exhibited nearly the same antithrombin activity against human and rat thrombin; the rate of activation of human PC by thrombin/UTM complex was much higher than that of rat PC. Therefore, the species specificity of the anticoagulant activity of UTM may be attributable to thrombin/UTM-PC interaction, but not to UTM-thrombin interaction. From these results, we concluded that TGT reflecting PC activation by UTM will be a more useful assay than APTT and TEG for estimating the antithrombotic effects of UTM in humans. Furthermore, our findings suggest that UTM will exhibit more potent antithrombotic effects in humans than those in rats by strongly enhancing thrombin-catalyzed PC activation."}
{"id": "9650544", "title": "A novel recombinant soluble human thrombomodulin, ART-123, activates the protein C pathway in healthy male volunteers.", "content": "A novel recombinant soluble human thrombomodulin, ART-123, activates the protein C pathway in healthy male volunteers. The effect of a novel recombinant soluble human thrombomodulin, ART-123, on protein C activation was investigated by measuring plasma prothrombinase activity in four healthy male volunteers. ART-123 at a dose of 0.3 mg was administered as a bolus intravenous injection for 1 minute. Plasma ART-123 concentration and prothrombinase activity were determined before and immediately, 24, and 48 hours after injection, and thromboelastography was recorded before and immediately and 24 hours after injection. The mean elimination half-life was 19.82 +/- 2.10 hours. Compared with pretreatment levels, ART-123 reduced prothrombinase activity by 44.2 +/- 11.7%, 52.1 +/- 10.8%, and 61.0 +/- 14.7%, respectively, immediately, 24, and 48 hours after injection, suggesting that ART-123 activated the protein C pathway. ART-123 did not affect thromboelastography values. There were no abnormal findings for objective signs or laboratory tests, including blood pressure, heart rate, electrocardiogram, body temperature, hematology, coagulation and hemostatic parameters, blood chemistry, and urinalysis. Based on these observations, ART-123 at a dose of 0.3 mg can activate the protein C pathway in healthy volunteers."}
{"id": "9640150", "title": "Surgical/tourniquet pain accelerates blood coagulability but not fibrinolysis.", "content": "Surgical/tourniquet pain accelerates blood coagulability but not fibrinolysis. Tissue damage during surgery induces coagulation factors and activates platelets. Surgical pain may provoke release of catecholamines, leading to hypercoagulability. We have investigated the effect of surgical pain on blood coagulability and fibrinolysis in orthopaedic operations using tourniquets in 22 patients undergoing total knee replacement. Patients were allocated to one of two groups to receive extradural anaesthesia (EA; n = 11) or general anaesthesia (GA; n = 11). The EA group received lumbar extradural block with lidocaine. The GA group received only general anaesthesia, maintained with 1.5-2.5% sevoflurane and 66% nitrous oxide in oxygen. Using a thrombelastogram technique, blood coagulability and fibrinolysis were measured. Mean maximum amplitude (MA), which reflects coagulability, increased after tourniquet inflation (11%) in group GA whereas MA in group EA did not change. After tourniquet deflation, MA values in both GA and EA groups increased significantly (10% and 20%, respectively) (P < 0.05), and there was also a significant difference in MA between groups (P < 0.05). The fibrinolytic rate did not change in either group during tourniquet inflation, but increased significantly (160%) after tourniquet deflation. There was no significant difference in fibrinolytic rate between the groups. We conclude that the hypercoagulability seen in group GA could have been caused by surgical or tourniquet pain, or both, and that extradural anaesthesia is a useful technique to prevent hypercoagulability."}
{"id": "9636913", "title": "Thromboelastography with heparinase in orthotopic liver transplantation.", "content": "Thromboelastography with heparinase in orthotopic liver transplantation. To investigate the role of heparin in the postreperfusion coagulopathy during liver transplantation with heparinase-guided thromboelastography. A prospective, interventional study. A university-affiliated hospital. Twenty-six patients undergoing orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). Blood drawn at five intervals for thromboelastography assessment with native (12 patients) or celite blood (14 patients) compared with simultaneous thromboelastography traces with added heparinase. In the native samples, the prolonged R (reaction) and K (coagulation) time and decreased alpha angle were corrected in heparinase thromboelastograph traces immediately before reperfusion and 10 minutes postreperfusion. In the celite-accelerated samples, the heparinase traces showed correction of the R and K times and alpha angle only at the 10-minute postreperfusion stage. In seven patients who had thromboelastography performed after protamine administration, there were no differences between celite and heparinase-celite traces. Heparinase-treated thromboelastography offered compelling evidence for the presence of heparin-like activity after liver graft reperfusion. The objective evidence provided by this modification of thromboelastography-guided protamine administration and was useful in identifying one of the many potential causes of postreperfusion bleeding in patients undergoing OLT."}
{"id": "9623430", "title": "Effects of hypothermia on thrombelastography in patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Effects of hypothermia on thrombelastography in patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass. Thrombelastography (TEG) correlates with postoperative chest drain output in patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). In vitro incubation with heparinase allows TEG monitoring during CPB, despite heparin anticoagulation. Hypothermia impairs coagulation, but these effects cannot be assessed by standard coagulation tests performed at 37 degrees C. The aim of this study was to assess the effects of hypothermia on TEG. Therefore, we have compared normothermic and temperature-adapted TEG in 30 patients undergoing CPB. Our data showed significantly impaired reaction time (r), kinetic time (k), and angle alpha (alpha) in temperature-adapted compared with normothermic TEG. Maximum amplitude (MA), reflecting absolute clot strength, was not affected at temperatures of 33-37 degrees C. These findings indicate a decrease in the speed of clot formation, but not absolute deterioration in clot quality. Furthermore, heparinase-modified TEG indicated that there were nine cases in which heparin effects persisted after heparin reversal with protamine, providing a rational guide to protamine therapy."}
{"id": "9621258", "title": "Distribution of mobilized progenitor cells in the buffy coat of the haemonetics MCS3p cell separator: a study to optimize the collection of progenitors by leukapheresis.", "content": "Distribution of mobilized progenitor cells in the buffy coat of the haemonetics MCS3p cell separator: a study to optimize the collection of progenitors by leukapheresis. Hematopoietic progenitor and stem cells for transplantation can be mobilized into the circulation and collected by leukapheresis. In this procedure, the leukocytes are distributed in the buffy coat along a density gradient, and the composition of the final product depends on which layer was collected. For the Haemonetics MCS3p Cell Separator, the manufacturer recommended starting the progenitor cell collection at a light transmission of 30%-40% (compared with plasma) and continue it for 40-50 ml. To optimize the use of this machine, the buffy coat it produces was studied in 12 patients by collecting it in fractions of increasing specific weight. Each fraction was analyzed by morphology, immunocytometry, and cell culture. We found that the buffy coat uniformly contains 8 times more leukocytes than blood, but the proportion of each white cell type varies along a gradient. The lymphocyte-predominant lighter layers are richer in CD34+ cells when compared with the granulocyte-predominant denser layers (6-14 times versus 2-4 times more than blood). The majority of CD34+ cells are found at a light transmission of 10%-70% (hematocrit 6-9). We conclude that cells for transplantation should be collected in a lighter fraction of the buffy coat than originally suggested by the manufacturer."}
{"id": "9620500", "title": "Conjugated estrogen reduces transfusion and coagulation factor requirements in orthotopic liver transplantation.", "content": "Conjugated estrogen reduces transfusion and coagulation factor requirements in orthotopic liver transplantation. We conducted a prospective, randomized study to determine the efficacy of conjugated estrogen in reducing blood product transfusion during orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT). Patients undergoing OLT were included in the study. Only those having a reaction time of more than 30 mm or 15 min (19 -28 mm) on computed thromboelastography (CTEG) at the beginning of surgery were enrolled in the study. Patients were randomized to receive either conjugated estrogen (CE) or placebo. Every patient received a first dose of CE (100 mg i.v.) (20 mL) or placebo (20 mL of isotonic sodium chloride solution) at the beginning of the procedure and a second dose of CE (100 mg i.v.) or 20 mL of placebo (20 mL of isotonic sodium chloride solution) just after reperfusion of the new graft. The two groups were similar in age, weight, requirement for veno-veno bypass, time on veno-veno bypass, CTEG measurement, and preoperative hemoglobin and platelet values. Blood products were given in relation to hematocrit and coagulation (CTEG) variables, which were measured every hour during the surgery. The amount of transfused blood products did not differ in terms of units of cryoprecipitate, but the intraoperative requirements for red blood cells (6 +/- 3 vs 9 +/- 6 U; P = 0.05), platelets (12 +/- 8 U vs 18 +/- 10 U; P = 0.05) and fresh-frozen plasma (3 +/- 3 U vs 6 +/- 4 U; P = 0.001) was significantly less in the estrogen group than in the control group. We conclude that CE is associated with a significant decrease in use of fresh-frozen plasma, platelets, and red blood cells during OLT. In this study, we prospectively investigated whether i.v. conjugated estrogen could decrease blood product transfusion during orthotopic liver transplantation. Conjugated estrogen-treated patients received less fresh-frozen plasma, red blood cells, and platelets. In this population of patients, conjugated estrogen can be a useful addition in coagulation management during orthotopic liver transplantation."}
{"id": "9614577", "title": "A chimeric fusion protein containing transforming growth factor-alpha mediates gene transfer via binding to the EGF receptor.", "content": "A chimeric fusion protein containing transforming growth factor-alpha mediates gene transfer via binding to the EGF receptor. Fusion proteins engineered to incorporate distinct functions which co-operate in mediating the cell-type specific uptake and intracellular delivery of DNA present an attractive approach for the development of self-assembling vector systems for targeted gene transfer. Here we have chosen the EGF receptor overexpressed in many human tumors of epithelial origin as a target for a novel modular fusion protein. We have fused a cDNA fragment of the human EGF receptor ligand TGF-alpha to sequences encoding the translocation domain of Pseudomonas exotoxin A as an endosome escape activity, and the DNA-binding domain of the yeast GAL4 transcription factor. Upon bacterial expression, this TEG fusion protein displayed specific binding to EGF receptors. Complexes of the chimeric protein and plasmid DNA carrying a luciferase reporter gene, after condensation with poly-L-lysine resulted in an up to 150-fold increase in reporter gene expression in EGF receptor expressing cells in comparison to poly-L-lysine-DNA complexes alone. While in COS-1 cells no additional endosome escape activity was required, in A431 cells gene delivery was dependent on the simultaneous presence of the endosome destabilizing reagent chloroquine indicating that cell-type specific factors such as different intracellular routing of protein-DNA complexes greatly influence transfection efficiency."}
{"id": "9607115", "title": "Haemostatic disturbances in burned patients during early excision and skin grafting.", "content": "Haemostatic disturbances in burned patients during early excision and skin grafting. Bleeding is a major problem during early excision of burned skin. Therefore, 13 severely burned adult patients operated on during the first week after the trauma were studied. Blood loss was replaced with crystalloids, colloids and packed red cell concentrates (PRC). After ten infused PRCs, four fresh frozen plasma (FFP) units were given and thereafter one FFP unit with one PRC unit. Arterial blood samples were drawn before anaesthesia (SO), during operation after every four units of PRC transfusion (S1-4), 4 h postoperatively (S5) and on the first postoperative morning (S6). Prothrombin time (%) and activated partial thromboplastin time (s) were abnormal before operation (median values 67%, range 22-99% and 44 s, range 30-86 s, respectively). Prothrombin time decreased during operation and reached the critical level for normal haemostasis at S2. Thrombelastography showed decreased clot formation rate and impaired fibrin platelet interaction peri- and postoperatively. Fibrinogen and factor VIII activity were high preoperatively (median 6.1 g/l and 253%) and the critical values for normal haemostasis were not reached. Burned patients have a consumption coagulopathy which, in combination with haemodilution during operation, results in a clinically significant deficiency of coagulation factors II, VII and X, in spite of reactive elevation of coagulation factor VIII and fibrinogen."}
{"id": "9603087", "title": "Hypothermic coagulopathy in trauma: effect of varying levels of hypothermia on enzyme speed, platelet function, and fibrinolytic activity.", "content": "Hypothermic coagulopathy in trauma: effect of varying levels of hypothermia on enzyme speed, platelet function, and fibrinolytic activity. The coagulopathy noted in hypothermic trauma patients has been variously theorized to be caused by either enzyme inhibition, platelet alteration, or fibrinolytic processes, but no study has examined the possibility that all three processes may simultaneously contribute to coagulopathy, but are perhaps triggered at different levels of hypothermia. The purpose of this study was to determine whether, at clinically common levels of hypothermia (33.0-36.9 degrees C), there are specific temperature levels at which coagulopathic alterations are seen in each of these processes. Of 232 consecutive adult trauma patients presenting to a Level I trauma center, 112 patients met the inclusion criteria of an Injury Severity Score of 9 or greater and time since injury of less than 2 hours. Of the included patients, 40 were normothermic and 72 were hypothermic (> or =37 degrees C, n = 40; 36.9-36 degrees C, n = 29; 35.9-35 degrees C, n = 20; 34.9-34 degrees C, n = 16; 33.9-33 degrees C, n = 7). Included patients were prospectively studied with thrombelastography adjusted to core body temperature. Additionally, PT, aPTT, platelets, CO2, hemoglobin, hematocrit, and Injury Severity Score were measured. Analysis by multivariate analysis of variance of the relationship between coagulation and temperature demonstrated that in hypothermic trauma patients, 34 degrees C was the critical point at which enzyme activity slowed significantly (p < 0.0001), and at which significant alteration in platelet activity was seen (p < 0.001). Fibrinolysis was not significantly affected at any of the measured temperatures (p > 0.25). Patients whose temperature was > or =34.0 degrees C actually demonstrated a significant hypercoagulability. Enzyme activity slowing and decreased platelet function individually contributed to hypothermic coagulopathy in patients with core temperatures below 34.0 degrees C. All the coagulation measures affected are part of the polymerization process of platelets and fibrin, and this process may be the mechanism by which the alteration in coagulation occurs."}
{"id": "9602586", "title": "Reduced quality of clot formation with gelatin-based plasma substitutes.", "content": "Reduced quality of clot formation with gelatin-based plasma substitutes. We have studied, over a wide range of dilutions using techniques of clot weight, thrombelastography and scanning electron microscopy, the physical properties of a blood clot formed in vitro when fresh blood was diluted with gelatin-based colloid solutions compared with crystalloid controls. The colloid solutions tested (3.5% polygeline (Haemaccel) and 4% succinylated gelatin (Gelofusine)) produced clots that had reduced median weight (P < 0.001 and P = 0.018, respectively) and reduced mean shear modulus (P < 0.001) compared with crystalloid controls. Scanning electron microscopy showed that the fibrin formed a less extensive mesh in the presence of the gelatin-based colloids compared with crystalloid. Reduction in clot quality with gelatin-based colloids has not been noted previously and further work is needed to ascertain if this occurs in vivo as these solutions are used frequently in patients who require full haemostatic competence."}
{"id": "9584913", "title": "Fracture properties of aged and post-processed dental composites.", "content": "Fracture properties of aged and post-processed dental composites. The purpose of this study was to determine the flexure strength (sigma f), Young's modulus (E), and fracture toughness (KIC) of five dental composites after aging in water and air. The composites were, by weight, 75% or 79% glass filler and 25% or 21% resin composed of 60% Bis-GMA and 40% TEG-DMA. The filler was either strontium glass (75Sr or 79Sr) or a combination, by weight, of 90% strontium glass and 10% colloidal silica (75Sr10 or 79Sr10). The specimens, 2 x 4 x 70 mm bars, were aged in either air or distilled water at 37 degrees C and were tested in their respective aging media at a loading rate of 1.22 mm/s. The sigma f and E were tested in four-point loading and the KIC in three-point loading. The addition of the fillers to the unfilled resin resulted in a statistically significant increase in the flexure strength, flexure modulus, and fracture toughness. Aging in air had minimal effect on these properties. However, testing and aging in water led to a significant decrease in the mechanical properties in the first 6 months, but had limited effect from 6 to 12 months."}
{"id": "9584902", "title": "Substances released from dental resin composites and glass ionomer cements.", "content": "Substances released from dental resin composites and glass ionomer cements. An increasing number of cavities in the primary and permanent dentition is restored with tooth-colored materials, especially dental resin composites or glass ionomer cements. Several investigations have revealed that various components are segregated from different composite filling materials into an aqueous environment after polymerization. Most organic substances can be extracted from a set resin by organic solvents (methanol, tetrahydrofuran, ethanol). Furthermore, in most studies, the co-monomer TEG-DMA has been identified as the main compound released from polymerized resin composites into aqueous media. However, small quantities of the monomers (Bis-GMA, UDMA) and other co-monomers, as well as additives, may also be released into water. Very little data have been published about substances released from various types of glass ionomer cements (GIC), except the liberation of fluoride. Erosion studies have revealed that there is a considerable disintegration of GICs at lower pH-values. However, the nature of the eroded substances has not yet been clarified. Altogether, the data presented in this review indicate that information is comparably scarce for resin composites and GICs in comparison to the rich amount of knowledge concerning amalgams. Therefore, further studies are necessary to determine quality and quantity of substances segregated from resin composites and GICs."}
{"id": "9565148", "title": "How alarming is post-coital bleeding--a cytologic, colposcopic and histopathologic evaluation.", "content": "How alarming is post-coital bleeding--a cytologic, colposcopic and histopathologic evaluation. This retrospective analysis studies post-coital bleeding (PCB) in 110 patients presenting to the colposcopy clinic of the University College of Medical Sciences and Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Delhi, India, and covers a 2-year period from March 1994 to February 1996. All the patients were evaluated by cytology and colposcopy. Colposcopy-positive patients underwent a directed biopsy. Age, parity and duration of PCB were correlated with histopathologic findings, i.e. benign changes, viral HPV changes and cervical intra-epithelial neoplasia (CIN) 1, CIN 2 and 3 and invasive cancer for risk assessment. 85.5% of the patients had benign findings, 5.6% viral HPV and CIN 1, 3.6% CIN 2 and 3 and 5.5% invasive cancer. Vascular ectopy was the commonest benign colposcopic finding. Cytology had a sensitivity and specificity of 56% and 90%, respectively. The mean age of patients with invasive cancer was 41.3 years versus 32.9 years in patients with benign pathology, the difference being statistically significant (p < 0.05). Mean parity was 4.2 in patients with invasive cancer against 2.8 in benign cases (NS). There was no correlation between duration of bleeding and pathology."}
{"id": "9563429", "title": "Effectiveness of conjugated estrogen in orthotopic liver transplantation.", "content": "Effectiveness of conjugated estrogen in orthotopic liver transplantation. A retrospective study was conducted at a university hospital to determine the efficacy of conjugated estrogen in reducing blood product transfusion during orthotopic liver transplantation. The charts of patients who had orthotopic liver transplantation were retrospectively reviewed. Only those having a reaction time > 30 mm or 15 minutes (normal = 19 mm to 28 mm) on computerized thromboelastogram (CTEG) at the beginning of surgery were included. One group of patients received a first dose of conjugated estrogen (100 mg i.v.) at the beginning of the case and a second dose (100 mg i.v.) just after reperfusion of the new graft. The control group did not receive estrogen. The two groups were similar in age, weight, first TEG measurements, final intraoperative hemoglobin concentration and platelet count. Blood products were given in response to hematocrit and CTEG measurements, which were determined every hour during surgery. The two groups did not differ in units of cryoprecipitate and platelets administered, but the intraoperative requirements for red blood cells and fresh frozen plasma were significantly lower in the estrogen group than in the control group. Administration of conjugated estrogen is associated with a statistically significant decrease in use of red blood cells and fresh frozen plasma during orthotopic liver transplantation."}
{"id": "9560544", "title": "[The effect of scalp infiltration with bupivacaine on blood coagulability and fibrinolysis in neurovascular surgery].", "content": "[The effect of scalp infiltration with bupivacaine on blood coagulability and fibrinolysis in neurovascular surgery]. We investigated the effect of scalp infiltration with bupivacaine on blood coagulability and fibrinolysis in neurovascular surgery. Patients were randomly divided into two groups: scalp infiltration group (who received scalp infiltration with 0.5% bupivacaine prior to surgical incision, n = 7) and control group (n = 6). The blood coagulability and fibrinolysis were measured before and after surgical incision using a thromboelastogram (Thromboelastograph C-3000, Haemoscope). In the control group, the reaction and coagulation times were significantly shortened (30% and 23%, respectively, P < 0.05) and the maximum amplitude, which reflects coagulability, increased significantly (21%, P < 0.01) compared to each presurgical value. The scalp infiltration prior to the surgical incision prevented these reactions (P < 0.05). The fibrinolytic rate did not change in either group. We conclude that scalp infiltration prior to surgical incision is beneficial for attenuating an increase in blood coagulability, which could induce perioperative complications due to associated systemic diseases (i.e. hypertension, diabetes, ischemic heart disease, etc.)."}
{"id": "9544137", "title": "Successful management of visceral Klippel-Trenaunay-Weber syndrome with the antifibrinolytic agent tranexamic acid (cyclocapron): a case report.", "content": "Successful management of visceral Klippel-Trenaunay-Weber syndrome with the antifibrinolytic agent tranexamic acid (cyclocapron): a case report. Klippel-Trenaunay-Weber syndrome (KTWS) is a rare, congenital disorder characterized by vascular nevus formation, deep venous thrombosis, varicosities, and hypertrophy of affected tissues. A patient with known thrombosis of his splanchnic circulation and visceral KTWS presented with life-threatening hemorrhage from rectosigmoid varices. Portosystemic shunting was not feasible. Endoscopic sclerosis, variceal ligation, and proctocolectomy were not possible due to the size and number of the varices. Previous treatment with epsilon-aminocaproic acid had been unsuccessful and complicated by thrombophlebitis. Conservative treatment with blood transfusions, cryoprecipitate, fresh frozen plasma, vitamin K, propanolol, and somatostatin analog failed to stop the bleeding. The patient was given the antifibrinolytic agent, tranexamic acid, with cessation of his hemorrhage. Serial thromboelastograms confirmed improved reaction time, coagulation time, clot formation rate, and maximum amplitude. We conclude that tranexamic acid may be a useful adjunct in the medical treatment of high-risk patients with KTWS and other vascular nevi complicated by coagulopathy."}
{"id": "9539584", "title": "Endogenous heparin-like substances significantly impair coagulation in patients undergoing orthotopic liver transplantation.", "content": "Endogenous heparin-like substances significantly impair coagulation in patients undergoing orthotopic liver transplantation. Orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) is associated with severe bleeding, especially after reperfusion of the grafted liver. Heparin released from the liver graft contributes to postreperfusion coagulopathy. Although patients with liver cirrhosis have increased levels of endogenous heparinoids, the role of these substances during liver transplantation is unclear. Therefore, we performed native and heparinase-modified thrombelastography (TEG) in 72 patients undergoing OLT. TEG was performed at skin incision, 10 min before and 10 min after clamping of the vena cava, 10 min before and 10 min after graft perfusion, and at the end of surgery. Heparinase-modified TEG compared with native TEG demonstrated heparin activity. In contrast to other investigations, we found significant heparin effects before reperfusion, although patients received no exogenous heparin. These heparin effects were greater in patients with cirrhosis compared with patients with cancer as the underlying disease leading to OLT. Administration of coagulation factors is the usual treatment of coagulopathies during OLT. The comparison of native versus heparinase-modified TEG can distinguish between heparin activity or coagulation factor deficiency as a cause of bleeding complications and provides a rational approach to the treatment of bleeding during OLT. Impaired coagulation function, contributed to by heparin or heparin-like substances, is frequently observed after reperfusion of a transplanted liver. This study demonstrates that a heparinase-modified thrombelastography can identify significant heparin effects in the absence of exogenous heparin administration in patients undergoing liver transplantation."}
{"id": "9527279", "title": "Plasmapheresis in the treatment of posttransplant cardiomyopathy.", "content": "Plasmapheresis in the treatment of posttransplant cardiomyopathy. After heart transplantation a number of factors such as pre- and postoperative hypoxia of the myocardium, myocardial failure of the early postoperative period, acute rejection episodes, cytomegalovirus infection, and finally the progressive atherosclerosis of the coronary arteries lead to the development of transplanted heart failure. Severe alterations of the myocardial function at this end stage of the process correspond to incurable cardiomyopathy. The target of plasmapheresis in this case is to decrease the extent of the disturbances in the lipoprotein contents and blood rheology for the improvement of the coronary perfusion of the transplanted heart. Nine patients with 3-7 year survival periods after heart transplantations underwent plasmapheresis twice a year using the Haemonetics PCS-plus machine. 2,100-2,700 ml of plasma was removed. Biochemical data, rheology and coagulation, and the concentration of Sandimmune (Sandoz Pharma Ltd., Basel, Switzerland) were controlled, and radionuclide scintigraphy of the myocardium, coronarographia, and transesophageal ultrasound investigations were completed for these patients. The result was the significant improvement of the coronary perfusion of the myocardium. The level of immunosuppression after the plasmapheresis procedures did not change and therefore did not demand any correction. Thus, we think that plasmapheresis can be an effective method of treatment of posttransplantation cardiomyopathy; the improvement of coronary perfusion decreases the extent of chronic ischemia. Further studies are necessary to answer the question as to whether it is possible to prolong the time before retransplantation with the help of plasmapheresis."}
{"id": "9495439", "title": "Thromboelastography in a parturient with immune thrombocytopenic purpura.", "content": "Thromboelastography in a parturient with immune thrombocytopenic purpura."}
{"id": "9495387", "title": "Platelet function and simultaneous thrombelastograms from whole blood and plasma.", "content": "Platelet function and simultaneous thrombelastograms from whole blood and plasma."}
{"id": "9482397", "title": "Pediatric peripheral blood progenitor cell collection: haemonetics MCS 3P versus COBE Spectra versus Fresenius AS104.", "content": "Pediatric peripheral blood progenitor cell collection: haemonetics MCS 3P versus COBE Spectra versus Fresenius AS104. An increasing number of apheresis machines are becoming available for peripheral blood progenitor cell (PBPC) collection in children. At the Children's Hospital of Florence (Italy), three apheresis machines were evaluated: MCS 3P (Haemonetics) (10 procedures in 4 patients, aged 10-12 years, weight 23.5-64 kg), Spectra, (COBE) (8 procedures in 3 patients, aged 4-17 years, weight 19-59 kg), and AS104 (Fresenius) (24 procedures in 9 patients, aged 2-16 years, weight 13.6-60 kg). For PBPC quantitative analysis, CD34 cytofluorimetry was employed. Relevant variables analyzed included efficiency of CD34+ cell extraction and enrichment, mononuclear cell purity and red cell contamination of the apheresis components, and platelet count decreases after leukapheresis. No significant differences in CD34+ cell-extraction abilities were found. However, the AS104 provided consistently purer leukapheresis components in terms of mononuclear cell and CD34+ cell enrichment (441 +/- 59%, vs. 240 +/- 35% and 290 +/- 42% for MCS 3P and Spectra, respectively). Postapheresis platelet counts dropped the least with the AS104. The smallest patient who underwent apheresis with MCS 3P (the only machine working on discontinuous flow and hence with greater volume shifts) weighed 23.5 kg and tolerated the procedure well, with no signs of hemodynamic instability. No significant complications were observed. All machines seem to have comparable PBPC extraction efficiency, but the AS104 seems to give the component with the greatest PBPC enrichment. This feature might be relevant for further ex vivo cell processing (CD34+ cell selection, expansion, and so on)."}
{"id": "10225766", "title": "Automated plateletpheresis does not cause an increase in platelet activation in volunteer donors.", "content": "Automated plateletpheresis does not cause an increase in platelet activation in volunteer donors. Activation of platelets during collection and storage has been implicated as a major cause of the platelet storage lesion. In this study, we investigated the effect of an automated plateletpheresis procedure on the in vivo platelet activation in 20 volunteer donors. Peripheral blood samples were collected immediately before and after plateletpheresis on the Haemonetics V50 Blood Cell Separator. Activation of platelets was determined by quantitating the amount of platelet P-selectin (CD62) expression using a whole blood method on flow cytometry. Adenosine diphosphate (ADP), collagen, and ristocetin induced platelet aggregations were also measured on a whole blood impedance aggregometer. Plateletpheresis caused a significant decrease in the CD62-positive platelet percentage and aggregation responses to 3 agonists. We concluded that the plateletpheresis procedure did not cause an increase in platelet activation in donors. Further studies are required to elucidate whether activated platelets are collected during the procedure or removed from the circulation of the donor and replaced by resting platelets, activated platelets bind to leukocytes or endothelial cells, and the plateletpheresis procedure is a powerful stimulus for platelet activation."}
{"id": "10174687", "title": "Comparison of performance of six different cell separators in collecting peripheral blood mononuclear cells.", "content": "Comparison of performance of six different cell separators in collecting peripheral blood mononuclear cells. We compared the efficacy of six different cell separators in collecting peripheral mononuclear cells to be used for autologous or homologous peripheral stem cell transplantation. The product obtained with the Dideco Vivacell cell separator showed a low percentage of mononuclear cells (38%) in the final product and a high platelet efficiency (38%). The Baxter CS3000 Plus cell separator required the longest time to load and prime the kit (18 min), it showed a high MNC efficiency (68%), with the highest percentage of MNC in the final product, the highest platelet efficiency (45%), a low red blood cell contamination in the final product (2.7 mL), the highest extracorporeal volume (450 mL) and a high percentage of technical failures (15%). The product obtained with the Fresenius AS104 cell separator with P1Y kit showed the highest final volume (297 mL), the lowest platelet efficiency (12%) and the lowest extracorporeal volume (230 mL). The same cell separator with C4Y kit showed a lower MNC efficiency (52 vs 60%) and a higher percentage of MNC in final product (63 vs 41%). The platelet contamination in final product was the lowest (18 x 10(9)/100 mL). The Haemonetics MCS3p cell separator required the lowest time to load and prime the kit (5 min), it showed the highest MNC efficiency (71%). The blood volume processed per hour (1328 mL) and the percentage of MNC in final product was lowest (32%), the extracorporeal volume (450 mL) was the highest. The Cobe Spectra cell separator allowed to process the highest blood volume per hour (3383 mL) and the final product had the lowest red blood cell contamination (2.3 mL/100 mL). The Dideco Excel cell separator required the longest time to load and prime the kit (18 min), the lowest MNC efficiency (38%), the highest platelet contamination in final product. Furthermore this machine showed the highest percentage of technical failure (20%). None of the six instruments have all the required preconditions and the ideal cell separator for peripheral stem cell apheresis at present is not available on the market."}
{"id": "10174299", "title": "Incidence of electrocardiographic changes during cytapheresis using an intermittent flow centrifuge, haemonetics V50 and a continuous flow centrifuge, AS104.", "content": "Incidence of electrocardiographic changes during cytapheresis using an intermittent flow centrifuge, haemonetics V50 and a continuous flow centrifuge, AS104. Electrocardiographic (ECG) monitoring was performed during cytapheresis and the incidence of ECG changes was compared between methods of intermittent flow centrifugation using the Haemonetics V50 with apheresis donors and continuous flow centrifugation with the AS104 for peripheral blood stem cell (PBSC) collection from patients. ST depression, inverted T wave and other ECG changes were found in 49 (14.3%) of the 342 cytaphereses carried out by the intermittent flow centrifugation method and in 8 (4.7%) of the 169 PBSC collections by the continuous flow centrifugation method. This difference was significant (P < 0.05). The hemodynamic changes in the procedure with the AS104 seem to be small. This is considered to be important for prevention of serious ST and T wave changes."}
{"id": "10174276", "title": "Cytokines in platelet concentrates: a comparison of apheresis platelet (haemonetics) and filtered and unfiltered pooled buffy-coat derived platelet concentrates.", "content": "Cytokines in platelet concentrates: a comparison of apheresis platelet (haemonetics) and filtered and unfiltered pooled buffy-coat derived platelet concentrates. Variable degrees of platelet activation, shape changes, microvesiculation and fragmentation may occur during collection, processing and storage of platelet concentrates (PCs), contributing to different rate of platelet storage lesion. Leukocytes contribute to both the frequency of transfusion reactions and the acceleration of the rate of platelet storage lesion hence leukocyte removal of platelet concentrates has been introduced to overcome these problems. However transfusion reaction can still occur with the use of leuko-reduced products and it is not fully elucidated that the rate of storage lesion is equivalent for filtered and unfiltered counter parts. This issue has been addressed in this manuscript comparing the generation of cytokines during storage in PCs derived from pooled buffy coat with the standard apheresis products, with a similar level of leukocyte contamination. The EDTA-induced shape change in platelet was used as an index of platelet functional integrity. In addition IL-8 and TGF beta were used as indicators of filtration process-inducing stimulation of cytokines. Our results clearly indicate that a rapid disc/spheric conversion occurs during storage of buffy-coat derived PC, and while prestorage filtration reduces both IL-8 content immediately after filtration and at the end of platelet shelf life but such a process may lead to slight enhancement of the rate of TGF beta generation indicating that any additional process may have some bearing in stimulation of TGF beta release."}
{"id": "10168534", "title": "Hemostatic assessment of patients undergoing intraaortic balloon pump therapy.", "content": "Hemostatic assessment of patients undergoing intraaortic balloon pump therapy. Patients undergoing intraaortic balloon pump (IABP) therapy are at risk for developing coagulopathies due to the adverse effects of prolonged exposure of the synthetic surface of the polyurethane balloon to blood components. Hemorrhagic risk has been attributed to a number of factors including thrombocytopenia, vascular injury, and/or platelet degranulation which increase the potential of receiving autogeneic blood transfusions. The present study is a prospective evaluation of coagulation using a viscoelastic monitor (Thrombelastograph--TEG) that measures functional aspects of clot development and stabilization in patients being treated with IABP therapy. Following Institutional Review Board approval, six patients undergoing IABP therapy for hemodynamic instability were enrolled in this study. Blood samples were taken prior to balloon insertion, at 8, 16, 24, 48, 72, and 96 hours on IABP therapy, and 24 hours following the removal of the balloon when applicable. Samples were incubated with heparinase to degrade heparin and TEG profiles were subsequently determined in duplicate. Measured parameters on the TEG included R-time, K-time, maximum amplitude, alpha angle, and lysis at 30 and 60 minutes with calculation of the TEG index. Mortality was 33% following IABP discontinuation. Transfusion of packed red blood cells occurred in 50% of the patients during their balloon pump therapy. Patients demonstrated a significant deviance in fibrinolytic potential from pre-IABP lysis (1.6% +/- 1.8) at both 24 hours (18.8% +/- 22.9) and 48 hours (21.9% +/- 28.5) of therapy (p < 0.05) which returned to baseline shortly after balloon removal. Activation of coagulation factors appeared evident by a steadily increasing alpha angle from pre-IABP data (3.1 +/- 9.2) throughout the duration of therapy and 24 hour recovery (53 +/- 14; p < .005), and by a steadily trending increase in the TEG index pre-IABP (.251 +/- 1.4) to post-IABP (2.6 +/- 1.7; p < 0.05). The results indicate that IABP therapy induces an increase in fibrinolytic potential at 24 to 48 hours of balloon pump therapy with a paradoxical trend toward increased coagulability, potentially predisposing the patient to hemorrhagic risk."}
{"id": "9556230", "title": "Production of a recombinant antithrombotic and fibrinolytic protein, PLATSAK, in Escherichia coli.", "content": "Production of a recombinant antithrombotic and fibrinolytic protein, PLATSAK, in Escherichia coli. The three main components involved in thrombosis and haemostasis are thrombin, platelets, and plasmin. Almost all inhibitors of thrombosis are focused either on the inhibition of thrombin or on the inhibition of platelets. We designed a construct using the fibrinolytic activity of staphylokinase, fused via a cleavable linker to an antithrombotic peptide of 29 amino acids. The peptide was designed to include three inhibitory regions: (1) the Arg-Gly-Asp (RGD) amino acid sequence to prevent fibrinogen binding to platelets; (2) a part of fibrinopeptide A, an inhibitor of thrombin; and (3) the tail of hirudin, a potent direct antithrombin. The amino acid sequence of the 29 amino acid peptide was reverse translated, and the gene was chemically synthesised and cloned into an expression vector as a 3' fusion to the staphylokinase gene. Gene expression was induced in E. coli Top 10 cells and the fusion protein, designated PLATSAK, was purified using metal affinity chromatography. The purified fusion protein significantly lengthened the activated partial thromboplastin time and thrombin time and inhibited the amidolytic activity of thrombin. The fibrinolytic activity was almost equal to that of recombinant staphylokinase as measured with a thrombelastograph. Platelet aggregation was not markedly inhibited by PLATSAK, probably due to the unfavourable three dimensional structure, with the Arg-Gly-Asp sequence buried inside. Our results confirm that it is feasible to design and produce a hybrid multifunctional protein that targets various components of the haemostatic process."}
{"id": "9553238", "title": "Thromboelastographic study of thrombosis in the implantable central venous access device.", "content": "Thromboelastographic study of thrombosis in the implantable central venous access device. In the present study thromboelastography (TEG) was to study whether or not hypercoagulopathy might contribute to the thrombosis of implantable central venous access device (Port-A-Cath, Pharmacia) in cancer patients. All 76 oncological patients who were enrolled in this study had their R time, alpha angle and MA value measured before Port-A-Cath implantation, of whom 11 patients received re-implantation because of thrombotic device. We compared the measurements of these 11 patients (thrombotic group) with that of 65 patients (control group) who received Port-A-Cath implantation for the first time. According to TEG values the hemostatic status in these patients was classified as hypercoagulable, normal or hypocoagulable for comparison. All patients in the control group were followed up for 3 months for occurrence of thrombosis. It was found that no patient in the thrombotic group was associated with hypercoagulopathy. Five patients (7.5%) in the control group was found in hypercoagulable status at the time of catheter insertion but none of them developed clinical thrombosis during three months of observation. There was no significant difference between the two groups for R time, alpha angle but a higher MA value was found in the control group (p < 0.05). Furthermore, the hypercoagulability (7.5% for the control vs. none for the thrombotic group), hypocoagulability (1.5% vs. 9.1%) and normocoagulability (91.0% vs. 90.9%) were not statistically different between the two groups (Fisher exact test, P = 0.229). We conclude that hypercoagulopathy in cancer patients has little, if any, contribution in thrombosis of the implantable central venous access device."}
{"id": "9493891", "title": "Coagulation and hemorheology.", "content": "Coagulation and hemorheology. The application of principles of hemorheology on a process of blood coagulation was suggested by H.H. Hartert - inventor of the thromboelastograph which he introduced in 1947. These principles of applying of a mechanical force and detecting the response of coagulating blood enable to determine a functional evidence of the physiological process producing a hemostatic clot. The thromboelastography, as well as other rheological techniques used for this determination, are introduced evaluating the process in terms of the rate of coagulation, clot elasticity, deformability and permeability. Recent applications of the techniques to the diagnosis of disorders of hemostasis and the study of drug effects on coagulation are presented as well."}
{"id": "9490343", "title": "[Eiconol effects on hemocoagulation in coronary heart disease patients].", "content": "[Eiconol effects on hemocoagulation in coronary heart disease patients]."}
{"id": "9483409", "title": "[Effects of eleutherococcus, elton, leuzea, and leveton on the blood coagulation system during training in athletes].", "content": "[Effects of eleutherococcus, elton, leuzea, and leveton on the blood coagulation system during training in athletes]. Comparative study was conducted of formal preparations of tinctures of eleutherococcus and leuzea and the newly developed preparations Elton and Leveton containing, respectively, eleutherosids and ecdisten. Intensive physical activity of high-class athletes leads to increase of blood coagulation expressed in shortening of the thromboelastogram r and K intervals and increased activity of the proth rombin complex according to Quick, and increased activity of factors II, VII, X, XIII, and fibrinolysis. The concentration of fibrinogen increases. A 20-day course of eleuthrococcus tincture causes a decrease in the blood coagulation potential and activity of the blood coagulation factors induced by intensive training of the athletes. Twenty-day treatment with the new broad-spectrum adaptogens Elton and Leveton causes a more marked reduction of the coagulation potential in athl etes. The activity of the factors and fibrinolys are normalized in this case. The indicated shifts are accompanied with increase of working capacity and rehabilitation of the athletes."}
{"id": "9483178", "title": "Plateletapheresis: comparison of processing times, platelet yields, and white blood cell content with several commonly used systems.", "content": "Plateletapheresis: comparison of processing times, platelet yields, and white blood cell content with several commonly used systems. In this study we compare processing times and platelet yields of eight systems: five double-needle (DN)--Fenwal CS3000 Plus with interface offset (IO) of 6 (Fen 6) and IO of 10 (Fen 10), a prototype Fenwal Amicus (AM-DN), Spectra version 4 (Spec 4-DN) and version 5 with leukoreduction system (Spec 5-LRS); and three single-needle (SN) systems--Haemonetics MCS Plus (MCS+), prototype Amicus (AM-SN), and Spectra version 4 (Spec 4-SN). Twenty-five procedures from each of the systems (except AM-SN, N = 13) were compared; each system had comparable preprocedure platelet counts and similar endpoints. Five systems--MCS+, Fen 6, Fen 10 with leukoreduction filter (MCS + LRF), (Fen 6 LRF), (Fen 10 LRF), as well as AM-DN, and Spec 5-LRS--were compared for WBC content. P-selectin expression was compared in the MCS+; Fen-10 with A-35 (Fen 10-A35) and PLT-30 (Fen 10-PLT30) collection chambers; Spec 4-DN; and platelet-rich plasma. We found AM-DN (63 +/- 16 min) had a significantly lower average processing time than all other systems except AM-SN. Spectra 4-DN (5.6 +/- 1.7 x 10(11) Plt) produced significantly more platelets and had a significantly higher incidence of products > or = 6.0 x 10(11) (56%) and higher incidence of products > or = 6.6 x 10(11) Plt (32%) than all other systems. AM-DN (0.073 +/- 0.017 x 10(11) Plt/min) had a significantly higher collection rate than all other systems except AM-SN. The WBC content comparison indicated MCS+ with a filter; and AM-DN and Spectra 5-LRS without filters were capable of consistently (99.32-100%) producing products with < 5 x 10(6) WBC, but were less consistent (86.36-99.26%) at < 1 x 10(6) WBC. MCS+ and Fen 10-PLT30 had significantly (p < .05) less p-selectin expression than all other systems but not between each other. From the data in this study, if leukoreduced platelets were needed in the shortest processing time, the first and second choices would be Amicus-DN and Spectra 5-LRS, respectively."}
{"id": "9460300", "title": "Iron stores and coagulation parameters in patients with hypoxemic polycythemia secondary to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: the effect of phlebotomies.", "content": "Iron stores and coagulation parameters in patients with hypoxemic polycythemia secondary to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease: the effect of phlebotomies. This study was designed to determine the effects of phlebotomy on iron body contents and coagulation tests of COPD patients with polycythemia secondary to hypoxemia. Seventeen patients with COPD and hematocrits higher than 54 percent (mean Hct: 57 +/- 0.49 percent), who had not received anti-inflammatory or antiplatelet aggregation agents recently. Their mean forced expiratory volume at 1 second (FEV1) was 0.92 +/- 0.11 L. Blood work was collected to evaluate the following: serum iron and ferritin levels, total iron binding capacity, transferrin saturation index, fibrinogen plasma levels, activated partial thromboplastin time, platelet count, platelet aggregation measurements, and thromboelastography coagulation parameters. The blood samples were obtained before and about 7 days after the hematocrit correction by 300-400 ml phlebotomies done every other day. The mean number of phlebotomies done for each patient was 4.4. Postphlebotomy iron serum levels decreased from 90.1 +/- 14.8 to 59.7 +/- 9.9 mg/dl and the ferritin serum levels from 133.8 +/- 37.9 to 70.8 +/- 32.7 ng/ml (p < 0.05). Regarding the coagulation studies, there were significant increases in the platelet count, from 227,300 +/- 13,900 to 312,500 +/- 30,200 per mm3, and in the maximum clot amplitude (a) obtained by thromboelastography (from 53.6 +/- 1.4 percent to 60.4 +/- 1.1 percent). The coagulation time (k) of the thromboelastography also decreased significantly, from 7.5 +/- 0.7mm prephlebotomy to 4.5 +/- 0.3mm postphlebotomy. Although the coagulation changes were small amount, the observed significant decrease in iron contents may have clinical implications."}
{"id": "9421018", "title": "Perioperative coagulation monitoring.", "content": "Perioperative coagulation monitoring."}
{"id": "9412878", "title": "Platelet concentrate effects on thromboelastography.", "content": "Platelet concentrate effects on thromboelastography. This study evaluated platelet effects on thromboelastography to determine how morphologically abnormal platelets affected native whole blood analysis. Prospective, controlled comparison. Tertiary care university hospital. Volunteer cardiac surgery patients. Fresh platelets were obtained from volunteers and were either treated normally or cryodisrupted with liquid nitrogen. Fresh platelets, liquid nitrogen-treated platelets, or an equivalent quantity of the patient's blood were added to whole blood samples obtained from cardiac surgery patients before heparinization. Thromboelastographic parameters sensitive to platelet effects were measured in each of the three groups. Maximum amplitude and alpha-angle significantly increased in the two groups receiving added platelets. There were no differences between the fresh platelet and the liquid nitrogen-treated platelet groups (Student's paired t-test). The R-time decreased significantly in both platelet-treated groups compared with the group that did not receive additional platelets. Viscoelastic changes in whole blood coagulation after the addition of platelet concentrates are not dependent on morphologically intact or functionally normal platelets. This in vitro study predicts that transfusion of poorly preserved platelet concentrates as well as fresh platelets would increase clot strength on thromboelastography if the recipient's blood were tested immediately after administration."}
{"id": "9412876", "title": "Coagulation tests predict bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Coagulation tests predict bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass. To determine the accuracy of coagulation profile laboratory tests, thromboelastography, and Sonoclot (SCT) values for predicting microvascular bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). A prospective, blinded trial. A large academic medical center. Eighty-two adult patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery. Ten minutes after CPB, thromboelastography, SCT, and coagulation profile tests (bleeding time, prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, fibrinogen, fibrin split products, platelet count, mean platelet volume, and platelet hematocrit) were determined from a whole blood sample taken from an existing arterial catheter. Patients were subjectively defined as \"bleeders\" or \"non-bleeders\" by blinded clinical observers. Preoperative baseline tests were also obtained. Thirty of the 82 patients (36.6%) were characterized as bleeders. Coagulation profile tests had the best correlation with intraoperative and postoperative blood loss. The specificity, sensitivity, and negative and positive predictive values were determined by receiver operating characteristic analysis, and the test values that differentiated normal from abnormal (bleeding) patients were determined. The coagulation profile laboratory tests had the greatest maximal sensitivity and specificity for predicting bleeding. These predictive values were outside the normal range for these laboratory tests. The thromboelastography values that produced maximal sensitivity and specificity were in the normal range for that test. Contrary to previous studies, coagulation profile tests had the greatest sensitivity and specificity to differentiate patients with excessive bleeding (abnormal) from those without excessive bleeding (normal) after CPB. Therefore, these tests should be used to guide transfusion therapy in patients who have excessive bleeding after CPB."}
{"id": "9407676", "title": "Prediction of bleeding diathesis in patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass during cardiac surgery: viscoelastic measures versus routine coagulation test.", "content": "Prediction of bleeding diathesis in patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass during cardiac surgery: viscoelastic measures versus routine coagulation test. Severe hemorrhagic tendency often complicates cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) in cardiac surgery. In this study, we compared the effectiveness of thromboelastography (TEG), Sonoclot (SCT), and routine coagulation test (RCT) in the prediction of coagulation defects. Forty-three patients undergoing cardiac surgery with CPB were included. Blood for RCT, TEG, and SCT profiles was sampled before systemic heparinization and after protamine administration. Clinically significant bleeding was defined as chest tube drainage in excess of 100 ml/h for 3 consecutive hours or 300 ml/h in 1 h. All coagulation parameters obtained before and after CPB were compared. The sensitivity, specificity, accuracy, false positive, and false negative rate were also calculated and compared. All coagulation tests were within normal range except higher partial thromboplastin time. Variables which were significantly different from those before CPB included platelet count, fibrinogen level, prothrombin time, and thrombin time in RCT, alpha angle and maximum amplitude in TEG, and R2 and peak time in SCT. In the TEG tracing, all variables had high sensitivity, specificity, and accuracy (average 85.4%, 83%, and 83.5% respectively) and low false positive and negative rate (12.5% and 5% respectively). Although SCT had high sensitivity (76.3%) and low false negative rate (6.5%), its specificity and accuracy were all under 50%. Our data demonstrated that the TEG monitoring is a useful tool for detecting post-CPB bleeding diathesis and can provide much predictive information. RCT and SCT are of limited value because of higher rate of unreliable results."}
{"id": "9404974", "title": "The use of antifibrinolytic agents results in a reduction in transfused blood products during liver transplantation.", "content": "The use of antifibrinolytic agents results in a reduction in transfused blood products during liver transplantation."}
{"id": "9404972", "title": "Transfusion based on clinical coagulation monitoring does reduce hemorrhage during liver transplantation.", "content": "Transfusion based on clinical coagulation monitoring does reduce hemorrhage during liver transplantation."}
{"id": "9404167", "title": "In vitro evaluation of the effect of profound haemodilution with hydroxyethyl starch 6%, modified fluid gelatin 4% and dextran 40 10% on coagulation profile measured by thromboelastography.", "content": "In vitro evaluation of the effect of profound haemodilution with hydroxyethyl starch 6%, modified fluid gelatin 4% and dextran 40 10% on coagulation profile measured by thromboelastography. Synthetic colloids have been implicated as a cause of coagulopathy when administered in large quantities. The effect of profound haemodilution (50%) on coagulation profile was measured in vitro by thromboelastography. Blood samples were taken from 11 ASA grade 1 patients prior to induction of anaesthesia for elective surgery. Each sample was simultaneously tested in four different preparations: undiluted blood (control sample); blood diluted with hydroxyethyl starch 6%; blood diluted with modified fluid gelatin 4%; blood diluted with dextran 40 10%. There was a significant decrease in reaction time in the preparations treated with hydroxyethyl starch 6% and modified fluid gelatin 4%, reflecting activation of initial fibrin formation. A significant increase in clot formation time was noted in the hydroxyethyl starch 6%-treated preparations. There was also a significant decrease in clot formation rate and maximum amplitude in the hydroxyethyl starch 6% group. Clot formation time, clot formation rate and maximum amplitude did not change in the modified fluid gelatin 4% group. Profound haemodilution with dextran 40 10% exerted extreme effects on the measured variables, very often resulting in a straight line on the thromboelastography profile."}
{"id": "9390579", "title": "Predicting and treating coagulopathies after cardiopulmonary bypass in children.", "content": "Predicting and treating coagulopathies after cardiopulmonary bypass in children. Coagulopathies in children after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) are complex. There are very limited data correlating coagulation tests with postoperative bleeding. We evaluated coagulation changes after CPB and after the administration of coagulation products to 75 children. Baseline coagulation tests were obtained and repeated after protamine administration, after transfusion of individual coagulation products, and on arrival in the intensive care unit (ICU). Regression analysis demonstrated no baseline coagulation test to predict postoperative chest tube drainage. Weight and duration of CPB were determined to be the only predictors of bleeding. Further analyses demonstrated that children <8 kg had more bleeding and required more coagulation products than children >8 kg. Postprotamine platelet count and fibrinogen level correlated independently with 24-h chest tube drainage in children <8 kg, whereas postprotamine platelet count and thrombelastographic values did so in patients weighing >8 kg. Platelet administration alone was found to restore effective hemostasis in many patients. With ongoing bleeding, cryoprecipitate improved coagulation parameters and limited blood loss. Fresh-frozen plasma administration after platelets worsened coagulation parameters and was associated with greater chest tube drainage and more coagulation product transfusions in the ICU. Objective data to guide post-CPB component therapy transfusion in children are suggested. Children <8 kg can be expected to have more severe coagulopathies, require more coagulation product transfusions, and bleed more after cardiopulmonary bypass. Correlations between coagulation tests and postoperative chest tube drainage are defined. Platelets and, if necessary, cryoprecipitate optimally restore hemostasis. Fresh-frozen plasma offers no benefits in correcting postcardiopulmonary bypass coagulopathies in children."}
{"id": "9382230", "title": "[The arteriovenous difference in osmotic and hemostatic indices as a criterion for the early diagnosis of pulmonary complications in severe combined trauma].", "content": "[The arteriovenous difference in osmotic and hemostatic indices as a criterion for the early diagnosis of pulmonary complications in severe combined trauma]. The arteriovenous difference in the values of plasma and its main ingredients' osmolality and hemostasis were examined in patients with grave combined injuries complicated with the adult respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) in the posttraumatic period. The findings showed a changed trend of arteriovenous difference in the osmotic homeostasis parameters in comparison with those during on uneventful course of combined injury: a-v Dosm. in stage IV RDS is (-)22.9 +/- 13.5 mosm/kg H2O versus 3.36 +/- 3.51 mosm/kg H2O in an uncomplicated course (p < 0.001). The arteriovenous difference for plasma COD was 8.1 +/- 3.0 mm Hg and (-)0.5 +/- 0.7 mm Hg in an uncomplicated course (p < 0.001). These changes permit a conclusion about the impaired osmolality regulating function of the lungs in RDS. Analysis of the arteriovenous difference of hemostasis once again confirms the presence of disorders in the hemostasis regulating function of the lungs: the arteriovenous difference of the structural and chronometric values of thromboelastogram is inverted, which indicates an increase of the coagulation potential of arterial blood: the a-v is equal to difference of blood clotting time 48 h after the injury and is (-)0.1 +/- 0.04 min, in contrast to the uneventful course: 2.5 +/- 0.27 min (p < 0.01): the a-v equal to the coagulation index difference was 2.26 +/- 0.49 arb. U, in contrast to (-)2.0 +/- 0.13 arb. U in an uncomplicated course of heating. Disorders in the other than respiratory functions of the lungs develop 11 h earlier than clear-cut x-ray signs of RDS appear, which gives us grounds to consider these changes as the earliest diagnostic criterion of RDS."}
{"id": "9365861", "title": "Fingerstick blood samples in platelet donor screening: reliability and impact on predict yield programs.", "content": "Fingerstick blood samples in platelet donor screening: reliability and impact on predict yield programs. Although widely used, the reliability of fingerstick platelet counts for determining donor eligibility and for use with plateletpheresis predict yield programs has not been established. We compared platelet counts obtained from fingerstick vs. venous samples in several aspects of apheresis platelet collection. Analysis of 25 paired fingerstick and venous predonation samples demonstrated a poor correlation between platelet counts (r2 = .43), with fingerstick counts having a 20% lower mean value (P < .05). The effect of using fingerstick vs. venous predonation platelet counts with apheresis instrument predict yield calculations to obtain target yields was determined. Mean yields collected using fingerstick/predict yield were 12% (Fenwal CS3000 PLUS) and 15% (Haemonetics MCS+) higher than venous/predict yield units (P < .05). The coefficients of variation (CV) of fingerstick/predict yield and venous/predict yield collections were comparable (15% vs. 14% [CS3000] and 23% vs. 21% [MCS+], respectively), indicating that possible differences in accuracy between fingerstick and venous platelet counts had little effect on the variability of predict yield collections. A retrospective analysis of the CV of 100 fingerstick/predict yield units vs. 100 units collected by processing standard volumes showed no difference: 22% vs. 20% (F = 0.99, CS3000), and 22% vs. 24% (F = 0.89, MCS+), respectively. We conclude that fingerstick platelet counts are systematically lower and correlate poorly with venous counts, though their use seldom results in false disqualification of donors. We also conclude that fingerstick count/predict yield collections do not produce more consistent yields of platelets than standard volume collections."}
{"id": "9358079", "title": "Monitoring platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa-fibrin interaction with tissue factor-activated thromboelastography.", "content": "Monitoring platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa-fibrin interaction with tissue factor-activated thromboelastography. Computerized thromboelastography (TEG) was used to study platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa function, characterize the consequences of the interaction between polymerizing fibrin and activated platelets, and establish a quantitative assay of platelet function. The ability of platelets to augment the shear elastic modulus of blood clots was measured by TEG under conditions of maximal platelet activation during ex vivo clot formation accelerated by recombinant human tissue factor (TF). Under these conditions, platelets significantly enhance clot strength eightfold (relative to platelet-free fibrin clots). This effect, inhibited by cytochalasin D and c7E3 Fab, appears to be dependent on the transmission of platelet contractile force to fibrin, through glycoprotein IIb/IIIa receptors. The c7E3 Fab dose response of TF-TEG clot strength is identical to results with platelet aggregation induced by the thrombin receptor agonist peptide (50% inhibitory concentration (IC50 = 3.6 microg/ml); adenosine diphosphate-induced aggregation is easier to inhibit (IC50 = 1.2 microg/ml). The results obtained with this system are reproducible (coefficient of variation for clot strength 4%; intraclass correlation coefficient 0.96). As a clinical assay, TF-triggered computerized TEG is easy to perform at the bedside, provides on-line results within 30 minutes, and may offer advantages over conventional measures of platelet function."}
{"id": "9356085", "title": "Tranexamic acid is effective in decreasing postoperative bleeding and transfusions in primary coronary artery bypass operations: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial.", "content": "Tranexamic acid is effective in decreasing postoperative bleeding and transfusions in primary coronary artery bypass operations: a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial. We evaluated the effects of tranexamic acid (TA) administered before and after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) in a prospective, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind study of adult patients undergoing primary coronary artery bypass grafting surgery. Patients received placebo (n = 30) or TA 15 mg/kg before CPB, followed by a TA infusion of 1 mg x kg(-1) x h(-1) for 5 h (n = 30) or TA 15 mg/kg after CPB, followed by a TA infusion of 1 mg x kg(-1) x h(-1) for 5 h (n = 30). Demographic, medical, surgical, laboratory, mediastinal chest tube drainage (MCTD), hemoglobin loss, transfusion, and outcome data were collected. Allogenic blood product administration was tightly controlled. The demographic, medical, and surgical characteristics were similar in all three groups. The median postoperative MCTD and hemoglobin loss in the pre-CPB TA group (710 mL, 8.6 g) was significantly less (P < 0.001) compared with the control (1202 mL, 44.2 g) and post-CPB TA groups (1020 mL, 23.4 g). The percentage of patients who received no allogenic blood products was 27% for the pre-CPB TA group and 33% for the post-CPB TA group (not significant). These percentages were significantly lower than those in the placebo group (66%, P < 0.001). The median number of allogenic blood products administered to the pre-CPB TA group (0 units) was significantly less compared with the control group (4.5 units). The thromboelastogram and fibrinogen split product levels in the pre-CPB TA group indicated better platelet function and less activation of the fibrinolytic system compared with the other two groups (P < 0.05). There were no intergroup differences in reoperation, myocardial infarction, stroke, infections, or death. These data support the use of pre-CPB TA to decrease patient exposure to postcardiopulmonary bypass allogenic blood products. In this randomized, placebo-controlled trial, we investigated the efficacy of tranexamic acid to decrease bleeding and blood transfusions after open-heart operations. Tranexamic acid administered before and during the operation was effective in decreasing both bleeding and transfusions. When tranexamic acid was administered immediately after the operation, it had a minor beneficial effect."}
{"id": "9336445", "title": "Triplex formation at physiological pH: comparative studies on DNA triplexes containing 5-Me-dC tethered at N4 with spermine and tetraethyleneoxyamine.", "content": "Triplex formation at physiological pH: comparative studies on DNA triplexes containing 5-Me-dC tethered at N4 with spermine and tetraethyleneoxyamine. Oligodeoxynucleotides with spermine conjugation at C4 of 5-Me-dC ( sp -ODN) exhibit triple helix formation with complementary Watson-Crick duplexes, and were optimally stable at physiological pH 7.3 and low salt concentration. This was attributed to a favored reassociation of the polycationic third strand with the anionic DNA duplex. To gain further insights into the factors that contribute to the enhancement of triplex stability and for engineering improved triplex systems, the spermine appendage at C4 of 5-Me-dC was replaced with 1,11-diamino-3,6,9-trioxaundecane to create teg -ODNs. From the triple helix forming abilities of these modified ODNs studied by hysteresis behaviour and the effect of salts on triplex stability, it is demonstrated here that teg- ODNs stabilise triplexes through hydrophobic desolvation while sp -ODNs stabilise triplexes by charge effects. The results imply that factors in addition to base stacking effects and interstrand hydrogen bonds are significantly involved in modulation of triplex stability by base modified oligonucleotides."}
{"id": "9328250", "title": "Haemostatic changes during surgery for primary brain tumours.", "content": "Haemostatic changes during surgery for primary brain tumours. Primary brain tumours may be associated with coagulation disorders which can pose intraoperative and postoperative management difficulties. The aim was to evaluate the coagulation profile of patients with brain tumours undergoing surgery using thromboelastography (TEG) in combination with simple laboratory tests. Fifty adult patients with primary brain tumours larger than 4 cm in maximum diameter and no history of coagulation disorders were studied in a prospective, observational manner over a one year period. Preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative measurements included haemoglobin concentration, platelet count, prothrombin and partial thromboplastin times, fibrin(ogen) degradation product concentration, D-dimer concentration, and TEG. Eleven patients (22%) had abnormal intraoperative TEGs, of whom six (12%) subsequently developed haematomas requiring surgical evacuation. The coagulopathy seemed to be hyperfibrinolysis in two cases (4%) and disseminated intravascular coagulation in four (8%). There was no preoperative difference in reaction time (R time) for clot formation between the non-haematoma and haematoma groups(mean 11.44 (SD 3.42) v 12.33 (2.50) min, P=0.46). However, when other preoperative indices were compared, in the non-haematoma group, K time (time to reach a clot amplitude of 20 mm) was shorter (6.72 (2.15) v 10.56 (3.50) min, P=0.001), rate of clot growth (\u00e5) was faster (43.67 degrees (7.53) v 27.11 degrees (5.42), P<0.0001) and maximum amplitude of clot strength (MA) was greater (52.64 (7.85) v 40.33 (6.59) mm, P<0.001). Intraoperatively, R time was significantly shortened in the non-haematoma group, (7.67 (1.78) min, P<0.0001) unlike the haematoma group (10.67 (1.58) minutes, P=0.11). Although these results indicate a general hypercoagulability during brain tumour surgery, in certain cases, a predisposition towards hypocoagulability may exist even before surgery, detectable only when the physical characteristics of clot formation are studied by TEG. Judicious replacement of clotting factors, platelets, and antifibrinolytic agents should be considered intraoperatively if the TEG is abnormal, without waiting for laboratory test results."}
{"id": "9327128", "title": "Formation of microscale gradients of protein using heterobifunctional photolinkers.", "content": "Formation of microscale gradients of protein using heterobifunctional photolinkers. Gradients of biological molecules on a microscale have been postulated to elicit cellular responses, such as migration. However, it has been difficult to prepare such gradients for experimental testing. A means for producing such gradients has been developed using a heterobifunctional photolinking agent with laser light activation. The photolinking agent synthesized includes an N-hydroxysuccinimide group and a photoreactive benzophenone (BP) separated by a tetraethylene glycol (TEG) spacer. The presence of the tetraethylene glycol spacer renders the photolinker hydrophilic, a desirable trait for conjugation in aqueous solutions. The linker was then conjugated to R-phycoerythrin (R-PE), a fluorescent protein. The resulting photolinker-R-phycoerythrin conjugate (BP-TEG-PE) was then immobilized onto a polystyrene surface by laser irradiation on a motorized stage. By varying exposure time of the sample to the beam, the amount of BP-TEG-PE immobilized on the surface was changed over an order of magnitude over a distance of 250 microns. This method can be applied to prepare gradients of proteins that elicit biological responses, such as extracellular matrix proteins or growth factors, and to study the biological effects of such gradients."}
{"id": "9322464", "title": "The ability of the Haemonetics 4 Cell Saver System to remove tissue factor from blood contaminated with amniotic fluid.", "content": "The ability of the Haemonetics 4 Cell Saver System to remove tissue factor from blood contaminated with amniotic fluid. The purpose of this study was to determine whether functionally active tissue factor could be removed from blood contaminated with amniotic fluid (AF) after processing through a Haemonetics 4 Cell Saver System (Haemonetics Corporation, Braintree, MA). In Phase I, AF was collected from 29 women undergoing cesarean section. Nine experiments were performed. Forty-milliliter aliquots of pooled AF were mixed with 125 mL of packed red blood cells and processed in the Cell Saver. In Phase II, all the blood and AF lost at cesarean section was collected and processed through the Cell Saver. Pre- and postwash specimens were collected and analyzed for total tissue factor concentration and the concentration of functionally active tissue factor. In Phase I, total tissue factor concentration was reduced by 89%, and the concentration of active tissue factor was reduced to 0 after processing. In Phase II, no tissue factor was detected after processing through the Cell Saver. We have demonstrated the ability of the Haemonetics 4 Cell Saver System to remove tissue factor activity from blood contaminated with AF. Hemorrhage after childbirth may require massive transfusion. If the patient's own blood can be collected and given back to the patient, this may avoid the use of regular banked blood. Amniotic fluid, which may mix with blood lost after delivery, contains tissue factor, a substance that may activate the coagulation system and cause further bleeding. The authors found that the Haemonetics 4 Cell Saver System (Haemonetics Corporation, Braintree, MA), which collects and washes blood, can remove tissue factor from blood contaminated with amniotic fluid."}
{"id": "9305557", "title": "Perioperative thromboelastography and sonoclot analysis in morbidly obese patients.", "content": "Perioperative thromboelastography and sonoclot analysis in morbidly obese patients. To investigate perioperative coagulation in morbidly obese (MO) patients with the thromboelastograph (TEG) and Sonoclot analyzer. Twenty-six consecutive morbidly obese and 26 consecutive lean patients presenting for elective surgery were enrolled in this prospective, observational study. Blood was sampled for TEG and Sonoclot analysis immediately after anaesthetic induction and at the end of surgery in the MO group, and immediately after anaesthetic induction in the lean group. The R and K times, alpha angle, maximum amplitude and percentage fibrinolysis at 30 and 60 min were recorded from the TEG. The Sonoclot ACT, initial clot rate, peak amplitude and time to peak amplitude were recorded from the Sonoclot. The TEG in the MO group demonstrated decreased R and K times (8.6 +/- 4.8 vs 11.7 +/- 3.9 mm, and 2.8 +/- 1.2 vs 3.5 +/- 0.9 mm respectively (P < 0.05)), and increased alpha angle (73.7 +/- 6.0 vs 66.7 +/- 6.0 degrees, P < 0.05) and maximum amplitude (72.0 +/- 5.4 vs 67.9 +/- 4.4 mm, P < 0.05), without change in fibrinolysis. Sonoclot variables in the MO group included increased clot rate (37.5 +/- 11.5 vs 23.9 +/- 7.7%, P < 0.05) and decreased time to peak impedance (11.7 +/- 5.0 vs 17.5 +/- 7.2 min, P < 0.05), without change in Sonoclot ACT or peak signature impedance. The MO group demonstrated accelerated fibrin formation, fibrinogen-platelet interaction, and platelet function compared with lean controls but no difference in fibrinolysis. Viscoelastic measures of coagulation may be useful in MO patients, who are at increased risk of thromboembolic events."}
{"id": "9288373", "title": "Effect of low concentrations of prostacyclin on platelet function in vitro.", "content": "Effect of low concentrations of prostacyclin on platelet function in vitro. The study was performed to determine the possible direct effects of low concentrations of prostacyclin that might spill over into the systemic circulation during the administration of inhaled aerosolized prostacyclin. Platelet aggregation in response to adenosine diphosphate and collagen, as well as measurement of the maximum amplitude of the thrombelastograph (TEG), was undertaken in vitro using venous blood exposed to low concentrations of prostacyclin (0, 10, 100 and 500 pg/ml) from eight healthy volunteers. There were statistically significant reductions in parameters of platelet aggregation in response to the agonists adenosine diphosphate (1 mumol/l and 8 mumol/l) and collagen (10 mumol/l) following exposure to as little as 10 pg/ml of prostacyclin. The maximum amplitude of the TEG was unchanged over the entire range of prostacyclin concentrations studied. The results indicate that low concentrations of prostacyclin or prostacyclin metabolite such as may be observed during inhaled aerosolized prostacyclin therapy are likely to be associated with a marked platelet aggregation defect. This defect was not detected by the TEG."}
{"id": "9280322", "title": "Automated blood component collection with the MCS 3p cell separator: evaluation of three protocols for buffy coat-poor and white cell-reduced packed red cells and plasma.", "content": "Automated blood component collection with the MCS 3p cell separator: evaluation of three protocols for buffy coat-poor and white cell-reduced packed red cells and plasma. Automated collection of blood components with a cell separator (MCS 3p, Haemonetics), was performed according to three protocols. The first protocol provided 2 units of fresh-frozen plasma (FFP); and one buffy coat-poor red cell (RBC) concentrate in additive solution. The second protocol included an additional in-line filtration of the RBC in a closed system after storage at 4 degrees C for 24 hours. In the third protocol, an additional platelet concentrate (PC) was recovered from the buffy coat. Cell counts and biochemical characterization of the RBCs (n = 20 each) were determined on Days 0, 1, 14, 28, and 49. The RBC volume was 336 +/- 9 mL (first protocol), 337 +/- 7 mL (second protocol) and 293 +/- 12 mL (third protocol) with a hematocrit of 59 +/- 2, 53 +/- 3, and 61 +/- 5, percent respectively. On Day 49, hemolysis was 0.24 +/- 0.1 percent (first protocol), 0.33 +/- 0.32 percent (second protocol), and 0.38 +/- 0.1 percent (third protocol). The filtered RBC concentrate met the international standards for white cell-reduced RBCs. Filtration resulted in a clinically irrelevant increase of hemolysis. The in vitro RBC values (lactate dehydrogenase, 2-hydroxybutyrate dehydrogenase, hemolysis, potassium, 2,3 DPG, ATP) were at least equal to those in RBCs collected by conventional whole-blood donation. There is a trend toward extended preservation of 2,3 DPG in RBCs collected by apheresis. Two units of FFP could be collected with each donation (first protocol: 420 +/- 55 mL, 5.4 +/- 7 WBCs/microL, 6.5 +/- 5 x 10(3) platelets/microL; second protocol: 440 +/- 33 mL, 3 +/- 5.2 WBCs/microL, 32 +/- 12 x 10(3) platelets/microL; third protocol: 398 +/- 32 mL, 5 +/- 12 WBCs/microL; 3.4 +/- 3.5 x 10(3) platelets/microL). PCs prepared from the buffy coat collected by the third protocol contained 90 +/- 30 x 10(9) platelets in 88 +/- 14 mL of plasma. In vitro test results in these PCs were superior to those in PCs collected by conventional whole-blood donation. The procedure was well tolerated by all donors. No adverse reactions appeared. Erythroplasmapheresis with the MCS 3p cell separator is a useful alternative to conventional whole-blood donation and separation."}
{"id": "9278828", "title": "Perioperative hypercoagulability in uremic patients: a viscoelastic study.", "content": "Perioperative hypercoagulability in uremic patients: a viscoelastic study. To examine whole blood coagulation in uremic patients presenting for surgery with the thromboelastogram and the Sonoclot analyzer. Prospective, observational study. Operating rooms of a university-affiliated hospital. 30 ASA physical status II and III patients with chronic renal failure, and 30 age-matched and gender-matched patients with normal renal function, presenting for elective surgery. Blood sampling for thromboelastograph and Sonoclot analysis immediately after anesthetic induction, prior to surgical incision. Thromboelastographic indices of coagulation, reflecting coagulation factor function (R time), fibrinogen-platelet interaction (K time and alpha angle), and qualitative platelet function (maximum amplitude) were hypercoagulable in the uremic group compared with the control group (p < 0.05). Fibrinolysis (%) was decreased in the uremic group (p < 0.05). Fibrin formation (initial slope) and platelet function (time to peak) of the Sonoclot trace also were hypercoagulable in the uremic group (p < 0.05). The high incidence of arteriovenous graft and fistulae thromboses in uremic patients belies in vitro laboratory evidence of platelet dysfunction. We have demonstrated perioperative hypercoagulability in uremic patients with viscoelastic measures of whole blood coagulation. These data suggest that traditional concern for coagulopathy and platelet dysfunction in uremic patients may require re-assessment in light of this \"pro-thrombotic\" state."}
{"id": "9268178", "title": "A comparison of thromboelastography with heparinase or protamine sulfate added in vitro during heparinized cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "A comparison of thromboelastography with heparinase or protamine sulfate added in vitro during heparinized cardiopulmonary bypass. Thromboelastography (TEG) has been used after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) to diagnose excessive postoperative hemorrhage. Conventional TEG during CPB is not possible due to the sensitivity of the TEG to even small amounts of heparin, which produces a nondiagnostic tracing. The purpose of this study was to compare heparin neutralization using heparinase or protamine in TEG blood samples obtained during CPB. TEG testing was performed on 48 patients before, during and after CPB. Tissue plasminogen activator activity and antigen were measured on a subset of 32 patients. We found: 1) heparinase neutralized at least 10 IU/ml heparin while 1.6 ug/ml protamine neutralized up to 7 IU/ml heparin, 2) in samples with complete heparin neutralization by both methods, there was no significant difference in the R values, 3) while there was good correlation for other TEG parameters between heparinase and protamine treated samples, heparinase treatment produced shorter K values and higher angle, MA and A60, 4) while fibrinolysis was detected using both methods, heparinase treatment suppressed fibrinolysis in the TEG in both samples from patients and after in vitro addition of tissue plasminogen activator, 5) TEG was not a sensitive indicator of t-PA activity, detecting only 21% of samples with increased t-PA activity during bypass, and 5) heparinase was at least 100 times more expensive than protamine. We conclude that while both heparinase and protamine can be used to neutralize heparin in TEG samples obtained during CPB, protamine neutralization is more sensitive to fibrinolysis and less expensive, but the protamine dose must be carefully selected to match the heparin level used at individual institutions."}
{"id": "9263112", "title": "Prospective, concurrent comparison of the Cobe Spectra and Haemonetics MCS-3P cell separators for leukapheresis after high-dose filgrastim in patients with hematologic malignancies.", "content": "Prospective, concurrent comparison of the Cobe Spectra and Haemonetics MCS-3P cell separators for leukapheresis after high-dose filgrastim in patients with hematologic malignancies. A prospective study was undertaken to compare the mononuclear cell, CD34+ cell, and CFU-GM yields of the Haemonetics MCS-3P and the Cobe Spectra cell separators in ten patients (nine multiple myeloma and one non-Hodgkin lymphoma) on two consecutive days after mobilization with high-dose filgrastim (12-16 micrograms/k) for 4 days. All patients were harvested once on each machine, five starting on each machine. The target duration of the procedure on the Spectra was 160 minutes, and the target blood volume processed on the MCS-3P was 60-70 ml/kg body weight. Both machines were operating on the 1995 software versions supplied by the respective manufacturers. The time taken for the procedure was significantly longer with the Haemonetics machine. The volumes of blood processed and the product collected were significantly higher with the Spectra, as were the absolute mononuclear and CD34+ cell yields, and yields per unit time. Mononuclear and CD34+ cell yields per unit volume of blood processed were comparable for both machines. The differences in CFU-GM yields were not significant, largely because of wide interpatient variations. The extent of platelet depletion as a result of the procedure was greater with the Spectra because of the higher blood volume being processed. We conclude that the Cobe Spectra is a significantly faster machine than the Haemonetics MCS-3P; and consequently, its use is associated with higher mononuclear and CD34+ cell yields."}
{"id": "9249100", "title": "Continuous small-dose tranexamic acid reduces fibrinolysis but not transfusion requirements during orthotopic liver transplantation.", "content": "Continuous small-dose tranexamic acid reduces fibrinolysis but not transfusion requirements during orthotopic liver transplantation. Tranexamic acid (TA) is a synthetic drug that inhibits fibrinolysis. It has been administered to decrease the use of blood products during cardiac surgery and orthotopic liver transplantation when infused in larger doses. A small-dose infusion of aprotinin causes a reduction in fibrinolysis and blood product requirement during orthotopic liver transplantation without apparent risk of intravascular thrombosis. This prospective study was designed to investigate whether a small-dose infusion of TA would be equally effective in reducing fibrinolysis and blood product transfusions during orthotopic liver transplantation. A double-blind, controlled study was undertaken to compare the efficacy of a small-dose TA infusion with that of a placebo. Thirty-two consecutive patients were randomized either to the TA group (n = 16), which received an intravenous infusion of 2 mg x kg(-1) x h(-1), or to the control group (n = 16), which received an identical volume of normal saline. Coagulation values were measured, a field rating was made by the surgeon, and a thromboelastogram was produced at four predetermined intervals throughout the case-before TA infusion was started, after portal vein ligation, 10 min after reperfusion, and at the end of surgery. Intraoperative transfusion requirements were recorded during the procedure and for the first 24 h postoperatively. A record was kept of any intraoperative epsilon-aminocaproic acid administered for uncontrolled fibrinolysis. The thromboelastogram clot lysis index was significant for lysis in the control group during both the anhepatic and the neohepatic phases (P < 0.01 and P < 0.05, respectively) when compared with the TA group. Fibrin degradation products were significantly increased (>20 microg/mL) in the control group at reperfusion (P < 0.03) and at the end of surgery (P < 0.01). D-dimers were also significantly increased (>1 mg/L) in the control group at the end of surgery (P < 0.04). Nine of the 16 control patients versus 3 of the 16 TA patients required epsilon-aminocaproic acid rescue for fibrinolysis. There were no other significant differences between groups. Transfusion requirements during surgery and for the first 24 h postoperatively did not differ significantly between the two groups. We conclude that the use of small-dose TA reduces fibrinolysis but not transfusion requirements during orthotopic liver transplantation."}
{"id": "9249097", "title": "Does the platelet-activated clotting test (HemoSTATUS) predict blood loss and platelet dysfunction associated with cardiopulmonary bypass?", "content": "Does the platelet-activated clotting test (HemoSTATUS) predict blood loss and platelet dysfunction associated with cardiopulmonary bypass? Platelet dysfunction is a major cause of bleeding after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). No timely, simple, point-of-care determinant of platelet function is available for clinical use. Adding platelet-activating factor to conventional activated clotting time methods (platelet-activated clotting test [PACT]) (HemoSTATUS; Medtronic, Inc., Parker, CO) produces rapid results (<3 min) and may yield a measure of platelet responsiveness and whole blood procoagulant activity. Blood samples were drawn for PACT, platelet count, prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, and thromboelastogram (TEG) from 200 patients undergoing cardiac surgery. The PACT significantly decreased from the baseline to postprotamine time interval (P < 0.001). The PACT correlated with 4-h mediastinal blood loss (r = -0.30, P = 0.014). The TEG maximum amplitude also correlated with 4-h mediastinal blood loss (r = -0.32, P = 0.003). The PACT had a sensitivity and specificity comparable to routine laboratory coagulation tests in predicting blood loss. The TEG maximum amplitude, however, was more predictive than both the PACT and routine coagulation tests in this respect. The PACT may be a useful indicator of platelet responsiveness or whole blood procoagulant activity, but we did not find it superior to other tests of coagulation function for predicting excessive blood loss after CPB."}
{"id": "9215020", "title": "Effect of progressive haemodilution with hydroxyethyl starch, gelatin and albumin on blood coagulation.", "content": "Effect of progressive haemodilution with hydroxyethyl starch, gelatin and albumin on blood coagulation. We have compared the effects of progressive (30% and 60%) in vitro haemodilution with hydroxyethyl starch (HES), gelatin (GEL) and albumin (ALB) with haemodilution using 0.9% saline in 96 patients by thrombelastography. Haemodilution with HES, GEL and ALB significantly (P < 0.05) compromised coagulation time (k), angle alpha and maximal amplitude (MA), with HES having the most negative effect at 30% and 60% haemodilution (P < 0.05). Haemodilution with saline significantly affected all variables of blood coagulation and clot lysis measured by thrombelastography, resulting in an increased coagulability at 30% haemodilution. To specifically assess the intrinsic effect of plasma expander molecules on blood coagulation and clot lysis, we analysed the difference between saline diluted blood (same degree of haemodilution) and plasma expander diluted blood. Prolongation of reaction time (r) was found for HES at 30% and 60% haemodilution and for ALB at 60% haemodilution and an increase in clot lysis by HES, GEL and ALB became evident. We conclude that HES, GEL and ALB compromised blood coagulation, while the maximum effect was found with HES."}
{"id": "9212129", "title": "Thromboelastographic changes in healthy parturients and postpartum women.", "content": "Thromboelastographic changes in healthy parturients and postpartum women. Thromboelastography (TEG) using disposable plastic cups and pins was performed with native whole blood (native group) in 17 nonpregnant volunteers, 134 healthy term pregnant women (>36 wk gestation), and 69 postpartum women. Thromboelastography was also performed with celite-activated whole blood (celite group) in 15 nonpregnant female volunteers, 38 healthy term pregnant women, and 34 postpartum women. The thromboelastographic parameters r and K were significantly decreased in pregnant and postpartum women compared with nonpregnant women in both groups (P < 0.05). The maximum amplitude MA, elastic shear modulus, and alpha angles were significantly increased in pregnant and postpartum women compared with nonpregnant women in both groups (P < 0.05). The TEG coagulation index was significantly greater in pregnant and postpartum women compared with nonpregnant women in both groups. In this study, TEG showed that pregnancy is a hypercoagulable state and that postpartum women remain hypercoagulable through the first 24 h postdelivery. The use of celite in TEG accelerated the speed of TEG analysis."}
{"id": "9212127", "title": "The effect of anesthetic techniques on blood coagulability in parturients as measured by thromboelastography.", "content": "The effect of anesthetic techniques on blood coagulability in parturients as measured by thromboelastography. Anesthetic techniques may affect blood coagulability and the subsequent incidence of thromboembolic events. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of spinal and general anesthesia on blood coagulability in normal pregnant women undergoing cesarean section, using thromboelastography. In the spinal anesthesia group (n = 15), thromboelastography was performed after crystalloid preloading and during the immediate postanesthesia course. In the general anesthesia group (n = 15), thromboelastography was performed before induction and during the immediate postanesthesia course. Values for all thromboelastographic variables (reaction time [r], clot formation time [K], coagulation time [rK], maximum amplitude [MA], elastic shear modulus [G], clot formation rate [alpha angle], and coagulation index [CI]) in the preanesthesia period were similar in both the spinal and general anesthesia groups. However, in the postanesthesia period, r and K significantly decreased (P < 0.05), and alpha angle (P < 0.05) and CI significantly increased (P < 0.01) in the general anesthesia group when compared with the spinal anesthesia group. In the postanesthesia period, MA and G were similar in both groups. In the spinal anesthesia group, thromboelastographic variables did not change significantly in the postanesthesia compared with the preanesthesia period. We conclude that the use of general anesthesia for cesarean section is associated with accelerated coagulability when compared with spinal anesthesia."}
{"id": "9207422", "title": "Pilot study of HLA alloimmunization after transfusion with pre-storage leucodepleted blood products in aplastic anaemia.", "content": "Pilot study of HLA alloimmunization after transfusion with pre-storage leucodepleted blood products in aplastic anaemia. We have performed a pilot study to examine the incidence of alloimmunization using pre-storage leucocyte-depleted blood products (PLDP) in 16 previously transfused aplastic anaemia (AA) patients with no detectable HLA antibodies. A further eight AA patients with HLA antibodies received HLA-matched PLDP. Leucodepleted apheresed platelets were obtained using either Cobe spectra or Haemonetics system with an integral pall filter. Pall BPF4 filters were used for red cell preparation. Patients' sera were tested for HLA antibodies using lymphocytotoxicity (LCT). Patients who were HLA antibody negative by LCT at study entry were further tested with enzyme-linked immunoassay (ELISA). Out of 16 patients, two (12%) formed anti-HLA antibodies with a median follow-up of 9 months (range 1-15), but did not display platelet refractoriness to random donor platelets. Two patients were inadvertently transfused with non-leucodepleted blood products when later referred back to their local hospital. Both subsequently demonstrated HLA antibodies by LCT and became platelet refractory. These results contrast with a 50% incidence of HLA alloimmunization in a control group of AA patients transfused prior to this study with non-PLDP. HLA antibodies could no longer be detected by LCT in follow-up of three out of eight patients with HLA antibodies at study entry. Only one patient experienced non-haemolytic febrile transfusion reactions (NHFTR). We conclude that PLDP reduce the risk of alloimmunization even in previously transfused AA patients, PLDP are associated with a low incidence of NHFTR, and all new AA patients should receive PLDP from diagnosis."}
{"id": "9201158", "title": "Intraoperative autologous transfusion during elective infrarenal aortic reconstruction: a decision analysis model.", "content": "Intraoperative autologous transfusion during elective infrarenal aortic reconstruction: a decision analysis model. The use of intraoperative autologous transfusion devices expanded during the last decade as a result of the increased awareness of transfusion-associated complications. This study was designed to determine whether routine use of an intraoperative autologous transfusion device (Haemonetics Cell Saver [CS]) during elective infrarenal aortic reconstructions is cost-effective ($50,000/QALYs threshold). A decision analysis tree was constructed to model all of the complications that are associated with red blood cell replacement during aortic reconstructions for both abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) and aortoiliac occlusive disease (AIOD). It was assumed that a unit of CS return (CSR; 250 ml/unit) equaled a unit of packed red blood cells (PRBCs) and that all CS transfusions were necessary. Transfusion requirements (AAA:PRBC = 2.8 +/- 3.2 units, CSB = 3.7 +/- 3.2 units; AIOD:PRBC = 3.1 +/- 3.0 units, CSR = 2.1 +/- 1.7 units) were determined from retrospective review of all elective aortic reconstructions (AAA, N = 63; AIOD, N = 75) from Jan. 1991 to June 1995 in which the CS was used (82.1% of all reconstructions). Risk of allogenic transfusion-related complications (transfusion reaction, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, human immunodeficiency virus, human T-cell lymphotropic virus types I and II) and their associated treatment costs (expressed in dollars and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were obtained from the medical literature, institutional audit, and a consensus of physicians. Routine use of the CS during elective infrarenal aortic reconstructions was not cost-effective in our practice. Use during reconstructions for AAA repairs cost $263.75 but added only 0.00218 QALYs, for a rate of $120,794/QALY. Use during reconstructions for AIOD was even more costly at $356.68 and provided even less benefit at 0.00062 QALYs, for a rate of $578,275/QALY. The sensitivity analyses determined that the routine use of the CS would be cost-effective in our practice only for AAA repairs if the incidence of hepatitis C were tenfold greater than the baseline assumption. The model determined that CS was cost-effective if the CSR exceed 5 units during reconstructions for AAA and 6 units during reconstructions for AIOD. The routine use of the CS during elective infrarenal aortic reconstructions is not cost-effective. The use of the device should be reserved for a select group of aortic reconstructions, including those in which cost-effective salvage volumes are anticipated. Alternatively, the CS should be used as a reservoir and activated as a salvage device if significant bleeding is encountered."}
{"id": "9193279", "title": "Cardiopulmonary bypass using lomoparan: monitoring of anticoagulation using anti-Xa levels and thromboelastography.", "content": "Cardiopulmonary bypass using lomoparan: monitoring of anticoagulation using anti-Xa levels and thromboelastography."}
{"id": "9191824", "title": "The COBE Spectra cell separator is more effective than the Haemonetics MCS-3P cell separator for peripheral blood progenitor cell harvest after mobilization with cyclophosphamide and filgrastim.", "content": "The COBE Spectra cell separator is more effective than the Haemonetics MCS-3P cell separator for peripheral blood progenitor cell harvest after mobilization with cyclophosphamide and filgrastim. Peripheral blood is rapidly replacing bone marrow as a source of hematopoietic progenitor cells for autologous transplantation. The advantages of peripheral blood progenitor cell transplantation are enhanced by the ability to collect sufficient progenitor cells to ensure rapid neutrophil and platelet recovery in a single procedure on some cell separators. A prospective randomized study was undertaken to compare peripheral blood progenitor cell yields from two cell separators (MCS-3P, Haemonetics and Spectra, COBE). Fifteen consecutive patients were mobilized with cyclophosphamide 2 g per m2 (Day 0) and filgrastim 10 micrograms per kg (Days 1-11). Consecutive collections (Day 10, Day 11) were performed with each machine once: patients were randomly assigned to either machine for the initial collection. Collection time was longer on the MCS-3P (p = 0.001), and the volume processed was greater with the Spectra (p < 0.0001). Despite similar nucleated cell yield (p = 0.62), the yield of CD34+ cells (p = 0.001) and colony-forming units-granulocytic-monocytic (p = 0.0001) was significantly higher with the Spectra. The yield of nucleated cells per unit of blood volume processed was higher for the MCS-3P (p = 0.0007), while the CD34+ cell yield (p = 1) and colony-forming units-granulocytic-monocytic yield (p = 1) per unit of blood volume processed were similar for the two machines. The collection of CD34+ cells at levels > 2 x 10(6) per kg (p = 0.063), 5 x 10(6) per kg (p = 0.031), and colony-forming units-granulocytic-monocytic > 1 x 10(5) per kg (p = 0.25) after a single collection was superior for the Spectra. The yield of progenitor cells after collection on the Spectra was superior to that achieved with the MCS-3P, because of the larger volume of blood processed per procedure. This would permit more patients to undergo only one collection."}
{"id": "9173831", "title": "[Variants of the use of hemosorption in patients with acute clofelin poisoning].", "content": "[Variants of the use of hemosorption in patients with acute clofelin poisoning]. Indications to hemadsorption in patients with grave poisonings with clofelin have been defined. Two variants of hemadsorption for such patients have been developed and tried: hemadsorption in parallel with transesophageal electrocardiostimulation and that with blood stabilization with sodium citrate in the extracorporeal contour. Hemadsorption brought about a good clinical effect, normalized hemo- and cardiodynamics, removed depression of the sinus node function and the conduction tract of the heart. Sodium citrate stabilization of the blood did not exert a negative impact on the cardiovascular function and decreased the incidence of hemorrhagic complications."}
{"id": "9172035", "title": "Management of a postpartum coagulopathy using thrombelastography.", "content": "Management of a postpartum coagulopathy using thrombelastography. Thrombelastography (TEG), which evaluates the elastic properties of whole blood and provides a global assessment of hemostatic function, is useful in managing peripartum coagulopathy. A case of severe bleeding after vaginal delivery, in which TEG was used successfully to manage hemostatic defects, is presented."}
{"id": "9160366", "title": "Coagulopathic-induced membrane dysfunction during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation: a case report.", "content": "Coagulopathic-induced membrane dysfunction during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation: a case report. This paper describes an unusual complication of membrane dysfunction during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) for treatment of neonatal respiratory distress. A 2.8-kg term infant presented to our facility in severe respiratory distress and was diagnosed with primary pulmonary hypertension. After routine priming of the extracorporeal circuit, the patient was placed on veno-arterial ECMO with 8 F arterial and 12 F venous cannulae. Transfusion criteria were established which included trigger values of the following: platelet count 100,000/microliters, fibrinogen 150 mg/dl, haematocrit 40%. The ECMO course was uneventful until approximately the 132nd hour on support when the patient developed a consumptive coagulopathy, as evidenced by 55-60% reductions in both platelet count and fibrinogen concentrations, despite transfusion therapy. Total autogeneic blood product transfusion during the first 120 h of ECMO averaged 4.4 +/- 2.2 ml/h, while the transfusion rate for the final 35 h was 7.8 +/- 3.5 ml/h. Coinciding with this rise in transfusion requirements was an increase in transmembrane pressure from 0.29 to 1.52 mmHg/ml blood flow. The patient was separated from ECMO after 175 h due to a continuing coagulopathy and haemothorax. The patient was then treated with nitric oxide therapy before succumbing on the twelfth postoperative day due to refractory respiratory failure. The circuit was dissected and significant clots found in both the venous bladder and oxygenator. In addition, approximately one-third of the membrane compartment had a 'fused' circumferential pattern of dessicated clot which interrupted blood path continuity. In conclusion, this report describes an unusual complication of the ECMO oxygenator that occurred during long-term extracorporeal life support which most likely resulted from a coagulopathy."}
{"id": "9140170", "title": "In vitro assessment of platelet function.", "content": "In vitro assessment of platelet function. With the realization that the skin bleeding time is often an unreliable measure of platelet function, efforts have been made to identify ways to assess qualitative platelet dysfunction. Currently available techniques measure platelet adhesion, platelet aggregation, the ability of platelets to retard or stop flow through fibers, and the contribution of platelets to in vitro clot formation. Glass bead adhesion, which continues to be performed in some laboratories, is gradually being replaced by measures of platelet adhesion to filters composed of glass fibers, Dacron fibers, or collagen. In each instance, anticoagulated platelet-rich plasma or whole blood flows through the filter under a regulated pressure gradient. The amount of blood flowing through the filter versus time and/or the time to filter occlusion are measured. Recent developments in platelet aggregation have focused on whole blood and stagnation point flow aggregation techniques. Whole blood aggregation does not require blood sample processing and accommodates blood obtained from citrated vacutainer tubes. Stagnation point flow measures both platelet adhesion and aggregation and may be able to detect pathologically-enhanced platelet function. Global measures of hemostasis attempt to simultaneously evaluate the adequacy of fluid phase coagulation and platelet function. Currently available techniques include Thromboelastography, SonoClot Analyzer, Hemodyne Hemostasis Analyzer, PITT, and Hemostatometry. Although each of these technologies have been shown to provide interesting data in the research setting, the ability of any of these techniques to detect abnormal or clinical inadequate platelet function remains to be established."}
{"id": "9137263", "title": "Usefulness of thrombelastography in assessment of trauma patient coagulation.", "content": "Usefulness of thrombelastography in assessment of trauma patient coagulation. Thrombelastography (TEG) is used to rapidly assess coagulation abnormalities in cardiac and transplant surgery. The purpose of this study was to investigate TEG in the initial assessment of trauma patient coagulation. TEG was performed on 69 adult blunt trauma patients during their initial evaluation. Demographics, history of inherited coagulopathies, medications, TEG parameters, platelet count, prothrombin time/partial thromboplastin time, Revised Trauma Score (RTS), Injury Severity Score (ISS), use of blood products, and outcome were recorded. Mortality was 4.3%. Fifty-two patients demonstrated coagulation abnormalities by TEG; of these, 45 were hypercoagulable (mean ISS 13.1), and seven were hypocoagulable (mean ISS 28.6). Six of the seven hypocoagulable patients received blood transfusions within the first 24 hours. Mean ISS of the 17 patients with normal TEG parameters was 3.7. Logistic regression of ISS, Revised Trauma Score, prothrombin time/partial thromboplastin time, and TEG on use/nonuse of blood products within the first 24 hours demonstrates that only ISS (p < 0.001) and TEG (p < 0.05) are predictive of early transfusion. The majority of blunt trauma patients in this series were hypercoagulable. TEG is a rapid, simple test that can broadly determine coagulation abnormalities. TEG is an early predictor of transfusion in blunt injury patients."}
{"id": "9133170", "title": "[Advantages and limitations of intraoperative mechanical autotransfusion in al prostatectomies].", "content": "[Advantages and limitations of intraoperative mechanical autotransfusion in al prostatectomies]. Intraoperative autotransfusion (MAT), preoperative autologous blood donation, and preoperative normovolaemic haemodilution are three different methods to avoid homologous blood transfusion during surgical procedures. The controversial use of MAT via cell saver in tumour surgery as well as contamination of the operative field with urine illustrate the particular difficulties of autologous blood transfusion in connection with radical prostatectomy. We investigated changes in the osmotic resistance of the retransfused red blood cells (RBC), bacterial contamination, changes in coagulation parameters, and the presence of tumour cells. After written informed consent, 24 patients who presented for radical prostatectomy were randomly allocated to either a group that used MAT or a group that used homologous transfusion. The patients received \"balanced anaesthesia\" with midazolam, fentanyl, atracurium, and nitrous oxide/oxygen. The analysed parameters from the preoperative period to the 3rd postoperative day are shown in Table 1. The Haemonetics 3 Plus Cell Saver was used for autotransfusion. Our results showed that the haematologic parameters, coagulation factors, and serum chemistry did not differ between the two groups (Tables 2-4). However, there were significant differences during the investigated period. The osmotic resistance of the salvaged RBCs was higher than that preoperatively. Furthermore, there were no tumour cells in the autologous salvaged RBCs. Our results showed no decrease in the quality of the autotransfused RBCs, urine was not retransfused; and there were no significant differences between the groups postoperatively. Although there were no tumour cells in the salvaged blood, the possibility of blood irradiation is discussed. We concluded that because of the risk of infection of homologous blood products, MAT is a safe possibility to reduce the amount of homologous blood transfusion required in connection with radical prostatectomy."}
{"id": "9128188", "title": "In vitro paraoxon (E 600) exposure: no activating effect on human blood coagulation.", "content": "In vitro paraoxon (E 600) exposure: no activating effect on human blood coagulation. The in vitro effects of the organophosphorus compound (OPC) paraoxon (POX) on human blood coagulation were assessed by fibrin monomer (FM) concentration measurements and thrombelastographic (TEG) determinations. Increasing doses of POX dissolved in alcohol (POX + ALO) or alcohol (ALO) only in corresponding quantities were added to blood drawn from six human volunteers. In both series (POX + ALO and ALO-only) FM concentrations increased in comparison to the baseline levels. No statistically significant differences exist, however, between FM measurements performed on blood with POX + ALO and those performed on blood with ALO-only. No coagulation-activating effect of POX in vitro was demonstrable; the changes seen in vitro are due to the ALO used as a vehicle. The thrombelastographic parameters showed several changes in the POX + ALO series as dosage increased. At high POX levels, reaction time r and clot formation time k became longer than in the baseline measurements, the clot formation rate alpha and the maximum amplitude MA were reduced. The TEG changes indicate a hypocoagulable state, probably due to the POX effect on platelet function and/or inhibition of clotting factors (serine proteases)."}
{"id": "9127666", "title": "Aprotinin and the TEG.", "content": "Aprotinin and the TEG."}
{"id": "9101644", "title": "In vitro effects of rt-PA on platelet function and clot strength.", "content": "In vitro effects of rt-PA on platelet function and clot strength."}
{"id": "9100583", "title": "Resting energy expenditure is sensitive to small dose changes in patients on chronic thyroid hormone replacement.", "content": "Resting energy expenditure is sensitive to small dose changes in patients on chronic thyroid hormone replacement. We have investigated the effects of modifying the dose of thyroxine on resting energy expenditure (REE) and on the thermic effect of glucose (TEG) in 9 randomly recruited patients on chronic treatment with this hormone. The initial dose was changed twice in each patient at 6-8 wk intervals, aiming to have a normal, a slightly reduced, and a slightly elevated serum TSH concentration. A total of 27 dose points for each measured variable (3 per patient) were gathered. Dose changes were monitored with serum free T4, T3, and TSH. At the end of each dose period, low density lipoprotein and high density lipoprotein cholesterol, triglycerides, angiotensin converting enzyme, and sex hormone binding globulin were also measured, along with a systematic assessment of symptoms and signs. The investigators involved in the measurements were blinded to the dose of T4. Serum free T4 and TSH significantly correlated to the dose in each patient and in the whole group, whereas serum T3 levels were minimally affected by the dose and did not correlate with it, with free T4 or with TSH. This latter was below normal on 9 occasions, normal in 12, and above normal in 6. Serum free T4 and T3 remained within the normal range on all except 2 occasions. REE and TEG were normalized to fat-free mass (FFM). In each patient there was a significant negative correlation between REE and TSH. This correlation was maintained when all data were pooled (r2 = 0.64; P < 0.001). Also, initial REE and its change between the highest and the lowest thyroxine dose were significantly correlated with, respectively, initial serum TSH (r2 = 0.85; P < 0.001) and the change in serum TSH between the highest and the lowest dose of T4 (r2 = 0.67; P < 0.0065). REE decreased approximately 15% when TSH increased between 0.1 and 10 mU/L. In 6 of the 9 patients, TEG increased with the reduction of the dose, and higher values were associated with higher TSH levels but without reaching statistical significance (F = 2.852, P = 0.077). None of the other indices were significantly affected by the changes in dose. These results indicate that, in patients on chronic treatment with thyroxine, REE is significantly influenced by the dose of this hormone in a dose range encompassing serum TSH concentrations that are considered acceptable in the management of hypothyroid patients. In the absence of physiological or behavioral compensations, these changes in REE may be clinically relevant."}
{"id": "9099648", "title": "Prediction of neonatal sepsis by thromboelastography.", "content": "Prediction of neonatal sepsis by thromboelastography. The thromboelastogram (TEG) measures functional defects in coagulation, from fibrin formation through platelet aggregation to fibrinolysis. It is comparable with standard laboratory tests of coagulation; however, it provides additional useful qualitative information. This prospective study documents the TEG findings in 103 neonates: 60 were normal and healthy and provided a reference range; 12 surgical babies had established sepsis, 15 had early sepsis, and 16 were non-septic. TEG abnormalities were detected only in those patients with early and established sepsis. Abnormalities were found in all but 1 of this group of 27 patients (96%), whereas only 16 (59%) had thrombocytopenia, 2 (6%) had leukocytosis, and 6 had leukopenia. The TEG had a sensitivity for sepsis of 96% and a specificity of 96%. This exceeds the values for routine full blood-count parameters and other laboratory indicators of sepsis. It was found to be a simple, quick, and sensitive indicator of early sepsis that enabled the clinicians to manage septic newborns earlier."}
{"id": "9089981", "title": "Comparison of in vivo red cell survival of donations collected by Haemonetics MCS versus conventional collection.", "content": "Comparison of in vivo red cell survival of donations collected by Haemonetics MCS versus conventional collection. The Haemonetics Multicomponents System (MCS) cell separator allows concurrent donation of red cells in addition to platelets and/or plasma, thus increasing the versatility of apheresis donations. In vivo survival of autologous red cells obtained by MCS was compared with red cells collected conventionally. In this cross-over controlled study, five male volunteers donated one unit of red cells by MCS and one unit of whole blood by the conventional manual method, 3 months apart. After storing donations in SAG-M for 35 days under standard conditions, radioactive (51Cr)-labelled autologous red cells were injected into each donor. The post-transfusion recovery (PTR) of red cells at 24 and 48 h did not show any significant difference between red cells obtained manually and by MCS, indicating that processing differences have no detrimental effects on red cell survival."}
{"id": "9085950", "title": "Functional maturity of the coagulation system in children: an evaluation using thrombelastography.", "content": "Functional maturity of the coagulation system in children: an evaluation using thrombelastography. There are quantitative deficiencies in the coagulation system for at least the first 6 mo of life. Clinical experience, however, does not indicate an increased risk of excessive bleeding during surgical procedures. Thrombelastography, a test providing a functional evaluation of coagulation, was used to assess the hemostatic system of pediatric patients under 2 yr of age. Thrombelastographic data were obtained from 237 healthy pediatric patients less than 2 yr of age undergoing elective noncardiac surgery. Five groups were distinguished: under 30 days, 1-3 mo, 3-6 mo, 6-12 mo, and 12-24 mo. Thrombelastography revealed no defects in coagulation when these groups were compared to each other or to adults, indicating a functionally intact hemostatic process even in neonates. Indeed, children less than 12 mo of age were found to initiate and develop clot faster than adults, with the coagulation process slowing to adult rates after 1 yr of age. In addition to defining functional integrity, our data represents a set of pediatric control thrombelastographic values that have not been previously reported and that may become important in understanding coagulation changes that accompany disease states and surgery in pediatric patients."}
{"id": "9078593", "title": "Treatment results of 23 cases of severe aplastic anemia with lymphocytapheresis.", "content": "Treatment results of 23 cases of severe aplastic anemia with lymphocytapheresis. We report the results of 23 patients with aplastic anemia (AA) treated with a program of 14 lymphocytapheresis (LC). Treatments were performed with apheresis machines, models Haemonetics 30-S and Baxter CS3000, using the standard program. This procedure was done because AA in many cases appears as a result of the action of a T cell population that inhibits hematopoiesis. Theoretically, removal of this clonal population would produce hematopoietic recovery. Of the total of 23 patients, 9 were excluded for final evaluation of treatment results because 7 died during or shortly after treatment (0.7-3 months); one patient abandoned treatment after three LC and another died 7 months later because of transformation to acute leukemia. The remaining 14 patients were included in the final evaluation of treatment; seven females and seven males, average age 46.1 years (range 22-69); 13 with severe, and one with moderate AA; 11 with recently diagnosed, and 3 with chronic AA; 12 without previous treatment and two treated before with antilymphocyte globulin + oxymetholone (OXM) + cyclosporine A (CsA) with transient partial remission (PR). Besides lymphocytapheresis, 13 patients received OXM; 4 of them GM-CSF and one low dose CsA. Four patients had complete remission lasting > 59.5 months (range 42-78); eight PR (average duration of > 38.6 months), and two minimal remission (> 37 and 29 months). Platelet, reticulocyte and granulocyte counts increased on average at 48.7, 73.3 and 91.4 days, respectively. In conclusion, 14 (60.8%) of 23 patients with AA showed an improvement related to LC treatment, with a survival probability of 63% from the fourth month, the latter with an added beneficial effect of the other therapies used. Larger numbers of patients have to be treated with LC to determine its real usefulness, mechanism of action and the best conditions for its use."}
{"id": "9075662", "title": "Hypercoagulability in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis and primary sclerosing cholangitis evaluated by thrombelastography.", "content": "Hypercoagulability in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis and primary sclerosing cholangitis evaluated by thrombelastography. Patients with primary biliary cirrhosis and primary sclerosing cholangitis survive variceal bleeding better than patients with alcoholic cirrhosis and have less bleeding at liver transplantation. Recently, patients with primary biliary cirrhosis have been found to have a higher incidence of thrombosis in the portal venous tree. We hypothesized that primary biliary cirrhosis and primary sclerosing cholangitis patients may be hypercoagulable. We used thrombelastography, which is a simple technique for evaluating whole blood clotting and fibrinolysis, to establish if hypercoagulability was present, defined by thrombelastography values greater than 2SD over controls: r<19 mm (this reflects plasma clotting factors), maximum amplitude (ma) >60 mm, and alpha angle >43 degrees (these reflect platelets and fibrinogen levels). We evaluated 47 primary biliary cirrhosis and 21 primary sclerosing cholangitis patients, 40 with non-cholestatic cirrhosis and 40 healthy subjects as control groups with thrombelastography, full blood count, prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time and, fibrinogen concentrations. In those with hypercoagulability we evaluated protein S, C, anti-thrombin III levels and activated protein C phenotype. All three thrombelastography abnormalities present together defined hypercoagulability: these were found in 13 of 47 (28%) primary biliary cirrhosis and in nine of 21 (43%) primary sclerosing cholangitis patients independent of cirrhosis, and bilirubin concentration, but in only 2 of 40 (5%) patients with noncholestatic cirrhosis and in none of the healthy controls (p<0.03 and p<0.0002, respectively). There was no correlation between the fibrinogen concentration (which was normal in all patients) or platelet count and the thrombelastography parameters. Only six of the 22 hypercoagulable patients had lower than normal values of protein S, C or antithrombin III. Activated protein C phenotype was normal in all. This diffference between biliary and parenchymal liver disease may have clinical implications, which need to be defined."}
{"id": "9070175", "title": "Intraoperative autologous transfusion during elective infrarenal aortic reconstruction.", "content": "Intraoperative autologous transfusion during elective infrarenal aortic reconstruction. Intraoperative autologous transfusion devices have been purported to reduce allogenic transfusions and their associated complications. However, the value of their routine use during elective cardiovascular operations remains undefined. This study was designed to examine the efficacy of the Haemonetics Cell Saver (CS) during elective aortic reconstructions and identify predictors of clinically significant (> or = 500 cc) and cost-efficient (> or = 1250 cc) salvage volumes. The medical records of all patients undergoing elective infrarenal aortic reconstructions between January 1991 and June 1995 were retrospectively reviewed to determine blood loss, CS return, predictors of clinically significant/ cost-efficient CS returns, blood products transfused, and estimated cost per unit CS return. The CS was used for 138 (82.1%) of all reconstructions during the study period. Estimated blood loss (2127 +/- 1467 vs 1415 +/- 1047) and CS return (927 +/- 790 vs 515 +/- 408) were significantly greater in patients with aneurysms (AAA, N = 63) compared to those with aortoiliac occlusive disease (AIOD, N = 75). CS returns > or = 500 cc were common (79.4% AAA, 52.0% AIOD) and predictors of > or = 500 cc CS returns were large aneurysms (6.79 +/- 1.84 vs 5.72 +/- 0.71 cm) and male sex (82.0 vs 46.2%) in AAA patients and lower preoperative platelet counts (262 +/- 93 vs 311 +/- 113 K/mm3), concomitant renal revascularizations (20.5 vs 0%), and prolonged operative time (7.9 +/- 2.4 vs 6.9 +/- 2.1 hr) in AIOD patients. In contrast, CS returns > or = 1250 cc were relatively uncommon (28.6% AAA, 5.3% AIOD), and predictors of these CS returns were found only for AAA patients and included any concomitant vascular procedures (38.8 vs 15.6%) and the need for suprarenal aortic clamping (27.8 vs 6.7%). Despite the use of the CS, 73.8% of all patients required allogenic packed red blood cells with a mean of 3.0 +/- 3.1 units transfused in the perioperative period; no difference was seen between AAA and AIOD patients. The calculated cost for a unit of CS return was +128.77 for the AAA patients and +231.91 for the AIOD patients. Not using the CS and substituting the return with allogenic packed red blood cells would have saved +252.80 and +352.84 for the AAA and AIOD patients, respectively. Routine use of the CS during elective infrarenal aortic reconstructions is not cost efficient and should be abandoned. Use of the device should be reserved only for complex reconstruction."}
{"id": "9068337", "title": "Use of heparinase modified thrombelastography in liver transplantation.", "content": "Use of heparinase modified thrombelastography in liver transplantation. Severe coagulopathies can occur during liver transplantation, particularly after reperfusion of the grafted liver. Heparin release has been proposed as one of the factors contributing to this coagulopathy. We have analysed the thrombelastograph (TEG) traces of 55 patients after reperfusion using native and heparinase-treated samples. In almost all cases an abnormal native TEG was improved in vitro by heparinase, demonstrating the presence of heparin or a heparin-like substance. The heparinase-modified TEG allowed assessment of the underlying coagulation status, providing a rational guide to blood component replacement or treatment of fibrinolysis."}
{"id": "9058215", "title": "Heparin detection by the activated coagulation time: a comparison of the sensitivity of coagulation tests and heparin assays.", "content": "Heparin detection by the activated coagulation time: a comparison of the sensitivity of coagulation tests and heparin assays. Laboratory and point-of-care coagulation tests are frequently obtained to determine the presence of heparin after surgical procedures. The objective of this study was (1) to compare the sensitivity of the activated coagulation time (ACT), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), protamine titration (Hepcon; HMS Medtronic, Hemotec, Englewood, CO), and thromboelastography (TEG) with heparin anticoagulation and (2) to determine how frequently residual heparin is present in the 24-hour period after heparin neutralization in cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) patients. A prospective study. A tertiary care university teaching center that performs more than 15,000 surgical procedures per year. Vascular surgical (n = 17) and CPB (n = 29). In vascular surgical patients, coagulation tests (ACT, protamine titration [Hepcon], and TEG) were obtained before and 90 minutes after heparin (50 to 60 U/kg IV) and compared with heparin concentration determined by factor Xa inhibition assay. In cardiac surgical patients, ACT and heparin concentrations were measured after anesthesia induction, during CPB, after protamine neutralization, and 3 as well as 6 hours after CPB. In addition to heparin concentrations and ACT measures, platelet counts, fibrinogen levels, and bleeding times were determined before and 3 and 24 hours after CPB. Ninety minutes after heparin, significant heparin concentrations were present in all vascular surgical patients, but ACT was elevated in only 4 of 17 patients. Protamine titration (Hepcon) correlated with the factor Xa inhibitory assay for heparin (r2 = 0.76). All 17 patients had an abnormal TEG (mean \"R\" time = 81 +/- 39 minutes) and a marked elevation of aPTT (135 +/- 35 sec [normal 22 to 33 seconds]) 90 minutes after heparin. In CPB patients, ACT did not correlate with heparin assays. After protamine neutralization of heparin in CPB patients, ACT returned to baseline despite the presence of heparin in 3 of 29 patients (0.22, 0.18, and 0.33 U/mL). ACT was less sensitive to residual heparin anticoagulation than aPTT, TEG, and whole blood heparin assay. The whole blood heparin assay (Hepcon) provided sensitive and specific data about the presence of residual heparin. Despite the limitation of ACT in detecting heparin, the investigators found that residual heparin was not common in the period after uncomplicated CPB."}
{"id": "9042823", "title": "The effect of preoperative recombinant human erythropoietin therapy on platelets and hemostasis in patients undergoing cardiac surgery.", "content": "The effect of preoperative recombinant human erythropoietin therapy on platelets and hemostasis in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. In a double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial we evaluated the effects of the administration of recombinant human erythropoietin (5 x 500 U epoetin beta/kg body weight intravenously over a 14-day period before surgery) in patients undergoing cardiac surgery and in whom autologous blood donation was contraindicated on platelet count, platelet distribution width, mean platelet volume (MPV), and certain hemostaseologic parameters. All patients received 3 x 70 IU heparin/kg per day s.c. from 2 days before operation. No thromboembolic events were associated with epoetin beta therapy during the study period. The thrombocytic parameters showed no significant changes in the placebo group before surgery, and the preoperative hematocrit increase in the epoetin beta group was accompanied with an MPV drop (in contrast to the known MPV rise in recombinant human erythropoietin-treated patients with uremia) by a mean of 0.85 fl and a platelet distribution width rise by 3.3% without a significant change in platelet count. In the epoetin beta group the coagulation time (K) of thromboelastogram (TEG) showed an increase from 4.8 to 5.4 minutes by the seventh study day and after the initiation of heparin therapy a further increase to 7.5 minutes. The higher preoperative K increase in the epoetin beta group may partly be a result of the MPV reduction, because smaller platelets are less reactive, a fact underlined by the negative correlation between the preoperative changes of MPV and reaction time of TEG (r = -0.58, p = 0.0148). In contrast, in the placebo group the K of TEG increased only after the start of heparin therapy (from 5.1 to 6.4 minutes). The significant drop in MPV in the epoetin beta group and the higher increase in K of TEG and the other investigated hemostatic parameters do not suggest any increased thromboembolic risk during the preoperative epoetin beta therapy. Therefore this treatment seems to be a safe way for increasing mean hematocrit by approximately 0.06 within the normal range and reducing the homologous blood requirement in patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery."}
{"id": "9024484", "title": "The expression of p-selectin during collection, processing, and storage of platelet concentrates: relationship to loss of in vivo viability.", "content": "The expression of p-selectin during collection, processing, and storage of platelet concentrates: relationship to loss of in vivo viability. Recent studies suggested that platelet activation with surface expression of p-selectin on stored platelets may be related to a loss of viability. At present, there has been no thorough investigation of the extent or significance of p-selectin expression during the collection, processing, and storage of platelet concentrates (PCs) under various conditions. Platelet surface expression of p-selectin (CD62) was determined on fixed platelet samples using fluorescein-conjugated monoclonal antibodies. Platelet viability was assessed by autologous transfusion of platelets stored for 5 days and labeled with either 51Cr or 111in. Little (2-10%) platelet expression of p-selectin was found in whole blood and platelet-rich-plasma preparations, whereas PCs showed a substantial increase in p-selectin expression to levels of 20 to 30 percent. Both fresh PCs and those stored for 5 days, obtained with one cell separator (MCS, Haemonetics) showed substantially lower levels of p-selectin expression than PCs from two other cell separators (Spectra, COBE, and CS-3000 with TNX-6, Baxter Healthcare). Exposure of platelets to EDTA, cold, or a pH below 6.2, conditions that are known to result in the loss of viability upon transfusion, produced substantial and irreversible p-selectin expression. PCs with a pH of 6.2 to 6.8 (conditions in which no loss of viability has been demonstrated) also showed pronounced p-selectin expression, which returned to control values after incubation at 37 degrees C in plasma at pH 7.0 to 7.2. With storage under current conditions the in vivo studies (n = 61) demonstrated a rather poor correlation between p-selectin expression and the percentage of recovery (r = -0.25) but a somewhat better correlation with survival (r = -0.42). Better correlations were observed with the extent of shape change, lactate, and hypotonic shock response. These studies show that p-selectin expression on the platelet surface is a predictor of platelet viability, although the extent of shape change and the hypotonic shock response may be more sensitive."}
{"id": "9004463", "title": "Intravenous 4-methylpyrazole as an antidote for diethylene glycol and triethylene glycol poisoning: a case report.", "content": "Intravenous 4-methylpyrazole as an antidote for diethylene glycol and triethylene glycol poisoning: a case report. Diethylene glycol (DEG) intoxication resembles that of ethylene glycol, with progressive inebriation, anion gap metabolic acidosis, renal failure, coma and death. DEG is oxidized by alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH) to more toxic byproducts, thus blockade of ADH might be beneficial. Triethylene glycol (TEG), also metabolized by ADH, is less toxic. A young female suicidally ingested DEG and TEG, presenting in metabolic acidosis with coma. Given 4-methylpyrazole (4-MP), an ADH inhibitor, the acidosis resolved, the patient recovered and was discharged without sequelae. 4-MP, if supported by further studies, may be useful in DEG poisoning."}
{"id": "8988995", "title": "A modified thromboelastographic method for monitoring c7E3 Fab in heparinized patients.", "content": "A modified thromboelastographic method for monitoring c7E3 Fab in heparinized patients. The monoclonal antibody, c7E3 Fab, binds to the platelet surface fibrinogen receptor (GPIIb/IIIa), inhibiting platelet aggregation and clot retraction. We performed an in vitro study to assess the ability of a modification of the thromboelastograph (MTEG) to detect inhibition of clot strength by c7E3 Fab and its reversal with platelet-rich plasma (PRP). In the modified assay (MTEG), thrombin was added to whole blood (WB) and platelet-poor plasma (PPP) and the resultant maximum amplitude (MA) was measured, MAWB and MAPPP, respectively. Anticoagulated blood samples from 17 patients scheduled for cardiac surgery were collected for a dose response (Part I; n = 5) and c7E3 Fab reversal (Part II; n = 12) study. Clot strength was reduced in a dose-dependent manner by c7E3 Fab. Ecteola cellulose effectively reversed the effect of heparin on the thrombin time and the addition of PRP significantly increased the MAWB (P < 0.0001) and MAWP-PPP (P < 0.0001). Subtracting the MAPPP from MAWB significantly magnified the response of MA to the addition of c7E3 Fab (P = 0.002) and its reversal with PRP (P = 0.005). This in vitro study indicates that the MTEG is a responsive assay demonstrating that inhibition by the antiplatelet c7E3 Fab is reversible with PRP."}
{"id": "8985070", "title": "Autotransfusion utilization in abdominal trauma.", "content": "Autotransfusion utilization in abdominal trauma. The purpose of this review is to investigate the utility of autotransfusion in trauma patients in the past 3 years. A retrospective review was conducted of the charts for whom the Haemonetics Cell Saver autotransfusion device (Haemonetics Corp., Natick, MA) was utilized between January 1, 1993, and December 31, 1995. The estimated blood loss and quantity of blood transfused were noted for abdominal trauma patients. Costs of autotransfusion were then compared to estimated blood bank costs for this group. The Haemonetics Cell Saver autotransfusion device was requested for 592 cases from January 1, 1993, to December 31, 1995. Nonorthopedic trauma cases comprised 25 per cent of all autotransfusion cases. One hundred twenty-six patients had isolated abdominal trauma and had a mean estimated blood loss of 4864 +/- 6070 cc. The average volume of intraoperatively salvaged autologous blood transfused (autotransfusion) per patient was 1547 +/- 2359 cc, or a bank blood equivalent of 6.9 units of packed red blood cells. The total cost of autotransfusion in these patients was $63,252.00. Had bank blood been used instead of salvaged autologous blood, the cost would have been $114,523.00; thus, autotransfusion resulted in a savings of $51,271.00. The use of salvaged autologous blood comprised 45 per cent of total blood transfused. On a case-by-case basis, 75 per cent of cases were cost-effective compared to blood bank costs for an equivalent transfusion. Transfusion of intraoperatively salvaged autologous blood (autotransfusion) is a cost-effective, efficient way to provide blood products to operative trauma patients."}
{"id": "10168554", "title": "The storage quality of apheresis platelets--analysis of results from seven different cell separators.", "content": "The storage quality of apheresis platelets--analysis of results from seven different cell separators. Apheresis platelet concentrates (CAP) have been available for more than 20 years. Now, as a result of the use of, and progress in, automatic blood separation techniques, the quality of platelets is continually being improved so that we currently have access to purified concentrates which are not contaminated by red cells and contain only very few white cells. In view of the wide experience available to us, it was useful to monitor a number of qualitative parameters indicating platelet activation during storage. We monitored platelet aggregation, release of beta thromboglobulin, activation of complement and other basic parameters in seven platelet concentrates from seven cell separators (Cobe Spectra, MCS Haemonetics, CS3000+, Baxter, Excel Dideco, Autopheresis C Baxter, and V50 Haemonetics). We found that in the majority of cases aggregation was greatly reduced during storage. Release of beta thromboglobulin and activation of complement increased. pH remained within acceptable limits in some cases. However, in others (MCS, Excel), a decrease in pH < 6.0 was found. To conclude, although CAP, which are from a single donor, reduce the risks of transfusion, they are not protected from physical alteration and therefore from reduction in the clinical effects of transfusion. It is therefore necessary to improve the storage conditions of these cells in the future, for example by designing new plastics, or adding platelet storage media. Basic biological parameters should also be defined, within the framework of quality assurance, to evaluate platelet quality."}
{"id": "10168551", "title": "Plateletpheresis: what's new?", "content": "Plateletpheresis: what's new? 1995 has brought several novelties into the field of thrombocytapheresis. The most important is the presentation by Baxter of the Amicus CFC apparatus that, in a two-vein collection time of 51-53 min, collects 3.93-4.13 x 10(11) platelets contaminated by 0.2 x 10(6) white blood cells (WBC) with an efficiency of 72-74%. Similar results are obtained in 55 min, in single-needle procedures, with a collection efficiency of 70.7%, a total yield of 4.3 x 10(11) and a contamination of 0.9 x 10(6) WBC. Presently the machine cannot collect red blood cells (RBC), along with platelets, as does the DFC Haemonetics MCS3p. With this machine in mandatory single-needle procedures lasting 80-85 min, approximately 4.5 x 10(11) platelets can be collected with a WBC contamination of 3.1 x 10(6). Along with the platelet cells (PC), with the SDP PRC protocol at the end of each pass it is possible to collect aliquots of plasma red blood cells (PRBC) (10-50 mL) with a haematocrit of 65%. Depending on the number of passes and on the donor's body weight (BW), from 1 and 2 U/PRBC containing approximately 55 g of haemoglobin (Hb) each can be obtained. This method not only costs less but also immunological and viral risks for the patients are more efficiently addressed since it is possible to reduce the number of allogeneic exposures in the same transfusion event. PRBC can also be collected with the Fresenius AS104 and the Dideco Excel apparatuses. Dideco is presently using the \"Genova\" separation chamber, which can collect an average of 4.8 x 10(11) platelets contaminated with 0.5 x 10(6) WBC, in approximately 55 min. The ACD-A-to-blood ratio may be as low as 1/20 since the very last belts and lines are coated with non-thrombogenic substances. Therefore, there is no alteration of the quality of the platelets as evaluated with monoclonal antibodies (MoAbs) anti-CD 62, 63, 36 and 51, no extra haemorrhagic risk for the donors and citrate reactions and microaggregate formation are totally eliminated. In 1995 there has also been some rejuvenation of the older cell separators. The CS3000+ uses the TN6/PLT 30 combination of separation collection chambers. Platelets are collected in only 30 mL of plasma, and non-plasma solutions containing acetate can be used for their resuspension. The Fresenius AS204 is ready for better-quality combined platelet collection, and RBC-PC collection with Cobe Spectra is under evaluation along with the leucocyte reduction system that apparently brings leucocyte contamination down to 0.35 x 10(5). This interest in thrombocytapheresis is also the result of the challenge that thrombopoietin phase I and II trials have promoted."}
{"id": "9636788", "title": "[Evaluation of the blood quality collected by cell-saver during cesarean section].", "content": "[Evaluation of the blood quality collected by cell-saver during cesarean section]. To determine the quality of blood salvaged and processed during Caesarean section with a cell-saver. Laboratory study. The study included 20 patients of ASA physical class 1 or 2 undergoing a scheduled Caesarean section. A separate suction device was used from the beginning surgery until the delivery of the fetus, to remove most of the amniotic fluid coming from the surgical field. Thereafter using an Haemolite 2Plus (Haemonetics), the blood was separated and washed with 2 L of normal saline solution. Blood quality was assessed through detection of fetal cells and measuring out of alpha-fetal-protein, tissue factor. A Kleihauer test was also performed. Cell-saver processing removed most of alpha-fetal-protein and tissue factor while fetal cells were rarely seen. The Kleihauer test could not be performed because of haemolized blood samples. However, the results were very heterogeneous and after washing some salvaged units contained very high concentrations of alpha-fetal-protein or tissue factor. These preliminary results show that intra-operative autologous transfusion is not fully safe during Caesarean sections. In addition, there is an immunological risk if a significant part of fetal red blood cells are reinfused into maternal circulation. Therefore, additional studies are needed to better assess this risk."}
{"id": "9084536", "title": "Perioperative alterations of the thromboelastography in patients receiving one-stage bilateral total knee arthroplasty.", "content": "Perioperative alterations of the thromboelastography in patients receiving one-stage bilateral total knee arthroplasty. Total knee arthroplasty is associated with activation of coagulation and fibrinolytic system in the perioperative period. The coagulation and fibrinolytic activation in one-stage bilateral total knee arthroplasty has not been described before. Thromboelastography is a real-time aid in the monitoring of coagulation and is clinically valuable in the evaluation of whole blood hemostasis. We evaluated the coagulation and fibrinolysis system activation during and after one-stage bilateral total knee arthroplasty by thromboelastography. Twenty patients, ASA class I-II, undergoing one stage bilateral total knee arthroplasty were included in this study. All patients received continuous spinal anesthesia with isobaric 0.2% bupivacaine. Arterial blood samples were obtained for thromboelastography in the following sequences (1) after induction of anesthesia (baseline), (2) 20 min after releasing tourniquet of the first leg (3) 20 min after releasing tourniquet of the second leg, (4) 2 h postoperatively, (5) 24 h postoperatively. There was a significant shortening of reaction time (R value) after deflation of the first leg tourniquet, and a further decrease of R value after deflation of the second leg tourniquet and two hours postoperatively. The perioperative change of coagulation time was similar to that of R value. The maximum amplitude decreased after releasing tourniquet of the second leg and two hours postoperatively. The activation of coagulation, as monitored by thromboelastography, is predominant in one-stage bilateral total knee arthroplasty after releasing tourniquet of the second leg and returns to baseline 24 h postoperatively."}
{"id": "9045120", "title": "[Anesthesiologic and intensive care requirements in liver transplantation].", "content": "[Anesthesiologic and intensive care requirements in liver transplantation]. The complex anaesthesia and intensive care of liver transplantation require special instruments beside expert's knowledge. We monitorize the haemodynamics invasively during the operation and immediately afterward. In the later period of intensive care we prefer the noninvasive haemodynamic monitoring techniques. The transoesophageal echocardiography has special role in the anaesthesia of liver transplantation. One of the most important equipment during the operation is the biopump that assures the shunt between the lower and the upper body. Controlling it also belongs to the tasks of anaesthesiologist. During the anaesthesia and early period of intensive care the most serious problem can be the disfunction of blood coagulation system of the recipient. To investigate it the thrombelastography is the most suitable technique which can show the in vivo processes. To analyze the curve of the thrombelastography requires special knowledge. Similarly, the analysis of the electroencephalogram during the anaesthesia is not the everyday task of an anaesthesiologist. To reduce the blood requirements during the operation we use the autotransfusion techniques. During the anaesthesia of the liver transplantation we use other equipment that belong to the everyday work of an anaesthesiologist i.e.: rapid blood infusion and patient warming and cooling systems, rapid laboratory and blood-gas analyzing methods. The anaesthesia and intensive care of liver transplantation claim wideranging knowledge of anaesthesiologist not only theoretically but also practically."}
{"id": "9038728", "title": "Hyperfibrinolysis.", "content": "Hyperfibrinolysis."}
{"id": "9014644", "title": "Haemodilution induces a hypercoagulable state.", "content": "Haemodilution induces a hypercoagulable state."}
{"id": "8997057", "title": "[A hematologic coagulation monitoring system for bedside use].", "content": "[A hematologic coagulation monitoring system for bedside use]. Perioperative hemorrhage in patients undergoing surgery is a major cause of morbidity and mortality. DRIHEMATO SYSTEM COAG-1 can detect prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) and fibrinogen (FIB) easily. We combined this monitor with platelet count (PLT), activated clotting time (ACT) and thromboelastography (TEG) and devised a hematologic monitoring system for bedside use. This study of 10 adults undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass was conducted to determine the utility of this monitoring system. The specificity for lotting abnormality of this monitoring system included the following values; PT = 88%, FIB = 100% and TEG = 67%. This study suggests that this monitoring system may be useful in early diagnosis and treatment of postoperative coagulopathy."}
{"id": "8976770", "title": "Thrombelastographic evaluation of coagulation in transurethral prostatectomy.", "content": "Thrombelastographic evaluation of coagulation in transurethral prostatectomy. To assess the changes in overall coagulation status and define the degree of systemic fibrinolysis occurring in patients undergoing transurethral prostatectomy (TURP). Thirty patients undergoing TURP, 23 for benign prostatic hyperplasia and seven for prostatic carcinoma, were studied prospectively. Serial venous blood samples were taken using the two-syringe technique. Samples were taken before, during and at intervals up to 72 h and 10-14 days after surgery. Thrombelastography (TEG) was performed on native whole blood samples. Peri-operative blood loss was assessed, until the catheter was removed, by photometric estimation of the haemoglobin content of the irrigant fluid and the measurement of clot volume. There was no evidence of fibrinolysis (TEG Percentage Clot Lysis Ly60 > 15%) in any patient over the whole peri-operative period. There was a significant change in the mean TEG variables towards hypercoagulation from 3 h until 10-14 days postoperatively, compared with the pre-operative values (P < 0.05). There was a significant correlation between blood loss and clot volume. These results question the role of systemic fibrinolysis in primary and secondary haemorrhage following TURP and thus the rationale of using antifibrinolytics in these patients. The persistent hypercoagulable state post-operatively indicates a possible role of hypercoagulability in clot retention."}
{"id": "8974687", "title": "[Automated blood component collection with the MCS 3p].", "content": "[Automated blood component collection with the MCS 3p]. Two new protocols for the MCS 3p cellseparator (Haemonetics) for automated collection of blood components were evaluated. Two units of FFP and one unit of buffy coat free red blood cells (RBC) in additive solution (PAGGS-M) were produced with the D-RBCP protocol. The RBCP-F protocol included additional in-line filtration of the RBC in a closed system. 20 automated blood component collections were performed with each of the two programs. Filtration of the RBC was performed after storage for 24 h at 4 degrees C. Blood cell counts, biochemical characterization of the RBCs (ATP, 2,3-DPG, LDH, HBDH, free Hb, K+, pH) were determined on day 0, 1, 14, 28 and 49. Erythroplasmapheresis with both protocols was performed without any technical problems or adverse reactions. The biochemical parameters of the RBC (until 49 days) were as good or even better as with standard preparations (Hb, 2,3-DPG, ATP, LDH, HBDH, hemolysis, K+). Leukocyte and platelet counts in RBC and FFP (D-RBCP) were well within the range requested by German guidelines. Leukocyte reduction of RBC in RBCP-F was adequate but platelets in FFP exceeded the standard values. The extracorporal volume (771 ml in D-RBCP and 632 ml in RBCP-F) was rather large and at least should be adaptable to the donor's individual blood volume."}
{"id": "8958389", "title": "A thromboelastography study on the in vitro effects of L-arginine and L-NG-nitro arginine methyl ester on human whole blood coagulation and fibrinolysis.", "content": "A thromboelastography study on the in vitro effects of L-arginine and L-NG-nitro arginine methyl ester on human whole blood coagulation and fibrinolysis. The effects of L-arginine and L-NG-nitro arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) on human blood coagulation and fibrinolysis were studied in vitro using computerized thromboelastography and native whole blood. L-Arginine (8-80 microM) prolonged the split point (SP), reaction time (R) and biKoatugulierung time (K); and diminished the angle (alpha), maximum amplitude (MA) and TEG index. L-NAME (0.5-50 microM) shortened SP, R and K and increased alpha, MA and the TEG index in a concentration-dependent manner. Neither L-arginine nor L-NAME had any effect on clot lysis. SP and R indicated the initiation of fibrin-strand formation, therefore L-arginine delayed, while L-NAME promoted the processes leading to fibrin formation. K and alpha reflect the rate of clot formation and involve fibrin build-up and platelets. Thus, L-arginine inhibited and L-NAME enhanced the rate of clot formation. MA (clot strength) involves the integrity of fibrin strands and platelet aggregation, and again L-arginine was inhibitory, while L-NAME enhanced this interaction. The TEG index indicates the coagulability of the sample; L-arginine was anticoagulant while L-NAME had procoagulant effects. These results are consistent with the inhibitory effects of NO on platelet function and of the platelet-aggregating properties of NOS inhibitors. In addition, NO may play an inhibitory role in the process leading to fibrin formation and also on the interactions between platelets and fibrin. Such effects may be important when considering the clinical use of drugs that affect the NO-cGMP pathway."}
{"id": "8956388", "title": "Essential thrombocythemia and epidural analgesia in the parturient. Does thromboelastography help?", "content": "Essential thrombocythemia and epidural analgesia in the parturient. Does thromboelastography help? It is often considered that essential thrombocythemia contraindicates placement of an epidural catheter because of the danger of epidural hematoma. Thromboelastography offers a possible means of determining the appropriateness of epidural analgesia in a patient with this disorder. A pregnant woman with essential thrombocythemia and a history of spontaneous abortions was evaluated by thromboelastography at 38 weeks of gestation to determine the safety of using epidural analgesia for labor pain management. On the basis of the thermoelastography findings, the patient was given epidural analgesia with bupivacaine and fentanyl during her labor. The patient experienced good pain relief, delivered a healthy infant vaginally, and suffered no complications. Thromboelastography may be a useful diagnostic test in determining the suitability of regional techniques for labor analgesia in parturients with essential thrombocythemia. However, success in one patient does not prove the general safety of this approach."}
{"id": "8942349", "title": "Heparinase-guided thrombelastography in an anticoagulated parturient.", "content": "Heparinase-guided thrombelastography in an anticoagulated parturient. We describe the use of heparinase-guided thrombelastography in the assessment of a parturient who had been anticoagulated with heparin for suspected thromboembolic disease. Reversal of the heparin effect in the heparinase-treated sample facilitated administration of protamine and successful subarachnoid analgesia for delivery."}
{"id": "8909664", "title": "The effect of aprotinin on thrombelastography in vitro.", "content": "The effect of aprotinin on thrombelastography in vitro. The effect of low dose (50 KIU/ml) and high dose (200 KIU/ml) aprotinin on standard thrombelastographic variables (r, K, alpha, MA) was examined in vitro using blood from forty ASA Class 1 patients. Both concentrations of aprotinin resulted in minor increases in r time above the normal range (P < 0.05). Aprotinin did not alter other thrombelastographic variables. The results indicate that aprotinin is a mild direct anticoagulant in vitro as assessed by thrombelastography."}
{"id": "8904330", "title": "Cell saver efficacy for routine coronary artery bypass surgery.", "content": "Cell saver efficacy for routine coronary artery bypass surgery. A retrospective study was conducted to determine the effect of intraoperative Haemonetics Cell Saver (HCS) usage on postoperative homologous blood product requirements in CABG patients. From 1 January to 31 December 1993, 516 patients without renal disease or postoperative surgical or gastrointestinal haemorrhage had elective, first-time CABG surgery. The HCS was utilized in 435 of these patients (Group CS) and in 81 patients the HCS was excluded (Group NCS). Preoperative patient variables were similar in the group. We evaluated the HCS effect on blood product transfusion by comparing -x units of red blood cells (RBC), fresh frozen plasma (FFP) and platelets (PLTS) transfused per patient between groups CS and NCS. There were no differences in the -x units of RBC (1.9 +/- 2.7 CS vs. 1.8 +/- 1.5 NCS) or in the RBC transfusion rate (48% CS vs 50% NCS). There were also no significant differences between the groups in -x units of FFP (0.9 +/- 0.8 CS vs 0.4 +/- 0.9 NCS) or PLTS (0.7 +/- 3.1 CS vs 0.4 +/- 2.5 NCS), or in the percentage of patients receiving these products (12% CS vs 8% NCS). These data provide no evidence that the use of the HCS decreases the amount of homologous blood bank products required postoperatively in patients having routine first-time CABG surgery. The current era of aggressive blood conservation may have limited the role of the HCS in routine CABG surgery."}
{"id": "8904189", "title": "Thrombelastgram as a hemostatic monitor during recombinant factor VIIa treatment in hemophilia A patients with inhibitor to factor VIII.", "content": "Thrombelastgram as a hemostatic monitor during recombinant factor VIIa treatment in hemophilia A patients with inhibitor to factor VIII. Thrombelastgram (TEG) is an old but automated instrument that demonstrates changes occurring during blood coagulation and fibrinolysis. TEG was evaluated to be better than activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) as a monitor of hemostatic effects when using recombinant factor VIIa (65-80 mu g/kg) in 3 hemophilia A patients with a high titer of factor VIII inhibitors. TEG was more suitable than APTT, because r, r + k and ma values of TEG were normalized at least for 4 h after the infusion, whereas APTT was variably shortened and was not always maintained at a normal level for 4 h."}
{"id": "8901955", "title": "Coagulation monitoring in the perioperative period.", "content": "Coagulation monitoring in the perioperative period."}
{"id": "8896022", "title": "Thromboelastography in preeclamptic patients.", "content": "Thromboelastography in preeclamptic patients."}
{"id": "8895307", "title": "DDAVP, thromboelastography, and uremia.", "content": "DDAVP, thromboelastography, and uremia."}
{"id": "8894755", "title": "Monitoring hemostasis.", "content": "Monitoring hemostasis. As our understanding of the normal mechanisms of coagulation grows, so does our ability to monitor hemostasis. Evaluation of hemostasis will become more specific and accurate and instrumentation techniques will become simpler and more efficient as technology progress, facilitating the monitoring of hemostasis in the perioperative setting."}
{"id": "8889419", "title": "Evaluation of the anticoagulant properties of aprotinin in vitro.", "content": "Evaluation of the anticoagulant properties of aprotinin in vitro. The interaction of aprotinin with normal coagulation was studied in blood samples obtained from 10 healthy subjects. Each sample was simultaneously tested in four different preparations: NaCl-treated blood: 0.03 mL 0.9% NaCl in 0.33 mL blood; aprotinin treated blood: 0.33 mL blood+aprotinin in 0.03 mL in aliquots to obtain a final blood concentration of respectively 50 KIU mL-1; 100 KIU mL-1 and 200 KIU mL-1. The coagulation process was analysed by thromboelastography. R-time, reflecting intrinsic coagulation, increased in a dose dependent manner between NaCl-treated and aprotinin-treated blood. These findings suggest a dose dependent impairment of intrinsic coagulation by aprotinin."}
{"id": "8889418", "title": "Dose dependent effect of aprotinin on rate of clot formation.", "content": "Dose dependent effect of aprotinin on rate of clot formation. Forty-eight patients scheduled for elective cardiac surgery were randomly assigned to receive aprotinin in the following doses: 0.2 mg kg-1 (group A), 0.7 mg kg-1 (group B), 1 mg kg-1 (group C) and 1.4 mg kg-1 (group D). Clot formation was analysed by thromboelastography immediately after induction of anaesthesia and again 30 min after administration of aprotinin. Rate of clot formation was assessed using R (reaction time = rate of initial fibrin formation), K (clot formation time = rate of fibrin build-up and cross linking) and angle of clot formation (denoting speed at which solid clot forms). Strength of the clot was assessed by maximal amplitude of clot formation (MA) and % lysis after 30 and 60 min. Significant reduction of R and K times and increase in angle of clot formation was observed in groups A and B. This effect was not apparent in the other groups. In group D, an increase in R time was noted. These findings indicate a dose-dependent effect of aprotinin on rate of clot formation with an earlier clot formation at low doses."}
{"id": "8881617", "title": "Thrombelastography changes in pre-eclampsia and eclampsia.", "content": "Thrombelastography changes in pre-eclampsia and eclampsia. We have measured platelet count, bleeding time and thrombelastography (TEG) variables and the correlation between these variables in 49 pregnant patients presenting with pre-eclampsia or eclampsia. Eighteen patients (37%) had a platelet count < or = 150 x 10(9) litre-1 and seven (14%) had a platelet count < or = 100 x 10(9) litre-1. Bleeding time was prolonged > 9.5 min in 13 (27%) patients and the TEG was abnormal in four (8%). The TEG variables, k time and maximum amplitude (MA) had a strong correlation with platelet count (k time-platelet count < or = 150 x 10(9) litre-1, r = -0.68, P = 0.003, platelet count < or = 100 x 10(9) litre-1, r = -0.84, P = 0.02; MA--platelet count < or = 150 x 10(9) litre-1, r = 0.72, P = 0.001, platelet count < or = 100 x 10(9) litre-1, r = 0.78, P = 0.04). There was no correlation between bleeding time and thrombocytopenia (platelet count < or = 150 x 10(9) litre-1, r = -0.18, ns; platelet count < or = 100 x 10(9) litre-1, r = 0.09, ns). There was no correlation between bleeding time and any measured TEG variable. Of the 10 (20%) patients with an adequate platelet count (> 100 x 10(9) litre-1) but prolonged bleeding time, the TEG was normal, suggesting adequate haemostasis. An MA of 53 mm, which is the lower limit for normal pregnancy, correlated with a platelet count of 54 x 10(9) litre-1 (95% confidence limits 40-75 x 10(9) litre-1). Although the number of patients with severe thrombocytopenia was small, a platelet count of 75 x 10(9) litre-1 should be associated with adequate haemostasis."}
{"id": "8865938", "title": "Improved plasma quality by Haemonetics PCS-2 using the centered core blow molded bowl.", "content": "Improved plasma quality by Haemonetics PCS-2 using the centered core blow molded bowl."}
{"id": "8847781", "title": "[Blood coagulation-fibrinolysis system during transurethral resection evaluated by thrombelastography].", "content": "[Blood coagulation-fibrinolysis system during transurethral resection evaluated by thrombelastography]. Intraoperative changes in blood coagulation-fibrinolysis system were evaluated in 21 patients under epidural anesthesia by thrombelastography. Ten patients received transurethral resection of prostate (TUR-P) and 11 patients received transurethral resection of bladder tumor (TUR-Bt). Thrombelastographic variables: reaction time (R), coagulation time (K), maximum amplitude (MA), and amplitude 60 min after MA (A 60) were measured. The coagulability was evaluated by R + K, the absolute strength of clot by MA, and fibrinolysis using MA-A60. There was no significant change of these indices in TUR-Bt group. On the other hand, in TUR-P group, R + K was significantly shortened and MA-A60 had a tendency to increase it, but MA caused no change. Resected prostatic weight correlated significantly with the decrease of MA, and had a tendency to correlate with the increase of MA-A60 in TUR-P group. Both coagulation and fibrinolysis were activated in TUR-P group. When the resected prostatic weight is large, the risk of coagulopathy may increase."}
{"id": "8785143", "title": "Haemodilution induces a hypercoagulable state.", "content": "Haemodilution induces a hypercoagulable state. It has been suggested that haemodilution with saline may increase whole blood coagulation. This study was conducted in two parts. First, we investigated the effect of in vitro dilution of blood with saline on whole blood coagulation as measured by the thrombelastogram (TEG). Blood (4 ml) was diluted with 0.9% saline 1 ml and coagulation compared with that of an undiluted control specimen obtained concurrently from the same subject. In the second part, the study was repeated using a modified gelatin colloidal solution (Haemaccel) as the diluent. The r time, k time and r + k time were decreased relative to control in both diluent groups. The alpha angles were increased compared with control in both groups while maximum amplitude was unchanged in the Haemaccel diluted group. We conclude that haemodilution per se increases the coagulability of whole blood in vitro, but that saline haemodilution has a more marked effect on final clot strength."}
{"id": "8783998", "title": "Adverse effects of postoperative infusion of shed mediastinal blood.", "content": "Adverse effects of postoperative infusion of shed mediastinal blood. Postoperative infusion of shed mediastinal blood has been used in an effort to decrease blood usage after cardiac operations. Recent experience has suggested that this practice may actually lead to a delayed increase in bleeding. In a prospective, randomized study, 40 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting with shed mediastinal blood collected in a cardiotomy reservoir were divided into two equal groups and studied during their first 4 hours in the intensive care unit. Shed mediastinal blood was directly infused in group I (n = 20), whereas in group II (n = 20), it was not. In group II, if a sufficient volume of red cells was present to allow processing (n = 5), washed red cells were infused. Variables studied before and after infusion were the amount of blood lost and infused, homologous blood transfused, complete blood count and differential, serum fibrinogen, fibrin split products, D-dimers, clotting factors, prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, thromboelastograms, plasma-free hemoglobin, complement factors C3 and C4, creatine kinase and its MB isoenzyme, and body temperature. After infusion of shed mediastinal blood, elevated levels of fibrin split products and D-dimers were found in significantly more patients in group I. The thromboelastogram index was normal in 76% of patients in group II but in only 12.5% in group I. Group I also had an increase in band neutrophils, a greater number of febrile patients, higher serum levels of creatine kinase, its MB isoenzyme, and plasma-free hemoglobin, and greater blood loss during hours 3, 4, and 5 in the intensive care unit. The volume of red cells in shed mediastinal blood (hematocrit, 9% to 10%) was small, resulting in clinically insignificant autotransfusion when infused directly, and insufficient for cell processing in most patients. These data support those in previous studies that direct infusion of shed mediastinal blood does not save substantial amounts of autologous red cells and can cause a delayed coagulopathy and other adverse effects that may be harmful to patients postoperatively."}
{"id": "8739928", "title": "The effect of dextran infusion on antithrombin III concentrations and on platelet function during minor surgery.", "content": "The effect of dextran infusion on antithrombin III concentrations and on platelet function during minor surgery. The effects of dextran on the antithrombin (AT) III activity and blood coagulation, evaluated with thromboelastography, were investigated in 26 patients (anaesthesia risk class I or II) scheduled for minor surgery under general anaesthesia. In the Dextran group the patients were infused first with dextran 7 ml/kg, then with Ringer's acetate. In the Ringer group, the patients received only Ringer's acetate. In the recovery room fluid therapy was continued with 5% dextrose in water until the first postoperative day. Blood loss and fluid replacement were comparable in the groups. Haematocrit (Hcr) decreased significantly in the Dextran group, and the platelet count decreased in both groups during surgery. The median baseline AT III values were similar in the study groups. In the recovery room, the median AT III value was lower in the Dextran than in the Ringer group, 78% and 92%, respectively (P < 0.05). By the following day, the AT III values had returned near the initial level. After surgery, the maximal amplitude of thromboelastogram was 48 mm in the Dextran group, and 58 mm in the Ringer group (P < 0.05). In conclusion, fluid replacement with dextran resulted in modest and short-lived alterations in blood coagulation."}
{"id": "8703460", "title": "Evaluation of laboratory coagulation and lytic parameters resulting from autologous whole blood transfusion during primary aortocoronary artery bypass grafting.", "content": "Evaluation of laboratory coagulation and lytic parameters resulting from autologous whole blood transfusion during primary aortocoronary artery bypass grafting. To determine if autologous blood reinfusion influences overall hemostatic function following aortocoronary artery bypass graft (CABG) surgery, and if so, where the predominant area of this influence lies. Prospective, with control values on each patient. Cardiac operating room of a major university-affiliated county hospital. 20 patients undergoing elective CABG surgery. Following heparinization, and prior to cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), venous blood (average 4.9 ml/kg) was removed via an indwelling internal jugular catheter into a preservative-free plastic transfer pack unit and stored without agitation at room temperature. This autologous whole blood was reinfused after systemic protamine reversal of heparin. Blood samples for analysis were drawn immediately before and 5 minutes after completion of the reinfusion. Autologous blood reinfusion appears to be significantly related to increased hemoglobin, hematocrit, platelet count, fibrinogen, plasminogen, and antiplasmin levels. The prothrombin time and activated partial thromboplastin times decreased significantly, whereas activated clotting times and D-dimer levels were unchanged. Significant increases occurred in the following thromboelastography parameters: maximum amplitude, amplitude 60 minutes after the maximum amplitude, and whole blood clot lysis index. Reaction time and coagulation time were not statistically different from control values. Significant improvements in coagulation and lytic parameters occur following CPB after the infusion of autologous blood. These improvements in coagulation indices may be the result of the infused blood or hemoconcentration, which is also known to occur during this period. Additional control studies are needed to differentiate these effects."}
{"id": "8680768", "title": "[Features of insulin secretion and thromboelastography values in chronic pancreatitis].", "content": "[Features of insulin secretion and thromboelastography values in chronic pancreatitis]. The function of pancreatic beta-cells in patients with chronic pancreatitis is insufficient, which manifests by hyposecretion of basal and stimulated insulin into the blood. Moreover, blood-clotting activity is increased in chronic pancreatitis. A conclusion is made that timely prevention of exacerbations of this disease should include laboratory check-ups of insulin production and assessment of blood coagulation in the patients."}
{"id": "8679357", "title": "Haemostatic changes caused by i.v. regional anaesthesia with lignocaine.", "content": "Haemostatic changes caused by i.v. regional anaesthesia with lignocaine. The various components of i.v. regional anaesthesia (IVRA), that is ischaemia, tourniquet compression and the presence of high concentrations of local anaesthetics in the blood vessels of the extremity, may affect haemostatic mechanisms. We performed a cross-over study in 10 healthy male volunteers to examine the role of lignocaine in IVRA on several haemostatic variables, and those indicating fibrinolysis and platelet function in particular. Venous blood samples were obtained from the test arm and the opposite arm before IVRA, at the time of tourniquet cuff deflation and 30 min thereafter. Metal needle punctures were used, and for the sample from the test arm at the time of cuff deflation, cuff pressure was reduced from 300 mm Hg to individual mean arterial pressure. The IVRA technique included exsanguination by arm elevation and axillary artery compression, inflation of the tourniquet cuff for 20 min and deflation of the cuff in one step (after obtaining the venous sample). Each subject received, in random order, either 0.5% lignocaine 3 mg kg-1 or the corresponding volume of saline i.v. All fibrinolysis markers, that is, D-dimer, tissue plasminogen activator antigen (t-PA antigen), tissue plasminogen activator activity (t-PA activity), plasminogen activator inhibitor activity (PAI) and protein C indicated enhanced fibrinolysis by IVRA, but only t-PA antigen and PAI showed greater changes in the lignocaine compared with the saline group in the exposed arm at the time of cuff deflation. Platelet function tests (ADP-induced platelet aggregation, beta-thromboglobulin and thrombelastogram (TEG)) indicated no differences between the lignocaine and saline groups. Although IVRA appeared to induce some platelet dysfunction, there was a small increase in TEG amplitude indicative of improved fibrin-platelet interaction in the lignocaine-exposed arm at the time of cuff deflation. We conclude that the presence of high i.v. lignocaine concentrations (median 144.4 micrograms ml-1 in cubital veins at the end of the tourniquet time) potentiated ischaemia-induced fibrinolysis activation during IVRA. Concomitant platelet dysfunction was not aggravated by lignocaine."}
{"id": "8669648", "title": "The development of hypercoagulability state, as measured by thrombelastography, associated with intraoperative surgical blood loss.", "content": "The development of hypercoagulability state, as measured by thrombelastography, associated with intraoperative surgical blood loss. Thrombelastographic evidence of hypercoagulability, including shortening of r-time (P < 0.01); shortening of k-time (P < 0.01); and widening of trace angle (P < 0.01) were observed in a group of 21 Chinese surgical patients when (a) the amount of blood loss was at an estimated 10% of total blood volume and (b) the amount of blood loss was at an estimated 15% of blood volume. The amount of blood loss was documented by haemoglobin measurements. No evidence of hypercoagulability was observed at around one hour into the operation in the absence of bleeding. We conclude that a mild to moderate degree of surgical blood loss with haemodilution is associated with the development of hypercoagulability as measured by thrombelastography. Further studies looking at the thrombebolic outcome in such groups of patients is warranted. It is also suggested that caution should be exercised in the use of intraoperative isovolaemic haemodilution until the phenomenon is further investigated."}
{"id": "8653018", "title": "[Thrombocyte collection with the A3p program using the blood cell separator Haemonetics MCS 3p].", "content": "[Thrombocyte collection with the A3p program using the blood cell separator Haemonetics MCS 3p]."}
{"id": "8638787", "title": "Intravenous ketorolac tromethamine worsens platelet function during knee arthroscopy under spinal anesthesia.", "content": "Intravenous ketorolac tromethamine worsens platelet function during knee arthroscopy under spinal anesthesia. Ketorolac prolongs bleeding time and inhibits platelet aggregation and platelet thromboxane production in healthy, awake volunteers. However, platelet function was recently shown not to worsen after ketorolac was given during general anesthesia. The purpose of this study was to investigate platelet function changes during a standardized spinal anesthetic and surgery, as well as after a single intraoperative dose of intravenous (IV) ketorolac. The study comprised 30 ASA physical status I patients undergoing spinal anesthesia for knee arthroscopy. Subjects were randomized to receive either ketorolac 60 mg IV 15 min after skin incision or placebo IV. Platelet function testing consisted of an Ivy bleeding time, platelet aggregometry with adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and collagen, thromboelastography (TEG), and serum thromboxane B2 (TxB2) assays. Platelet function testing was performed: 1) 15 min prior to the performance of spinal anesthesia; 2) 10 min after surgical skin incision; and 3) 45 min after administration of study drug. The placebo group demonstrated no changes in any platelet function variable during spinal anesthesia and surgery relative to preoperative values. The ketorolac group, however, demonstrated a significant increase in bleeding time from postincision to poststudy drug data points (213 +/- 60s to 275 +/- 85s, mean +/- SD; P < 0.01). Further, platelet aggregometry to collagen was diminished in the ketorolac group from preoperative to poststudy drug data points (90.8% +/- 7.6% to 60.5% +/- 32.5%; P < 0.01). Platelet aggregometry with ADP, however, was unchanged in the ketorolac group. Platelet TxB2 production decreased dramatically in the ketorolac group from preoperative to poststudy drug data points (157.2 +/- 129.4 to 0.3 +/- 0.3 ng/mL; P < 0.01). Platelet function does not appear to be accentuated during spinal anesthesia as it is during general anesthesia. Unlike during general anesthesia, platelet function during spinal anesthesia is impaired, with respect to bleeding time and platelet aggregometry to collagen, by a single intraoperative dose of IV ketorolac."}
{"id": "8638778", "title": "Continuous small-dose aprotinin controls fibrinolysis during orthotopic liver transplantation.", "content": "Continuous small-dose aprotinin controls fibrinolysis during orthotopic liver transplantation. Large doses of aprotinin (1,000,000-2,000,000 kallikrein inhibitor units [KIU] initial dose and a 500,000 KIU/h infusion) have been used during orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) to reduce the incidence and severity of fibrinolysis. This double-blinded study was designed to investigate whether a small-dose infusion of aprotinin (200,000 KIU/h) would control fibrinolysis. A controlled study was undertaken to compare small-dose aprotinin with a placebo in patients undergoing OLT with veno-venous bypass. Forty-four patients were randomized either to the aprotinin group (n = 21), which received an intravenous infusion of 200,000 KIU/h without an initial dose, or to a control group (n = 23), which received normal saline. Coagulation variables, thrombelastograms, and postoperative blood drainage were measured. Blood levels of fibrin degradation products (FDP) were significantly higher in the control group (95% > 20 micrograms/mL) at the end of surgery compared to the aprotinin group (53% > 20 micrograms/mL, P < 0.01). The transfusion of cryoprecipitate units was more in the control group versus the aprotinin (12.6 +/- 12.8 vs 5.7 +/- 7.5; P < 0.04), as was the number of fresh frozen plasma units (6.6 +/- 3.5 vs 3.6 +/- 6.1; P < 0.05). We conclude that an infusion of a small dose of aprotinin can safely control fibrinolysis during liver transplantation with a concomitant reduction in transfusion of blood products."}
{"id": "8624026", "title": "Discrepancy between thromboelastography and prothrombin time.", "content": "Discrepancy between thromboelastography and prothrombin time."}
{"id": "8624019", "title": "Heparinase and thromboelastography in liver transplantation for a patient with von Willebrand's disease.", "content": "Heparinase and thromboelastography in liver transplantation for a patient with von Willebrand's disease."}
{"id": "8622348", "title": "Reduced quality of in-vitro clot formation with gelatin-based plasma substitutes.", "content": "Reduced quality of in-vitro clot formation with gelatin-based plasma substitutes."}
{"id": "8615495", "title": "Lidocaine inhibits blood coagulation: implications for epidural blood patch.", "content": "Lidocaine inhibits blood coagulation: implications for epidural blood patch. Lidocaine in the epidural space, through inhibitory effects upon coagulation, may contribute to inefficacy of epidural autologous blood patch (EBP). This study was undertaken to evaluate the effect of achievable epidural concentrations of lidocaine on blood coagulation as a step in testing this hypothesis. Ex vivo blood coagulation using whole blood (n = 20) was studied with computerized thrombelastography (TEG). Each blood specimen was exposed to serial dilutions of lidocaine hydrochloride or saline to form end-concentrations of 0.0 mM, 2.3 mM, 4.6 mM, 9.2 mM, 18.5 mM, and 36.9 mM lidocaine. Statistical analysis using analysis of variance for repeated measures revealed that the three highest lidocaine concentrations tested caused hypocoagulable and/or fibrinolytic changes as compared with controls. Achievable epidural admixtures of lidocaine and whole blood will impair coagulation. Therefore, residual lidocaine in the epidural space may contribute to failures of immediate or early EBP."}
{"id": "8593155", "title": "[Basic values of blood coagulation parameters in pigs (Sus scrofa domesticus)].", "content": "[Basic values of blood coagulation parameters in pigs (Sus scrofa domesticus)]. On 23 clinical healthy pigs (2-4 months of age, body weight 13-42 kg) under ketamin-pentobarbital anaesthesia blood plasma coagulation parameters have been investigated. To obtain basic values 26 parameters were measured: number of thrombocytes, parameters of thrombelastogram and resonance-thrombogram, prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, thrombin time, reptilase time, factors I, II, V, VII, VIII, X, antithrombin III, plasminogen, alpha 1-antitrypsin, alpha 2-antiplasmin, alpha 2-macroglobulin, fibrin degradation products D and E and euglobulin lysis-time. Parameters calculated in percent should be measured against a pig plasma pool. Measurement against a human plasma pool are hardly valid in values higher than 100%. In comparison to man the results indicate modifications of fibrinogenesis and fibrinolysis in pigs."}
{"id": "10155358", "title": "Coagulation monitoring during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation: the role of thrombelastography.", "content": "Coagulation monitoring during extracorporeal membrane oxygenation: the role of thrombelastography. Patients undergoing extracorporeal membrane oxygenation (ECMO) are at an increased risk for developing coagulopathies due to the adverse effects of extracorporeal circulation on the hemostatic mechanism. Methods of determining causative factors of bleeding diathesis are often inconsistent and non-specific. ECMO patients require aggressive transfusion therapy with autogenic blood products to stabilize and maintain hemostasis. The present study evaluated the coagulation status of newborn patients undergoing ECMO therapy, using a viscoelastic monitor (Thrombelastograph -TEG) that measures functional aspects of clot development and stabilization. Seventeen neonatal patients undergoing ECMO for severe respiratory dysfunction were entered into this study. Serial blood samples were obtained and routine coagulation assessment including fibrinogen concentration, platelet count and ionized calcium was performed. In addition, fibrin(ogen) degradation products (FDP), d-Dimers, antithrombin III and plasma free hemoglobin were measured. Transfusion indicators were established and total transfusion requirements recorded. TEG profiles were determined with the use of heparinase, an enzyme that degrades heparin but has little effect on other coagulation factors. The most commonly encountered complication was hemorrhaging which was diagnosed by laboratory and clinical assessment in 11 of 17 patients. Transfusion requirements (measured in ml/kg/ECMO hour) were the following: packed red blood cells--1.34 +/- 0.5; platelets--0.71 +/- 0.57; fresh frozen plasma--0.09 +/- 0.12; cryoprecipitate 0.05 +/- 0.05. Thrombelastograph profiles reflected hemostatic conditions that ranged from severe coagulopathies (DIC) to hypercoagulability. Interpretation of TEG profiles identified hemostatic abnormalities in 57 of 101 profiles (46.5%), with the most common etiology related to platelet dysfunction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "9019821", "title": "Thromboelastography. Special issue dedicated to Professor Dr. Hellmut Hartert.", "content": "Thromboelastography. Special issue dedicated to Professor Dr. Hellmut Hartert."}
{"id": "8924744", "title": "[Changes in hemostasis during orthotopic liver transplantation and massive transfusion: a case report].", "content": "[Changes in hemostasis during orthotopic liver transplantation and massive transfusion: a case report]. Changes in hemostasis during orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) and an intraoperative bleeding complication requiring massive transfusion are discussed. The monitoring of hemostasis included bed-sided thromboelastography, measurement of in vitro platelet function with the thrombostat and routine coagulation tests as well as retrospective analysis of coagulation factors. Changes in hemostasis during OLT were documented as reported previously until reperfusion of the donor organ. Due to an incongruence between the caval veins and massive surgical bleeding, the liver had to be clamped again for reconstruction and perfused with University-of-Wisconsin solution. The second reperfusion was technically uncomplicated. However, the coagulation profile deteriorated dramatically: especially a decrease in platelet function and hyperfibrinolysis led to massive oozing. Successful therapeutical intervention included substitution of packed red blood cells. fresh frozen plasma, platelets. concentrates of hemostatic factors, and aprotinin. The patient was discharged from hospital after 5 weeks with a good liver function and a normal coagulation profile. During OLT, clinically relevant changes in hemostasis can occur suddenly. Therefore. a close perioperative monitoring of primary and secondary coagulation is mandatory."}
{"id": "8825223", "title": "Effects of the platelet-activating factor receptor antagonist WEB 2086 on whole blood coagulation and fibrinolysis in a thromboelastography assay.", "content": "Effects of the platelet-activating factor receptor antagonist WEB 2086 on whole blood coagulation and fibrinolysis in a thromboelastography assay. The effects of WEB 2086 on human blood coagulation and fibrinolysis were studied in vitro using computerized thromboelastography and native whole blood. WEB 2086 (3.0, 30, 150, and 300 microM) had no apparent effect on the split point (SP), reaction time (R) and lysis of the clot. The biKoatugulierung time (K) was prolonged, the angle (alpha) and maximum amplitude (MA) were diminished, and the overall coagulation index (TEG index) was smaller. SP and R indicate onset of coagulation with the formation of fibrin strands, suggesting that WEB 2086 had no effect on the plasma factors. Since the Lysis parameter reflects fibrinolysis, WEB 2086 had no demonstrable fibrinolytic activity. K, alpha and MA involve platelet function and the integrity of fibrin; the fact that these factors were affected to the exclusion of SP and R suggests an effect largely on platelets. There was lack of a dose-response relationship at this concentration range (3.0-300 microM), probably due to saturation of PAF receptors even at the lowest effective concentration. These findings are consistent with the known effects of WEB 2086 on platelet function and suggest that thromboelastography may be a useful tool in the study of the activity of PAF receptor antagonists on coagulation profiles. Furthermore, since WEB 2086 is a highly specific PAF receptor antagonist devoid of intrinsic activity, and the samples used were not treated with exogenous PAF, these results suggest that endogenous PAF may play a significant role in the normal clotting mechanism."}
{"id": "8753201", "title": "[Thrombelastography].", "content": "[Thrombelastography]."}
{"id": "8747696", "title": "Perspectives on thromboelastography.", "content": "Perspectives on thromboelastography. The knowledge of these sources of error together with strict methodology assure reliable results and avoid what some authors consider limitations of the test. These so-called limitations are actually due to incomplete information or insufficient experience. It is our opinion that the key for success when using TEG is to use the test in those cases for which it has been indicated. Also, the fact that TEG is a global test of coagulation should be kept in mind and therefore the need for additional hemostatic tests should be evaluated when applicable (Fig.3). According to this review, the established applications of TEG are as follows: (1) detection of hypercoagulable states, particularly in the postoperative period and for patients with malignancies; (2) management of patients who are administered intravenous heparin; (3) monitoring the coagulation state during liver transplantation; (4) monitoring the coagulation state and management of patients during cardiopulmonary bypass; and (5) diagnosis and treatment of hematologic dysfunctions, particularly hemophilia. Management of patients under warfarin administration, as well as monitoring of the adjustment of subcutaneous heparin prophylaxis in several surgical procedures, should probably belong to this list, but further studies are needed to confirm these roles. Used by experienced hands, TEG is a valuable hemostatic test, the future of which is already present."}
{"id": "8747695", "title": "Procoagulant and anticoagulant effects of intravascular contrast media as assessed by thromboelastography.", "content": "Procoagulant and anticoagulant effects of intravascular contrast media as assessed by thromboelastography."}
{"id": "8747694", "title": "Thromboelastographic analysis of patients receiving aprotinin with comparisons to platelet aggregation and other assays.", "content": "Thromboelastographic analysis of patients receiving aprotinin with comparisons to platelet aggregation and other assays."}
{"id": "8747693", "title": "Comparison of the anticoagulant activities of thrombin inhibitors as assessed by thromboelastographic analysis.", "content": "Comparison of the anticoagulant activities of thrombin inhibitors as assessed by thromboelastographic analysis."}
{"id": "8747692", "title": "The approach of thromboelastography in the monitoring of new synthetic antithrombotic agents, GL-522 and GL-2021.", "content": "The approach of thromboelastography in the monitoring of new synthetic antithrombotic agents, GL-522 and GL-2021."}
{"id": "8747691", "title": "Thromboelastographic study of fibrinolytic agents.", "content": "Thromboelastographic study of fibrinolytic agents."}
{"id": "8747690", "title": "Role of thromboelastography in evaluating other anticoagulant agents: warfarin and heparin-dihydroergotamine.", "content": "Role of thromboelastography in evaluating other anticoagulant agents: warfarin and heparin-dihydroergotamine."}
{"id": "8747689", "title": "Thromboelastographic modifications induced by intravenous and subcutaneous heparin administration.", "content": "Thromboelastographic modifications induced by intravenous and subcutaneous heparin administration."}
{"id": "8747688", "title": "Application of thromboelastography in other medical and surgical states.", "content": "Application of thromboelastography in other medical and surgical states."}
{"id": "8747687", "title": "Thromboelastography and liver transplantation.", "content": "Thromboelastography and liver transplantation. TEG has played an integral part in the growth of liver transplantation. The group at the University of Pittsburgh early on realized that coagulation dysfunction during liver transplantation would be both severe and dynamic. Each phase of the operation appears to have both predictable and unexpected changes in clot dynamics. The routine coagulation profile, although of great use, does not provide an overview of the interaction of stimulators, inhibitors, and available procoagulants to effect a final process, the production of a solid clot. The TEG is a unique gross test of clot strength perfectly suited to the changes during liver transplantation. The initial pioneering work during liver transplantation has inspired the work of others in related surgical fields to explore its utility. There is little doubt that its full utility has not yet been realized. Many questions still remain with regard to liver transplantation. New medications such as aprotinin will be applied to this procedure over the next few years. What effect these new medications will have on hemorrhage or thrombosis of vascular anastomoses is yet to be adequately explored. A new awareness appears to be arriving that normal or excessively hypercoagulable states could contribute to such thromboses. TEG as a technology will certainly contribute to a number of future studies and clinical care, which will enhance the conduct of liver transplantation in the future."}
{"id": "8747686", "title": "Thromboelastography in liver transplantation.", "content": "Thromboelastography in liver transplantation."}
{"id": "8747685", "title": "Thromboelastography and cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Thromboelastography and cardiopulmonary bypass. The TEG tracks postoperative hemorrhage after CPB and is useful in guiding therapy. Its ability to characterize the overall interaction of all procoagulant participants in a final outcome (clot strength) is unique. Much work in the future is needed to establish the particular applications for TEG monitoring in CPB patients"}
{"id": "8747684", "title": "Thromboelastography for the assessment of hypercoagulability during general surgery.", "content": "Thromboelastography for the assessment of hypercoagulability during general surgery."}
{"id": "8747683", "title": "Thromboelastography: measuring statistical probabilities.", "content": "Thromboelastography: measuring statistical probabilities."}
{"id": "8747682", "title": "The normal thromboelastogram and its interpretation.", "content": "The normal thromboelastogram and its interpretation."}
{"id": "8747681", "title": "The thromboelastography and the thromboelastograph technique.", "content": "The thromboelastography and the thromboelastograph technique."}
{"id": "8617530", "title": "Sexually transmitted diseases in children.", "content": "Sexually transmitted diseases in children. Fifty eight (16%) of the 362 patients, who reported to Dermatology and STD Department with symptoms pertaining to their genitourinary system were below 14 years of age. Fifty four (93.1%) of these children belonged to families of lower socio-economic strata. All the children were slum dwellers and none of them had studied beyond the third class. Syphilis was seen in 27.6%, gonorrhea in 24.1%, chancroid in 22.4%, candidiasis in 10.3%, condylomata acuminata in 6.9% and herpes genitalis in 6.9% of these children. The probable reasons for the increased prevalence of sexually transmitted diseases in children as ascertained by this study were sexual promiscuity and probably sexual assault. Sexually transmitted diseases (STDs) are becoming increasingly common among pre-adolescents. Between January 1988 and August 1989, 362 patients reported to the Dermatology and STD Department of Sri Guru Teg Bahadur Hospital, Shahdara, Delhi, with complaints pertaining to their genitourinary system. 58 of these patients were younger than age 14 years. 63.7% were male, 25 were aged 11-14 years, 10 were aged 6-10 years, and 2 were aged 0-5 years. There were 2 girls aged 11-14 years, 11 aged 6-10 years, and 8 aged 0-5 years. 54 of the children (93.1%) were of lower socioeconomic strata families. All lived in slums and none had studied beyond the third class. Syphilis was identified in 27.6%, gonorrhea in 24.1%, chancroid in 22.4%, candidiasis in 10.3%, condylomata acuminata in 6.9%, and herpes genitalis in 6.9%. These children most likely contracted the observed STDs as a result of sexual assault, early sexual maturity, sexual promiscuity, and sexual contact with prostitutes. There was a history of forced passive homosexual exposure in two of the three boys with condylomata acuminata. It should be noted that in the 0-5 year age group, the two boys presented with congenital syphilis, while one girl had secondary syphilis and seven girls had gonococcal-genital infections. Congenital syphilis was identified in no other children in the sample."}
{"id": "8608071", "title": "Comparison of thrombelastography with common coagulation tests in preeclamptic and healthy parturients.", "content": "Comparison of thrombelastography with common coagulation tests in preeclamptic and healthy parturients. Epidural analgesia/anesthesia is often beneficial in the management and treatment of preeclampsia. However, some preeclamptic patients have a coagulopathy that is a contraindication to regional anesthesia. A routine coagulation battery (RCB) consisting of prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, platelet count, and bleeding time, is commonly performed to assess coagulation status. Thrombelastography (TEG) is a measure of clotting that allows evaluation of overall coagulation activity. The goal of this study was to examine whether TEG can predict normal and abnormal coagulation as diagnosed by RCB in healthy and preeclamptic parturients. Forty-seven parturients participated in this prospective study, performed early in the first stage of labor. Twenty healthy parturients (group I), 19 mild (group II), and 8 severe preeclamptic/eclamptic parturients (group III) had RCB and TEG performed. Five patients (1, group I; 3, group II; 1, group III) had a normal RCB, but a mildly abnormal TEG (prolonged K, small alpha) (specificity = 0.88). Five of 27 preeclamptic parturients (1, group II; 4, group III) had abnormal RCBs. Three of these 5 patients had thrombocytopenia with normal bleeding times and TEGs. Two patients had thrombocytopenia and prolonged bleeding times and abnormal TEGs (sensitivity = 0.40). Thrombelastography is not an effective means of predicting abnormal coagulation, as diagnosed by RCB, in preeclamptic parturients, using currently defined normal TEG values for nonpregnant patients. However, an abnormal TEG maximum amplitude value always correlated with a prolonged bleeding time. Therefore, TEG may be useful in assessing platelet function in the presence of thrombocytopenia. Further studies are warranted."}
{"id": "8599189", "title": "Anticoagulant effects of Pseudechis australis (Australian king brown snake) venom on human blood: a computerized thromboelastography study.", "content": "Anticoagulant effects of Pseudechis australis (Australian king brown snake) venom on human blood: a computerized thromboelastography study. The crude venom of Pseudechis australis exhibited a dose-dependent anticoagulant action on human blood in vitro using computerized thromboelastography. Clot progress parameters (K and alpha) were affected at low dose levels which had no effect on onset of coagulation parameters (SP, R). At high dose levels there was total anticoagulant effect, but in all cases there was no evidence of fibrinolytic activity. These results generally agree with the known effects of this venom on coagulation in vivo, and further support our earlier suggestion that TEG may be a useful, one-step tool in the diagnosis and monitoring of the progress of envenomation patients."}
{"id": "8590850", "title": "Peripheral blood progenitor cell harvesting in multiple myeloma and malignant lymphoma.", "content": "Peripheral blood progenitor cell harvesting in multiple myeloma and malignant lymphoma. Peripheral blood progenitor cells are being used increasingly as part of the treatment protocol for a variety of haematological malignancies. The most appropriate mobilisation therapy and the optimum collection procedures have yet to be fully elucidated. 28 patients with myeloma (9), NHL (11) and HD (8) underwent PBSC mobilisation and harvesting between November 1992 and October 1993. Two protocols were used; the myeloma group received high-dose cyclophosphamide, 7 g/m2 + G-CSF and were leucapheresed on 5 consecutive days during the recovery period using the Haemonetics V50 and the lymphoma group a lower dose of cyclophosphamide, 3 g/m2 + G-CSF followed by leucapheresis on 2 or 3 occasions using a Cobe Spectra. Median time to achieve a WBC of 1 x 10(9)/l during the recovery phase, was 14 days (11-16) and 10 days (9-15) respectively. Median numbers of MNC and CFU-GM collected for the myeloma group were 5.9 x 10(8)/kg (2.5-13.5) and 69.4 x 10(4)/kg (9.9-268.1) and for the lymphoma group. 5.1 x 10(8)/kg (1.2-11.1) and 35.4 x 10(4)/kg (1.2-129.7). Three patients with lymphoma had a low yield of CFU-GM, two of which did not proceed to autograft. The third patient failed to engraft and died despite receiving bone marrow backup. For the remaining 25 patients, median time to neuts > 0.5 x 10(9)/l and platelets > 50 x 10(9)/l was 9 (8-13) and 11 (9-23) days for the myeloma group and 12 (9-15) and 13 (9-180) days for the lymphomas. We found a strong correlation between CD34+ cells and CFU-GM from the last 9 patients. There is a correlation between CFU-GM infused and speed of engraftment. All patients who received > 10 x 10(4) CFU-GM/kg showed a rapid engraftment for neutrophils and platelets. In all cases, when > 4 x 10(8)/kg MNC were harvested, > 10 x 10(4) CFU-GM/kg were obtained. Sufficient cells for a rapid engraftment can be obtained from 2 leucaphereses in the majority of patients. The recovering peripheral blood WBC provides a good indicator of when to harvest. The target value of CFU-GM can be predicted by the number of cells harvested and by the number of CD34 positive cells in the leucapheresis product."}
{"id": "8589293", "title": "Thromboelastography for the prediction of bleeding after transplant renal biopsy.", "content": "Thromboelastography for the prediction of bleeding after transplant renal biopsy. The ability of prebiopsy coagulation assays to predict mild postbiopsy bleeding was evaluated in renal transplant patients undergoing renal allograft biopsy (N = 120). The coagulation assays studied included the bleeding time, prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, platelet count, and thromboelastograph (TEG). Coagulation results were defined as abnormal if they fell outside the established normal reference range. Bleeding was defined as a drop in the hematocrit equal to or more than 4 points 6 h after the procedure or ultrasound evidence of a new perirenal hematoma. Overall, 21% of patients showed evidence of mild bleeding. Of those who bled, 78% had normal results on all coagulation tests, indicating that most mild bleeding was not associated with coagulation abnormalities. Of the assays tested, only abnormal TEG:angle (P < 0.01) and TEG:k (P < 0.04) values were associated with an increased risk of bleeding. Bleeding times were not predictive of an increased risk of postbiopsy bleeding; five patients had abnormal bleeding times ranging from 10 to 20 min of whom only one bled. All prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, and platelet count abnormalities were mild (e.g., no prothrombin times longer than 15 s, no platelet counts below 129,000/microL); none of these assays predicted postbiopsy bleeding. Other clinical characteristics, including patient age, sex, serum creatinine, blood pressure (if less than 160/90 mm Hg), number of biopsy passes, or renal pathology, did not appear to influence bleeding after biopsy. It was concluded that most bleeding after transplant renal biopsy was not associated with coagulation abnormalities and that the TEG was the best assay for detecting mild coagulation abnormalities associated with an increased risk of bleeding."}
{"id": "8584147", "title": "Intraoperative autologous blood transfusion in the surgical correction of craniosynostosis.", "content": "Intraoperative autologous blood transfusion in the surgical correction of craniosynostosis. Transfusion of homologous blood is associated with significant and well-known risks. Reported transfusion rates for pediatric patients undergoing surgical correction of synostotic calvarial sutures vary between 20 and 500% of estimated blood volume. The objective of this study was to ascertain the risks, benefits, and effects on transfusion rates associated with the use of intraoperative autologous transfusion (IAT) in this patient population. The Haemonetics Cell Saver 4 (Haemonetics Corporation, Braintree, MA) autotransfusion system was used to salvage blood in 18 patients undergoing the release of stenosed calvarial sutures. In a prospective, nonrandomized study, these patients were compared with a control group of similar age, gender, weight, and surgical procedures. There were 10 male patients and 8 female patients; the mean age was 7.2 months, the mean weight was 8.67 kg, and the mean surgical time was 3.15 hours. The mean amount of homologous blood transfused to the control group was 189 ml, compared with 87.69 ml for the IAT group, which was a decrease of 46.3%. The mean amount of autologous blood transfused was 150 ml (range, 50-250 ml). Thirty-three percent of the patients in the IAT group did not require homologous blood transfusion. No complications were observed with the use of the Cell Saver in the IAT group. The use of the Cell Saver was associated with a significant decrease in the amount and rate of homologous blood transfusions. Its use appears to be safe in pediatric patients undergoing craniosynostotic surgery."}
{"id": "8564676", "title": "[Traumatic emergencies and hemostasis].", "content": "[Traumatic emergencies and hemostasis]. The occurrence of bleeding in trauma patients is a life-threatening problem which can be explained by different mechanisms. The infusion of cristalloids, colloids, packed red blood cells, or even fresh frozen plasma is very rarely responsible for bleeding but it can contribute to dilute the patient's platelet pool, and especially dilutional thrombocytopenia is the first cause of bleeding after massive transfusion. Blood coagulation factor activity is decreased after a massive fluid infusion is performed but it has to reach a dramatically low plasma level in order to induce troubles. It has to be emphasized that colloids and especially dextrans can impair the patient's haemostasis by interfering the same way with the factor VIII-von Willebrand complex and fibrin formation. Gelatins do not interfere with platelets or with the coagulation system. A third mechanism that can explain the strong link between haemostasis and haemodilution is the haemostatic role of red cells. It has been shown in experimental models that red cells play a definite function in promoting platelet accretion on the damaged vessel surface. Higher values of haematocrit (Ht) are responsible for a better platelet adhesion On the opposite, platelet adhesion decreases when low values of Ht (< 20%) are reached. Hypothermia can also impair platelet function and worsen the bleeding. A simplified monitoring of haemostasis can be proposed with platelet count, whole blood coagulation clotting time, immediately available activated partial thromboplastin time and prothrombin time with bedside portable monitors and thromboelastography. Haematocrit and body temperature have to be monitored as well."}
{"id": "8547869", "title": "Comparison of Cobe Spectra and Haemonetics MCS-3P cell separators for peripheral blood stem cell harvesting.", "content": "Comparison of Cobe Spectra and Haemonetics MCS-3P cell separators for peripheral blood stem cell harvesting. A prospective study was undertaken to compare the total nucleated cell (TNC), mononuclear cell (MNC), CD34+ cell, and CFU-GM yields of two different cell separators. A Haemonetics MCS-3P and a Cobe Spectra machine were used to leukapherese 10 patients with malignant diseases on 4 consecutive days after mobilization with G-CSF. All patients were harvested twice on each machine for a fixed period of time. The blood volume processed (10.47 vs 3.79 l, P < 0.001), MNC yield (2.66 vs 0.90 x 10(8)/kg; P < 0.001), MNC yield rate (1.66 vs 0.55 x 10(6)/kg/min; P < 0.001), MNC purity (81 vs 42%; P < 0.001), CFU-GM yield (18.1 vs 5.5 x 10(4)/kg; P = 0.001), and CFU-GM yield rate (11.27 vs 3.42 x 10(2)/kg/min; P = 0.001) were significantly higher with the Spectra. The CD34+ cell yields and yield rates were comparable. Although CFU-GM and MNC yields per unit blood volume processed were comparable for both machines, there was a trend for higher CD34+ yields per unit volume processed with MCS-3P. We conclude that Spectra is faster than MCS-3P with more blood processed per unit time resulting in higher cell yields, but yields per unit volume processed are comparable for both machines. The choice of machine for a given patient depends upon convenience, venous access and the time available."}
{"id": "8529371", "title": "Thromboelastography and monitoring of coagulation in patients undergoing continuous venovenous hemofiltration.", "content": "Thromboelastography and monitoring of coagulation in patients undergoing continuous venovenous hemofiltration."}
{"id": "8523015", "title": "Prospective randomized evaluation of blood salvage techniques for primary total hip arthroplasty.", "content": "Prospective randomized evaluation of blood salvage techniques for primary total hip arthroplasty. A controlled, randomized, prospective study was performed evaluating the need for perioperative blood salvage for primary total hip arthroplasty patients who had donated autologous blood before surgery. One hundred fifty-three patients able to donate at least 2 units of autologous blood were divided into four groups. In group 1 (35 patients), intraoperative and postoperative Cell-Saver (Haemonetics, Braintree, MA) was employed. In group 2 (40 patients), a postoperative Solcotrans (Smith & Nephew Richards, Memphis, TN) reinfusion protocol was followed. In group 3 (40 patients), a closed-suction Hemovac drain (Zimmer, Warsaw, IN) was placed. In group 4, (38 patients), no drain was used. Decisions for transfusion were based on clinical and laboratory parameters and made in conjunction with medical consultation. All autologous blood was routinely reinfused. There was no statistically significant difference in transfusion requirements or wound complications among the four groups. Hemoglobin and hematocrit changes between groups also were not statistically significant, but a power test suggested insufficient patient numbers for absolute reliability of this observation. Only five patients (3.3%) in this study received homologous blood. Four of these patients were in the Solcotrans group and one was in the Cell-Saver group. Two reoperations were performed: one for hematoma (Solcotrans group) and one for a sewn-in drain. It is concluded that expensive perioperative blood salvage techniques are usually not needed in patients who have a primary total hip arthroplasty without cement and who have donated 2 units of blood before operation."}
{"id": "7880715", "title": "Effect of magnesium on coagulation as measured by thrombelastography.", "content": "Effect of magnesium on coagulation as measured by thrombelastography. Magnesium has long been assumed to have anticoagulant properties, but the effect has been poorly quantified. The thrombelastograph (TEG) was used to evaluate the effect of magnesium using blood from volunteers. Magnesium sulphate was added to one blood sample and another sample was used as a control. Both samples were tested simultaneously and the results evaluated against the magnesium concentration measured in each sample. At serum magnesium concentrations < 3 mmol litre-1, there were no significant effects of magnesium. With increasing magnesium concentrations there was a statistically significant but small prolongation of the r time, k time and r + k time. Maximum amplitude was affected only at magnesium concentrations > 7 mmol litre-1. Magnesium has only minimal effects on coagulation which are unlikely to be clinically important."}
{"id": "7832189", "title": "An acquired hemorrhagic disorder of fibrin crosslinking due to IgG antibodies to FXIII, successfully treated with FXIII replacement and cyclophosphamide.", "content": "An acquired hemorrhagic disorder of fibrin crosslinking due to IgG antibodies to FXIII, successfully treated with FXIII replacement and cyclophosphamide. We report a new case of severe bleeding diathesis due to an acquired inhibitor of fibrin crosslinking. The patient, an 80-year-old woman, was admitted to the hospital for a massive subcutaneous hematoma, with severe anemia requiring red cell transfusion; a subsequent retroperitoneal hematoma developed 2 weeks later. Coagulation studies were normal except for a thromboelastographic pattern suggestive of FXIII deficiency. Clot solubility test was abnormal even after 1:1 mix with normal plasma. Immunochemical studies confirmed the presence of a monoclonal IgG lambda inhibitor directed against FXIII activity (type II FXIII inhibitor). The patient IgG fraction selectively inhibited FXIII transamidating activity but did not inhibit the thrombin-mediated activation of FXIII. The patient was treated with high doses of FXIII concentrate to overcome the inhibitor and immunosuppressive therapy with cyclophosphamide and discharged in good conditions. High doses of commercially available FXIII appear to be a safe and effective method of controlling acute episodes of bleeding in patients with acquired FXIII deficiency."}
{"id": "7818319", "title": "Shed whole blood autotransfusion during aortic aneurysm operation with a modified collection infusion system.", "content": "Shed whole blood autotransfusion during aortic aneurysm operation with a modified collection infusion system. We describe a modified shed whole blood collection and autotransfusion system that allows several options for the processing and autotransfusion of shed blood: use of the Cell Saver (Haemonetics, Braintree, MA) or the ultrafiltration of collected blood, and the autotransfusion of unprocessed shed whole blood. The system has proved useful for transfusion in the setting of thoracic aortic operations, and we describe here our experience in 5 patients undergoing resection of a descending thoracic aortic aneurysm in whom this system was used."}
{"id": "7793222", "title": "Perioperative autotransfusion and functional coagulation analysis in total hip replacement.", "content": "Perioperative autotransfusion and functional coagulation analysis in total hip replacement. Functional coagulation analyses like Sonoclot and thromboelastography have not been evaluated during perioperative autotransfusion. We have prospectively studied three different transfusion regimes in 45 patients undergoing total hip arthroplasty. Blood losses were replaced either with heterologous erythrocyte concentrate (group I), intra- and postoperative autotransfusion of blood salvaged with cellsaver technique (group II) or predonated autologous erythrocyte concentrates together with salvaged blood (group III). Routine and functional coagulation analyses with a Sonoclot were performed preoperatively, 6 hours postoperatively (6 h), day 1-5 and 10. An early postoperative hypo- and late postoperative hypercoagulative phase could be detected with Sonoclot signs of platelet function and fibrin deposition in all groups. Sonoclot coagulation analyses better correlated to both blood loss and dextran dosage than APTT and platelet count in the routine coagulation analyses. Functional coagulation analysis has a potential use in individualizing plasmasubstitution and thromboprophylaxis regimes during autotransfusion in THR."}
{"id": "7785150", "title": "[Thromboelastography of blood coagulation in patients with complicated nasal furunculosis].", "content": "[Thromboelastography of blood coagulation in patients with complicated nasal furunculosis]. The study of blood coagulation in 50 patients with complicated nasal furuncle using thromboelastogram indicated that such patients have hypercoagulation correctable by intravascular laser radiation. Thromboelastography proved a reliable objective technique in evaluation of blood coagulation this promoting a valid choice of therapeutic policy in complicated nasal furunculi."}
{"id": "7780073", "title": "Changes in transfusion therapy and reexploration rate after institution of a blood management program in cardiac surgical patients.", "content": "Changes in transfusion therapy and reexploration rate after institution of a blood management program in cardiac surgical patients. A retrospective study was performed to determine the impact of a coagulation and transfusion management program on blood utilization in 1,079 sequential patients for myocardial revascularization and open ventricle or combined procedures. Four hundred and eighty-eight patients (group 1) before, and 591 patients (group 2) after institution of thromboelastography (TEG)-guided coagulation were studied and compared for transfusion requirements, donor exposure, and the incidence of reoperation for hemorrhage. Group 2 patients had a significantly lower incidence of overall transfusion (78.5% v 86.3%) during hospitalization and in total transfusion in the operating room (57.9% v 66.4%). The incidence of each transfusion subtype was also significantly lower in group 2 patients. Actual total median donor exposure was 8 in group 1 patients and 6 exposures in group 2 patients. Mediastinal reexploration for hemorrhage was 5.7% before institution of TEG-based coagulation monitoring and 1.5% in TEG-monitored patients. Use of TEG monitoring before reexploration has decreased the cost and potential risk for patients undergoing CABG surgery."}
{"id": "7774832", "title": "The subrenal capsule assay in selecting chemotherapy for ovarian cancer: a prospective randomized trial.", "content": "The subrenal capsule assay in selecting chemotherapy for ovarian cancer: a prospective randomized trial. In order to find out whether the response rate and survival in epithelial ovarian cancer can be improved by aid of sensitivity testing with the subrenal capsule assay (SRCA), 196 patients with FIGO Stage II-IV epithelial ovarian cancer were randomized to be treated with either cyclophosphamide-doxorubicin-cisplatin (CAP) or SRCA-guided chemotherapy. The drug combinations tested with the SRCA were (1) cyclophosphamide-doxorubicin-carboplatin (CACAR), (2) CAP, (3) carboquone-methotrexate-tegafur (CQ-MTX-TEG), (4) cisplatin-etoposide-hexamethyl-melamine (P-VP-HXM), and (5) bleomycin-epirubicin-cisplatin (BEP). A total of 132 patients (CAP, 69; SRCA, 63) were eligible for efficacy analysis based on relaparotomy findings. The overall response rate was 59% in the CAP arm and 62% in the SRCA arm. In the SRCA arm, 16 patients were treated with CACAR, 24 with CAP, 10 with CQ-MTX-TEG, 11 with P-VP-HXM, and 2 with BEP. The response rate to CACAR was 63% and to SRCA-CAP was 75%. The number of complete responses was higher when CAP was given as guided by the assay than when given at random (14/24 vs 23/69; P = 0.03, Pearson chi 2). Survival curves as estimated by Kaplan-Meier method gave a median survival of 24 (SE = 4) months to the SRCA arm and 28 (SE = 5) for the CAP arm (P = 0.7; log-rank test). Because no survival benefit was achieved, the SRCA obviously needs further development before it can be routinely recommended in the choice of first-line chemotherapy for patients with ovarian cancer."}
{"id": "7742784", "title": "The effects of pH on the generation of turbidity and elasticity associated with fibrinogen-fibrin conversion by thrombin are remarkably influenced by sialic acid in fibrinogen.", "content": "The effects of pH on the generation of turbidity and elasticity associated with fibrinogen-fibrin conversion by thrombin are remarkably influenced by sialic acid in fibrinogen. In fibrinogen-fibrin conversion by thrombin, the polymerization of a fibrin monomer is accompanied by gelation and an increase turbidity. Since sialic acids at the terminal of the carbohydrate chains bound to fibrinogen are part of the low affinity calcium binding site necessary for polymerization, they are closely involved in the network structure of fibrin clots. Fibrin clots derived from asialofibrinogen exhibited definite differences in turbidity and elasticity compared with those derived from intact fibrinogen, and were markedly dependent on the pH during the reaction. The turbidity during polymerization of fibrin, evaluated according to the absorbance at 350 nm, was maximum at pH 6.5-7.0, but it decreased in the other pH ranges, with the changes being unremarkable at higher pH levels but remarkable at lower pH ranges. The turbidity of fibrin derived from asialofibrinogen was far higher than that from intact fibrinogen near neutrality, but decreased rapidly and was lower than in intact fibrinogen at higher and lower pH ranges. Concerning the elasticity evaluated by thromboelastography, the coagulation time (k) and the maximum amplitude (ma) were lower in asialofibrinogen, indicating a deterioration of the clotting function of fibrinogen with the loss of sialic acid. These results suggest that sialic acid bound to fibrinogen is closely related to the fibrin network formation in blood coagulation, which is the most important function of fibrinogen, and plays a functional role in the stabilization of fibrin clot formation against environmental changes, including pH."}
{"id": "7730835", "title": "Titanium contamination of recycled Cell Saver blood in revision hip arthroplasty.", "content": "Titanium contamination of recycled Cell Saver blood in revision hip arthroplasty. The use of Cell Saver blood during revision hip arthroplasty has many benefits, both medical and economic. After a review of the current literature, to our knowledge, no case of metallic debris has been reported in the blood after complete treatment with the Haemonetics Cell Saver (Braintree, MA) and appropriate filter system. A case of total hip revision of a loose, cemented acetabular component with a commercially pure titanium metal backing and a titanium alloy plasma-spray textured surface was undertaken. The titanium alloy femoral component was not visibly loose and was not revised. The joint lining tissues were black. Throughout the procedure, the operative site was suctioned with a double-lumen heparinized catheter that delivered blood and other materials to a Haemonetics Cell Saver 3 Plus. The reservoir and filter unit used were the compatible Bentley BCR-3500 (Baxter, Irvine, CA), a system capable of filtering particulates down to 20 microns. Prior to infusion of the salvaged blood, many large black clumps of material were observed mixed in the blood. Some measured 10 x 5 x 5 mm and could easily be seen macroscopically. Light microscopy demonstrated red blood cells with intermixed neutrophils, and black foreign material scattered as separate particles and within the cytoplasm of the scattered histiocytes. Energy dispersive analysis of the black material confirmed the composition as primarily titanium with minute quantities of copper, iron, phosphorous, and sulfur. A scanning electron photomicrograph of one of the specimens demonstrated a large conglomerate, approximately 2,000 microns in diameter, composed primarily of titanium and organic material.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7717548", "title": "Thromboelastography as a guide to platelet transfusion.", "content": "Thromboelastography as a guide to platelet transfusion."}
{"id": "7676776", "title": "Leucocyte content in blood processed by autotransfusion devices during open-heart surgery.", "content": "Leucocyte content in blood processed by autotransfusion devices during open-heart surgery. Autologous red blood cells processed by autotransfusion devices have become increasingly common in major surgery. The finished product, however, often contains varying amounts of leucocytes. We compared leucocyte and their differential counts of blood processed by three autotransfusion devices (Haemonetics Cell Saver IV, Dideco Stat and Dideco Stat-P) during open-heart operations on 25 patients. In addition, a zymosan-induced, luminol-enhanced chemiluminescence method was used to evaluate the activity of neutrophils in prepared autologous blood. High leucocyte counts (3.6-10.9 x 10(9)l-1) were found in all saved red blood cell concentrates. The leucocyte counts of autologous blood produced by the Haemonetics device were lowest (P < 0.01) and about one third of the patients' haematocrit-corrected counts. The proportions of neutrophils were higher in salvaged blood than in the blood circulation before anaesthesia or before retransfusion (P < 0.01). However, no general activation of neutrophils was seen, but the increase in chemiluminescence activity of about 30% that was seen in four patients may suggest an increased risk of reperfusion injury in such patients after aortic declamping. In conclusion, all three autotransfusion devices left leucocytes in the processed red blood cell concentrates, although great differences occurred between the devices."}
{"id": "7674412", "title": "Hemostatic competency and elastase-alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor levels in surgery, trauma, and sepsis.", "content": "Hemostatic competency and elastase-alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor levels in surgery, trauma, and sepsis. Previous studies investigated the effects of neutrophil elastase on isolated factors in the hemostatic process. Some of these reported effects are, however, procoagulative and others anticoagulative. The aim of this study was to ascertain the effect of elastase on the in vivo hemostatic competency. The effect of elastase activity on the hemostatic competency was determined in a group of 50 surgical intensive care unit patients and 23 control subjects. Surgical intensive care unit patients were subgrouped into a surgery, a trauma, and a sepsis-multiple organ failure group. Elastase activity was assessed by elastase-alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor levels and hemostatic competency by thromboelastography. Thromboelastography results showed a relatively normal coagulative ability in the surgery group, a varying degree of thromboelastographic hypocoagulability in the trauma group, and pronounced thromboelastographic instability in the sepsis-multiple organ failure group. Increases in elastase-alpha 1-proteinase inhibitor levels up to 200 micrograms/L were accompanied by a compromised coagulative ability as seen in a prolongation of both the first and second phases of the clotting time, as well as a decrease in the maximal clot elasticity."}
{"id": "7669463", "title": "Effect of ketorolac, bupivacaine and low-dose heparin on thrombelastographic variables in vitro.", "content": "Effect of ketorolac, bupivacaine and low-dose heparin on thrombelastographic variables in vitro. We have studied the effects of ketorolac, bupivacaine and low-dose heparin on three thrombelastographic (TEG) variables (r, alpha, MA) in vitro. Blood samples were obtained from 12 healthy volunteers and 88 ASA I-II elective surgical patients. Clinically relevant concentrations of ketorolac (4.1 micrograms ml-1) and bupivacaine (2.7 micrograms ml-1) had little or no effect on the TEG variables. However, low concentrations of heparin (0.07-0.28 u. ml-1) had marked effects on all three TEG variables. Thus the interpretation of TEG abnormalities during anaesthesia and surgery may be confounded by the presence of heparin, but not by clinical concentrations of ketorolac or bupivacaine."}
{"id": "7660162", "title": "Therapeutic use of phospholipids in thrombocytopenic or thrombocytopathic patients.", "content": "Therapeutic use of phospholipids in thrombocytopenic or thrombocytopathic patients. Eight thrombocytopenic/pathic patients received an intravenous infusion of phospholipids. In vitro bleeding test (Thrombostat 4000), thrombelastography, and resonance thrombography were performed in order to show the hemostatic effect. In none of the cases did phospholipids exert an effect comparable to platelet transfusion. Two patients, brother and sister, had a severe anaphylactoid reaction after the administration of phospholipids."}
{"id": "7653831", "title": "Temperature corrected thrombelastography in hypothermic patients.", "content": "Temperature corrected thrombelastography in hypothermic patients. Thrombelastograms and other coagulation studies are performed at 37 degrees C, regardless of the patient's body temperature. This prospective study of 45 patients undergoing orthotopic liver transplantation was conducted to evaluate the effect on the thrombelastogram performed at the patient's actual body temperature compared with a control thrombelastogram heated in the standard fashion to 37 degrees C. Thrombelastograms were obtained after the induction of anesthesia and at various times throughout the operation when clinically indicated. A freshly drawn sample of the patient's blood was divided into two aliquots and run simultaneously on two thrombelastographs; one thrombelastograph was modified with a thermostat to perform the test at the patient's body temperature and the other was unmodified to serve as a control. The temperature of the patients in this study ranged from 36.9 degrees C to 32 degrees C. The variables of the thrombelastogram measured were: r (reaction time in minutes), r + K (coagulation time in minutes), alpha (coagulation rate in degrees), and MA (maximum amplitude in millimeters). Whenever the patient's body temperature was less than 37 degrees C, statistically significant prolongation of the reaction time, coagulation time, and decrease in the clot formation rate occurred compared with control variables at 37 degrees C. Overall means were as follows: r for control, 8.24 +/- 0.28 min; r for temperature corrected, 9.32 +/- 0.27 min; r + K for control, 15.4 +/- 0.65 min; r + K for temperature corrected, 17.5 +/- 0.81 min; and alpha for control, 39.8 +/- 1.22 degrees; alpha for temperature corrected, 37.7 +/- 1.23 degrees.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7640422", "title": "Thromboxane B2 blood levels and incipient system clotting in heparin free hemodialysis.", "content": "Thromboxane B2 blood levels and incipient system clotting in heparin free hemodialysis. Clotting of the extracorporal system is the main complication of heparin free hemodialysis performed in patients with an increased risk of bleeding. The authors compared thromboxane B2, platelet factor 4, beta-thromboglobulin, and thromboelastography in systemic blood as markers of thrombogenicity during hemodialysis in eight patients with an increased risk of bleeding. Measurements were performed during hemodialysis with and without heparin. Thromboxane B2 levels in centrifuged blood were evaluated by an 125I assay system using a special extraction with mini-columns and magnetic separation (normal 32-64 pg/ml). At the onset of hemodialysis, thromboxane B2 concentrations in the inflow arterial blood line were lower than normal (30 +/- 23 pg/ml). Thromboxane B2 increased (97 +/- 105 versus 40 +/- 26 pg/ml) and was significantly higher during heparin free hemodialysis than during hemodialysis with heparin (p = 0.01, Wilcoxon matched pairs signed rank test). The highest values were observed in 5 cases with signs of clotting (152 +/- 122 pg/ml). Among the investigated parameters, thromboxane B2 proved to be the most significant serum parameter correlated with platelet activation and the consequently increased risk of incipient clotting during heparin free hemodialysis."}
{"id": "7633845", "title": "Complications of peripheral blood stem cell harvesting: review of 554 PBSC leukaphereses.", "content": "Complications of peripheral blood stem cell harvesting: review of 554 PBSC leukaphereses. The collection of PBSC for transplantation requires repetitive leukapheresis, typically via central venous catheters (CVC). To assess the complications of this procedure, we reviewed 75 consecutive PBSC transplant candidates requiring 554 leukapheresis on a Haemonetics V50 Plus apheresis system. CVC occlusion necessitating thrombolytic therapy or cancellation of the procedure was the most commonly observed complication, occurring among 37 patients on 86 occasions (15.9% of CVC-aided collections). Thrombolytic therapy was successful in 85%. Of the patients, 16% experienced an infectious complication during the PBSC harvesting; chemotherapy mobilization significantly increased this risk, whereas growth factor mobilization was protective (p < 0.02). Hematologic complications including anemia (median postapheresis nadir hemoglobin 8.8 g/dl) and transient thrombocytopenia (median postapheresis nadir 64,000/microliters) required transfusional support among 30.7% and 14.7% of patients, respectively. The use of chemotherapy mobilization was correlated with increased need for support of both red cells and platelets (p < 0.001). Additional complications included catheter placement problems, symptomatic citrate-related hypocalcemia, transient hypotension, and machine-related malfunctions. Although the complications of the PBSC harvests were manageable, given their frequency the decision to pursue this form of hematopoietic rescue in preference to traditional operative bone marrow harvesting must address these risks."}
{"id": "7618714", "title": "Quantification of thrombelastographic changes after blood component transfusion in patients with liver disease in the intensive care unit.", "content": "Quantification of thrombelastographic changes after blood component transfusion in patients with liver disease in the intensive care unit. Thrombelastography (TEG) can be used to monitor hemostasis and guide transfusion therapy during orthotopic liver transplantation. However, data are limited regarding the type and quantity of blood components necessary for TEG-guided blood component transfusion in coagulopathic critically ill patients with liver disease. We evaluated changes in four thrombelastogram variables (reaction time, thrombin constant time, alpha angle, and maximum amplitude) in whole blood samples after 74 separate blood component transfusions in 60 critically ill patients with a coagulopathy and liver disease. Only platelets significantly improved TEG variables in patients who received a single type of blood component. Each unit of platelets decreased the reaction and thrombin constant time by 0.43 (P < 0.05) and 0.82 (P < 0.005) min, respectively, increased the alpha angle by 1.5 degrees (P < 0.005), and the maximum amplitude by 1.4 mm (P < 0.005). In patients who received multiple blood components, cryoprecipitate decreased the thrombin constant time by 0.56 min/U (P < 0.05), and each unit of platelets decreased the thrombin constant time by 0.39 min (P < 0.005), and increased the alpha angle and maximum amplitude by 0.63 degrees (P < 0.05) and 0.99 mm (P < 0.005), respectively. We conclude that platelet transfusions, alone or in combination with other blood components, are most effective for improving abnormal TEG variables in coagulopathic critically ill patients with liver disease."}
{"id": "7618707", "title": "Autologous platelet-rich plasmapheresis: risk versus benefit in repeat cardiac operations.", "content": "Autologous platelet-rich plasmapheresis: risk versus benefit in repeat cardiac operations. Preoperative platelet-rich plasmapheresis has been suggested as a means of reducing homologous blood transfusions in cardiac surgical patients. The current study evaluated this technique in patients undergoing repeat cardiac operations. Fifty-two patients undergoing repeat myocardial revascularization and/or valve replacement were evaluated in a prospective randomized controlled study design. Autologous platelet-rich plasma (PRP) was harvested after the induction of anesthesia in the experimental group. After reversal of heparin, each patient received his or her autologous plasma. Patients in the control group did not have plasmapheresis and received standard transfusion therapy if coagulation variables were abnormal and a coagulopathy was clinically evident. Routine coagulation tests, thromboelastography (TEG), perioperative bleeding, and transfusion requirements were compared in the two groups. Forty-four patients completed the study. A significantly larger volume of packed red blood cells (PRBCs) was transfused in the PRP group than in the control group (P = 0.03). Platelet and fresh frozen plasma (FFP) transfusions did not differ between the two groups. Mediastinal tube drainage did not differ between the two groups. During PRP infusion, 60% of the patients required treatment for moderate hypotension (mean arterial pressure [MAP] < 60 mm Hg). Only 16% of control patients required treatment for hypotension during the comparable time period (P < 0.05). No patient who completed the study returned to the operating room for postoperative bleeding. These data suggest that PRP did not reduce postbypass bleeding or transfusion requirements in repeat cardiac surgical patients. Moreover, the incidence of hypotension during PRP reinfusion introduces a potential risk to the procedure in the absence of any obvious benefit."}
{"id": "7598280", "title": "The effects of milrinone on platelets in patients undergoing cardiac surgery.", "content": "The effects of milrinone on platelets in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. Although amrinone produces thrombocytopenia, no information is available regarding the acute effects of milrinone on platelets. Therefore, we evaluated the effects of milrinone on platelet number and function in cardiac surgical patients. Twenty-seven patients were studied during cardiac surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). Patients were randomized to receive no milrinone (n = 10), or milrinone (n = 17) at a loading dose of 50-75 micrograms/kg in the CPB circuit followed by 0.5-0.75 micrograms.kg-1.min-1 for 12-24 h. Bleeding times and blood samples for coagulation studies were obtained prior to induction, and at 2 and 24 h after CPB. In both groups, platelet counts decreased significantly from the baseline at 2 and 24 h after CPB, and bleeding time increased significantly from the baseline at 2 and 24 h after CPB. No significant thromboelastoplasty (TEG) changes were observed in either group, and there were no significant differences in platelet aggregation or chest tube drainage between the groups. Acute milrinone administration did not cause significant changes in platelet number or function in patients undergoing cardiac operations requiring CPB, beyond the usual adverse effects of cardiac surgery and CPB."}
{"id": "7598278", "title": "Heparin neutralization by recombinant platelet factor 4 and protamine.", "content": "Heparin neutralization by recombinant platelet factor 4 and protamine. Protamine is the only available drug to reverse heparin-induced anticoagulation. Platelet factor 4 (PF4) is a basic polypeptide stored in platelets that reverses heparin. To investigate its potential as a reversal drug, we studied recombinant PF4 on anticoagulated blood obtained during cardiac surgery. Blood was obtained from 33 different venous reservoirs, and activated clotting time (ACT), heparin concentrations, and heparinase-ACT were determined. Anticoagulation was reversed by adding incremental PF4:heparin and protamine:heparin ratios to the heparinized blood, and the ACTs were determined (n = 21). Viscoelastic analysis of anticoagulation reversal was performed by adding protamine or PF4 at reversal ratios of 1.3:1 protamine:heparin, and 3.2:1 PF4:heparin using thromboelastography (n = 12). PF4 reversal ratios of 3:1 and 3.5:1 and protamine reversal ratios of 1:1, 1.5:1, 2:1 were not statistically different from heparinase-ACT values. There were no significant differences in viscoelastic measurements of clot formation between protamine and PF4. Recombinant PF4 at a 3.0:1 ratio reverses heparin-induced anticoagulation after cardiopulmonary bypass, and represents a potential alternative, especially for the protamine allergic patient."}
{"id": "7598238", "title": "Intravenous ketorolac tromethamine does not worsen platelet function during knee arthroscopy under general anesthesia.", "content": "Intravenous ketorolac tromethamine does not worsen platelet function during knee arthroscopy under general anesthesia. Ketorolac (KT) prolongs bleeding time and inhibits platelet aggregation and platelet thromboxane production in healthy, awake volunteers. However, platelet function may be accentuated during the stress of general anesthesia (GA) and surgery. The purpose of this study was to investigate platelet function changes during a standard GA technique and surgery, as well as after a single intraoperative dose of intravenous (i.v.) KT. The study comprised 30 ASA physical status I patients undergoing GA for knee arthroscopy. Subjects were randomized to receive either KT 60 mg IV 15 min after skin incision or placebo i.v. Platelet function testing consisted of an Ivy bleeding time (BT), platelet aggregometry (PA) with adenosine diphosphate (ADP) and collagen, thromboelastography (TEG), and serum thromboxane B2 assays (TxB2). Platelet function testing was performed: 1) 15 min prior to the induction of GA, 2) 10 min after skin incision, and 3) 45 min after administration of study drug. BT decreased significantly in the placebo group from 263 +/- 133 s (mean +/- SD) preoperatively to 207 +/- 89 s postincision. BT did not change in the KT group. PA was unchanged after IV KT. TEG data was unchanged in both groups during anesthesia and surgery. TxB2 levels decreased markedly in the KT group from 106.9 +/- 96.2 ng/mL preoperatively to 0.4 +/- 1.2 ng/mL poststudy drug, P = 0.002. Platelet function appears to be accentuated during GA and surgery as evaluated by BT in the placebo group. Further, platelet function by BT, PA, and TEG was not inhibited after i.v. KT despite near complete abolition of TxB2 production."}
{"id": "7597604", "title": "Postoperative hypercoagulability and deep-vein thrombosis after laparoscopic cholecystectomy.", "content": "Postoperative hypercoagulability and deep-vein thrombosis after laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Patients who undergo laparoscopic cholecystectomy (LC) are operated on under general anesthesia, in a reverse Trendelenburg position, with 12-15-mmHg pneumoperitoneum. All of these factors can induce venous stasis of the legs, which may lead to postoperative deep-vein thrombosis (DVT). The objectives of this study were to assess the degree of hypercoagulability and to determine the rate of postoperative DVT in a group of 100 patients in whom LC was completed. Whole-blood thrombelastography (TEG) and plasma-activated partial thromboplastin time (PTT) determination were carried out preoperatively and on the 1st postoperative day. All patients received pre-, intra-, and postoperative graduated compression stockings and sequential pneumatic compression devices until fully ambulatory. Twenty-six percent of the patients with a risk score > 4, or a post-operative TEG index > +5.0, received subcutaneous heparin (5,000 units b.i.d.), beginning in the postoperative period and continuing for 4 weeks as an outpatient. A complete venous duplex scan of both legs was performed on the 7th postoperative day, at the time of their office visit. Our results revealed significant postoperative hypercoagulability for the TEG index (P < 0.005) and for PTT (P < 0.05). One patient had an asymptomatic DVT (1%), and no side effects from the mechanical or pharmacological prophylaxis occurred in this series. These data suggest that the low incidence of thrombosis in the face of theoretical and laboratory evidence of postoperative hypercoagulability may reflect an effective prophylactic regime.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7579101", "title": "Bedside coagulation monitoring.", "content": "Bedside coagulation monitoring."}
{"id": "7576709", "title": "Surfactant incorporation markedly alters mechanical properties of a fibrin clot.", "content": "Surfactant incorporation markedly alters mechanical properties of a fibrin clot. Intra-alveolar clot formation is a common finding in acute and chronic inflammatory lung diseases. Incorporation of lipophilic surfactant components into a growing fibrin clot has recently been reported (Am. J. Respir. Cell Mol. Biol. 1993; 9:213-220). In the present study, we investigated the influence of such surfactant incorporation on the elastic properties and water permeability of the fibrin polymer. Thrombelastography and compaction experiments were employed for assessment of the elastic properties, and the permeability characteristics of the clot material were addressed in fibrin-packed columns. Two calf lung surfactant extracts (CLSE and Alveofact), Curosurf, and a synthetic phospholipid mixture (dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylglycerol, and palmitic acid at a ratio of 68.5:22.5:9 [wt/wt]) were used. The presence of surfactant did not affect the cleavage of fibrinopeptide A upon incubation of fibrinogen with thrombin (enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay technique). Similarly, kinetics and extent of factor XIII-induced covalent crosslinkage of the fibrin network remained unchanged in the presence of surfactant (sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and D-Dimer quantification upon subsequent clot lysis). All surfactants, however, dose-dependently decreased the elastic modulus of the arising fibrin polymer. The maximal amplitude in thrombelastography was reduced, and the recovery of fluid after centrifugation of the fibrin clot increased. Fibrin clots embedding natural surfactant material displayed reduced permeability for saline as compared with control fibrin polymers. Subsequent washout of lipids from these clots with Triton X-100 resulted in increased hydraulic conductivity. This was accompanied by an increase in pore size, suggesting altered architecture of the fibrin matrix generated in the presence of surfactant.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7572010", "title": "Effects of organic nitrate vasodilators on platelet function before and after cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Effects of organic nitrate vasodilators on platelet function before and after cardiopulmonary bypass. Various in vitro, ex vivo and in vivo tests have shown that organic nitrates attenuate platelet function. Because organic nitrates are commonly administered to patients undergoing cardiac surgery, the postoperative bleeding tendency observed in these patients might be strengthened by nitrates. Therefore, we compared the acute effects of nitroglycerin (0.5 micrograms kg-1 min-1) and isosorbide dinitrate (0.5 or 2.5 micrograms kg-1 min-1) with those of placebo on platelet function both before and after cardiopulmonary bypass in 40 patients undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). Bleeding time, platelet retention on glass beads, i.e. platelet adhesiveness, and thromboelastograph tracings were used as indicators of platelet function. Although nitroglycerin and isosorbide dinitrate induced significant haemodynamic changes, e.g. decreases in arterial and pulmonary arterial pressure, they had no significant effects on the indices of platelet function. We conclude that, when given in haemodynamically effective doses, neither nitroglycerin nor isosorbide dinitrate have any measurable acute effect on platelet function as evaluated with on-site tests in patients undergoing CABG surgery."}
{"id": "7537514", "title": "Thrombelastography reveals two causes of haemorrhage in HELLP syndrome.", "content": "Thrombelastography reveals two causes of haemorrhage in HELLP syndrome. We describe the use of thrombelastography in HELLP syndrome (Haemolysis, Elevated Liver Enzymes, Low Platelets). It differentiated between two possible causes of significant haemorrhage and revealed an accompanying underlying fibrinolysis. This allowed specific therapy to be directed at both abnormalities and, we believe, helped prevent this patient from undergoing radical surgery to curb blood loss."}
{"id": "7535282", "title": "Pharmacological manipulation of gastric juice: thrombelastographic assessment and implications for treatment of gastrointestinal haemorrhage.", "content": "Pharmacological manipulation of gastric juice: thrombelastographic assessment and implications for treatment of gastrointestinal haemorrhage. The impairment of formation and maintenance of a formed fibrin clot contributes to the prolonged bleeding and high incidence of rebleeding in upper gastrointestinal haemorrhage. To investigate the basis for the use of drug therapy in gastric bleeding, this study used thrombelastography to determine the effects of pharmacological manipulation of gastric juice on coagulation and fibrinolysis. The thrombelastograph is a mechanical device that provides a visual assessment of all stages of coagulation and fibrinolysis. The effects of fresh and pharmacologically changed gastric juice was assessed after its addition to fresh whole blood in the thrombelastograph cuvette. Pharmacological manipulation was achieved through alkalisation or through addition of tranexamic acid, aprotinin, or sucralfate. Fresh gastric juice delayed clot formation, decreased maximum clot amplitude, and stimulated clot lysis. Alkalisation inhibited the lytic effects of fresh gastric juice and improved the induced abnormalities in coagulation. Tranexamic acid partially inhibited gastric juice induced clot lysis but did not exhibit a beneficial effect on coagulation. Sucralfate, and to a lesser extent aprotinin significantly inhibited fibrinolysis but exacerbated the detrimental effect of gastric juice on the parameters of coagulation. Alkalisation of gastric juice reduces the adverse effect on coagulation and fibrinolysis. Tranexamic acid, aprotinin, and sucralfate can all reduce or inhibit clot lysis, but the adverse effects on clot formation may outweigh any potential benefit in the treatment of gastrointestinal bleeding."}
{"id": "7529819", "title": "Hyperfibrinolysis during intracranial surgery: effect of high dose aprotinin.", "content": "Hyperfibrinolysis during intracranial surgery: effect of high dose aprotinin. A patient undergoing intracranial surgery developed disseminated intravascular coagulation with life threatening peroperative bleeding. Thromboelastography established the diagnosis of hyperfibrinolysis, usually a fatal complication of a neurosurgical operation. With the administration of a high dose regimen of aprotinin (Trasylol) the haemorrhage was controlled and the hyperfibrinolytic state reversed. Evaluation of blood samples from the jugular bulb suggested that there was a pronounced local release of tissue plasminogen activator into the circulation."}
{"id": "7496124", "title": "Comparison of different protocols in plateletpheresis with the haemonetics MCS 3p blood cell separator with respect to parameters of product quality.", "content": "Comparison of different protocols in plateletpheresis with the haemonetics MCS 3p blood cell separator with respect to parameters of product quality. In thrombocytapheresis, intermittent flow cell separators produce platelet concentrates (PC) with a higher leucocyte contamination than continuous flow blood cell separators. The new discontinuous flow cell separator Haemonetics MCS 3p offers a low-leucocyte solution for PC. The quality of PC obtained by the MCS 3p was investigated in this study. Prospective study. Haemapheresis Unit of a University Clinic. Healthy blood donors from the haemapheresis unit. Platelet (PLT) yield, separation efficiency and white blood cell (WBC) contamination were studied in three different protocols. Two protocols used a haemocalculator, which calculated the target volume based on the donor's physical characteristics and the desired PLT yield for the procedure. Protocol I used 3,000 ml as target process volume and protocol II 3.3 x 10(11) as desired PLT yield. Protocol III was used without haemocalculator. Glucose, lactate, lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), morphology score and pH value were analysed to investigate the quality of the PC. Platelet yield and separation efficiency were not statistically different in the three protocols. Leucocyte contamination was lowest in the protocol without haemocalculator (median: 3.15 x 10(6), range 0.4-20.8 x 10(6)). Glucose, lactate, LDH and pH were not statistically different in the three protocols. Morphology score was best in protocol III. PLT collection with the MCS 3p blood cell separator results in sufficient thrombocyte yields. Using the haemocalculator we were not able to achieve the desired platelet yield. For this reason, and because of the higher WBC contamination in protocol II we prefer PLT collection without the haemocalculator. The quality of the platelet concentrates was good with respect to the parameters glucose, lactate, LDH, morphology score and pH."}
{"id": "7474753", "title": "[The results of resection treatment in infrarenal aneurysms of the abdominal aorta over the last 5 years (1989-1993)].", "content": "[The results of resection treatment in infrarenal aneurysms of the abdominal aorta over the last 5 years (1989-1993)]. Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA) are a major problem in vascular surgery owing to their ever increasing incidence, asymptomatic course and disastrous complications. The positive postoperative results of elective treatment account for a lowered mortality rate, with life expectancy prolonged as much as twice. However, the results of the operative treatment of AAA on an emergency basis are still unsatisfactory. It is the purpose of this paper to describe hitherto experience and success of the clinic with AAA treatment, and inform the medical circles about the increased potentialities of the management of this unexplored, difficult but still curable disease. Seventy-three patients presenting AAA, operated on during the period 1989-1993, are analyzed. The clinical signs and associated diseases, frequency of clinical forms, preoperative factors influencing the risks of forthcoming operations and the long-term results are comprehensively discussed. An asymptomatic clinical form is observed in 60.5 per cent of the patients (Pt = 0.05). Operative lethality is significantly increased in the event of rupture of the aneurysm, its diameter, angina pectoris symptoms and hypertension (P = 0.01). A standard operative technique, described by Creech, is used. Haemonetics Cell Saver is also employed. Thus, the amount of donor blood is reduced by one third of the volume required without any accidents or fatalities. The causes of postoperative death include: ischemic colitis, myocardial infarction and bronchopneumonia. Thanks to the experience and skill of the surgical and anesthesiological teams, the last five years are marked by a low rate of mortality - 3.7 percent for the elective group, and 12.5 percent for the emergency cases.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "9480150", "title": "[Mechanical separation of erythrocyte concentrates and fresh plasma in autologous blood transfusion using Haemonetics MCS-3P].", "content": "[Mechanical separation of erythrocyte concentrates and fresh plasma in autologous blood transfusion using Haemonetics MCS-3P]. The application of an autologous blood programme in hospitals is often limited by missing preconditions such as equipment, room, or staff. A component therapy in autologous blood donation is now easily possible by an automated whole blood donation with cell separator MCS-3P which allows in one step the collection of one unit red cell concentrate and one unit of plasma in 7 min. The quality of the collected blood preparations meets the requirements."}
{"id": "9480119", "title": "[Haemonetics MCS-3 pump system: improved production quality in thrombocytapheresis with a discontinuous cell separator].", "content": "[Haemonetics MCS-3 pump system: improved production quality in thrombocytapheresis with a discontinuous cell separator]. With the new cell separator MCS-3P (Haemonetics) platelet concentrates were collected in 90 min with an average yield of 3 x 10(11) platelets in 280 ml (53 donations). The most important advantage is the reduced residual leukocyte contamination of approximately 2.4 x 10(6)."}
{"id": "9422102", "title": "White blood cell-reduced platelet concentrates prepared by filtration using the Sepacell PL 5 II/10 II filter.", "content": "White blood cell-reduced platelet concentrates prepared by filtration using the Sepacell PL 5 II/10 II filter. The further developed adsorption filter Sepacell PL 5/10 II has been evaluated for the white blood cell (WBC) removal from platelet concentrates (PCs) collected using a blood cell separator Fresenius AS 104 (F) or Haemonetics PCS Plus (H). Filtration was carried out according to the manufacturer's instructions by gravity and flow rates of 40-50 ml/min (BT Blood Banking) or 3-5 ml/min (AS Bedside). Mean post-filtration WBC contents under blood bank conditions were (5.63 +/- 6.44) x 10(5) (H) and (0.30 +/- 0.18) x 10(5) (F) for the PL 5 II filter and (3.32 +/- 4.23) x 10(5) (H) and (0.23 +/- 0.05) x 10(5) (F) for the PL 10 II filter; under bedside conditions with low flow rates: (1.31 +/- 1.71) x 10(5) (H) and (0.23 +/- 0.01) x 10(5) (F) for the PL 5 II filter and (0.36 +/- 0.13) x 10(5) (H) and (0.23 +/- 0.01) x 10(5) (F) for the PL 10 II filter. The results suggest that the WBC removal and log reduction correlate with the rates of WBC content of the PCs, the capacity of the filters and the flow rates."}
{"id": "9422101", "title": "White blood cell depletion of single-donor platelet preparations using the new adsorption filter biofil P 10 BBS.", "content": "White blood cell depletion of single-donor platelet preparations using the new adsorption filter biofil P 10 BBS. A newly developed adsorption filter has been evaluated for the removal of white blood cells (WBC) from platelet concentrates obtained by the blood cell separators Fenwal CS 3000 Plus (CS) and Haemonetics PCS Plus (H). WBC mean removal rate was 99.82 +/- 0.21% (H) and 99.58 +/- 0.01% (CS) with a mean WBC yield of (13.68 +/- 21.52) x 10(5) (H) and (0.20 +/- 0.23) x 10(5) (CS). Platelet recovery was 86.11 +/- 6.74% (H) and 83.04 +/- 5.59% (CS). Morphology, integrity and in vitro function parameters were not influenced by the filtration."}
{"id": "8204807", "title": "Systemic heparinization during peripheral vascular surgery: thromboelastographic, activated coagulation time, and heparin titration monitoring.", "content": "Systemic heparinization during peripheral vascular surgery: thromboelastographic, activated coagulation time, and heparin titration monitoring. Fifteen patients (9 male, 6 female) undergoing peripheral vascular surgery were monitored during surgery for evidence of subclinical anticoagulation using the activated coagulation time (ACT), thromboelastography (TEG), and heparin titration monitoring. Assessments were made at 30-minute intervals before and after the occlusion clamp. Mean (+/- SD) ACT values preoperatively were 111 (17) seconds, and 10 minutes after 5,000 IU of heparin, the ACT was 264 (57) seconds (P < 0.001). Intraoperatively, there was a significant decline in ACT values at 30 minutes (ACT 228 [50] sec, P < 0.005) and 60 minutes (200 [46] sec, P < 0.001) postheparin. No significant difference in ACT was observed between samples drawn distally and proximally to the clamp. TEG profiles were abolished in all patients immediately following heparinization. However, in 2 patients nearly complete return of the TEG coagulation profile was observed prior to the termination of the procedure and was associated with ACT values less than 160 seconds. The heparin device was unable to accurately monitor heparin elimination at these low doses. Variability of patient response to heparinization necessitates the use of intraoperative monitoring of anticoagulation during peripheral vascular surgery."}
{"id": "8204806", "title": "Evaluation of coagulation during cardiopulmonary bypass with a heparinase-modified thromboelastographic assay.", "content": "Evaluation of coagulation during cardiopulmonary bypass with a heparinase-modified thromboelastographic assay. Thromboelastography (TEG) is a useful method of assessing perioperative coagulation function in patients undergoing cardiac surgery. The presence of significant amounts of heparin in blood samples, however, prevents determination of changes in coagulation function by TEG or introduces artifactual error if samples contain heparin that is not present in vivo. For these reasons, whole blood coagulation function monitoring with TEG has not been feasible during cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) with heparin anticoagulation. In this study, data obtained from 42 volunteers are presented to describe the effects of heparinase on TEG variables in the presence and absence of heparin. These data indicate that heparinase does not affect TEG parameters of whole blood not containing heparin and reverses the TEG effects of low levels of heparin contamination. Subsequently, 51 patients undergoing coronary artery surgery were studied using a modified TEG assay that incorporates in vitro application of heparinase to allow measurement of TEG parameters before, during, and after CPB. Heparinase-modified TEG assays facilitated diagnosis of heparin contamination in preoperative blood samples and permitted baseline TEG evaluation in patients receiving preoperative heparin infusions. Heparinase-modified TEG assays revealed declines in alpha and MA values during CPB, which persisted and significantly correlated with values after protamine infusion (alpha: r = 0.77, P = 0.001; MA: r = 0.78, P = 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8180336", "title": "Neutrophil activation and morbidity in young adults with cyanotic congenital heart disease.", "content": "Neutrophil activation and morbidity in young adults with cyanotic congenital heart disease. Young adults with cyanotic congenital heart disease have a high incidence of respiratory and haemostatic problems. Activated neutrophils release vasoactive and chemotactic factors which result in endothelial injury, lung parenchymal damage and the activation of platelets and coagulation pathways. To investigate the contribution of neutrophil activation to morbidity in young adults with cyanotic congenital heart disease, plasma neutrophil elastase levels were measured in 25 cyanotic patients and the results compared to patients with acyanotic heart disease and normal controls. Neutrophil elastase levels were significantly elevated in the group with cyanotic congenital heart disease (P < 0.001). Platelet activation was significantly increased in the patients with cyanotic heart disease (P < 0.001). Platelet aggregation was impaired only in those with haematocrits greater than 0.50 (P < 0.02). Whole blood coagulation, as determined by thrombelastography, was within normal limits. The reason for neutrophil activation in patients with cyanotic congenital heart disease is unclear, but activated neutrophils may contribute to the respiratory and haemostatic problems common to these patients."}
{"id": "8167299", "title": "Cardiac anesthesia risk management. Hemorrhage, coagulation, and transfusion: a risk-benefit analysis.", "content": "Cardiac anesthesia risk management. Hemorrhage, coagulation, and transfusion: a risk-benefit analysis. Transfusion risks include the possibility of ABO/Rh incompatibility, sepsis, febrile reactions, immunosuppression, and viral transmission; incidences and consequences of these complications are reviewed. Predonation of autologous blood generally reduces the need for homologous blood by about 30% to 40%, but relatively few coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG) patients predonate blood. Drug products to decrease blood use include 1-deamino-8-D-arginine vasopressin (DDAVP), tranexamic acid, epsilon-aminocaproic acid, and aprotinin. A recent study suggests that a subgroup of patients with abnormal platelet function may benefit from a platelet therapy such as DDAVP. The prophylactic use of tranexamic acid reduces cardiac surgery postoperative blood loss, as measured by chest-tube output, by about 30%; unfortunately, data demonstrating a reduction in transfusion requirements are not available. Aprotinin use is associated with major reductions in blood transfusion requirements. Aprotinin provides platelet protection during cardiopulmonary bypass. Duration of stay in the intensive care unit was not increased by use of aprotinin, thus alleviating some concerns that aprotinin might promote coronary thrombosis. A recent report cites early graft closure as a major concern with aprotinin therapy, but data from other studies show no significant differences in rates of graft closure between patients receiving and those not receiving aprotinin. Routine use of a thromboelastogram with all cardiopulmonary bypass surgery at the University of Washington Hospital has reduced use of blood products by 30%."}
{"id": "8165628", "title": "Effect of dried ginger on human platelet function.", "content": "Effect of dried ginger on human platelet function. Eight healthy male volunteers took part in a randomised double blind study of the effects of 2 g dried ginger or placebo capsules on platelet function. Bleeding time, platelet count, thromboelastography and whole blood platelet aggregometry were performed before, 3 h, and 24 h after the capsules. There were no differences between ginger and placebo in any of the variables measured. It is concluded that the effect of ginger on thromboxane synthetase activity is dose dependent, or only occurs with fresh ginger, and that upto 2 g of dried ginger is unlikely to cause platelet dysfunction when used therapeutically."}
{"id": "8149040", "title": "Extracorporeal circulation as a blood conservation technique for extensive pelvic operations.", "content": "Extracorporeal circulation as a blood conservation technique for extensive pelvic operations. Difficult pelvic operations for malignancy or complex benign conditions can be associated with extensive blood loss. Religious beliefs that preclude transfusion and the known risks of homologous blood have prompted investigators to seek alternatives to transfusion. We used the Haemonetics-V50 Cell Separator (Haemonetics Corporation) to provide for extracorporeal circulation of the patient's own blood with associated normovolemic hemodilution as a means of conserving blood during operations. This technique was used in eight patients undergoing extensive pelvic operations. The procedure was accepted by Jehovah's Witnesses and was well tolerated by all patients. Estimated blood loss ranged from 75 to 2,000 milliliters. One instance of mild intraoperative disseminated intravascular coagulation was encountered. Two patients were given homologous transfusions. While clinical judgment is necessary to determine the safety of complicated operations, this technique is useful in expanding surgical options for some patients who object to blood transfusion."}
{"id": "8111053", "title": "Erythrocytapheresis therapy to reduce iron overload in chronically transfused patients with sickle cell disease.", "content": "Erythrocytapheresis therapy to reduce iron overload in chronically transfused patients with sickle cell disease. Chelation therapy with deferoxamine is effective in preventing the risk of transfusional iron overload, but treatment failure is common because of noncompliance. To reduce the transfusional iron load, we have evaluated longterm erythrocytapheresis in 14 subjects with sickle cell disease and stroke (11) or other complications (3) as an alternative to simple transfusion. Subjects were treated with erythrocytapheresis using the Haemonetics V50 (Haemonetics Corp, Braintree, MA) to maintain the target pretransfusion hemoglobin S (Hb S) level less than 50% for 6 to 71 months. The transfusional iron load and the donor blood usage were analyzed for a 6- to 36-month study period and were compared with similar data from a subset of 7 subjects previously treated with conventional (target Hb S < 30%) and modified (target Hb S < 50%) simple transfusion protocols. The effect of erythrocytapheresis on iron accumulation was determined by assessment of serum ferritin levels in the absence of iron chelation. The mean transfusional iron load and donor blood usage with erythrocytapheresis were 19 +/- 14 mg iron/kg/yr (range, 6 to 50) and 188.4 +/- 55.2 mL packed-red blood cells (RBC)/kg/yr (range, 107 to 281), respectively. Of 6 subjects receiving no iron chelation therapy, 5 maintained normal or nearly normal serum ferritin levels during 11 to 36 months of erythrocytapheresis. In comparison with conventional simple transfusion and modified simple transfusion, erythrocytapheresis reduced iron loading by 87% (P < .01) and 82% (P < .01), respectively, but increased donor blood usage by 23% and 73%, respectively. Subjects with pre-erythrocytapheresis Hb levels > or = 8.0 g/dL had lower iron accumulation (P < .001) and less donor blood usage (P < .005) than subjects with Hb levels < or = 8.0 g/dL. Although donor blood usage is increased in comparison with simple transfusion, long-term erythrocytapheresis markedly reduces or prevents iron accumulation. This form of transfusion therapy allows the cessation of iron chelation in well-chelated subjects and, if used as the initial form of transfusion therapy, may prevent long-term complications of sickle cell disease without risk of iron overload and the need for chelation therapy."}
{"id": "8085235", "title": "Assessment of hypercoagulability in patients with cancer using the Sonoclot Analyzer and thromboelastography.", "content": "Assessment of hypercoagulability in patients with cancer using the Sonoclot Analyzer and thromboelastography. Patients with cancer have an increased incidence of thrombosis and abnormal haemostasis detectable by sophisticated laboratory tests. Whether abnormalities in such highly sensitive assays is clinically relevant to bleeding or thrombosis is not clear. The thromboelastograph (TEG) and Sonoclot analyzers assess the coagulation process in whole blood and may therefore be physiologically more relevant than assays of isolated haemostatic components. Blood was collected from healthy volunteers and patients with breast cancer, colorectal cancer or benign disease and tested in the TEG and Sonoclot. Results in the cancer group were compared to appropriately sex-matched controls. The TEG parameters R (P < 0.02), angle (P < 0.05) and MA (P < 0.001) were abnormal in colorectal cancer; up to 8/17 (47%) patients being assessed as hypercoagulable. R (P < 0.05), angle (P = 0.05) and MA (P < 0.001) were abnormal in breast cancer; 2/21 (9%) patients having abnormal results. In the Sonoclot Analyzer, 11/17 (64%) patients with colorectal cancer had a significant increase in clot rate (P < 0.001) while 2/17 had a decreased SonACT time (P = 0.05). 4/21 (19%) breast cancer patients had a significant increase in clot rate (P < 0.001) and the SonACT was shortened (P = 0.05). Platelets and fibrinogen levels were generally normal and only one patient had clinical evidence of thrombosis. There were no significant coagulation changes in patients with benign colon or breast disease. In conclusion, hypercoagulability was detected in a high proportion of breast and colorectal cancer patients by both techniques. The clot rates of the TEG and Sonoclot were significantly correlated but the latter was abnormal in a greater proportion of cancer patients."}
{"id": "8063448", "title": "Coagulation monitoring in the obstetric patient.", "content": "Coagulation monitoring in the obstetric patient."}
{"id": "8060637", "title": "Ketorolac and thromboelastography.", "content": "Ketorolac and thromboelastography."}
{"id": "8044318", "title": "Preoperative autologous plasmapheresis--9 years experience in orthopedic surgery.", "content": "Preoperative autologous plasmapheresis--9 years experience in orthopedic surgery. Since nine years preoperative autologous plasmapheresis (PPH) is an essential part of a comprehensive autologous transfusion program in the Rehabilitation Hospital/Orthopedic University Clinic of Ulm. After v. Finck's recommendation in 1984 we started plasma-predeposit by centrifugation-plasmapheresis (PCSR, Haemonetics Comp.) in all elective orthopedic-surgical patients expecting a blood loss > 1,000 ml. Primarily this procedure was used for intra- and postoperative hemostasis stabilization and for having the ideal component to recomplete the harvested red cells by the Cell SaverR to full blood units. By clinical experience the strategy of routinely combining plasma-predeposit and wound-blood salvaging instead of full blood- or red cell's-predeposit was recognized as not only being highly effective in saving of banked blood but furthermore as being the best way of getting free from all time related problems due to the limited preservation period of red cells because donated platelet poor plasma (PPP) can easily be frozen and stored up to one year at least. In addition there is one more decisive aspect in favour of autologous fresh frozen plasma (AFFP): it may be used for the best and most physiological kind of volume replacement. In combination with a short acting artificial plasma substitute (e.g. Polygelin) for intraoperative replacement AFFP is best suitable for reestablishing and maintaining postoperative normovolemia which is essential for any kind of hemodilution practicing like we routinely do when accepting low hemoglobin concentrations (> 7,0 g/dl) to avoid homologous blood transfusions and to reduce the risk of thromboembolic complications at the same time.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8044317", "title": "[Does preoperative erythroapheresis avoid homologous transfusion?].", "content": "[Does preoperative erythroapheresis avoid homologous transfusion?]. The risk of transfusion-related viral infections promotes techniques intended to reduce such a risk. Preoperative erythroapheresis is an autologous blood collection technique which minimizes the inconvenience of repeated predeposit autologous donations. Erythroapheresis has been performed in 451 patients, 24 to 72 hours before surgery using a discontinuous flow cell separator (PCS+Haemonetics). The mean collected red cells volume was 485 ml (250-900) and was replaced by hydroxy-ethyl-starch (ELOHES). Homologous blood transfusion was avoided in 431 patients (95,6%). This technique is indicated for surgery with an expected blood loss between 1000 and 1500 ml or when the patient cannot be included in a preoperative blood donation programme. Preoperative erythrocytapheresis is a simple and well tolerated procedure. To have recourse to apheresis techniques allows to increase the number of autologous transfused patients."}
{"id": "8012494", "title": "A comparative study of plateletpheresis using Baxter Autopheresis C and Haemonetics PCS plus.", "content": "A comparative study of plateletpheresis using Baxter Autopheresis C and Haemonetics PCS plus. This study compared plateletpheresis on the Haemonetics PCS Plus (PCS Plus) and the Baxter Autopheresis C (Auto C) using the same 100 selected donors. The number of packs meeting UK BTS/NIBSC specification (> 2.2 x 10(11) platelets per pack) was achieved by 99% of PCS Plus and 82% of Auto C procedures. The positive correlation found between donor precount and final platelet yield was better for the PCS Plus. Both machines met U.K. specification for white-cell contamination but this was significantly greater for the Auto C. Plasma yields were similar. As a result of this study we chose to use the PCS Plus for routine plateletpheresis in our unit. This has enabled us not only to comply with UK BTS/NIBSC specifications for apheresis platelets easily and cost effectively but also to meet our own higher specification (2.75 x 10(11) platelets per pack) using existing staff and without extending the working day."}
{"id": "7994381", "title": "Coagulation responses of human plasma after hemodilution with hemoglobin solution in-vitro.", "content": "Coagulation responses of human plasma after hemodilution with hemoglobin solution in-vitro. To assess the potential for interference of Hb with the normal coagulation mechanism, we performed in-vitro hemodilution tests. Platelet rich plasma (PRP) was prepared from citrated blood samples of 5 normal volunteers diluted 3:1, 1:1, and 1:3 volume ratio with human stroma-free hemoglobin solution (SFH) or human albumin (HSA). Coagulation kinetics and clot strength were assessed with a thrombelastograph (TEG). Extrinsic and intrinsic coagulation factors were assessed measuring prothrombin time (PT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) with an optical coagulation timer. Statistical significance was assessed using ANOVA and Neuman-Keuls tests at p < 0.05. At all dilutions, SFH diluted plasma showed significantly prolonged initial rate of clot formation compared to undiluted control or HSA (p < 0.05). However, there was no difference in formed clot strength between SFH and HSA. At high Hb concentrations Hb seems to interfere with the optical measurements of coagulation times (particularly aPTT). SFH appears to interfere with the initial phase coagulation mechanism in human plasma in-vitro; further study is needed to clarify the cause. In measuring coagulation times of plasma containing Hb a non-optical instrument should be considered."}
{"id": "7985946", "title": "[Study of the platelet concentrate obtained with the MCS cell separator of the Society of Haemonetics].", "content": "[Study of the platelet concentrate obtained with the MCS cell separator of the Society of Haemonetics]. The purpose of this work is to propose several platelets MCS programs which could be included in Haemapheresis Units. In the near future, one of our target is to decrease the transfusion risk. To reach this goal, it is very important to decrease the production of standard platelet concentrates from blood units by replacing them with platelet concentrates. For this work, we used MCS monitor from Haemonetics, equipped with two pumps. We have tested the platelet procedures by the mean of three programs (2.61, 3.61, 4.11 whole blood processed). The results showed good platelet yield (3.55, 4.82 and 5.37 1.10(11) for each program) with good quality of platelets up to 3 days storage (aggregation, beta-thromboglobulin release). The MCS machine could complete platelet apheresis systems and might in the future replace the classical standard platelet concentrates."}
{"id": "7978409", "title": "The effect of low-dose bupivacaine on postoperative epidural fentanyl analgesia and thrombelastography.", "content": "The effect of low-dose bupivacaine on postoperative epidural fentanyl analgesia and thrombelastography. We performed a prospective, randomized, double-blind study to determine the effect of bupivacaine on postoperative epidural fentanyl analgesia and thrombelastography in 120 patients who underwent extensive gastrointestinal or genitourinary surgery. The patients were randomized into four groups, 30 patients per group: Group I = epidural fentanyl (EF), 10 micrograms/mL in saline; Group II = EF with 0.1% bupivacaine; Group III = EF with 0.15% bupivacaine; and Group IV = EF with 0.2% bupivacaine. Pain relief was evaluated by a visual analog scale (VAS), both at rest and during coughing, and by a visual rating scale (VRS). The VAS, VRS, degree of sedation, and side effects (nausea, vomiting, and pruritus) were evaluated every 2 h from 8:00 AM to 6:00 PM, for 24 h after surgery. Forced vital capacities (FVCs) were determined before surgery and at 24 h after surgery. Blood was withdrawn for thrombelastography (TEG) measurements preoperatively, in the recovery room (PARR), and 24 h postoperatively. The VAS, VRS, sedation scores, changes in postoperative FVCs, and the incidence of side effects were not statistically different among the four groups. The 24-h total volumes of infusion in the four groups (146 +/- 40 mL, 140 +/- 38 mL, 142 +/- 40 mL, 124 +/- 21 mL, respectively) were not statistically different from each other. There were no significant differences in the TEG values [reaction time (R), coagulation time (K), angle (alpha), and maximum amplitude (mA)] among the four groups at anytime nor was there any difference between the baseline, PARR, and 24-h TEG values within any group.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7949107", "title": "UVB irradiation of human platelet concentrates does not prevent HLA alloimmunization in recipients.", "content": "UVB irradiation of human platelet concentrates does not prevent HLA alloimmunization in recipients. Exposure of platelet concentrates (PCs) to ultraviolet B radiation (UVB) has been advocated as an alternative method for prevention of the onset of HLA sensitization in recipients. In this study, pooled PCs were irradiated in a Haemonetics UV irradiator (Haemonetics Corp, Braintree, MA) at a dose that did not induce platelet activation. The effect of UVB irradiation on prevention of primary HLA sensitization was evaluated in a prospective controlled clinical study performed in cardiac patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass. Patients were treated with filtered red blood cells and a single transfusion of either standard (control group) or UVB-irradiated (UVB group) pooled platelets prepared from 12 donors. Five of 39 patients in the control group and 6 of 62 patients in the UVB group developed allo-antibodies against HLA antigens, which is not significantly different (P = .62). This unexpected finding prompted us to check the efficacy of UVB irradiation. We determined UVB-specific DNA damage in cells by measuring the fluorescence from a labeled specific monoclonal antibody against thymine dimers. With this novel flow cytometer technique, we estimated in UVB-irradiated leukocytes in saline that a mean fluorescence intensity (MFI) of 47 +/- 2 arbitrary units (n = 6) correlated with abolition of alloreactivity in mixed lymphocyte cultures and delayed cell death (within 72 hours). MFI in leukocytes suspended in plasma and exposed to the clinical dose of UVB was sixfold higher (310 +/- 41 arbitrary units) and resulted in early cell death (within 24 hours). We hypothesize that this high level of UVB radiation induces fragmentation of the leukocytes. As a consequence, the poor results of UVB irradiation may be explained by the onset of HLA-alloimmunization induced by soluble donor HLA class I antigens processed and presented by host antigen-presenting cells."}
{"id": "7921860", "title": "Observation of coagulation change during induced hypotensive anesthesia and autologous plasma transfusion.", "content": "Observation of coagulation change during induced hypotensive anesthesia and autologous plasma transfusion. Coagulation change was studied in 16 adult female patients undergoing radical hysterectomy with BPLND surgery. None had preoperative alterations in coagulation or liver function and was receiving anticoagulant or antiplatelet medication. Sixteen ASA class I-II were divided into 2 groups randomly with eight patients in each group. One group accepted autologous plasma transfusion near the end of surgery, the other group did not. Autologous plasma was retrieved by plasma saver post induction of anesthesia. Every patient received induced hypotensive anesthesia during the operation. Whole blood coagulation status was quantitated by using thromboelastography (TEG). Blood samples for TEG were obtained before induction of anesthesia, after closure of peritoneum, and 2 hours post autologous plasma transfusion or 2 hours post peritoneum closure. Most parameters measured by TEG showed improved coagulation status in autologous plasma transfusion group. We concluded that coagulation change was minimal during induced hypotension, and improved coagulation was obtained 2 hours post autologous plasma transfusion during radical hysterectomy with BPLND surgery."}
{"id": "7894902", "title": "[A new method of integrative assessment of functional state of the hemostasis system].", "content": "[A new method of integrative assessment of functional state of the hemostasis system]."}
{"id": "7892969", "title": "Blood loss and transfusion requirements in liver transplantation: experience with the first 75 cases.", "content": "Blood loss and transfusion requirements in liver transplantation: experience with the first 75 cases. The blood loss data and transfusion requirements including blood bank, salvaged washed red cells, fresh frozen plasma and cryoprecipitate were analysed for the first 75 cases of liver transplantation performed at the Austin Hospital between June 1988 and October 1992. The mean blood loss was 8.8 litres (standard deviation 14.1) with a median value of 4.0 litres. Blood product use expressed as mean number of units (SD) was bank red blood cells 7.1 (12.7), washed red blood cells 3.9 (5.9), fresh frozen plasma 7.1 (9.1), platelets 5.1 (7.4), and cryoprecipitate 1.7 (5.1). These results demonstrate that liver transplantation can be performed without imposing excessive demands on blood transfusion services. Management should include surgical techniques to minimize bleeding and use of autologous transfusion. Use of component therapy (FFP, platelets and cryoprecipitate) should not be empirical. It should be selective on the basis of clinical bleeding assessment and guided by results of the laboratory coagulation profile and changes in thrombelastographic (TEG) parameters."}
{"id": "7892968", "title": "Patterns of coagulopathy during liver transplantation: experience with the first 75 cases using thrombelastography.", "content": "Patterns of coagulopathy during liver transplantation: experience with the first 75 cases using thrombelastography. Using both conventional laboratory clotting profile and thrombelastography, coagulation status was monitored intraoperatively during liver transplantation in the first 75 cases performed at the Austin Hospital between June 1988 and October 1992. Superimposed on a baseline coagulopathy due to liver disease is a specific pattern of coagulation disturbance which occurs during a liver transplant. Fibrinolysis occurs in the anhepatic stage, worsens with early reperfusion and then spontaneously resolves. In addition reperfusion is associated with a transient clotting defect. If blood loss is excessive, coagulopathy due to massive transfusion may compound the situation. Thrombelastography is a measurement technique allowing rapid on-site assessment of functional clotting status. It is particularly useful in liver transplant surgery. In combination with clinical bleeding assessment it facilitates selective use of component therapy (fresh frozen plasma, platelets and cryoprecipitate) and specific drug treatment only when it is appropriate. It also acts as a liver function test, being especially useful in assessing the graft after reperfusion."}
{"id": "7880678", "title": "Reversal of post-reperfusion coagulopathy by protamine sulphate in orthotopic liver transplantation.", "content": "Reversal of post-reperfusion coagulopathy by protamine sulphate in orthotopic liver transplantation. We report details of two liver transplant procedures in which post-reperfusion coagulopathy was reversed by administration of protamine sulphate. Both procedures were uncomplicated until about 30 min after reperfusion of the graft, when the cut surfaces began to ooze blood. Failure of coagulation was confirmed by thrombelastography and in both cases routine coagulation tests revealed a prolonged kaolin cephalin clotting time (KCT). A heparin-like effect was suspected. Protamine sulphate 50 mg was given i.v., resulting in cessation of bleeding and normalization of the thrombelastogram and KCT."}
{"id": "7861453", "title": "Rapid infusion system for neurosurgical treatment of massive intraoperative hemorrhage.", "content": "Rapid infusion system for neurosurgical treatment of massive intraoperative hemorrhage. Using an illustrative case of severe closed head injury that resulted in a posterior fossa epidural hematoma (EDH) and supratentorial epidural/subdural hematomas (SDH), the massive blood losses associated with operative repair of the torn sigmoid sinus and the significant fluid losses associated with refractory diabetes insipidus were treated by the intraoperative use of the Rapid Infusion System (RIS, Haemonetics). The RIS can rapidly infuse warm blood, crystalloid, or colloid at rates up to 1.5 L/min, thereby limiting the commonly associated hypotension, hypothermia, and coagulopathies. During the suboccipital craniectomy for evacuation of the EDH and repair of the sigmoid sinus, the patient required 18 units of blood replacement secondary to a large tear in the sigmoid sinus. During a separate craniotomy for evacuation of the SDH, the patient also developed diabetes insipidus, which increased the operative fluid replacement to 39 L. Despite these massive blood and fluid losses, the RIS limited the hypotension to less than 2 min and prevented hypothermia and the frequently associated coagulopathies. When used in a neurosurgical setting associated with massive blood and/or fluid losses, the RIS accomplishes three important objectives: (1) rapid infusion of intravenous fluids for maintaining perfusion pressure, (2) rapid warming of fluids despite high intravenous infusion rates of cold crystalloids, thereby preventing intraoperative hypothermia, and (3) continuous monitoring of infusion rates and totals."}
{"id": "7857071", "title": "Coagulation abnormalities in diabetic patients undergoing renal transplantation.", "content": "Coagulation abnormalities in diabetic patients undergoing renal transplantation. Nineteen diabetic (DM) and twenty-two non-diabetic (NDM) uraemic patients undergoing renal transplantation were studied to evaluate coagulation abnormalities. Thirty-three healthy patients admitted for minor surgery served as controls. Antithrombin III (AT III), thromboelastogram (TEG), other haemostatic parameters and the influence of dialysis treatment were assessed in DM and NDM uraemic patients. All uraemic patients were anaemic and bleeding time was slightly prolonged (NS). The level of AT III was raised in the DM group when compared in the healthy controls (P < 0.001). Prothrombin time (PT) percentage was increased in both uraemic groups (P < 0.001) in comparison with the controls. Thrombocytosis was marked in DM patients (P < 0.001) when compared with controls and NDM patients. TEG parameters were similar in all groups. Continuous peritoneal dialysis treatment (CAPD) was associated with elevated total platelet count in NDM (P < 0.05) and DM group (P < 0.05) when compared with haemodialysis (HD) patients. Also, the PT was shortened in DM patients on CAPD vs HD (P < 0.05). AT III level was elevated in NDM patients on CAPD compared with those on HD (P < 0.05). There was no difference in clinical bleeding tendency during renal transplantation. Postoperatively, one patient in NDM group suffered from thrombosis of the graft artery and transplantectomy had to be performed. Our study showed a prethrombotic state in diabetic uraemic patients admitted for renal transplantation. The increased AT III activity may protect these patients against thrombotic complications. The role of CAPD treatment requires further studies."}
{"id": "7831946", "title": "[The use of a rapid infusion system in orthopedics].", "content": "[The use of a rapid infusion system in orthopedics]. Major orthopedic surgery such as partial resection of the pelvis and subsequent implantation of a prosthesis is highly connected with massive bleeding. Therefore we tested the hypothesis that the use of a rapid infusion device, which was originally designed for liver transplantations, can prevent hypovolemic shock. We studied 20 patients: in one group (n = 10) the iv volume was given in a conventional way (37 degrees C) by use of pressure infusion bags. Patients of the second group (n = 10) received the iv volume via the Rapid Infusion system (Haemonetics Corp., Braintree, MA). We can conclude that with this new device for rapid volume replacement it is possible to keep the patient's vital functions stable even during times of excessive bleeding and to prevent from metabolic consequences following hypovolemic shock."}
{"id": "7826793", "title": "Predictive factors of hyperfibrinolytic activity during liver transplantation in cirrhotic patients.", "content": "Predictive factors of hyperfibrinolytic activity during liver transplantation in cirrhotic patients. Hyperfibrinolytic activity occurs frequently during liver transplantation in cirrhotic patients. In order to identify those patients at high risk for increased intraoperative blood loss before operation, we determined predictive indicators of hyperfibrinolysis. We studied 56 cirrhotic patients undergoing liver transplantation with the same anaesthetic procedure and transfusion regimen. The preoperative coagulation patterns of the 11 patients who experienced acute intraoperative hyperfibrinolytic activity were compared with those of the 45 patients who did not suffer this complication. Before surgery, patients with intraoperative hyperfibrinolysis had decreased prothrombin time (PT) and euglobulin lysis time (ELT), and increased thrombin time (TT) and fibrinogen degradation products (FDP), whereas alpha angle and maximum amplitude (MA) were reduced on thrombelastography. Stepwise multivariate analysis disclosed three components which were significantly linked with occurrence of hyperfibrinolysis: TT, FDP and MA. Their sensitivity, specificity, positive and negative predictive values demonstrated that patients with FDP > or = 48 mg litre-1 and MA < or = 35 mm before incision had 100% probability of developing hyperfibrinolytic activity during transplantation."}
{"id": "7818056", "title": "Thrombelastographic patterns following abdominal aortic surgery.", "content": "Thrombelastographic patterns following abdominal aortic surgery. Postoperative changes in thrombelastographic patterns were studied in thirty patients undergoing elective abdominal aortic bypass surgery. Native whole blood thrombelastography was performed preoperatively and on days 1, 2, and 3 postoperatively. The thrombelastographic changes included a decrease in r on day one (P < 0.0001), with concurrent increases in alpha (P < 0.0001) and MA (P < 0.001). On days 2 and 3 there were further increases in MA (P < 0.0001). These changes indicate enhanced procoagulant activity and progressive increases in maximum clot strength. The results confirm that hypercoagulability occurs in whole blood following abdominal aortic bypass surgery. Further studies are warranted to determine whether modification of postoperative hypercoagulability reduces the incidence of thrombotic complications in this group of patients."}
{"id": "7813842", "title": "[Changes in the indices of the thrombelastogram at different phases of monthly rhythms].", "content": "[Changes in the indices of the thrombelastogram at different phases of monthly rhythms]."}
{"id": "7759464", "title": "Therapeutic cytapheresis: continuous flow versus intermittent flow apheresis systems.", "content": "Therapeutic cytapheresis: continuous flow versus intermittent flow apheresis systems. In this retrospective study, we compared two systems, continuous flow (CF) (COBE Spectra) versus intermittent flow (IF) (Haemonetics V-50, M-30), in performance of therapeutic plateletapheresis (TP: N = 49 each) and therapeutic leukapheresis (TL: N = 29 each). Pre- and post-procedure cell reductions, specificity of removal, volumes removed, and incidence of adverse reactions were compared. Standard procedures with minor modifications, starch with IF only, and 180 minutes blood processing time were used. The CF system had a significantly lower percent reduction of platelets during TP at 43 +/- 17% than IF at 53 +/- 19%. However, no significant difference was found between CF and IF in percent reduction of white blood cells during TL with 49 +/- 16% and 42 +/- 14%, respectively. The CF system had significantly less hemoglobin reduction (5 +/- 4% vs. 19 +/- 9%, respectively) and white blood cell reduction (13 +/- 15% vs. 27 +/- 17%, respectively) for TP than IF and lower (not significant) hemoglobin reduction (9 +/- 8% vs. 12.4 +/- 8.2%, respectively) as well as platelet reduction (27 +/- 18% vs. 35 +/- 19%, respectively) for TL. CF also had significantly less volume removed than IF during TP (559 +/- 97 vs. 883 +/- 304, respectively) and TL (710 +/- 134 vs. 1405 +/- 421 ml, respectively). Incidence of reactions was lower for CF than IF during TP (8% vs. 10%, respectively) and during TL (14% vs. 21%, respectively).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7741499", "title": "Influence of circulating D-dimer levels on assays of fibrinogen.", "content": "Influence of circulating D-dimer levels on assays of fibrinogen. The influence of circulating D-dimer levels on two different assays for fibrinogen was studied in 31 normal female subjects, 18 late pregnant subjects, 8 male subjects with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) and 9 subjects with unstable angina (UA). Both functional and chemical methods for fibrinogen showed significant correlation (r = 0.8171; P < 0.001). However, values for fibrinogen were significantly lower using the functional method in normal females, AMI and UA patients with mean (SD) ratios of 0.88 (0.11), 0.78 (0.17) and 0.84 (0.09) respectively as compared to the chemical assay method. In late pregnancy this was not observed with a mean ratio of 1.09 (0.22) obtained between the two methods. The D-dimer level in normal subjects was mean 194 (95.3) ng/ml whilst in late pregnancy, in AMI and UA, the levels were significantly elevated at 1093 (1034), 382 (216) and 1056 (708) ng/ml respectively. Significant correlation between fibrinogen and D-dimer levels was observed only in AMI and UA patients but not in late pregnancy. In 3 patients with AMI undergoing thrombolysis, no functional fibrinogen was detectable for the first 12 h following intravenous streptokinase (SK) despite the presence of chemically detectable fibrinogen with values of 13% to 30% of pre-treatment levels and evidenced by lytic states evaluated by thromboelastography (TEG). Grossly elevated D-dimer levels of between 25 x 10(3) and over 100 x 10(3) ng/ml were present during this time. Functional fibrinogen was detectable by 24 h following SK therapy but its level in relation to fibrinogen detected chemically remained depressed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7725330", "title": "Action of Calloselasma rhodostoma (Malayan pit viper) venom on human blood coagulation and fibrinolysis using computerized thromboelastography (CTEG).", "content": "Action of Calloselasma rhodostoma (Malayan pit viper) venom on human blood coagulation and fibrinolysis using computerized thromboelastography (CTEG). The effects of Malayan pit viper (Calloselasma rhodostoma) venom on human blood coagulation and fibrinolysis were studied in vitro using computerized thromboelastography. At low concentrations the venom had a coagulant effect shown by faster onset of the coagulation process (shortened SP and R), faster progress of the clot (increased angle and shortened K), and increased coagulation (TEG) index. The maximum amplitude (MA) was not affected, suggesting that the venom had no apparent effect on platelet function; and clot lysis was similar to that in the controls, suggesting that there was no primary fibrinolytic activity. At higher concentrations the venom had anticoagulant effects, SP and R were progressively shortened, but there was poor/no progress in the clot formed, evident from prolonged or absent K, diminished MA and reduced angle. These results show that C. rhodostoma venom has both coagulant and anticoagulant actions. The coagulant action may be due to Factor X activator predominance at low concentrations, while the anticoagulant action could be due to ancrod action. TEG is able to demonstrate the dual effect of this venom, previously described as a paradox, and may be a useful tool in the diagnosis and monitoring of envenomation patients."}
{"id": "7706202", "title": "Single-donor platelet concentrates produced along with packed red blood cells with the Haemonetics MCS 3p: preliminary results.", "content": "Single-donor platelet concentrates produced along with packed red blood cells with the Haemonetics MCS 3p: preliminary results. There has been an increasing interest in recent years over the qualitative superiority of single-donor platelets in the management of hemato-oncologic patients. The reasonable desire of both patients and physicians to limit the risks of transfusion along with the need for limiting the costs involved in this kind of therapy have led to application of multicomponent donations both in terms of double platelet concentrates and double products such as red blood cells (RBC) and platelets from the same donor. Single donor platelets and RBC have been collected in a semi-automated mode and only the very recent introduction of the Haemonetics MCS 3p with its SDP/RBC protocol provides a totally closed-system automated protocol for this combined collection. Twenty procedures have been carried out so far at our unit. In a mean of 87 minutes (6-7 passes), a mean of 3.1 x 10(11) platelets were collected along with approximately 220 mL of packed RBC. The leukocyte contamination of the platelet product was in the range of 0.4-1.1 x 10(7) (99% lymphocytes), and the quality of platelets was very satisfactory as measured by the hypotonic shock response, aggregation induced by ADP, collagen and ristocetin, morphology score, and membrane glycoproteins modifications. Equally satisfactory was the quality of the RBC concentrate, suspended in 80 mL of SAG-M, with a total hemoglobin (Hb) content approaching 55 g as compared to the normal Hb content of a standard RBC concentrate that is approximately 62 g.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7528584", "title": "Effects of hypertonic saline hydroxyethyl starch solution on collagen-induced platelet aggregation and ATP secretion.", "content": "Effects of hypertonic saline hydroxyethyl starch solution on collagen-induced platelet aggregation and ATP secretion. The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of hypertonic (NaCl 7.5%) hydroxyethyl starch (HES 6%, molecular weight 200,000) (HHES) as used for small-volume resuscitation on global coagulation parameters and platelet function. Randomized, controlled clinical trial. Intraoperative volume loading after induction of general anesthesia. 27 consecutive patients [mean age 59 (22-76) years, mean body weight 69.8 (46-98) kg] undergoing abdominal surgery were studied. Global coagulation tests (aPTT: activated partial thromboplastin time; PT: prothrombin time; platelet count; thrombelastography: TEG), platelet aggregation and ATP release were measured before and 10 min after the application of 4 ml.kg-1 of HHES (study group H, n = 14) or HES (control group C, n = 13). The aPTT was prolonged and platelet count was significantly reduced in both study groups. In contrast to the HES group, clot formation time in the TEG was significantly prolonged and the maximum amplitude was reduced in the HHES group. Furthermore, platelet aggregation was significantly slowed down, whereas ATP release significantly increased in the HHES group. The changes in global coagulation parameters can be explained by dilutional effects of the infused solution. The hyperosmolar saline compound of the HHES solution obviously contributes to the slowing down of platelet aggregation. Osmotic stress and membrane pleating may aggravate HES-induced changes in membrane fluidity and microviscosity and thus explain this impaired interaction. The increase in ATP release suggests a change in receptor-second messenger interaction for delta granule release."}
{"id": "7512376", "title": "Substitution of class II alpha chain polymorphic residues defines location of A alpha k serologic epitopes and alters association between alpha beta and Ii polypeptides.", "content": "Substitution of class II alpha chain polymorphic residues defines location of A alpha k serologic epitopes and alters association between alpha beta and Ii polypeptides. Structure-function studies of the MHC class II alpha chain have been performed by constructing a panel of A alpha k cDNA genes with one or more d allele substitutions at each polymorphic residue of the alpha 1 domain. The altered genes (A alpha k*) were transfected into a B lymphoma cell line (BKO), which is deficient in A alpha mRNA but retains constitutive wild-type A beta k mRNA expression. Cytofluorometric analysis of cell surface A alpha k* Ak beta molecules was used to map the polymorphic alpha chain residues comprising four serologic epitopes. A alpha k-reactive mAbs 1E9, 2A2, and 3F12 recognize an epitope that includes the polymorphic residue 44 of the A alpha k polypeptide, and the A alpha k-reactive antibody, K24-199, recognizes a conformationally determined epitope influenced by residues from all three polymorphic regions. In addition, we confirmed previous studies demonstrating that la.19 and la.2 mAbs bind to epitopes adjacent to residue 75 in A alpha k. A cell surface negative expression variant also was identified in the panel of mutant cell lines and biochemically characterized. Substitution of six d allele polymorphic residues at positions 11, 14, 28, 69, 70, and 75 in the A alpha k polypeptide (T.EG A alpha k* A beta k*) results in an A alpha k* polypeptide that associates with the A alpha k polypeptide but does not associate with the li polypeptide. This defect in li-A alpha k A beta k interaction is associated with a conformational change in the alpha 1 beta 1 domain that was identified by altered reactivity of the T.EG complex with conformationally dependent anti-alpha and anti-beta mAbs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "10171977", "title": "Heparin removal in three intraoperative blood savers in cardiac surgery.", "content": "Heparin removal in three intraoperative blood savers in cardiac surgery. The aim of the study was to compare the residual heparin in the composition of autologous blood retransfusion units harvested during cardiac surgery under extra-corporeal circulation with three different intraoperative autologous blood savers. In this institutionally approved study, thirty patients undergoing CABG were randomly assigned to three groups according to the intraoperative blood saver used during the procedure: {HAEMONETICS Cell Saver IV (n=10)--DIDECO/SHILEY STAT (n=11)--BRAT 250 (n=9)}. Anaesthesia and conduct of bypass were identical for all patients. The initial heparin dose was 300IU-kg -1 and was supplemented to maintain an activated coagulation time over 480s. The harvested blood was processed according to the procedure defined by each equipment manufacturer. The biological study was performed on the first blood sediments sampled before administering protamine to the patient. Blood cell count, residual heparinemia assessed by its anti-Xa activity using an amidolytic method {STACHROM HEPARIN--DIAGNOSTICA STAGO}, and weight of the blood sediment proteins were determined. Demographic data did not differ between groups. Despite a slight but significant difference between groups, the three devices provided virtual elimination of heparin. The total protein content was significantly higher in the BRAT 250 group. There was a highly significant positive correlation between the anti-Xa activity and total protein content. Haematologic data were within clinically acceptable ranges."}
{"id": "10171655", "title": "Hematological assessment of patients undergoing plasmapheresis during cardiac surgery.", "content": "Hematological assessment of patients undergoing plasmapheresis during cardiac surgery. Methods of reducing patient exposure to homologous blood transfusions include the technique of intraoperative plasmapheresis for the production of platelet rich plasma (PRP). The present study was designed to determine the patient benefits of PRP by examining hemostatic changes in coagulation screens and viscoelastic whole blood monitoring (Thrombelastography, [TEG]). One hundred fifteen patients undergoing elective cardiac surgery were prospectively randomized into a blinded study. Sixty-three patients had 20 percent of the circulating plasma volume sequestered prior to heparinization and pheresed into PRP, which was reinfused 10 minutes following heparin reversal with protamine. The control (CTR) group of 52 patients were exposed to no sequestration procedure. Patients were followed to discharge and 112 parameters, including anthropometric, operative, and postoperative factors, were measured. There were no significant differences between patient groups in preoperative, cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), or surgical parameters. Average PRP volume was 600+/-100 ml with a total platelet yield of 1.1 billion platelets per patient. TEG indices were determined at four distinct times during the surgical procedure. The CTR group had significantly higher pre-CPB TEG indices of 2.3+/-1.2 and 2.1+/-1.2 (mean+/-SD), vs. 1.8+/-1.5 and 1.4+/-1.7 in the PRP group (p less than .04). Following heparin reversal, pre-PRP reinfusion TEG values were similar between groups, although both groups had significantly decreased indices when compared to pre-CPB values. Thirty minutes post-PRP infusion the treatment group had significantly improved TEG recovery when compared to the CTR group, 1.0+/-1.2 vs. 0.3+/-1.7 (p less than .05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "10148614", "title": "Comparison of four filters for leukocyte depletion of single donor plateletapheresis products.", "content": "Comparison of four filters for leukocyte depletion of single donor plateletapheresis products. Removal of leukocytes from platelet suspensions is important in preventing the development of alloimmunization to HLA antigens in repeatedly transfused patients. Several types of filters have recently become available to remove leukocytes from platelet suspensions. We have compared the results obtained with Pall PL100S, Pall PL50S, Sepacell PL-10N and Sepacell PL-5N filters. Platelets were obtained by plateletapheresis using the Haemonetics V-50 TSPP surge procedure. A total of 160 platelet suspensions were studied, 40 for each type of filter used. The median number of leukocytes pre-filtration was 321x10 6 (range: 16-4068). The median number of leukocytes post-filtration was 2x10 6 ( less than 1-521) and was dependent on the number of leukocytes present pre-filtration but not on the type of filter used. All filters tested showed approximately a 2 log 10 reduction of leukocytes. When the number of leukocytes was below 500x10 6 pre-filtration, the number of leukocytes post-filtration did not exceed 10x10 6. Overall platelet loss was 11+/-7% and was lowest with the Pall PL50S filters (7+/-7%). Mean platelet volumes post-filtration were decreased with all types of filters used."}
{"id": "10148570", "title": "Safety of heparin-coated circuits in primates during deep hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Safety of heparin-coated circuits in primates during deep hypothermic cardiopulmonary bypass. The purpose of this study is to evaluate the biologic impact of heparin-coated circuits without systemic heparinization during deep hypothermia. Baboons (n=6) were placed on a heparin-coated pediatric closed-circuit cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) system and cooled to 18 degrees C. A control group (n=7) underwent similar protocol with a non heparin-coated circuit and received systemic heparin. Either low flow at 0.5 L/min/m 2 (n=8; 4 in each group) or circulatory arrest (n=5; 2 in experimental group and 3 in control group) was used during deep hypothermia. Samples for complete blood count (CBC), hepatic and renal function tests, activated clotting time (ACT) and thrombelastogram (TEG) were obtained before, during, and after bypass. Cerebral blood flow was measured using Xenon-133 and autopsies were performed to assess end-organ damage. The ACT returned to baseline in both groups, and renal and hepatic function were within normal limits. There was no significant difference between the TEG values between the groups post bypass. Fibrin split products were absent and fibrinogen levels were normal in both groups following bypass. Cerebral blood flows were equivalent in both groups before and after bypass, although in the heparin-coated group cerebral blood flows were significantly higher during CPB. There were no brain histologic changes in the heparin-coated group and one focal cortical infarct in the control group. This study suggests that hypothermia induced a state of anticoagulation that did not result in thrombus formation or end organ dysfunction during CPB with a heparin-coated circuit.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "10146646", "title": "Viability of platelets collected by apheresis versus the platelet-rich plasma technique: a direct comparison.", "content": "Viability of platelets collected by apheresis versus the platelet-rich plasma technique: a direct comparison. Different platelet preparation techniques have not previously been compared directly and simultaneously with respect to in vivo platelet viability. Using a dual-label technique with 111-In and 114m-In, platelet apheresis was compared with the platelet-rich plasma (PRP) procedure with respect to platelet recovery and survival (n=4). Furthermore, a continuous flow cell separator (Cobe 2997) and an intermittent apheresis system (Haemonetics V50) were compared with each other (n=4). No differences in platelet viability were found between the PRP-platelets and the apheresis-platelets. Also no differences were found between the two apheresis systems. Although different platelet preparation methods result in a varying degree of platelet activation, no difference in platelet viability has been observed."}
{"id": "8501929", "title": "Infusion of autologous platelet rich plasma does not reduce blood loss and product use after coronary artery bypass. A prospective, randomized, blinded study.", "content": "Infusion of autologous platelet rich plasma does not reduce blood loss and product use after coronary artery bypass. A prospective, randomized, blinded study. Prior nonblinded studies have suggested dramatic hemostatic effects and decreased plasma after cardiopulmonary bypass. Platelet rich plasma (8 to 10 ml/kg total body weight) was obtained (Haemonetics Plasma Saver; Haemonetics Corp., Natick, Mass.) from 51 patients undergoing primary coronary artery bypass grafting before heparinization. After double-blinded randomization, the platelet rich plasma was reinfused immediately in the control group or after heparin reversal in the treatment group. Homologous blood product usage, blood loss, and the surgeon's intraoperative subjective assessment of coagulation were evaluated. Additionally, thromboelastography, prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, activated clotting time, fibrinogen, platelet counts, and hematocrit values were evaluated before the operation, after heparin reversal, after infusion of platelet rich plasma or control solution, and 2 hours after infusion. The surgeon's subjective assessment of coagulation was not different between control and treatment groups (p = 0.78). According to specific predetermined transfusion guidelines, no statistically significant differences were found in the use of whole blood (p = 0.07), packed red blood cells (p = 0.62), platelets (p = 0.11), total units of blood products (p = 0.45), or in the percentage of patients receiving transfusions (control group 70%, treatment group 71%, p = 0.97). Cumulative amount of blood shed through the chest tube was not significantly different between the groups at any interval but tended toward significance at 4, 6, and 12 hours (p = 0.09, 0.07, and 0.09). The prothrombin time immediately after reinfusion of platelet rich plasma was significantly lower in the treatment group (p = 0.03), but all other laboratory studies were similar at each time interval. Infusion of platelet rich plasma after cardiopulmonary bypass in patients having uncomplicated primary coronary artery bypass grafting has minimal effects on the surgeon's assessment of coagulation, total transfusion requirements, mediastinal drainage, and laboratory studies of coagulation."}
{"id": "8499562", "title": "Screening for fibrinolysis inhibitory effect of synthetic thrombin inhibitors.", "content": "Screening for fibrinolysis inhibitory effect of synthetic thrombin inhibitors. Fibrin plate assay (FPA) and thrombelastography (TEG) were used to assess the antifibrinolytic effects of D-Phe-Pro-Arg-H (1), the prototype of peptide aldehyde inhibitors of thrombin, and two of its more stable derivatives, D-MePhe-Pro-Arg-H (2) and Boc-D-Phe-Pro-Arg-H (3). Inhibition of plasmin generation by tissue plasminogen activator, urokinase and streptokinase were studied by both FPA and TEG while that of plasmin could only be examined by FPA. TEG was more sensitive than FPA in general and for the detection of streptokinase inhibition in particular. Derivative (3) was 2-50 times more inhibitory than (1) or (2) depending on the enzyme studied and the assay system used. The thrombin selectivities of (1)-(3) were defined as the thrombin to fibrinolytic enzyme potency ratios. Data obtained by the FPA and thrombin time assay indicated (1) and (2) to be 2-80 times more selective for thrombin than (3). On the other hand, the values determined by TEG and recalcification assay showed the thrombin selectivity of (2) to be two to three times higher than that of (1), and (3) to have no such selectivity. According to TEG studies, (1) and (2) assisted rather than inhibited fibrinolysis by reducing the elasticity of human plasma clots."}
{"id": "8495670", "title": "Multidimensional assessment of mental state in occupational health care--combined application of three questionnaires: Tokyo University Egogram (TEG), Time Structuring Scale (TSS), and Profile of Mood States (POMS).", "content": "Multidimensional assessment of mental state in occupational health care--combined application of three questionnaires: Tokyo University Egogram (TEG), Time Structuring Scale (TSS), and Profile of Mood States (POMS). We attempted to develop a brief test battery to assess mental state for use in occupational health care settings. As a first step, we focused on the following three psychosocial aspects: ego state, behavioral pattern, and mood state which were considered to be closely related to mental state. To evaluate these parameters, we selected three established self-rating questionnaires: the Tokyo University Egogram for ego state, the Time Structuring Scale for behavioral pattern, and the Profile of Mood States for mood state. The combination of these three questionnaires was applied on 300 healthy company employees and school teachers (170 males and 130 females). Five ego-state factors (Critical Parents, Nurturing Parents, Adult, Free Child, and Adapted Child), five behavioral pattern factors (Withdrawal, Rituals and Pastimes, Activities, Intimacy, and Games), and six mood state factors (Tension-Anxiety, Depression-Dejection, Anger-Hostility, Vigor-Activity, Fatigue-Inertia, and Confusion-Bewilderment) were scored. Of 85 correlations between test factors, 49 in males and 61 in females were not significant, indicating that each test in this battery assessed aspects of mental state rather independent of those assessed by the others. However, significant correlations (P < 0.05) were observed for remaining pairs of test factors, indicating that these three parameters were also interrelated with each other, indicating that mental state could be elucidated more comprehensively by assessing all three psychosocial parameters than by assessing only one. The possibility that this battery could be used in the future in worksite health promotion programs is discussed."}
{"id": "8472137", "title": "Autologous predonation, haemodilution and intraoperative blood salvage in elective abdominal aortic aneurysm repair.", "content": "Autologous predonation, haemodilution and intraoperative blood salvage in elective abdominal aortic aneurysm repair. The feasibility of predonated autologous blood transfusion and intraoperative blood salvage in elective abdominal aortic aneurysm repair was studied. Twenty consecutive patients were evaluated, of whom five were excluded according to protocol criteria. Patients each donated 1 unit blood 14 and 7 days before operation. A third unit was withdrawn in the anaesthetic room and replaced with Hartmann's solution, producing a haemodiluted state. Intraoperative losses were minimized using the Haemonetics Cell Saver III Plus autotransfusion system. Predonated blood from two patients passed its expiry date owing to repeated operation postponements, leaving 13 patients for study. The mean(s.d.) intraoperative blood loss was 700(300) ml with a mean(s.d.) intraoperative salvage of 420(300) ml. Two patients were transfused intraoperative salvage of 420(300) ml. Two patients were transfused according to clinical need. Thus nine patients safely avoided homologous transfusion. With autologous predonation, haemodilution and intraoperative blood salvage, elective aortic aneurysm repair can be performed safely with minimal need for homologous blood."}
{"id": "8470257", "title": "Coagulation and liver transplantation.", "content": "Coagulation and liver transplantation. In summary, both a thorough understanding of the pathogenesis of coagulopathies and an understanding of the proper replacement and pharmacologic therapies based on TEG monitoring of coagulability are essential in the management of coagulation. As stated by Starzl, \"Now cautious correction of coagulation defects is an integral part of liver transplantation, greatly diminishing the hemorrhages of nightmare proportions that were common.\""}
{"id": "8470190", "title": "Blood product transfusion therapy after liver transplantation: comparison of the thromboelastogram and conventional coagulation studies.", "content": "Blood product transfusion therapy after liver transplantation: comparison of the thromboelastogram and conventional coagulation studies."}
{"id": "8470179", "title": "Analysis of two thrombokinetic measurements (thrombelastograph and Sonoclot) during liver transplantation.", "content": "Analysis of two thrombokinetic measurements (thrombelastograph and Sonoclot) during liver transplantation."}
{"id": "8466003", "title": "Identification of patients at risk for excessive blood loss during coronary artery bypass surgery: thromboelastography versus coagulation screen.", "content": "Identification of patients at risk for excessive blood loss during coronary artery bypass surgery: thromboelastography versus coagulation screen. In light of the potential morbidity associated with transfusion of blood products, a reliable preoperative screening test to identify cardiothoracic surgical patients who are at potential risk for increased intraoperative blood loss would be useful. Accordingly, we examined the efficacy of a variety of coagulation tests to predict intraoperative blood loss in 60 patients presenting for coronary artery bypass surgery (CABG). A complete coagulation screen, activated clotting time (ACT), and thromboelastograph (TEG) were performed before surgery. Intraoperative blood loss was determined by weighing sponges and measuring the quantity of blood in suction canisters. The duration of cardiopulmonary bypass was 100 +/- 4 min, and total surgery time was 5.0 +/- 0.1 h. Total crystalloid and colloid requirements were 5.5 +/- 0.2 and 1.4 +/- 0.1 L. Forty-eight percent of the patients required blood with an average requirement of 2.5 +/- 0.5 units. Total intraoperative blood loss averaged 1590 +/- 95 mL with a range from 640 to 3928 mL. Using multiple linear regression, all coagulation and TEG variables were used to model perioperative blood loss. Results showed that all components of the TEG failed to predict blood loss (r < 0.25, P > 0.78). However, three components of the routine coagulation assay, including bleeding time, prothrombin time, and platelet count could be modeled to predict perioperative blood loss (r = 0.75, P < 0.05). Although TEG has been shown to have potential in identifying postcardiopulmonary bypass coagulopathies, these results suggest that it does not appear to be useful in determining the coagulation status of CABG patients preoperatively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8463805", "title": "Effect of delay and storage on whole-blood clotting analysis as determined by thrombelastography.", "content": "Effect of delay and storage on whole-blood clotting analysis as determined by thrombelastography. The thrombelastogram (TEG) measures the viscoelastic properties of clotting blood, displaying a visual trace of all phases of coagulation and fibrinolysis. Thrombelastography can be performed on whole blood (WBTEG) or on citrated blood or plasma, citrated samples facilitating delayed analysis but requiring recalcification of the sample. The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of delay and storage method on WBTEG measurement. Thrombelastographic analysis of coagulation in whole blood was investigated after delays of 3 and 6 minutes in polystyrene syringes (PS3 and PS6) and 3 minutes in silicone-coated glass tubes (SG3). Thrombelastograms of the delayed samples were compared with those measured immediately. Silicone-coated glass tubes activated coagulation, as seen by shorter r times (p < 0.01), shorter r + k times (p < 0.01), and larger maximum amplitude (ma) values (p < 0.01) compared with TEG values determined immediately after sampling. In the SG3 group, 20% of samples had clotted by 3 minutes, and the use of SG tubes for this purpose cannot be recommended. A delay of 6 minutes in PS had less effect on the activation of clotting in the earlier stages in that the r time was prolonged (p < 0.01). However, there appeared to be some activation later in that k time was shorter (p < 0.01) and ma was wider (p < 0.05). Overall, a 3-minute delay in PS produced the best values.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "8442038", "title": "Hypercoagulable state as a risk factor in transplantation.", "content": "Hypercoagulable state as a risk factor in transplantation."}
{"id": "8433529", "title": "[Recent advances in diagnosis of disseminated intravascular coagulation in obstetrics and gynecology].", "content": "[Recent advances in diagnosis of disseminated intravascular coagulation in obstetrics and gynecology]. Since obstetrical DIC is an acute serious situation, complicated time-consuming tests do not help to make a prompt diagnosis of DIC. Lowered ESR, prolonged bleeding time and defective patterns of thrombelastography are the suggestive findings of DIC, which are available at the bed-side. Obstetrics-specific DIC scoring system, in which high scores were given for clinical items, rather than laboratory tests, showed a good correlation with the regular DIC score in Japan. Since blood samples obtained from pregnant or parturient women showed different patterns of coagulation and fibrinolysis from the nonpregnant condition, attention should be paid to diagnose obstetrical DIC as accurately as possible."}
{"id": "8425253", "title": "Anaesthetic management of a parturient with thrombocytopenia using thrombelastography and sonoclot analysis.", "content": "Anaesthetic management of a parturient with thrombocytopenia using thrombelastography and sonoclot analysis."}
{"id": "8415537", "title": "[Microcirculatory hemostasis in children with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus].", "content": "[Microcirculatory hemostasis in children with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus]. Study of microcirculatory hemostasis in children with insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus helped the authors to make new conclusions on metabolic changes underlying blood coagulation cellular factors, namely, the red cell and platelet levels. Fifty children aged 7 to 15, suffering from type I condition, were examined. Ten of these were examined during the compensation stage, 23 during decompensation without ketosis, and 17 with ketoacidosis. Twelve age-matched healthy children were controls. Noticeable disorders in the microcirculatory hemostasis system were revealed in diabetic children, these changes manifesting by changed functional activities of red cells and platelets. Reduced share of platelet deaggregation, increased red cell aggregation time, reduced thromboelastogram chronometric constant and reduction of its structural parameters may be considered as the early signs of these changes. The risk of microcirculatory hemostasis disturbances augments with the disease duration and progress."}
{"id": "8400798", "title": "[Monitoring blood coagulation in larger liver operations].", "content": "[Monitoring blood coagulation in larger liver operations]. Bleeding is causally related to about 50% of postoperative deaths following liver resection. Main factors contributing to increased perioperative bleeding in liver surgery include surgical trauma, reduced activity of clotting factors and inhibitors due to impaired hepatic synthesis, low platelet count and poor platelet function as well as impaired clearance of activated clotting factors by the reticuloendothelial system of the liver (Kupffer cells). Hemostasis may be further impaired by transfusion of blood components, since citrate added for conservation is not adequately metabolized by the failing liver. Surgical bleeding leads to a loss of pro- and anticoagulatory factors as well as to activation of coagulation. Finally, hyperfibrinolysis induced by release of tissue plasminogen activator (t-PA, primary hyperfibrinolysis) and disseminated coagulation (secondary hyperfibrinolysis) contribute to increased bleeding. Therefore early diagnosis and treatment of coagulation disorders is of paramount importance during liver surgery. Screening parameters of hemostasis and fibrinolysis should be available on a 24-hour basis in centers performing liver surgery. Screening for disorders of secondary hemostasis includes evaluation of prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), fibrinogen concentration and the activity of the most important inhibitor, antithrombin III (AT III). Thrombelastography is the leading method for diagnosis of hyperfibrinolysis, which can also be assessed by determination of D-dimer, fibrinogen and fibrin degradation products. Evaluation of primary hemostasis is frequently restricted to platelet count, which is only a rough parameter. In contrast, measurement of in vitro bleeding time and volume enables repeated quantification of platelet function in patients with impaired hemostasis."}
{"id": "8400097", "title": "An assessment of the duration of cephapirin-induced coagulation abnormalities as measured by thromboelastography.", "content": "An assessment of the duration of cephapirin-induced coagulation abnormalities as measured by thromboelastography. Cephalosporin antibiotics are used prophylactically in cardiothoracic surgery to prevent postoperative infection. In 30 patients undergoing primary elective coronary artery bypass grafting, the whole blood coagulation system was prospectively evaluated before, and 10 and 30 minutes after administration of 1 g of cephapirin (Cefadyl, Bristol Laboratory, Evansville, IN). All patients had normal preoperative coagulation studies and had not received anticoagulant or antiplatelet therapy within 7 days of surgery. At 10 minutes after cephapirin administration, 23 of 30 patients had a significant change in all phases of whole blood coagulation as monitored by thromboelastography (TEG). Thirty minutes after cephapirin administration there was no statistical difference compared with the baseline TEG. It is concluded that cephapirin can cause a significant but transient change in the viscoelastic properties of blood. Coagulation parameters of the TEG should be measured prior to cephapirin administration to prevent errors in establishing baseline values prior to cardiopulmonary bypass."}
{"id": "8400095", "title": "Comparison of thromboelastography to bleeding time and standard coagulation tests in patients after cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Comparison of thromboelastography to bleeding time and standard coagulation tests in patients after cardiopulmonary bypass. This prospective study of 36 adult patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) was conducted to determine the utility of thromboelastography (TEG) versus platelet studies (bleeding time, platelet count, mean platelet volume) and standard coagulation tests (prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, fibrinogen) to more effectively discriminate patients likely to benefit from platelet or fresh frozen plasma (FFP) transfusion. Although the sensitivities of the bleeding time (71.4%) and platelet count (100%) were similar to the TEG (71.4%), the specificity (89.3%) of the TEG was greater than that of the bleeding time (78.5%) and platelet count (53.6%). Seven patients experienced clinically significant hemorrhage; 5 (71.4%) had an abnormal TEG. Three of 8 (38%) other patients with an abnormal TEG had no abnormal bleeding. Only 2 of 27 (7.4%) patients with a normal TEG had abnormal bleeding requiring platelet or FFP transfusion. Therefore, it is suggested that post-CPB patients with a normal TEG should not receive platelet or FFP transfusions empirically. If excessive bleeding is noted in a patient with a normal TEG, this suggests a surgically correctable etiology. Data from this series suggest that patients displaying an abnormal TEG appear to be at increased risk for hemorrhage; therefore, appropriate blood product support should be initiated at the first sign of accelerated bleeding."}
{"id": "8364489", "title": "Sialic acid in fibrinogen: effects of sialic acid on fibrinogen-fibrin conversion by thrombin and properties of asialofibrin clot.", "content": "Sialic acid in fibrinogen: effects of sialic acid on fibrinogen-fibrin conversion by thrombin and properties of asialofibrin clot. The final stage in a series of blood coagulating reactions is fibrinogen-fibrin conversion by thrombin. This reaction consists of fibrinopeptide A and fibrinopeptide B release, polymerization of fibrin monomer, and stabilized fibrin formation by factor XIII. The latter two reactions require calcium. In the present study there was no difference in the rate of thrombin-induced fibrinopeptide release between fibrinogen and asialofibrinogen where sialic acid in the terminal end of carbohydrate moiety of fibrinogen was removed by neuraminidase, but turbidity associated with asialofibrin clot formation was increased more rapidly. In asialo-derivatives, the dissolution time of the clots in high concentrated urea solution tended to be shortened and rigidity as a gel tended to be decreased. In measurement by thromboelastography there was no difference in the reaction time (r) between fibrinogen and asialofibrinogen, but the maximum amplitude (ma) was obviously decreased in asialofibrinogen. Furthermore, when the rate of cross-link formation between gamma chains by F-XIII was compared, the production of gamma-dimer in the same reaction time was found to be lower and formation of stabilized fibrin tended to be retarded in asialofibrinogen. Sialic acid in fibrinogen thus may clearly influence the polymerization of fibrin-monomer and the formation of cross-linked fibrin in a series of reactions for fibrinogen-fibrin conversion. This may be consistent with the theory that fibrinogen sialic acid residues are low affinity calcium-binding sites and influence fibrin assembly."}
{"id": "8364426", "title": "[Platelet aggregation and receptor expression of low affinity to IgE (Fc epsilon RII CD23) in patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis].", "content": "[Platelet aggregation and receptor expression of low affinity to IgE (Fc epsilon RII CD23) in patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis]. In 12 patients with pollinosis analysis of platelet function was carried out. Platelet function was assessed basing on the thromboelastogram curve and aggregation capability induced by ADP. Total serum IgE levels, as well as, specific antibodies to grass pollens, IgE and IgG4 levels and circulating receptor of low IgE affinity (sFc epsilon RII/sCD23) were also analysed. The study was carried out in a dynamic state, during natural allergen exposition and natural remission. A significant correlation was found between loss of platelet function and sCD23 levels. The observed relations were not influenced by seasonal changes."}
{"id": "8362255", "title": "Clinical use of synthetic antifibrinolytic agents during liver transplantation.", "content": "Clinical use of synthetic antifibrinolytic agents during liver transplantation."}
{"id": "8362254", "title": "Laboratory measures of hemostasis for monitoring liver graft function.", "content": "Laboratory measures of hemostasis for monitoring liver graft function."}
{"id": "8362252", "title": "Retrospective statistical analysis of coagulation parameters after 250 liver transplantations.", "content": "Retrospective statistical analysis of coagulation parameters after 250 liver transplantations. Extensive transfusion of blood components as a typical feature of OLT has been described by many authors. The perioperative requirement for transfusion, however, follows a downward trend, although the indications for OLT have been extended. Functional disturbances such as hyperfibrinolysis or platelet dysfunction, demonstrated by laboratory tests, such as platelet counts, PT, aPTT, TT, fibrinogen, and ATIII are often used to direct the transfusion of blood components, although preoperative data give insight only into the insufficient function of the old liver, which will be explanted and replaced by the donor graft. We have described a retrospective statistical analysis of laboratory data, clinical data, and perioperative blood requirements from 250 liver transplantations performed in our hospital from 1988 to 1992. The OLT was performed according to the usual surgical methods using a venovenous bypass system. Intraoperatively, volume was restored with packed RBC and FFP according to hemodynamic data, hemoglobin, and diuresis; clotting data were not used as indications for blood replacement. This analysis demonstrated that neither preoperative nor intraoperative clotting parameters were able to allow a prediction of the intraoperative requirement for transfusion of blood components; these findings parallel those of previous reports. With respect to other studies showing that perioperative transfusion rates correlated with postoperative infections and mortality, we strongly suggest that perioperative clotting measures as indicators for transfusion requirement should be analyzed with caution. Whether other diagnostic methods such as TEG are useful alternatives has to be determined."}
{"id": "8350435", "title": "Should the Cell Saver Autotransfusion Device be used routinely in all infrarenal abdominal aortic bypass operations?", "content": "Should the Cell Saver Autotransfusion Device be used routinely in all infrarenal abdominal aortic bypass operations? The purpose of this study was to attempt to identify a group of patients undergoing infrarenal aortic bypass in whom blood loss is consistently less than 2 units, making the routine use of autotransfusion devices unnecessary. Four groups of patients were prospectively studied as follows: abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair with tube graft (n = 21), AAA repair with bifemoral or biiliac bypass (n = 19), and aortobifemoral bypass (AFB) or biiliac bypass for occlusive disease either with Cell Saver Autotransfusion Device (Haemonetics Corp., Braintree, Mass.) (n = 18) or without Cell Saver (n = 18). The latter two groups were randomized on an alternating basis. The following parameters were obtained on all patients: preoperative hemoglobin values, estimated blood loss, Cell Saver return volumes, intraoperative and postoperative homologous blood transfused, postoperative hemoglobin values on the day of surgery and on postoperative days 1 and 4, complications, and length of hospital stay. In comparing the groups undergoing AFB with Cell Saver and AFB without Cell Saver by the above parameters, we found no statistically significant differences, except for a higher hemoglobin level on postoperative day 1 in the group undergoing AFB with Cell Saver (mean 11.86 vs 10.74, p = 0.02). The estimated blood loss and Cell Saver return volumes were less for those patients undergoing AFB for occlusive disease compared with those undergoing AFB for aneurysmal disease. Interestingly, estimated blood loss and Cell Saver return volumes for patients with AAA with tube graft and patients undergoing AFB with Cell Saver were similar. We conclude that routine setup and use of rapid autotransfusion devices may not be necessary in every patient undergoing routine aortofemoral bypass for occlusive disease. Furthermore, the possibility that some patients may undergo AAA repair with tube grafts without use of the Cell Saver may be deserving of further investigation."}
{"id": "8343335", "title": "Thrombelastography in the management of cardiopulmonary bypass for a patient with reduced prothrombin conversion because of a rare familial haemostatic defect.", "content": "Thrombelastography in the management of cardiopulmonary bypass for a patient with reduced prothrombin conversion because of a rare familial haemostatic defect."}
{"id": "8329269", "title": "Haemostasis and thrombelastography: a cautious note.", "content": "Haemostasis and thrombelastography: a cautious note."}
{"id": "8323235", "title": "Effects of continuous wave and pulsed laser on blood coagulation. An in vitro thromboelastographic study.", "content": "Effects of continuous wave and pulsed laser on blood coagulation. An in vitro thromboelastographic study. Besides being thrombogenic, lasers may have direct adverse effects on different constituents of blood itself, when used intraluminally in angioplasty. This pilot study was therefore designed to examine the effect of continuous wave (CW Nd: YAG) and pulsed wave (XeCl excimer) laser irradiation on whole blood coagulation and fibrinolysis in vitro using thromboelastography (TEG). TEG showed shortened reaction and coagulation times after three and six seconds with 10 W of continuous wave laser irradiation of 10 ml of blood. The clot formation rate and maximal amplitude were decreased with CW laser and the plasma clot lysis at one hour was significantly increased (P < 0.05). The effect of the pulsed wave laser was less pronounced. The exposure of whole blood to laser irradiation accelerated coagulation and enhanced fibrinolysis. The clinical significance of the findings is to be settled since the thrombogenicity of lasers is mainly caused by their effect on the vessel wall and thereby the on platelet-wall interaction."}
{"id": "8318240", "title": "Influence of ketorolac tromethamine on clot elastic strength in humans as assessed by thromboelastography.", "content": "Influence of ketorolac tromethamine on clot elastic strength in humans as assessed by thromboelastography. To evaluate the effect of ketorolac tromethamine on coagulation using thromboelastography (TEG). TEGs were performed in each patient before and after ketorolac administration. Each patient's predrug results were used as control measurements for comparison with the postdrug results. Medical center surgical unit. Twenty ASA physical status I and II patients undergoing minor elective surgery; 12 healthy volunteers. TEGs were performed in all subjects before and 60 minutes after the intramuscular (IM) administration of ketorolac tromethamine 60 mg. Ten surgical patients were studied in the intraoperative period, and 10 surgical patients were studied in the postoperative period. The 12 healthy volunteers did not undergo a surgical procedure. Specific parameters assessed from the TEGs were reaction time (R time), coagulation time (RK time), clot formation rate (angle of deflection), and maximum clot strength (maximum amplitude of deflection). Ketorolac administration did not cause statistically significant changes in these parameters in any of the three groups studied. IM administration of ketorolac tromethamine 60 mg did not significantly alter the speed of formation or viscoelastic strength of clots as measured by TEG. These results provide additional support for prior clinical studies confirming the safety of ketorolac administration in the perioperative period."}
{"id": "8301833", "title": "[Changes in hemodynamics and mixed venous oxygen saturation during intraoperative harvest of autologous platelet-rich plasma].", "content": "[Changes in hemodynamics and mixed venous oxygen saturation during intraoperative harvest of autologous platelet-rich plasma]. Intraoperative harvest and transfusion back of platelet-rich plasma (PRP) are an effective procedure to decrease the requirement of blood transfusion. We selected the right atrium as the site for collection and transfusion back of the blood for the harvest of PRP. We studied changes of the hemodynamics and mixed venous oxygen saturation (SvO2 during the intraoperative harvest of autologous PRP in two patients who were undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) surgery. The whole blood was collected, processed and the red blood cells were transfused immediately back to the patients using the Plasma Collection System (Haemonetics Model 50). The procedure was accomplished prior to starting CPB. The PRP product was transfused back into the patients at the completion of CPB. The arterial blood pressure, cardiac output, and SvO2 decreased during the collecting phase and immediately returned to the baseline values during the returning phase. No change was observed in the heart rate and arterial oxygen saturation. We conclude that the usage of right atrium as the site for collection and transfusion back of the blood to harvest PRP is effective and useful, and the continuous monitoring of SvO2 is mandatory for detecting the decline of the cardiac output."}
{"id": "8249363", "title": "Analysis of pre- and post-donation haematological values in plateletpheresis donors.", "content": "Analysis of pre- and post-donation haematological values in plateletpheresis donors. Pre- and post-donation haematological values were measured in 112 donors undergoing plateletpheresis using Haemonetics PCS machines. We found significant differences between pre- and post-donation means for males (M) and females (F) for haemoglobin (M: pre 14.73 g/dl, post 15.25 g/dl; F: pre 13.57 g/dl, post 13.94 g/dl), haematocrit (M: pre 0.418, post 0.431; F: pre 0.389, post 0.4), total protein (M: pre 73.1 g/l, post 66 g/l; F: pre 72.2 g/l, post 63.7 g/l) and albumin (M: pre 42.2 g/l, post 38.5 g/l; F: 41.4 g/l, post 37 g/l). Significant differences were also seen for platelet count (pre 258.6 x 10(9)/l, post 229.2 x 10(9)/l), total white cells (pre 5.3 x 10(9)/l, post 5.55 x 10(9)/l) and neutrophils (pre 3.15 x 10(9)/l, post 3.33 x 10(9)/l), but there were no differences between males and females. This information was of value in establishing post-donation reference ranges which could be utilised when reviewing the suitability of donors for subsequent donations."}
{"id": "8231315", "title": "Haemocompatibility optimisation of implants by hybrid structuring.", "content": "Haemocompatibility optimisation of implants by hybrid structuring. State of the art in biomaterial research and implant design is a compromise between functionality and biocompatibility. Consequently, results often have disadvantages with respect to both aspects. With regard to biocompatibility, the activation of the clotting system by alloplastic materials is of great significance, because it necessitates anticoagulant therapy. Further improvements in implant technology require an understanding of the interactions between blood and implants. Therefore a microscopic model of thrombogenesis at alloplastic surfaces is briefly presented, relating thrombogenicity of a material to the electronic structure of its surface. The electronic requirements for high haemocompatibility, which result from this model (especially a low band-gap density of states and a high surface conductivity) are fulfilled by an amorphous alloy of silicon and carbon (a-SiC:H). The advantage of amorphous materials is that they do not obey stoichiometric rules. Thus they allow a continuous adjustment of the electronic parameters without fundamental changes in their mechanical and chemical properties. The theoretical results were checked in vitro by total internal reflection intrinsic fluorescence (TIRIF) spectroscopy as well as thrombelastography experiments (TEG). In comparison with conventional materials such as titanium or LTI carbon, the TEG-clotting time of a-SiC:H-coatings was prolonged by in excess of 200 per cent. As a consequence, a-SiC:H is well suited as a haemocompatible coating material for hybrid structuring of cardiovascular implants."}
{"id": "8217180", "title": "Thromboelastography and Sonoclot analysis in the healthy parturient.", "content": "Thromboelastography and Sonoclot analysis in the healthy parturient. To compare values for two whole blood viscoelastic coagulation tests, thromboelastography (TEG) and Sonoclot analysis (Sonoclot R Coagulation Analyzer, Sienco, Inc., Morrison, CO), between healthy parturients and nonparturients. Prospective study. University hospital. 41 healthy, nonpregnant females and full-term nonlaboring and laboring parturients. Blood samples for TEG and Sonoclot analysis were taken from all patients. TEG tracings were analyzed for reaction time (R), coagulation time (RK), the difference between RK and R (K), clot formation rate (alpha degree), and maximum amplitude (MA) values. Sonoclot tracings were analyzed for onset, rate increases, peak, and rate decreases values. All TEG values were significantly different between nonpregnant females and parturients (p < 0.05). Sonoclot analysis showed that the parturients had a significantly decreased onset and increased primary slope (rate increases) in comparison to the nonpregnant females (p < 0.05). The differences found in the parturients reflect a hypercoagulable state. If these tests are to be used in evaluating obstetric patients, the results should be compared with values obtained for healthy parturients, not healthy nonparturients."}
{"id": "8123614", "title": "Coagulation status during aortic aneurysm surgery: comparison of thrombelastography with standard tests.", "content": "Coagulation status during aortic aneurysm surgery: comparison of thrombelastography with standard tests. A prospective comparison of thrombelastography to standard coagulation tests was undertaken in ten patients undergoing routine, uncomplicated abdominal aortic aneurysm surgery in order to explore potential clinical utility and establish normal patterns of change. Thrombelastograph k values increased (7.1 vs 5.4 min baseline, P < or = .01), and alpha angle (43 vs 52 degrees baseline, P < or = .001) and ma (39 vs 52 mm baseline, P < or = .01) values decreased following graft placement, while r values remained unaffected (6.4 vs 7.5 min baseline, P > .05). Weak correlations were observed between alpha angle and fibrinogen, prothrombin time, and partial thromboplastin time (aPTT), as well as between k and aPTT (0.70 < r < 0.79 for all). Systemic fibrinolysis was suggested by thrombelastography in 25% of samples, although euglobulin lysis times were abnormal in only 5% (chi 2 = 4.80, P < or = .05). Fibrin degradation product detection increased through the fifth postoperative day in all patients. Variations in thrombelastographic parameters and their correlation to standard coagulation tests in patients undergoing uncomplicated abdominal aortic aneurysm repair were documented. In such a setting, no clear advantages to thrombelastography were defined. Further observations will be necessary to establish the role for thrombelastography in the management of patients experiencing clinically significant perioperative coagulation disorders."}
{"id": "8013973", "title": "Plateletpheresis during plasma collection.", "content": "Plateletpheresis during plasma collection. New systems for collection of platelet concentrate (PC) and platelet poor plasma (PPP) are presently available. The aim of our work was to test the possibility of preparing PC routinely from normal plasma donors in a minimum amount of time and, at the same time, providing a second product that can be used as source-plasma or fresh-frozen plasma. Over a 3 year period (from 1990 to 1992) we performed 3503 procedures using 2 Haemonetics PCS machines (1236 procedures) and 3 Autopheresis-C (2267 procedures). With the PC produced we were able to satisfy all the requests coming from the hospitals of our region. The platelet yield was 1.95 x 10(11) with PCS and 3.2 x 10(11) with Auto-C in a PC volume of 150 and 200 ml respectively; collection times were quite similar (56 and 63 min). The results show that plasma-plateletpheresis is an efficient and competitive system. Regarding platelet yield, the best results were obtained with the Auto-C."}
{"id": "7905723", "title": "[Diagnosis and sub-diagnosis of depression].", "content": "[Diagnosis and sub-diagnosis of depression]. The new clinical model of depression here described is characterized by the distribution of the semiology into four dimensions: depressive mood, anergy, discommunication and rythmopathy. The Tetradimensional Questionnaire for Depression (TEG-DE, Alonso-Fernandez, 1986) made according to this model is an useful test for diagnosis and classification of depression."}
{"id": "7886594", "title": "Congenital afibrinogenemia in Hasan Sadikin Hospital.", "content": "Congenital afibrinogenemia in Hasan Sadikin Hospital. A case of a 24-year-old male with congenital afibrinogenemia has been discussed. The diagnosis was made based upon history, physical examination, umbilical cord bleeding, bleeding history and similar cases were found being the patient's grandfather and brother. Laboratory tests supported the diagnosis with a prolonged bleeding time, prothrombin time (PT), undetected partial thromboplastin time (PTT), flat line on thromboelastogram, and undetected fibrinogen (less than 78 mg/dl), with substitution test which showed fibrinogen deficiency."}
{"id": "7690649", "title": "[Comparative analysis of various plasmapheresis methods--modern procedures of mechanical plasma collection compared with each other and with manual bag centrifugation procedures].", "content": "[Comparative analysis of various plasmapheresis methods--modern procedures of mechanical plasma collection compared with each other and with manual bag centrifugation procedures]. Four plasmapheresis procedures (manual blood bag centrifugation plasmapheresis, and the three plasmapheresis machines P.C.S./Haemonetics, Autopheresis-C/Baxter-Travenol, Plasmapur Monitor/Organon Teknika) were studied comparatively. The three machine procedures could be performed more easily and more rapidly and were well accepted by donors, autologous donors (patients) and staff. Compared with the traditional, well established manual procedure, a possible impairment of the plasma donors seems reduced rather than raised. Activation of the hemostatic system of the donors, measured with very sensitive methods, was found to be less pronounced when plasmapheresis was performed with the machines than when it was performed conventionally. The plasma product obtained by machine plasmapheresis was found to be of higher quality. All three systems showed less activation of the clotting system. Especially the plasma obtained by the P.C.S. showed a higher clotting factor yield. Plasma obtained by the Autopheresis-C and by the Plasmapur Monitor (both systems are equipped with filters) was markedly less contaminated with cells. The recently found low activation of the clotting system of plasma recipients, however, showed no differences when plasma obtained conventionally or by the Plasmapur Monitor was used. In summary, the new machine plasmapheresis devices offer a good alternative to the conventional blood bag centrifugation method and set new standards for the production of high quality plasma."}
{"id": "7689759", "title": "Changes in urokinase-type plasminogen activator in orthotopic liver transplantation.", "content": "Changes in urokinase-type plasminogen activator in orthotopic liver transplantation. Elevated levels of u-PA Ag and scu-PA preoperatively and before revascularization of the graft are explained by an impaired clearance function by the diseased liver. They are parallel preoperatively and in the beginning of OLT by increased tcu-PA activity. This may reflect a role of the intrinsic fibrinolytic system in the \"hyperfibrinolytic state\" observed in patients with end stage liver disease. u-PA Ag and scu-PA normalize following reperfusion. The increase in tcu-PA observed during the anhepatic phase coincided with greatly increased fibrinolysis, as demonstrated by thrombelastography. This indicates that u-PA seems to be involved in the development of fibrinolysis during OLT. It had been demonstrated in previous investigations that a significant increase of t-PA activity was seen in the late anhepatic phase leading to an elevated plasmin generation. Since plasmin is a major activator of scu-PA, a t-PA mediated scu-PA activation would explain the concomitant increase in both plasminogen activators."}
{"id": "7689752", "title": "Influence of prostaglandin E1 infusion on hemostasis in orthotopic liver transplantation.", "content": "Influence of prostaglandin E1 infusion on hemostasis in orthotopic liver transplantation. In the control group, a significant decrease in platelet aggregability could be demonstrated after reperfusion. This was paralleled by a decrease in platelet counts. When PGE1 was infused during OLT, the post-reperfusional decreases in platelet aggregability and platelet counts in the control group could be prevented. Furthermore, our investigation demonstrated that PGE1 infusion led to higher t-PA activity during the anhepatic phase. This was paralleled and followed by lower alpha 2AP levels at the end of the anhepatic phase and after reperfusion. The higher t-PA levels in the PG group did not result in clinical signs of hyperfibrinolysis during OLT. The aprotinin administration in both groups is most certainly responsible for the absence of hyperfibrinolytic signs in the TEG and the low overall requirement for transfusions, explaining the comparable transfusion rate in the two groups (Fig. 5). Further investigations involving more patients are required to evaluate the clinical effect of PGE1 therapy."}
{"id": "7689751", "title": "Aprotinin in orthotopic liver transplantation.", "content": "Aprotinin in orthotopic liver transplantation."}
{"id": "7517108", "title": "[Monitoring of hemostasis during liver transplantation: contribution of thromboelastography].", "content": "[Monitoring of hemostasis during liver transplantation: contribution of thromboelastography]. Monitoring of coagulation is mandatory during liver transplantation (LT). Standard coagulation tests may be routinely used. However, they give static information and may be inadequate in case of severe coagulation defect. Interest has been recently focused on thromboelastography (TEG) which could give more suitable and rapid information in these cases. Few studies have evaluated the clinical interest of TEG compared to conventional tests. This comparison was the aim of the present study, performed in 89 patients scheduled for LT. The anaesthetic management as well as procedure of transfusion were similar in all patients. Before unclamping, 5000 KIU.kg-1 of aprotinin were injected. Routine tests and TEG were performed at the beginning and end of both pre-anhepatic and anhepatic phases, and 5, 30, 60, and 120 min after the revascularisation of the new liver. A phase of hypocoagulability was observed after unclamping. Biological signs included an increase in activated thromboplastin time, a reduction of alpha angle and maximum amplitude on TEG with a lengthening of its r + k component. A strong correlation existed between maximum amplitude and platelets, maximum amplitude and fibrinogen, alpha and fibrinogen at each time of the surgical procedure. Euglobulin lysis time decreased significantly after clamping, whereas fibrin degradation products increased at the same time. However, typical fibrinolysis with a clot lysis index (CLI) below 55% was only observed in 15 patients. Twelve of them had a CLI value reaching 0%, associated with severe generalized oozing. Aprotinin (200,000 to 600,000 KIU) corrected these abnormalities. These results show that TEG may not be very helpful to determine whether platelets or fibrinogen are involved in the phase of hypocoagulability detected after unclamping.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "7510427", "title": "A natural rubber drainage tube with antithrombogenic lumen surface.", "content": "A natural rubber drainage tube with antithrombogenic lumen surface. A drainage tube was made by radiation vulcanization of a high polymeric substance based on natural rubber elastomers. Pentosan polysulphate sodium bound to a carrier substance (synthetic type 4A or 13X zeolite) was incorporated in the drainage tube which was then tested for its anticoagulant properties during perfusion with Tris buffer solution, citrated plasma, and blood, resp. The amount of pentosan polysulphate sodium released from the tube walls during perfusion with human citrated plasma in an open circulatory system was sufficient to exert an anticoagulant effect on the streaming plasma. This effect was corroborated by prolonged thrombin times and by unclottability in case of recalcified plasma samples in thrombelastographic studies. The antithrombogenicity test according to Chandler in a closed circulatory system revealed thrombus formation times (TFT) of more than 24 h (control: TFT = 1-3 min in native blood)."}
{"id": "7504387", "title": "Hydroxyethyl starch as a prime for cardiopulmonary bypass: effects of two different solutions on haemostasis.", "content": "Hydroxyethyl starch as a prime for cardiopulmonary bypass: effects of two different solutions on haemostasis. Hydroxyethyl starch (HES) is efficacious as a volume expander in cardiac surgical patients, but it may impair the haemostatic mechanisms. However, this latter effect may be less conspicuous with low molecular weight (LMW) solutions than with high molecular weight (HMW) solutions. Therefore, LMW- and HMW-HES solutions were evaluated as priming solutions for cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) with respect to their effect on haemostasis. Forty-five patients undergoing coronary bypass grafting were prospectively randomised to three groups and received in a double-blind manner as their CPB prime either 20 ml.kg-1 LMW-HES (Mw 120,000), 20 ml.kg-1 HMW-HES (Mw 400,000) or Ringer's acetate 2000 ml. The final volume of the prime was completed to 2000 ml with Ringer's acetate in the HES groups. Anaesthesia and CPB management were standardised. Plasma levels of von Willebrand factor antigen and factor VIII procoagulant activity were significantly more depressed after CPB in both HES-groups as compared with the crystalloid prime group. In addition, APTT was more prolonged and the maximal amplitude of thromboelastographic tracing was more decreased in the HES-groups. It is concluded that it may be advisable to avoid HES solutions in the CPB prime, especially in patients with an increased risk for bleeding after cardiac operations."}
{"id": "10148073", "title": "Heparin washout in the pediatric Cell Saver bowl.", "content": "Heparin washout in the pediatric Cell Saver bowl. The possibility of residual heparin in washed red cells transfused to neonatal or pediatric cardiac patients following bypass prompted a measurement of heparin concentrations. Samples were taken during 10 adult and 10 neonatal and pediatric bypass cases. Sample A was from the bypass circuit, Sample B from the Haemonetics Cell Saver bowl inlet before washing, Sample C from the Cell Saver bowl outlet after washing, and Sample D from the patient ten minutes after protamine. Heparin concentrations were measured by a chromogenic assay using activated Factor X. There was no significant difference between the adult and pediatric groups in the levels of heparin concentration on bypass, pre-washing and post-washing, and in the patients following protamine. In the pediatric group, only .002% of the pre-washed heparin remained after washing. This extremely low level of heparin (.0027 units/ml) is only 0.34 units in a 125 ml pediatric unit of Cell Saver blood. Based on post bypass patient samples, this has no clinical significance. Therefore, the Cell Saver can be used safely with neonates and pediatric patients without concern regarding residual heparin when properly processed."}
{"id": "1630020", "title": "[Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia associated with translocation 1;7, marked platelet aggregation and cryofibrinogenemia: a case report].", "content": "[Chronic myelomonocytic leukemia associated with translocation 1;7, marked platelet aggregation and cryofibrinogenemia: a case report]. A 64-year-old male was admitted in September 1989 with complaints of fever and muscular weakness in the extremities. A peripheral blood examination on admission revealed WBC 10,300/microliters (monocytes 32%), RBC 195 x 10(4)/microliters, Hb 7.9 g/dl, Plt 12.8 x 10(4)/microliters with trilineage dysplasia. Bone marrow biopsy was normoplastic marrow with 25.7% of monocytes including immature blasts. Cytochemical analysis of the monocytes showed positive for peroxidase and dual esterase staining. Chromosomal analysis of peripheral blood revealed 46, XY, -7, +der(1) t(1;7)(p11;p11). A diagnosis of chronic myelomonocytic leukemia was made. Hemostatic studies revealed cryofibrinogenemia, marked platelet aggregation on blood smear, hyperfibrinogenemia and a marked increase in maximal amplitude of thrombelastogram. Treatment with prednisolone and VP16, resulted in a reduction of peripheral monocytes and a disappearance of cryofibrinogen, marked platelet aggregation and a decrease in muscular weakness. Nine months after diagnosis he died of DIC, pneumonia, lung abscess and sepsis."}
{"id": "1613964", "title": "[Hemodilutional and blood salvaging autotransfusions in a case of aplastic anemia].", "content": "[Hemodilutional and blood salvaging autotransfusions in a case of aplastic anemia]. A 28-year-old female, weighing 46 kg, 155 cm in height, with aplastic anemia underwent implantation of iliac bone to the head of the femur. A combined technique of hemodilution and intraoperative blood salvaging was applied to supplement the blood loss during the operation. Intraoperative monitoring included continuous arterial pressure, heart rate, electrocardiograph, SVO2, bleeding time, prothrombin time (PT), activated thromboplastin time (APTT), and thromboelastography. A total of 900 ml of blood was drawn and the same volume of 5% albumin solution was infused over half an hour before the beginning of the surgery. During the operation, 2100 ml of blood was lost, and 1260 ml of autologous blood, 400 ml of homogeneous red blood cells and 5 units of fresh platelet were infused. The values of PT, APTT, bleeding time were within normal ranges after the surgery. Only 3 units of fresh platelet was infused in 2 weeks after the surgery. It was suggested that hemodilution and salvaging autotransfusion is safely performed and beneficial to minimize homogeneous blood transfusion even in a case of aplastic anemia."}
{"id": "1610009", "title": "The role of desmopressin acetate in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery. A controlled clinical trial with thromboelastographic risk stratification.", "content": "The role of desmopressin acetate in patients undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery. A controlled clinical trial with thromboelastographic risk stratification. The role of desmopressin acetate in attenuating blood loss and reducing homologous blood component therapy after cardiopulmonary bypass is unclear. The purpose of this investigation was to identify a subgroup of patients that may benefit from desmopressin acetate therapy. One hundred fifteen patients completed a prospective randomized double-blind, placebo-controlled trial designed to evaluate the effect of desmopressin acetate (0.3 microgram.kg-1) on mediastinal chest tube drainage after elective coronary artery bypass grafting surgery in patients with normal and abnormal platelet-fibrinogen function as diagnosed by the maximal amplitude (MA) on thromboelastographic (TEG) evaluation. The 115 patients evaluated were divided into two groups based on the MA of the post-cardiopulmonary bypass TEG tracing. Group 1 (TEG:MA greater than 50 mm) consisted of 86 patients, of whom 44 received desmopressin and 42 received placebo. Twenty-nine patients had abnormal platelet function (TEG:MA less than 50 mm) and were designated as group 2. In group 2, 13 received desmopressin and 16 placebo. During the first 24 h after cardiopulmonary bypass, the placebo-treated patients in group 2 had significantly greater mediastinal chest tube drainage when compared to placebo patients in group 1 (1,352.6 +/- 773.1 ml vs. 865.3 +/- 384.4 ml, P = 0.002). In addition to increases in blood loss, group 2 placebo patients also were administered an increased number of blood products (P less than 0.05). The desmopressin-treated patients in group 2 neither experienced increased mediastinal chest tube drainage nor received increased amounts of homologous blood products when compared to those in group 1.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1606290", "title": "Heparin rebound phenomenon--much ado about nothing?", "content": "Heparin rebound phenomenon--much ado about nothing? Significant postoperative bleeding following open-heart surgery is often ascribed to the so-called heparin 'rebound' phenomenon and as such is treated with additional empiric doses of protamine sulphate. However, inappropriate protamine administration has been reported to be associated with acute pulmonary hypertension. The efficacy of heparin reversal was investigated in 42 patients undergoing open-heart surgery. The standard heparin bolus of 3 mg/kg body weight (4.1 IU/ml blood) administered before cardiopulmonary bypass was countered at the end of bypass using an empirical equivalent (3 mg/kg) of protamine. This regimen resulted in complete heparin neutralization (measured by the Hepcon HMS [Hemotec Inc., Englewood, CO, USA]) 15 min after protamine administration in all 42 patients, but heparin levels (0.4 IU/ml) were transiently detectable (duration less than 1 h) in six (14%) of the 42 cases 2 h later. Twenty-four hour postoperative bleeding in these patients did not differ significantly from that seen in patients who did not exhibit heparin rebound. Similarly, the thrombelastographic profiles (at 15 min and 2 h post-operation) and coagulation screen (prothrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, activated clotting time and platelets) did not differ significantly from those of non-rebound patients. The significance, if any, of the phenomenon of heparin rebound following cardiac surgery remains to be elucidated, and, until such time, conservative administration of protamine in response to 'rebound' is recommended."}
{"id": "1595003", "title": "[Analysis of blood coagulation and fibrinolysis in rheumatoid arthritis using the urokinase activated thromboelastography].", "content": "[Analysis of blood coagulation and fibrinolysis in rheumatoid arthritis using the urokinase activated thromboelastography]. The urokinase activated thromboelastography is useful for the analysis of blood coagulation and fibrinolysis in rheumatoid arthritis (RA). In 43 RA patients without extraarticular symptoms (mean year old +/- SD = 50.3 +/- 10.9) and 20 healthy control subjects (mean year old +/- SD = 49.5 +/- 13.8, which is not significant), we have examined reaction time (r), coagulation time (k), r+k, maximal amplitude (ma), lysis time (LT) of the urokinase (final density = 85U/ml) activated platelet rich plasma thromboelastography. In RA patients r, k, r+k are shorter, ma is larger, LT is longer than in control subjects. Especially, k, ma and LT are remarkably statistically significant. these findings suggest that most of RA patients have hypercoagulability and/or prolongation of lysis time simultaneously, k, ma and LT are pathophysiologically important."}
{"id": "1571944", "title": "Bovine submandibular gland extracts interact with the human hemostasis factors.", "content": "Bovine submandibular gland extracts interact with the human hemostasis factors. Glycoconjugates were extracted from the bovine submandibular gland and their anticoagulant activity was tested on the blood coagulation of human beings. The methods employed demonstrated that the thromboelastographic parameters were only modified by the highest concentration of glycoconjugates. Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (aPTT) and Thrombin Time (TT) were affected by dose-coupling response. Prothrombin Time (PT) and Reptilase Time (RT) were not modified."}
{"id": "1567284", "title": "[Blood coagulation, fibrinolysis and various values of Lansbury's activity index in rheumatoid arthritis patients].", "content": "[Blood coagulation, fibrinolysis and various values of Lansbury's activity index in rheumatoid arthritis patients]. To clarify pathophysiological significance of blood coagulation and fibrinolysis in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients with various values of Lansbury's activity index, we analysed by means of the urokinase activated platelet rich plasma thromboelastography. In RA patients, coagulation time (k) and reaction time (r)+k were shorter, maximal amplitude (ma) was larger and lysis time (LT) was longer comparing with those in healthy control. Especially LT and ma showed marked differences between RA patients and control subjects. The mild RA patients whose Lansbury's activity indexes were 0-19% had significant differences from healthy control subjects, in order of LT less than ma less than r+less than k, the probability values were smaller. Significant coefficients of positive correlations with Lansbury's activity index were higher in order of LT greater than LT/k greater than ma x LT. These findings suggested that RA patients had fibrin formation, which had close relations with maximal amplitude (ma) and lysis time (LT) which had positive correlation with Lansbury's activity index."}
{"id": "1567055", "title": "Template for rapid analysis of the thrombelastogram.", "content": "Template for rapid analysis of the thrombelastogram."}
{"id": "1545559", "title": "Bacteriologic and endotoxin analysis of salvaged blood used in autologous transfusions during cardiac operations.", "content": "Bacteriologic and endotoxin analysis of salvaged blood used in autologous transfusions during cardiac operations. Autologous blood transfusion is a common method of reducing the need for heterologous blood transfusion during cardiac operations. Recently we investigated an outbreak of severe, nonsurgical postoperative bleeding among patients undergoing heart operations and receiving intraoperative transfusion of blood from a cell conservation device (Cell Saver System, Haemonetics Corp., Braintree, Mass.). As a result of this investigation, we conducted a prospective study to determine if bacterial or endotoxin contamination of the blood collected in the Cell Saver System and used for reinfusion during heart operations contributes to postoperative bleeding complications. Patients' blood samples were collected immediately before operation, at the end of cardiopulmonary bypass, 1 hour postoperatively, and from the Cell Saver System. All blood samples were cultured for bacteria, and all plasma samples were assayed for endotoxin. Preoperatively all patients having heart operations were without signs of infection, 33 of 37 blood cultures taken were negative, and none of the plasma samples had detectable endotoxin. After discontinuance of cardiopulmonary bypass but before delivery of blood from the Cell Saver System, bacteria and endotoxin were detected in 11 of 36 (30.6%) and five of 35 (14.3%) of the patients' blood samples, respectively. The blood aspirated from the open chest and collected by the Cell Saver System was culture positive in 30 of 31 (96.8%) samples, and seven of 29 (24.1%) contained endotoxin. One of 28 blood samples collected 1 hour postoperatively was culture positive, and five of 25 samples contained endotoxin. Of 61 total microorganisms isolated, 50 (82%) were coagulase-negative staphylococci, four (6.6%) aerobic diphtheroids, five (8.2%) anaerobic \"diphtheroids\" (Propionibacterium acnes), and two (3.2%) gram-negative bacilli. Plasma endotoxin concentrations ranged from 10 to 765 pg/ml. No signs of endotoxemia or unusual bleeding were observed intraoperatively or postoperatively in any of the 38 patients. Although blood collected in the Cell Saver System and used for reinfusion during heart operations often was contaminated with gram-positive bacterial commensals of the skin and low concentrations of endotoxin, no adverse effects were noted in the patients."}
{"id": "1545507", "title": "[Effects of induced hypotensive anesthesia on the blood coagulation-fibrinolysis system measured by thrombelastography--comparison between prostaglandin E1 and trimethaphan].", "content": "[Effects of induced hypotensive anesthesia on the blood coagulation-fibrinolysis system measured by thrombelastography--comparison between prostaglandin E1 and trimethaphan]. The coagulation-fibrinolysis system has been studied in two groups of 16 patients classified ASA 1 undergoing radical mastectomy during controlled hypotensive anesthesia induced by prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) or by trimethaphan (TMP) under enflurane anesthesia. Thrombelastography (TEG) was used to evaluate both coagulation and fibrinolysis systems, while simultaneously measuring platelet aggregation in response to ADP and collagen, prothrombin time (PT), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), serum concentrations of fibrinogen, and platelet counts. In the PGE1 group, APTT was significantly shortened (P less than 0.05) while the drug was being infused, but there was no statistically significant difference between the two groups, which was considered due to the effect of enflurane. Also, no statistically significant changes were noted in the other measured parameters. These results suggest that controlled hypotensive anesthesia using either PGE1 or TMP under enflurane anesthesia produces no significant changes in the blood coagulation-fibrinolysis system and that both are useful for the management of bleeding during surgery. Further, TEG was found to reflect other parameters properly. It is therefore useful for monitoring the blood coagulation-fibrinolysis system during anesthesia."}
{"id": "1540061", "title": "Thromboelastogram fails to predict postoperative hemorrhage in cardiac patients.", "content": "Thromboelastogram fails to predict postoperative hemorrhage in cardiac patients. To determine the clinical usefulness of the thromboelastogram in the prediction of postoperative hemorrhage in cardiac patients, we related the results of routine coagulation tests (RCTs) and thromboelastography with the amount of chest tube drainage postoperatively in 101 patients requiring cardiopulmonary bypass. Our data indicated that there was no correlation between RCT results and thromboelastographic variables. No single variable of RCTs and thromboelastography correlated well with the amount of chest tube drainage postoperatively. Before the onset of cardiopulmonary bypass, the most frequent abnormalities detected by thromboelastograms were fibrinolysis and hypocoagulability resulting from factor deficiency. Hypercoagulability detected by thromboelastograms occurred in 13% of patients after cardiopulmonary bypass and usually was not detected by RCTs. The incidence of false-negative thromboelastograms and RCT results in patients who had excessive hemorrhage of unknown cause was 46% and 52%, respectively. The incidence of fibrinolysis as detected by thromboelastograms was similar before and after bypass, but only 2 of the 18 patients with fibrinolysis had excessive hemorrhage postoperatively. Our results indicate that neither RCTs nor thromboelastography predicts the likelihood of excessive hemorrhage in patients after cardiopulmonary bypass. The thromboelastographic results should be interpreted cautiously because of the high rate of unreliable results."}
{"id": "1523742", "title": "Use of predeposit autologous blood and intraoperative autotransfusion in urologic cancer surgery.", "content": "Use of predeposit autologous blood and intraoperative autotransfusion in urologic cancer surgery. A total of 20 patients underwent major urologic cancer surgery with the combined use of predeposit autologous blood and intraoperative autotransfusion with the Haemonetics Cell Saver. The estimated blood loss ranged from 400 to 2,000 mL (mean 1,208 mL). Total transfusion requirements for the 20 patients were 85.5 units of which 82.5 (96%) were autologous. Predeposit autologous blood accounted for 53 percent, intraoperative autotransfusion blood 43 percent, and homologous blood 4 percent of the total transfusion requirements. Of the 20 patients in the study, only 1 received homologous blood. There were no complications related to either modality of autotransfusion. Our data suggest that using the combined modalities of predeposit autologous blood donation and intraoperative autotransfusion, major urologic cancer surgery can be performed without homologous blood in most cases."}
{"id": "1495183", "title": "[Thrombelastography as a bedside monitor of coagulation and fibrinolysis during surgery--a report of three cases].", "content": "[Thrombelastography as a bedside monitor of coagulation and fibrinolysis during surgery--a report of three cases]. Three patients with abnormal hemostasis during surgery were reported. They were monitored by thrombelastography (TEG). The first case was a 48 year old male who underwent extravivo hepatectomy. TEG showed hypo-coagulability during anhepatic phase. After reperfusion to the liver, the coagulability determined by TEG returned to a normal pattern. The second patient was a 32 year old female who underwent laparotomy to stop bleeding for cervico-vaginal laceration after delivery. The patient had been in severe hemorrhagic shock, and massive blood transfusion and fluid administration were performed. TEG showed remarkable hypocoagulability probably due to blood dilution and consumption coagulopathy. When TEG returned to a normal pattern after administration of fresh frozen plasma and fresh whole blood, the abnormal bleeding stopped. The third patient was a 48 year old male who underwent resection of metastatic brain tumor. He had hepatocellular carcinoma and liver cirrhosis. During surgery, abnormal bleeding was seen at surgical field, when TEG revealed remarkable hyper-fibrinolysis. After antifibrinolytic therapy coupled with replacement therapy, TEG returned to a normal pattern and the abnormal bleeding ceased. We conclude that TEG is a useful bed side monitor for the diagnosis of coagulopathy and hyper-fibrinolysis during surgery."}
{"id": "1490198", "title": "A method for clinical purging of myeloma bone marrow using peanut agglutinin as an anti-plasma cell agent, in combination with CD19 monoclonal antibody.", "content": "A method for clinical purging of myeloma bone marrow using peanut agglutinin as an anti-plasma cell agent, in combination with CD19 monoclonal antibody. Previous studies have shown that the lectin peanut agglutinin (PNA) binds bone marrow plasma cells in the majority of patients with myeloma and does not bind to normal haemopoietic progenitors. This lectin has been used in combination with anti-CD19 monoclonal antibody (moAb) in a system for purging myeloma bone marrow. This has now been scaled up for application to ex vivo treatment of large volumes of bone marrow suitable for autologous bone marrow transplantation. Four bone marrow harvests from patients with myeloma containing 9.5 +/- 4.9% plasma cells were depleted of erythrocytes and mature granulocytes by Ficoll separation using the Haemonetics V50 cell separator. The mononuclear fraction was then purged with magnetic beads coated with PNA and anti-CD19 moAb. The system proved highly efficient with removal of all detectable plasma cells and CD19+ cells. Average mononuclear cell recovery following purging was 71% of the concentrated marrow with 78% yield of CFU-GM. Normal progenitor recovery related to patients' weight is predicted to be adequate for haemopoietic reconstitution following ablative chemoradiotherapy. This system is therefore feasible for large-scale clinical purging."}
{"id": "1485466", "title": "Do thermal lasers increase the risk of distal embolism in angioplasties? An experimental study with cw Nd: YAG and excimer lasers.", "content": "Do thermal lasers increase the risk of distal embolism in angioplasties? An experimental study with cw Nd: YAG and excimer lasers. A thermal (contact cw Nd:YAG) and non-thermal (Xe-Cl excimer) laser were used to irradiate fresh human blood in an experimental setting to investigate the possible thrombogenic properties of lasers and to compare the two laser modalities. Blood was obtained into 10 ml citrate test tubes from healthy volunteers. Laser irradiations were performed with cw Nd: YAG laser (10W, 3 and 6 secs) and with excimer laser (20 mJ, 60 ns pulses, 15 secs). Altogether, 80 samples were collected. A thromboelastographic (TEG) analysis was performed for each sample as well as the controls, which were taken simultaneously. Serum potassium levels indicating haemolysis were also determined. Thermal laser energy seems to have more thrombogenic effect than excimer laser. There appear to be no previous reports available in the literature using TEG to determine thrombogenicity of different lasers."}
{"id": "1477749", "title": "[Use of Cell Saver 4 in traumatology. Apropos of 9 cases].", "content": "[Use of Cell Saver 4 in traumatology. Apropos of 9 cases]. During a recent seven mouth period of time, patients with intrathoracic and intraabdominal injury had recovery of shed blood utilizing a Haemonetics Cell Saver. Blood is suctioned from the surgical field or with tube thoracostomy. Autotransfusion is sufficient for four patients; five others patients need blood transfusion, for intraoperative or postoperative hemorrhage. However, the decrease of transfusion requirement is evident, and autotransfusion is equivalent to 8.6 concentrated red cells units for each patient, as 2.6 homologous bank blood concentrated red cell units. The difficulties are nurse training, and cost (to be compared with homologous bank blood cost); but autotransfusion with Haemonetics Cell Saver 4 is sizeable part of transfusion therapy of acute trauma."}
{"id": "1477269", "title": "[Physical mechanisms of solid-protein interactions in the interface between amorphous silicon carbide and fibrinogen].", "content": "[Physical mechanisms of solid-protein interactions in the interface between amorphous silicon carbide and fibrinogen]. State of the art in biomaterial research and implant design is a compromise between functionality and biocompatibility. Consequently the results often have disadvantages with respect to both aspects. In regard to biocompatibility the activation of the clotting system by alloplastic materials is of great significance, because it necessitates anticoagulant therapy. Further improvements of implant technology require an understanding of the interactions between blood and implants. Therefore a microscopic model of thrombogenesis at alloplastic surfaces will shortly be presented, which relates thrombogenicity of a material to the electronic structure of its surface. The requirements for high hemocompatibility, which result from this model--especially in regard to the density of states and the conductivity at the surface--are fulfilled by an amorphous alloy of silicon and carbon (a-SiC:H). The advantage of amorphous materials is that they do not obey stoichiometric rules. Thus they allow a continuous adjustment of the electronic parameters without fundamental changes of their mechanical and chemical properties. The theoretical results where checked by total internal reflection intrinsic fluorescence spectroscopy (TIRIF) as well as thrombelastography experiments (TEG). In comparison to conventional materials like titanium or LTI carbon the TEG-clotting time of a-SiC:H-coatings is prolonged in excess of 200%. As a consequence a-SiC:H is well suited as a hemocompatible coating material for hybrid structuring of cardiovascular implants."}
{"id": "1474970", "title": "[Evaluation of the fluidifying effect on nasal mucus of physiologic solution combined with increasing concentrations of polysorbates].", "content": "[Evaluation of the fluidifying effect on nasal mucus of physiologic solution combined with increasing concentrations of polysorbates]. Nasal decongestants are widely used in the treatment of rhinitis. Decongestant drugs are one of the main components, but numerous reports gave been made concerning side, local and general effects. The problem is particularly important in the treatment of infantile rhinitis for which the use of saline solution alone is often preferred. The paper evaluates the fluidifying action of a saline solution and polysorbate 20, a tensioactive molecule, on nasal mucous. Changes in mucous viscosity were assessed using a \"filancemeter\" and thromboelastograph. At the same time a clinical study on the efficacy of treatment and the possible presence of side effects was carried out in a population of rhinitic subjects. The study highlighted the fluidifying effect of the preparation on nasal mucous and the complete absence of side effects."}
{"id": "1465885", "title": "Cyclosporine-related hypercoagulability: fact or fiction?", "content": "Cyclosporine-related hypercoagulability: fact or fiction?"}
{"id": "1450184", "title": "Increased lipid binding to thrombi in coronary artery disease. Findings in patients without premedication in native (not anticoagulated) test systems.", "content": "Increased lipid binding to thrombi in coronary artery disease. Findings in patients without premedication in native (not anticoagulated) test systems. Thrombi and clots were produced from native (i.e., not anticoagulated) platelet-rich and platelet-poor plasma from patients with coronary artery disease and control subjects who had not taken any medication known to influence plasma lipids, coagulation, or platelet aggregation. The clotting times were recorded, and the lipid content of clots, thrombi, platelets, plasma, and high density lipoprotein was analyzed. Thrombi produced from native platelet-rich plasma were 46% heavier in coronary artery disease patients and contained about 20% more phospholipids and free cholesterol and about twice the amount of triglycerides and esterified cholesterol in both absolute and relative amounts with respect to the corresponding lipids of plasma plus platelets. The elevated content of lipids not only increases the size of the thrombi but also changes their quality because of an increased content in plasmatic lipids, as platelets contain only trace amounts of triglycerides and cholesterol esters. In agreement herewith, fibrinogen and maximal amplitude on the thrombelastogram were increased in coronary artery disease patients, whereas the thrombus-forming time and clotting times of platelet-poor and platelet-rich plasma were shortened, indicating accelerated coagulation and activation of platelets. Analysis of these results suggests a disturbed interrelation in coronary artery disease between lipids and hemostasis, in which platelets, high density lipoprotein, and lipoproteins rich in triglycerides and cholesterol esters may play a role."}
{"id": "1417257", "title": "Thromboelastogram and postoperative hemorrhage.", "content": "Thromboelastogram and postoperative hemorrhage."}
{"id": "1417256", "title": "Thromboelastogram and postoperative hemorrhage.", "content": "Thromboelastogram and postoperative hemorrhage."}
{"id": "1417255", "title": "Thromboelastogram and postoperative hemorrhage.", "content": "Thromboelastogram and postoperative hemorrhage."}
{"id": "1413659", "title": "Bone marrow fractionation by the haemonetics system: reduction of red cell mass before marrow freezing, with special reference to pediatric marrow volumes.", "content": "Bone marrow fractionation by the haemonetics system: reduction of red cell mass before marrow freezing, with special reference to pediatric marrow volumes. For purposes of freezing autologous marrow or transplants of allogeneic marrow with major ABO blood group incompatibility, 54 freshly harvested bone marrows from children of 7-65 kg of weight were depleted of their red cells with the Haemonetics V50 system. The marrow volumes ranged from 230 to 1,145 ml, with 17 small (200-399 ml), 18 intermediate (400-799 ml) and 19 large (800-1,200 ml) volumes. After processing, the median recoveries were: volume 24%, red cell mass 18%, and nucleated cells 75%. In the small marrow volume group, a good nucleated cell recovery was achieved at the expense of red cell depletion. The colony-forming units, granulocytes-macrophages (CFU-GM) were normal after thawing of processed, cryopreserved marrows, and good engraftment of both allogeneic and autologous marrows were achieved. We conclude that marrow processing with the Haemonetics V50 system results in adequate red cell depletion and good nucleated cell recovery without open-air contact of marrow or excessive time consumption. For small marrow volumes, however, the red cell depletion was suboptimal, and a bowl size smaller than 125 ml is desirable for pediatric use."}
{"id": "1389849", "title": "Thrombelastography.", "content": "Thrombelastography."}
{"id": "1389819", "title": "Thrombelastography after aspirin ingestion in pregnant and non-pregnant subjects.", "content": "Thrombelastography after aspirin ingestion in pregnant and non-pregnant subjects. The thrombelastograph (TEG) and bleeding time were performed before and 6 h after a single oral dose of aspirin 600 mg in a group of eight healthy volunteers and 12 pregnant patients. Measured TEG variables (r, k, r+k times and maximum amplitude) were unaltered after aspirin although there was a significant prolongation of the bleeding time in both groups. Although the TEG appeared not to detect aspirin-induced changes in platelet function, the TEG measures all phases of coagulation and the unaltered TEG after aspirin suggested a functioning coagulation system."}
{"id": "1384840", "title": "Changes in coagulability of blood in patients with cerebrovascular disease in various meteorological situations.", "content": "Changes in coagulability of blood in patients with cerebrovascular disease in various meteorological situations. The authors are dealing with the influence of meteorological factors on vascular diseases, primarily on patients with cerebro-vascular disturbances. The parameters mentioned in some studies are also presented in the introduction. There are still few studies by means of which it can be enlightened what happens in the human body affected by atmospheric disturbances. Therefore the basic intention of this study was to come up with answers to at least some segments of this complex problem. A group of patients with cerebrovascular symptoms and signs was chosen for examination. Tests were carried out during cold and warm front passages in anticyclonal situations and low gradient pressure fields within 47 days. In the first stage the tests were carried out only in one day and later for three consecutive days. Meteorological reports are given too. As for medical parameters, the following were controlled: the neurology status, blood pressure, blood test, ECG, REG. The coagulum was regularly checked. The examination was carried out in 12 male and 14 female patients, the age range 43-78. On the basis of the tests, the authors concluded that the most significant changes were noticed in the coagulum and thromboelastogram. According to the results, these changes are manifested during the cold front and during the cold spell caused by it. The findings point to a significant increasing of the thrombocyte aggregation and partly the aggregation index, which can be clinically manifested as the patient's health aggravation. Although other parameters of coagulation did not show significant changes, it cannot be deduced whether they are susceptible to the circumstances in the atmosphere or not.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1383589", "title": "[Intraoperative blood recovery in transurethral resection of prostate (TURP)].", "content": "[Intraoperative blood recovery in transurethral resection of prostate (TURP)]. Blood collected from irrigating fluid in TURP was studied if it was appropriate blood as autologous transfusion or not. TURP was performed aided by continuous irrigation through suprapubic cystostomy. The cystostomy tube was connected to the Shiley STAT or Haemonetics Cell Saver in 15 patients. The average weight of resected adenoma was 36 g per patient. The product of washed blood gave an average yield of 440 ml per patient with an average RBC count of 469 x 10(3)/mm3, hemoglobin of 14.6 g/dl, hematocrit of 44.8%, platelets of 15400/mm3. The half-life of collected red blood cells tagged with 55Cr was 22 days. The urine in 10 patients (67%) were contaminated with bacteria before TURP, and 3 of collected blood were contaminated with bacteria (20%). As for carcinoma cells, cultured urinary bladder carcinoma cells (T24) and renal carcinoma cells (ACHN) were completely eliminated after filtration through leukocyte removal filter Sepacell or Pall RC. As results, the intraoperatively collected blood from irrigating fluid in TURP was useful and safe as autologous blood transfusion."}
{"id": "1377580", "title": "Hemopoietic stem cell processing: comparison of progenitor cell recovery using the Cobe 2991 cell washer and the Haemonetics V50 apheresis system.", "content": "Hemopoietic stem cell processing: comparison of progenitor cell recovery using the Cobe 2991 cell washer and the Haemonetics V50 apheresis system. Using 24 bone marrow (BM) harvests intended for cryopreservation and transplantation, we compared the use of the Cobe 2991 cell washer (2991) and the Haemonetics V50 apheresis system (HV50) for automated BM processing. Our in vitro data indicate that while the mononuclear cell (MNC) concentration of the HV50 product was significantly greater than that of the 2991, the overall MNC recovery of the two products was equivalent. In addition, although the concentration of CFU-GM and BFU-E in the products was equivalent, recovery of these progenitors in the 2991 product was significantly greater than those of the HV50 product. There was no significant difference in either the final product concentration or the overall recovery of cells bearing the primitive myeloid antigens, CD33 or CD34, between the two methods. The HV50 product volume, the red cell and the granulocyte mass were significantly lower than those of the 2991. We conclude that the advantages gained through the use of each machine should be evaluated within the context of the specific intention for the graft. Future advances in the identification and understanding of the primitive stem cell will aid in attempts to evaluate the methods used to isolate these cells."}
{"id": "1370735", "title": "Different aprotinin applications influencing hemostatic changes in orthotopic liver transplantation.", "content": "Different aprotinin applications influencing hemostatic changes in orthotopic liver transplantation. The effect of different aprotinin applications on hemostatic changes and blood product requirements in orthotopic liver transplantation was investigated in a prospective, open, and randomized study. From November 1989 to June 1990, 13 patients received aprotinin as a bolus of 0.5 Mill. Kallikrein inactivator units (KIU) on three occasions in the course of an OLT, whereas 10 other patients were treated with continuous aprotinin infusion of 0.1-0.4 Mill. KIU/hr. Before and after reperfusion of the graft liver, signs of hyperfibrinolysis, measured by thrombelastography, were significantly lower in the infusion group. Tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) activity increased during the anhepatic phase but to a significantly lesser extent in the infusion group. Blood product requirements during OLT were tendentiously higher in the bolus group but not significantly so. However, the use of packed red blood cells was significantly lower in the postoperative period, whereas there was no significant difference in fresh frozen plasma requirements between the two groups. All 23 patients have survived, and only one woman of each group required retransplantation due to severe host-versus-graft reactions. Furthermore, we investigated the perfusate of the graft liver in both groups and detected signs of a decreased t-PA release in the infusion group. Our results demonstrate an advantage of aprotinin given as continuous infusion over bolus application in OLT."}
{"id": "1345677", "title": "Use of the Terumo SteriCell for the processing of bone marrow and peripheral blood stem cells.", "content": "Use of the Terumo SteriCell for the processing of bone marrow and peripheral blood stem cells. The SteriCell cell processing instrument is a good choice for a stem cell processing laboratory that is of sufficient size that they cannot share an apheresis machine with the blood bank. It is a laboratory instrument, with no facility for patient connection. Because of its minimal size and weight, it is easily stored in a cramped laboratory. Its automated programs are appropriate for processing of bone marrow and peripheral blood stem cells, and it is quite easy to learn how to use (in our laboratory, most individuals have been completely facile with the SteriCell after fewer than six processings). Based on reported results from other instruments, the SteriCell provides cell yields that are comparable to competing instruments. Service (provided by Haemonetics) has been satisfactory, and support from Terumo has been excellent. We can recommend this instrument to any other laboratory."}
{"id": "1319640", "title": "[Clinical aspects and pathogenesis of infarction of the brain stem].", "content": "[Clinical aspects and pathogenesis of infarction of the brain stem]. Clinical and hemodynamic studies were carried out in 75 patients with stem brain infarction in the acute period, including repeated infarctions. The total rupture of the autoregulatory mechanisms of the brain blood flow was discovered, leading to the development of different phenomena of \"brain steal\" determining the clinical course of stem brain infarction. In the given pathology, the acute period is characterized by the development of the vicious circle of hemodynamic disorders, which is coupled with pathological dissociation in coagulation hemostasis. The progression of the hemodynamic changes requires pathogenetic correction of central and cerebral circulation."}
{"id": "1308266", "title": "Thermal effect of glucose in women with normal carbohydrate tolerance: relationship to body mass index, blood insulin and noradrenaline.", "content": "Thermal effect of glucose in women with normal carbohydrate tolerance: relationship to body mass index, blood insulin and noradrenaline. Relationships between energy expenditure, body mass index (BMI), blood glucose (BG) responses to glucose ingestion were studied in 35 women aged 22-55 yrs with normal carbohydrate tolerance. In 13 of them plasma insulin (IRI) and catecholamine concentrations were also determined. Thirty seven per cent of patients did not respond to glucose load with an increased energy expenditure. In the remaining women the average thermogenic effect amounted to approx. 10% of their initial metabolic rate. A significant negative correlation (r = -0.415, n = 35, P(0.02) was found between BMI and the overall thermal effect of glucose (sigma TEG) calculated as a sum of the post-glucose energy expenditure measured every 15 min during 2 h minus the baseline value. Neither the fasting nor the post glucose BG concentrations correlated with sigma TEG. Significant correlations were ascertained between sigma TEG and the fasting IRI (r = -0.568), the sigma post-glucose IRI (r = -0.723), the ratio of sigma BG/sigma IRI (r = 0.845) and the post-glucose plasma noradrenaline concentration (r = 0.837). in women with normal carbohydrate tolerance the thermogenic effect of glucose depends to a large extent on insulin sensitivity and the glucose-induced activation of the sympathetic nervous system."}
{"id": "1304841", "title": "[Abdominal diagnosis in blood-stasis syndrome].", "content": "[Abdominal diagnosis in blood-stasis syndrome]. In order to make the abdomen diagnosis in Blood Statis Syndrome more objectively and quantitatively, some comprehensive quantitative analysis have been done by authors. The chief evidences between abdomen syndrome of Blood-stasis Symptoms and Blood-stasis Syndrome were correlated. The main parameters of abdomen diagnosis in Blood-stasis syndrome have been selected by computerized stepwise regression analysis in 152 patients with above-mentioned Syndromes. They were:Blood viscosity, erythrocyte deformation, extracorporeal thrombosis, platelet aggregation, thromboelastograph, electromyogram, etc. All of these can be used as objective parameters of abdomen diagnosis in Blood-stasis Syndrome to make the further study of it."}
{"id": "1301848", "title": "[Effect of yiqi huoxue therapy on blood coagulation process in vivo].", "content": "[Effect of yiqi huoxue therapy on blood coagulation process in vivo]. YiQi HuoXue (YQHX) therapy is one of the most widely used treatments to deal with the coronary heart disease (CHD). This paper stressed on study the effects of YQHX therapy on blood coagulation process in vivo. The effects of several TCM preparations on CHD patients were observed by thromboelastography (TEG), prothrombin time, etc. After giving various preparations 20ml intravenously, the results of TEG showed that the values of r, k, c, 1 were decreased and ma increased by QiXue injection, the differences of k and ma were significant; while no significant change by Shen Qi injection and the k value was significantly reduced by DanShen injection. The results of prothrombin time with QiXue injection showed distinct dose-dependent effects, it shortened with 20ml and significantly lengthened with 40ml. This results suggested that there was complicated effects of different YQHX preparations as well as of different dosages."}
{"id": "1289367", "title": "Phosphodiesterase-inhibitors enoximone and piroximone in cardiac surgery: influence on platelet count and function.", "content": "Phosphodiesterase-inhibitors enoximone and piroximone in cardiac surgery: influence on platelet count and function. Some phosphodiesterase (PDE)-inhibitors are believed to alter platelet count and function due to changes in intracellular cAMP. Whether newly developed (specific) PDE-inhibitors negatively influence platelet function in cardiac surgery should be investigated in a randomized study. Eighty patients undergoing aorto-coronary bypass grafting were divided into 4 groups and received either the new PDE-III-inhibitor piroximone (group 1), the PDE-III-inhibitor enoximone (group 2), epinephrine (group 3) or no inotropic support (control). PDE-III-inhibitors were given as a bolus followed by infusion until starting of cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). In addition to platelet count and a thrombelastogram, platelet function was assessed by aggregometry (ADP, epinephrine, collagen). Measurements were done before, during and after CPB until the 1st postoperative day. Platelet count and postoperative blood loss did not differ between the groups within the entire investigation period. Maximum aggregation and maximum gradient of platelet aggregation to all stimuli were not changed by either PDE-inhibitor enoximone or piroximone. CPB resulted in a significant decrease of all aggregation variables which was without differences due to treatment. Platelet aggregation recovered in the post-bypass period and exceeded baseline values on the 1st postoperative day. It is concluded that enoximone and the new PDE-III-inhibitor piroximone do not affect platelet function and can be used before CPB without risking platelet-related bleeding in cardiosurgical patients in the perioperative period."}
{"id": "1288771", "title": "Evaluation of the Haemonetics V50--time saver protocol.", "content": "Evaluation of the Haemonetics V50--time saver protocol. 196 platelet apheresis procedures using the cell separator Haemonetics V 50 were performed applying 8 cycles under varying conditions. The anticoagulant ACD-A was used in a whole-blood to anticoagulant ratio of 8:1. The flow rate was selected for a range of 40-70 ml/min and the centrifuge speed was established at 4,800 and 4,400 rpm. The PWC factor was chosen between 0 and 4. 162 procedures could be statistically evaluated. 34 apheresis were accompanied with technical complications. The mean yield was (4.3 +/- 1.05) x 10(11) platelets, and the average of extraction efficiency (EE) was 53.9 +/- 8.2%. An analysis of variance confirmed that a higher flow rate decreased the EE (p < 0.002) and also the leukocyte counts (p < 0.0005). Increasing the PWC factor led to a higher EE; however, the leukocyte counts of the platelet concentrate were also increased (p < 0.0005). The g force has an essential effect. A high g force of the centrifuge permits to obtain a large quantity of platelets which is combined with a higher leukocyte contamination. Decreasing the centrifuge speed to 4,400 rpm by using PWC factors of 0 and 4 with different flow rates (50 and 60 ml/min) decreased the EE and the leukocyte counts in the product."}
{"id": "1288770", "title": "Platelet apheresis with Vivacell BT798 DEA, haemonetics V-50 and PCS-Plus: preparation efficiency and product quality using identical donors.", "content": "Platelet apheresis with Vivacell BT798 DEA, haemonetics V-50 and PCS-Plus: preparation efficiency and product quality using identical donors. Different platelet apheresis techniques were used for preparing platelet concentrates: the continuous flow method with Vivacell BT 798 DEA, the discontinuous flow method with V-50 of Haemonetics, and their plasmapheresis device PCS-Plus. 20 of our donors underwent all three procedures. All platelet separations led to suitable platelet concentrates of 3 x 10(11) platelets within less than 90 min. However, the contaminating leukocytes reached 2 x 10(8). Due to less intense citrate reactions and a shorter donation time the donor acceptance of the continuous flow method was higher as compared with the discontinuous flow method."}
{"id": "1285505", "title": "Successful collection of peripheral blood stem cells from an infant with acute lymphoblastic leukemia using the Haemonetics V50.", "content": "Successful collection of peripheral blood stem cells from an infant with acute lymphoblastic leukemia using the Haemonetics V50. Peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) were collected using the Haemonetics V50 from an 8 month old infant weighing 7.8 kg suffering from acute lymphoblastic leukemia in the first complete remission. Leukapheresis was performed according to an exchange transfusion procedure by the two arm method using only a single lumen Broviac catheter. No problem occurred in the patient during this procedure except for a reduction (by half) of the initial platelet count. This method enables one to collect PBSC very safely, even from infants, in a manner that is painless for patients."}
{"id": "1285042", "title": "A controlled trial of intra-operative autologous transfusion in cardiothoracic surgery measuring effect on transfusion requirements and clinical outcome.", "content": "A controlled trial of intra-operative autologous transfusion in cardiothoracic surgery measuring effect on transfusion requirements and clinical outcome. We carried out a prospective, controlled trial of intra-operative autologous transfusion (IOAT) in cardiac surgery using the Haemonetics Cellsaver 4, to determine the effects on transfusion requirements and early clinical outcome. Intra-operative autologous transfusion in unselected patients resulted in a reduction in the use of red cells in patients undergoing first-time operations (IOAT median 3 units, controls median 4 units, P = 0.0023), with no difference in the use of other blood products. Post-operative haemoglobin was higher in IOAT patients (IOAT 11.6 g/dl +/- 1.1 versus controls 11.2 g/dl +/- 0.98, P < 0.001). There is therefore the potential for a further reduction in homologous blood use in the IOAT group. There was no difference in early clinical outcome in the two groups; in particular the incidence of coagulopathies was not influenced by IOAT. The routine use of IOAT would add substantially to the cost of these operations. The decision to use it must therefore be based on an assessment of the value of the reduction in risk to the patient achieved by a small reduction in homologous donor exposures."}
{"id": "1284693", "title": "[Determining clinical effectiveness of plasmapheresis thrombocyte preparations].", "content": "[Determining clinical effectiveness of plasmapheresis thrombocyte preparations]. Automated plasmapheresis with Haemonetics-Ultralite plasma collecting system was tested to prepare platelet-rich plasma. 19 patients with bone marrow aplasia/hypoplasia received 112 platelet-rich plasma. The efficiency of platelet transfusions was determined by corrected count increment (CCI) and resonance thrombography in correlation to the clinical situation of patients. Fever and chemotherapy did not impair the values 1 h after transfusion, but the 24-hour CCI showed a reduced survival of the transfused platelets in this group. The CCI was 11.3 1 h after transfusion and 9.5 1 day after transfusion in the patient group without any factor reducing the efficiency of transfusion. In this group, the resonance thrombography significantly improved 1 and 24 h posttransfusion compared to pretransfusion. The results demonstrate an acceptable clinical efficiency of platelet-rich plasma."}
{"id": "10149065", "title": "The Thrombelastograph D coagulation analyzer.", "content": "The Thrombelastograph D coagulation analyzer."}
{"id": "2063437", "title": "Coagulation changes immediately following liver graft reperfusion.", "content": "Coagulation changes immediately following liver graft reperfusion."}
{"id": "2015038", "title": "[Preparation of leukocyte-depleted human platelet concentrates by centrifugation and filtration of a pool of sterilely connected buffy-coats].", "content": "[Preparation of leukocyte-depleted human platelet concentrates by centrifugation and filtration of a pool of sterilely connected buffy-coats]. We describe a new method for the preparation of standardised therapeutic doses of leukocyte depleted platelets. The first step is to remove the buffy-coat from whole blood units drawn on triple Siamese ACD/SAGM bags (Maco-Pharma) by means of a Compomat (NPBI). The second step is to connect (SCD Haemonetics) six buffy-coats and one plasma to a special kit (Maco-Pharma) including a PALL PL 100 filter; after centrifugation, the supernatant platelet concentrate is extracted, filtered and recovered in a 2 litre TOTM PVC bag. The volume, the number of platelets and leukocytes of these pools are measured. A comparison of these parameters is made with therapeutic doses prepared in the same way without filtration. Besides, pH measurements up to the 6th day of storage and bacteriological checks are carried out. The results show: no platelet loss related to filtration; a synergy between the preparation process out of buffy-coats and the filtration: so each dose contains less than 10(6) leukocytes; a good pH level allowing the storage for five days as it is associated to the bacteriological safety of the functionally closed system. This technique makes it possible to transfuse only leukocyte depleted platelet concentrates. In addition, it offers new prospects for standardisation and quality improvement."}
{"id": "2007109", "title": "Thrombelastography as an aid to regional anesthesia: preliminary communication.", "content": "Thrombelastography as an aid to regional anesthesia: preliminary communication. Thrombelastography (TEG), a less commonly available technique used to assess hemostatic function, has recently gained popularity. Analysis of TEG yields qualitative information about platelet function, thromboplastin generation and their interaction with the intrinsic cascade to form a stable clot. Additional information is obtained about fibrinogen and Factor XIII levels as well as the fibrinolytic system. TEG has been shown to be more sensitive and accurate than traditional coagulation tests at both predicting and treating coagulopathies. We report here three cases in which TEG was used to assess hemostatic function in patients at risk for bleeding prior to the induction of regional anesthesia. In all three cases, traditional tests were inadequate to predict the safe practice of regional anesthesia. TEG provided this information and regional anesthesia was successfully employed."}
{"id": "1984383", "title": "Clinical evaluation of autotransfusion during liver transplantation.", "content": "Clinical evaluation of autotransfusion during liver transplantation. The clinical suitability of intraoperative autotransfusion was evaluated in 25 patients undergoing orthotopic liver transplantation using a Cell Saver #4 (Haemonetics) with acid-citrate-dextrose anticoagulation. In the first 14 patients (phase 1), biochemical, hematologic, coagulation, and semiquantitative bacteriologic studies were performed from the collected blood, processed blood, and patients' blood before and after 500 mL of autotransfusion. The acid-citrate-dextrose solution produced adequate anticoagulation, and the system effectively removed most of the potassium, red blood cell fragments, plasma free hemoglobin, bilirubin, coagulation factors, platelets, and fibrin degradation products. Autotransfusion (500 mL) did not alter coagulation, electrolyte balance, and hematologic findings in recipients except for a clinically insignificant increase in plasma free hemoglobin. Seventeen of 56 samples of the collected blood or processed blood were positive for coagulase (-) Staphylococcus (occasional or rare), but blood cultures before and after autotransfusion were negative in all patients. In the next 11 patients (phase 2), a quantitative bacteriologic study was performed from the collected blood, processed blood, skin, bile duct stump, peritoneal cavity, and room air using a mock reservoir. The processed blood was not transfused. All blood cultures from the patients were sterile. However, coagulase (-) Staphylococcus or Bacillus sp was seen in two cultures from skin, three from the processed blood, and three from air, suggesting that room air and skin were the sources of contamination. When the patients of the two phases of study were compared, postoperative blood cultures were all sterile, and renal function was similar. Therefore, autotransfusion appears to be clinically acceptable during liver transplantation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1952169", "title": "Effects of epidural anesthesia and analgesia on coagulation and outcome after major vascular surgery.", "content": "Effects of epidural anesthesia and analgesia on coagulation and outcome after major vascular surgery. To examine the interaction of epidural anesthesia, coagulation status, and outcome after lower extremity revascularization, 80 patients with atherosclerotic vascular disease were prospectively randomized to receive general anesthesia combined with postoperative epidural analgesia (GEN-EPI) or general anesthesia with on-demand narcotic analgesia (GEN). Demographics did not differ between groups except that the GEN-EPI group had a higher incidence of diabetes mellitus and of previous myocardial infarction. Coagulation status was monitored using thromboelastography. An additional 40 randomly selected patients without atherosclerotic vascular disease undergoing noncardiovascular procedures served as controls for coagulation status. Vascular surgical patients were hypercoagulable compared with control patients before operation and on the first postoperative day. Postoperatively, this hypercoagulability was attenuated in the GEN-EPI group and was associated with a lower incidence of thrombotic events (peripheral arterial graft coronary artery or deep vein thromboses). The rates of cardiovascular, infectious, and overall postoperative complications, as well as duration of intensive care unit stay, were significantly reduced in the GEN-EPI group. Stepwise logistic regression demonstrated that the only significant predictors of postoperative cardiovascular complications were preoperative congestive heart failure and general anesthesia without epidural analgesia. We conclude that in patients with atherosclerotic vascular disease undergoing arterial reconstructive surgery (a) thromboelastographic evidence of increased platelet-fibrinogen interaction is associated with early postoperative thrombotic events, and (b) epidural anesthesia and analgesia is associated with beneficial effects on coagulation status and postoperative outcome compared with intermittent on-demand opioid analgesia."}
{"id": "1931061", "title": "A comparison of thromboelastogram and template bleeding time in the evaluation of platelet function after aspirin ingestion.", "content": "A comparison of thromboelastogram and template bleeding time in the evaluation of platelet function after aspirin ingestion. To compare template bleeding time (TBT) with thromboelastography (TEG) in human subjects after aspirin ingestion. Healthy volunteers were given a single 650 mg dose of aspirin or a dose of 650 mg of aspirin on three successive days. TBT and TEG studies were performed prior to aspirin ingestion and 4, 24, 72, and 168 hours after ingestion. Inpatient operating room support area at the UCLA Center for Health Sciences. Residents and nurses who were in good general health, had not taken aspirin for 2 weeks, had normal platelet counts, and had no evidence of bleeding or coagulation disorders. TBT and TEG studies were performed prior to and after the ingestion of aspirin. TBT studies were significantly prolonged at 4, 24, and 72 hours compared with controls. Maximum bleeding time prolongation occurred 24 hours after aspirin ingestion. Bleeding time returned to control values by the end of 168 hours (1 week). No TEG parameter was significantly changed by aspirin ingestion. TEG results may not identify patients who have an increased bleeding time as a result of aspirin ingestion."}
{"id": "1904629", "title": "Fibrinolytic therapy of deep vein thrombosis with continuous intravenous infusion of a recombinant tissue plasminogen activator.", "content": "Fibrinolytic therapy of deep vein thrombosis with continuous intravenous infusion of a recombinant tissue plasminogen activator. Recombinant human rt-PA was administered to 22 patients with deep vein thrombosis at a dosage of 30 to 120 mg/day (0.5 to 1.76 mg/kg body weight/24 hr) over 2 to 10 days. rt-PA induced phlebographically documented substantial recanalization in 18 of 21 patients. The lowest dose of 0.5 mg/kg/24 hr tested here was thrombolytically effective, whereas a dose of 0.95 mg/kg/24 hours and more led to hemorrhagic complications and premature discontinuation of therapy in four of six patients. Blood clotting analysis did not reveal any substantial decrease in fibrinogen concentrations, whereas the euglobulin clot lysis time and thromboelastography demonstrated a systemic fibrinolytic effect. Therapy with rt-PA can thus be considered as an alternative and effective method of therapy in treatment of deep vein thrombosis. The results of this study show that even a dosage of lower than 0.5 mg/kg/24 hr might prove to be effective. Further studies would be required to show whether the fibrin specificity of rt-PA leads to a superiority of this fibrinolytic substance over the conventional thrombolytic agents, streptokinase and urokinase."}
{"id": "1894197", "title": "Laboratory assays for the evaluation of recombinant hirudin.", "content": "Laboratory assays for the evaluation of recombinant hirudin. Several laboratory methods are available to measure the anticoagulant activity of recombinant hirudin (r-hirudin), a potent thrombin inhibitor. These assays include clot-based, amidolytic, immunologic and physicochemical techniques. Although r-hirudin, like heparin, is an effective anticoagulant, the mechanism of action of the two agents is different. Thus it is not surprising that the global tests, such as the prothrombin time (PT), partial thromboplastin time (APTT) and the Heptest (Haemachem, Inc., St. Louis, Mo., USA), do not show adequate responses to r-hirudin. In the range of 0.5-10.0 microgram/ml, where full anticoagulation is achieved, as determined by animal models of thrombosis, these assays show little to no prolongation of the time to clot. In order to find a more suitable assay system, modifications of the above assays were evaluated. The diluted APTT and diluted Heptest showed linear concentration-dependent responses to lower levels of r-hirudin with an enhanced sensitivity than that of the classical assays. On the other hand, the diluted thrombin time was too sensitive. Whole-blood clotting assays, ACT and thrombelastograph, effectively measured r-hirudin levels up to 25 micrograms/ml. The amidolytic anti-factor IIa assay, specific for evaluating direct thrombin inhibition, was very effective particularly when modified to decrease the sample:thrombin ratio. This assay may be useful in quality control since it is biochemically defined, and reagents are easily standardized. The relevance of the results of the anti-IIa assay to clinical conditions, however, remains to be determined. Thrombin generation assays have limited value in monitoring the anticoagulant effect of r-hirudin since the effect of thrombin inhibition by r-hirudin on coagulation feedback mechanisms, and thus the effect on thrombin generation, appears to be minimal. Immunologic methods such as ELISA and RIA are under development, but they may only be useful for the direct quantitation of absolute levels of r-hirudin and not for monitoring the clinical anticoagulant action. Furthermore, these assays are only sensitive to sub-microgram/ml levels. Therefore, thrombin-based clotting and amidolytic assays may at present be the best choice for evaluating the functional, clinical antithrombotic effects of r-hirudin."}
{"id": "1874368", "title": "[Microrheologic properties of erythrocytes and parameters of vascular-thrombocytic hemostasis in newborns with perinatal pathology].", "content": "[Microrheologic properties of erythrocytes and parameters of vascular-thrombocytic hemostasis in newborns with perinatal pathology]. Hematocrit, thromboelastogram, aggregation capacity of platelets and red blood cells, the content of prostaglandin metabolites--prostacyclin 6-keto-PGF and thromboxane B (TxB) were studied in 70 newborns who had suffered perinatal hypoxia and localized pyo-inflammatory diseases that developed during the first week of life. It has been found that the pronounced disturbances of the peripheral blood circulation and frequent hemorrhagic complications in the infants with these diseases are closely connected with disorders in the aggregation capacity of red blood cells and platelet function due to the imbalance of the prostacyclin-thromboxane-generating system."}
{"id": "1862638", "title": "Comparison of platelet-rich plasma collection using the Haemonetics PCS and Baxter Autopheresis C.", "content": "Comparison of platelet-rich plasma collection using the Haemonetics PCS and Baxter Autopheresis C. We have compared 118 platelet-rich plasma donations collected using the Autopheresis-C Platelet cell (Auto C) with 166 donations using the Haemonetics PCS. The median platelet yield from the Auto C was superior (2.51 vs. 1.54 x 10(11] although collection times differed (60 vs./40 min). There was greater variability in the platelet yield from the Auto C (0.45-5.6 vs./0.26-2.8 x 10(11], but leucocyte contamination was not significantly different. After secondary processing, there was significantly less residual platelet-poor plasma (272 vs. 369 ml). Platelet function assessed during 5 days of storage was satisfactory for both, although platelet aggregation responses to collagen and adenosine diphosphate were superior in the Auto C platelets."}
{"id": "1852761", "title": "Anticoagulant and antithrombotic action of the synthetic thrombin inhibitor D-phenylalanyl-L-prolyl-L-arginine nitrile.", "content": "Anticoagulant and antithrombotic action of the synthetic thrombin inhibitor D-phenylalanyl-L-prolyl-L-arginine nitrile. Anticoagulant and antithrombotic effects of a synthetic thrombin inhibitor of the tripeptide type, D-phenylalanyl-L-prolyl-L-arginine nitrile (1), were studied in vitro and in vivo. The anticoagulant action was investigated in common test assays such as thrombin time, activated partial thromboplastin time, prothrombin time and thrombelastography. In human plasma 1 caused a concentration-dependent prolongation of coagulation times and influenced the recalcification measured by thrombelastographic recording. In different models of experimental thrombosis in rats the antithrombotic effectiveness of 1 was shown. I.v. infusion of the thrombin inhibitor reduced or prevented the formation of stasis-induced venous thrombi and of arterial thrombi after electrically induced damage of the vessel wall as well as prolonged the time of a thrombotic occlusion of an extracorporeal arterio-venous shunt. At low doses 1 was also effective in thrombin-induced microthrombosis."}
{"id": "1833172", "title": "Anticoagulant activity of galactosaminoglucuronoglycan: a pharmacological study.", "content": "Anticoagulant activity of galactosaminoglucuronoglycan: a pharmacological study. An investigation was carried out to evaluate possible interference by mucopolysaccharide galactosaminoglucuronoglycans on blood clotting processes. Results obtained have demonstrated, both in vivo and in vitro, that the biopolymer has no influence on the principal blood clotting parameters taken into consideration, as regards both a single administration and treatments repeated for 30 days."}
{"id": "1813694", "title": "Hemostatic studies of ex situ hepatic surgery.", "content": "Hemostatic studies of ex situ hepatic surgery. Ex situ hepatic surgery, in which a diseased liver is resected from outside the body, was first reported in 1988. This study investigates the hemostatic changes occurring during such surgery in two cases. During the anhepatic period of more than 5 hours, veno-venous bypass without heparin was performed. The tests included platelet count, prothrombin activity (PT), partial thromboplastin time (PTT), fibrinogen (Fbg), factor II (F.II), factor V (F.V), and thromboelastography (TEG). Three to 4 hours after entering the anhepatic phase, marked fibrinolysis and a fall in the values of PT, Fbg and F.V. were observed. Every parameter temporarily deteriorated immediately after revascularization of the graft, however, all returned to almost normal values within 1-2 hours after hepatic reperfusion except for F.V and platelets. In conclusion, the coagulopathy during ex situ hepatic surgery is caused by the marked fibrinolysis and depletion of hemostatic factors which develop 3-4 hours after the onset of the anhepatic phase."}
{"id": "1813361", "title": "Intermittent-flow versus continuous-flow mononuclear cell apheresis.", "content": "Intermittent-flow versus continuous-flow mononuclear cell apheresis. An intermittent-flow (Haemonetics V-50) and a continuous-flow (Fenwall CS-3000) blood cell separator were compared regarding mononuclear cell (MNC) collection. 17 evaluable V-50 and 24 CS-3000 aphereses were performed on healthy donors. No significant difference was found in MNC yield (median 6.4 x 10(9) on V-50, 6.3 x 10(9) on CS-3000) or in CFU-GM yield (median 41 x 10(3) versus 43 x 10(3) respectively). Nevertheless, red blood cell as well as polymorphonuclear cell contamination was substantially greater on V-50 than on CS-3000, while platelet contamination was slightly lower on V-50 than on CS-3000. The continuous-flow apheresis system CS-3000 is concluded to be more suitable for MNC harvesting than the intermittent-flow system V-50."}
{"id": "1808765", "title": "Coagulation of flowing native blood: advantages over stagnant (tube) clotting tests.", "content": "Coagulation of flowing native blood: advantages over stagnant (tube) clotting tests. A broad-based, dynamic model of intrinsic coagulation is described. Non-anticoagulated whole blood was perfused through polyethylene tubing under standard conditions, and coagulation (cessation of flow) was monitored by pressure changes. The dynamic coagulation test (DCT) is a sequel to the shear-induced haemostasis, a platelet function test routinely performed prior to coagulation. DCT has two important advantages over stagnant overall clotting tests: i./DCT reflects platelet coagulant activities; selective activation by adenosine diphosphate or shear-stress or inhibition of platelets by prostacyclin greatly enhanced or prolonged dynamic coagulation, respectively. Furthermore, activation of platelets by plasminogen activators (streptokinase, t-PA) was manifested in a significantly shortened coagulation. ii./ DCT allows the rapid assessment of fibrin crosslinking, the mechanical stability of the clot formed. Antibody against factor XIIIa greatly prolonged the time until completion of clotting. In patients taking oral anticoagulant (n = 54), strong correlations were observed between DCT, the prothrombin time (INR) and the thrombelastograph measurements. It is concluded that this simple assay could be useful in the overall screening for coagulation abnormalities."}
{"id": "1788810", "title": "[The characteristics of the postsplenectomy hyperthrombocytic syndrome in patients with chronic myeloleukemia].", "content": "[The characteristics of the postsplenectomy hyperthrombocytic syndrome in patients with chronic myeloleukemia]. One of the clinical features of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) after splenectomy lies in the development of an unusual hyperthrombocytic syndrome. In the course of a long-term observation, 12 out of 14 patients subjected to splenectomy demonstrated maximum thrombocytosis ranging from 1.008 X 10(9) to 3.053 X 10(9)/l. Hemorrhagic manifestations occurred in 6 patients, no thromboses were recorded. Postsplenectomy hyperthrombocytosis is to a certain measure resistant to cytostatic therapy. Dissociation may occur--good readings of the leukogram with a high hyperthrombocytosis. According to the authors' and reported data, the postsplenectomy hyperthrombocytic syndrome in ALL patients is fraught with the danger of the occurrence of hemorrhagic manifestations and, to a less degree, of thromboses."}
{"id": "1785706", "title": "[Effectiveness of the Cell Saver and salvage from ultrafiltered extracorporeal circulation in heart surgery].", "content": "[Effectiveness of the Cell Saver and salvage from ultrafiltered extracorporeal circulation in heart surgery]. The efficiency of two intraoperative techniques of blood saving were compared prospectively. During a period of eight months, in 120 adults patients undergoing heart surgery with a cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). They all had blood removed before the start of CPB for isovolaemic haemodilution. They were randomly assigned to two groups (n = 60 for each): for group A patients, blood was salvaged during surgery before the start of the CPB, during cardioplegia, and from the CPB circuit at the end of surgery, using a Cell Saver 1V (Haemonetics), and returned to the patient in theatre or in intensive care; in group B patients, blood in the CPB circuit at the end of surgery was ultrafiltered and returned to the patient at the same time as 0.8 mg.kg-1 protamine sulfate. The same anaesthetic protocol was used in all the patients (flunitrazepam, phenoperidine and pancuronium bromide). There was no significant difference between the two groups in the volume of blood removed at the start of surgery (9.12 +/- 2.01 ml.kg-1 (A) vs. 8.85.2.22 ml.kg-1 (B)), in the amounts of replacement fluid (Haemaccel, 4% albumin) given to maintain volaemia, and in postoperative blood loss Red cell count, haemoglobin level and haematocrit were higher in the Cell Saver group at the third postoperative hour and on the first postoperative day, whereas fibrinogen levels and platelet count were higher in the ultrafiltration group at the same times. A mean of 1.02 +/- 1.71 homologous blood units were given to group A and 1.45 +/- 1.71 in group B (not significant).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "1779181", "title": "Monitoring of coagulation status using thrombelastography during paediatric open heart surgery.", "content": "Monitoring of coagulation status using thrombelastography during paediatric open heart surgery. Thrombelastography (TEG) has proved useful in identifying coagulopathies (via assessment of clot elasticity properties) during hepatic surgery, but its role in cardiac surgery has as yet not been defined. Twenty-two children [11M, 11F, mean age (range) 4.9 (0.1-16) years] undergoing open heart surgery were investigated [1] preoperatively, [2] 15 min post protamine, [3] 2 h and [4] 24 h postoperatively using TEG. Comparisons were made between pre- and postoperative measurements and haematological indices. The values obtained from the TEG were: R phase (indicative of thrombokinase and thrombin formation disorders), K phase (indicative of fibrinogenesis) and MA phase (providing information on clot stability and platelet function). The patients were divided into two groups based upon 24 h blood loss; Group 1 - blood loss less than 0.7 ml/kg/h and Group 2 - blood loss greater than 0.7 ml/kg/h. In Group 2 there was a highly significant correlation between post-protamine MA phase and platelet number (r = 0.93, p less than 0.001) but there was no correlation in Group 1 (p greater than 0.1). Furthermore, in Group 2 elevated postoperative blood loss was associated with a prolonged K phase (mean [SD] 12.0 [6.0] versus 6.3 [2.1] min, p less than 0.05) and diminished MA phase (37 [12.5] versus 56 [4.9] mm, p less than 0.01) relative to preoperative values. In Group 1, K and MA phase did not alter significantly (p greater than 0.5 and p greater than 0.2, respectively). TEG predicted with 100% (8/8) accuracy increased post-operative bleeding. The specificity of TEG prediction of future bleeding was 73% [8/11]. Alterations in TEG parameters merit further evaluation as markers of postoperative haemorrhage."}
{"id": "1773329", "title": "24-hour survival of autotransfused red cells in elective aortic surgery: a comparison of two intraoperative autotransfusion systems.", "content": "24-hour survival of autotransfused red cells in elective aortic surgery: a comparison of two intraoperative autotransfusion systems. Twelve patients undergoing elective aortic surgery had intraoperative autotransfusion using either the Haemonetics Cell Saver or the Solcotrans device. The 24-h post-transfusion survival of the patients' preoperative red cells, labelled with indium-111, was compared with the survival of salvaged red cells labelled with chromium-51. A correction coefficient for the instability of the indium-111 label was calculated from the study of red cell survival in six healthy volunteers. There was no significant difference in the volume of circulating red cells measured using each isotope, indicating that extensive early destruction of the autotransfused red cells does not occur. The percentage survival of autotransfused red cells at 24 h was similar to that of the red cells that had not undergone salvage. Both devices were comparable with respect to the effects of cell salvage on the 24-h survival rate of autotransfused red cells."}
{"id": "1772995", "title": "Coagulation disorder during liver transplantation.", "content": "Coagulation disorder during liver transplantation. Detailed haemostatic changes were investigated during eight liver transplantations. The patients were divided into two groups; group 1 had minor operative bleeding (four cases) and group 2 had major bleeding (four cases). Group 2 had lower levels of platelets, fibrinogen, factor V (FV), and alpha 2-antiplasmin than group 1, and the thromboelastography showed fibrinolysis. In both groups, plasma tissue-plasminogen activator levels rose slightly. After revascularization of the graft liver, reductions in the values of PT, fibrinogen, FV and FVII were noted, along with a prolongation of the PTT and an increase in thrombin-antithrombin III complex levels. Plasma levels of protein C, protein S, antithrombin III, and plasminogen remained relatively stable throughout the operation. These results show that the preceding fibrinolysis and subsequent superimposed activation of the clotting system are the main causes of coagulopathy during liver transplantation, which correlate with the amount of operative haemorrhage and the abnormalities found in haemostatic tests."}
{"id": "1771408", "title": "Comparative studies on various assays for the laboratory evaluation of r-hirudin.", "content": "Comparative studies on various assays for the laboratory evaluation of r-hirudin. Several laboratory methods are available to measure r-hirudin, including clot-based, amidolytic, immunologic, and physicochemical techniques. The global tests, such as the PT, APTT, and Heptest, did not show an adequate response to r-hirudin in the range of 0.5 to 10.0 micrograms/ml, where full anticoagulation is achieved, as determined by animal models of thrombosis. The 10 U/ml thrombin time assay was very sensitive to r-hirudin, whereas the 10 U/ml calcium thrombin time gave a dose-dependent response from 0.15 to 10.0 micrograms/ml. Whole blood clotting assays (ACT, TEG) effectively measured r-hirudin levels up to 25 micrograms/ml. The amidolytic anti-Factor IIa assay, specific for evaluating direct thrombin inhibition, was very effective, particularly when modified to decrease the sample: thrombin ratio for higher r-hirudin concentrations. This assay may be useful in quality control, since it is biochemically defined and reagents are easily standardized. Thrombin generation assays based on synthetic substrates showed limited effect of r-hirudin; however, assays based on TAT complex and prothrombin fragment F1+2 generation showed a dose-dependent response. Immunologic methods (ELISA) are under development. Since these assays measure both complexed and noncomplexed hirudin, and since they are only sensitive to submicrogram levels, they may only be useful for the direct quantitation of absolute levels of r-hirudin but not for monitoring clinical anticoagulation. Thus, thrombin-based clotting, amidolytic, and immunologic assays can be used to evaluate and measure r-hirudin. However, optimization of each assay to respond to high and low concentrations of r-hirudin and their application to clinical monitoring, batch control, and standardization needs to be determined."}
{"id": "1758860", "title": "[Status of the hemostatic system in patients with chronic lung diseases].", "content": "[Status of the hemostatic system in patients with chronic lung diseases]. Blood rheologic properties and homeostasis system were comprehensively examined in 23 patients with fibrous-cavernous pulmonary tuberculosis and 58 patients with various chronic nonspecific pulmonary diseases complicated by respiratory failure. The patients were found to have signs of erythrocyte edema, their more rapid depletion, lower resistance and higher aggregation which was accompanied by increased hematocrit and normal erythrocyte count. The thromboelastograms showed that all all phases of blood coagulation were shortened and fibrinolysis was deeply depressed. There was an increase in activated partial thromboplastin and thrombin time, a reduction in the values of the prothrombin indices and antithrombin III activity and higher heparin levels. The fibrinogen level was either normal or reduced despite an increase in other acute phase reactants, followed by the appearance of large amounts of blocked fibrinogen in the blood. Analysis of the findings enabled one to regard a combination of the above changes as signs of the latent DIC syndrome. Determination of fibrin and fibrinogen degradation products in a deep and long-term inhibition of fibrinolysis loses its diagnostic significance."}
{"id": "1725662", "title": "[Comparison of 4 plasmapheresis procedures].", "content": "[Comparison of 4 plasmapheresis procedures]. In recent years the collection of plasma has been increasingly carried out by apparative plasmapheresis. In the University Hospitals of G\u00f6ttingen and W\u00fcrzburg the plasmapheresis machines PCS from Haemonetics, Autopheresis-C from Baxter, as well as Plasmapur-Monitor from Organon-Teknika, were compared with each other and with the conventional centrifugation of blood bags; experiences in routine use were complemented by specific studies. Altogether, the apparative methods distinguished themselves through a high quality of retransfused blood and collected plasma. Furthermore, practicability, donor compatibility and donor safety resulted in good acceptance by both donors and staff."}
{"id": "1725652", "title": "[Essential standards of mechanical autologous donation and transfusion].", "content": "[Essential standards of mechanical autologous donation and transfusion]. Apparative autologous blood donation and transfusion can be performed by simple devices (Bentley ATS, Sorenson, Solcotrans) or by using cell separation and RBC-washing (Dideco, Haemonetics). Due to many problems in retransfusion of recovered whole blood, simple devices should no longer be used. By mechanical autotransfusion including cell separation and RBC-washing, an autologous RBC-concentrate of high quality is reached. Considering essential standards, mechanical autotransfusion is a safe method to reduce the risks of homologous blood transfusion."}
{"id": "1725651", "title": "[Kinetics of bacterial wash-out in the Haemonetics Cell Saver III].", "content": "[Kinetics of bacterial wash-out in the Haemonetics Cell Saver III]. Autologous, outdated blood units were inoculated with four types of bacteria--Pseudomonas aeruginosa, Escherichia coli, Streptococcus faecalis, Staphylococcus aureus--in two concentrations (10e4, 10e6) to test the effect of the washing procedure (Cell Saver III Haemonetics) on the elimination of bacteria. The elimination rate ranged from 17% (Streptococcus faec. 10e4) to 96% (Pseudomonas aer. 10e6). These results confirm the routine use of wash centrifuge systems (type Cell Saver) to process shed wound blood as well as drainage blood for autologous transfusions."}
{"id": "1725646", "title": "[Risks and side effects of intraoperative autotransfusion].", "content": "[Risks and side effects of intraoperative autotransfusion]. At the Institute of Anesthesiology of the University of W\u00fcrzburg, blood has routinely been replaced by autotransfusion in orthopedic and surgical patients since the mid-seventies. At present the Haemonetics-Cell-Saver 3 is used to prepare autologous erythrocyte concentrates. When using this or similar, older, autotransfusion machines, the most dangerous hazard is venous air embolism during manual use despite blood centrifugation and preparation. To avoid this danger, the connecting tube to the patient must be clamped during filling of the autotransfusion bag. During autotransfusion the connecting tube between blood centrifuge and retransfusion bag must be clamped. The time loss due to this management has to be accepted. Regarding coagulation disorders, autotransfusion of large amounts of blood resembles massive transfusion with homologous blood. To maintain coagulation, hemostaseological parameters (Quick, thrombin time, ATIII) should be analyzed at the latest after replacement of half the estimated blood volume. On principle, blood components should be substituted only according to measured values. The substitution of ATIII is most frequently necessary to decrease the hazard of vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism in these patients. The hazard of blood contamination by suctioning of operating room air should be considered. The number of operating room personnel should be as low as possible. Additionally, the suction device could be constructed to function only when necessary and not continuously. When these safety measures are followed, risks of this effective blood-saving procedure are minimized."}
{"id": "1725638", "title": "[Experiences with autologous donation and transfusion equipment].", "content": "[Experiences with autologous donation and transfusion equipment]. For autologous plasma predeposit there are commonly two types of cell-separators in use: 1. Discontinuous centrifugation (Plasma Collection System PCS, Haemonetics Company). 2. Discontinuous membrane filtration (Plasmapur-Monitor, Organon Teknika Company). Normally donation volume is 900 ml. The rate of undesired secondary effects does not exceed those numbers known of regular homologous donors. Shed wound blood processing by a wash-centrifuge cell separator (Type Cell-Saver, Haemonetics Company) stands for optimal quality of the refusable red blood cells. Depending on the type of operation and the accuracy of wound blood suction, up to 75% of the red blood cells lost may be harvested. In order to achieve more widespread mechanical autotransfusion, one issue is to lower the rather high costs of the disposables by simplifying the too highly sophisticated systems. From clinical experience with orthopedic patients, at least practical advice is given on how to use the single autologous transfusion methods in a comprehensive strategy."}
{"id": "1725630", "title": "[Stem cell separation with different cell separators].", "content": "[Stem cell separation with different cell separators]. For some years, there has been an increasing success in transplanting peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) instead of autologous bone marrow in patients suffering from different malignancies. While collecting PBSC for autologous transplantation, we compared four different separation techniques and three different cell separators (COBE Spectra, Fresenius AS 104, Haemonetics V50) routinely used for platelet production. Our results suggest that continuous flow separators seem to have some advantage over discontinuous flow machines in harvesting PBSC."}
{"id": "1725629", "title": "[Collection and transfusion of peripheral blood stem cells].", "content": "[Collection and transfusion of peripheral blood stem cells]. Harvesting of peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) by cytapheresis was performed in 57 patients, who underwent chemotherapy. The best yields were obtained when the leukocyte count was above 1 x 10(9)/l and the platelet count was raised above 80 x 10(9)/l. Using a Haemonetics V-50 or a Baxter CS-3000, 374 PBSC-aphereses were performed with a median of six aphereses per patient. The median number of PBSC (CFU-GM) retransfused in 22 patients who received PBSC for hematological reconstitution only was 3.26 x 10(4)/kg. For 22 patients who received autologous bone marrow plus BPSC, the median number of retransfused PBSC was 2.14 x 10(4)/kg. Myeloid engraftment was achieved in all patients, but megakaryopoiesis was delayed when the number of PBSC was less than 5.0 x 10(4)/kg. The results demonstrate that harvesting of a sufficient number of PBSC after chemotherapy is feasible but further measures like the use of rh GM-CSF will be necessary to reduce apheresis procedures and to obtain high yields to ensure rapid and complete engraftment."}
{"id": "1725614", "title": "[Particle formation in disposable systems for the V.50.1 (Haemonetics) cell separator].", "content": "[Particle formation in disposable systems for the V.50.1 (Haemonetics) cell separator]. Recently, we described small, free particles in the disposable cell separator platelet apheresis systems for the cell separator V.50.1 (Haemonetics). In the meantime, the production procedure for this system has been modified and a new material (Ceramic-polypropylene) is in use for the rotating seal. We could not find the formerly described particles in 32 of these newly developed systems."}
{"id": "1723874", "title": "The intra-operative use of trasylol (aprotinin) in liver transplantation.", "content": "The intra-operative use of trasylol (aprotinin) in liver transplantation. Aprotinin has been reported to reduce blood loss in difficult cases requiring cardiopulmonary bypass surgery and more recently in liver transplantation. Over a 9-month period we compared the effects of an intra-operative infusion of aprotinin on transfusion requirements and coagulation profiles in 12 patients undergoing liver transplantation for end-stage cirrhosis with an equal number of consecutive transplants in patients with similar pathology who did not receive aprotinin. Transfusion of blood and blood products was reduced to one-third in the aprotinin-treated group. Operative time was also significantly reduced, as was ICU stay post-operatively. Aprotinin profoundly inhibits fibrinolysis and this is likely to be the major effect by which blood loss is reduced. Thromboelastography revealed severe fibrinolytic changes in the anhepatic stage in 4 of 6 controlled patients; this accelerated in 3 following reperfusion of the new graft. By contrast, only 1 patient of 12 in the aprotinin-treated group showed fibrinolytic activity in the anhepatic period, and none showed evidence of fibrinolysis following reperfusion of the new graft."}
{"id": "1722053", "title": "Microassays for androgen and progesterone receptor quantitation as compared with standard saturation analyses in human prostatic tissues.", "content": "Microassays for androgen and progesterone receptor quantitation as compared with standard saturation analyses in human prostatic tissues. Simultaneous measurement of androgen and progesterone receptor content in cytosol and salt extractable nuclear subcompartments of benign hyperplastic prostatic tissue was carried out with various microassay techniques and compared to the results from analyses on bulky tissue from the same tissue specimens. The microassays were carried out as modified saturation analyses or as single concentration assays at various degrees of dilution with tris-EDTA-glycerol (TEG) buffer. Tissue samples for the standard assay weighed between 1.76 and 3.22 g, whereas the microassay samples weighted between 0.14 and 0.47 g. When considering the results of the standard assay as the \"true\" value, the microassays on the same tissue samples tended to underestimate both the androgen and progesterone receptor contents. Data from the microassays showed a wide variation of the androgen and progesterone receptor content in cytosol and nuclei. With the standard assay technique no detectable amount of progesterone receptor was found in the nuclei, whereas the microassays often indicated false-positive progesterone receptor content in this subcompartment. Therefore, the measurements of steroid receptors using biochemical microassays in prostatic tissue are unreliable and not suitable for clinical use, at least with the techniques available today. Reports in the literature based on such assays should therefore be interpreted with great caution."}
{"id": "1720262", "title": "The use of high dose aprotinin in liver transplantation: the influence on fibrinolysis and blood loss.", "content": "The use of high dose aprotinin in liver transplantation: the influence on fibrinolysis and blood loss. Orthotopic liver transplantation (OLT) is frequently associated with systemic fibrinogenolysis and diffuse bleeding. At present antifibrinolytic treatment has not been initiated routinely in OLT. Therefore the influence of high dose aprotinin in OLT (2 million kallikrein inactivator units (KIU) given after induction of anesthesia followed by a 500,000 KIU/h infusion throughout the operation) on intraoperative blood loss and fibrinolysis was studied in 25 patients compared to 25 patients without aprotinin. The incidence of fibrinolysis shown in thrombelastography was 72% in the control group versus 16% in the aprotinin group. Oozing after reperfusion of the graft caused by severe fibrinolysis defined as a clot lysis index below 15% was only observed in the control group (42.8%). In contrast no significant difference was found between the groups in the course of fibrin and fibrinogen degradation product levels (FbDP, FgDP) although the mean concentrations of both parameters were evidently lower in the aprotinin treated patients. Levels of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) activity were initially high in both groups and peaked during and after the anhepatic period. After aprotinin there was a trend of lower t-PA levels which reached significance at the time of reperfusion (p less than 0.02). In both groups the course of thrombin antithrombin complex was in line with the variations of FbDP and FgDP. No correlation between thrombin formation and t-PA activity was found. Mean homologous blood requirement was reduced by 50% (5.6 +/- 4.0 vs. 11.2 +/- 8.6 units, p less than 0.005). The blood saving effect was more pronounced in the postanhepatic period (p less than 0.000001). In conclusion high dose aprotinin inhibits hyperfibrinolysis and reduces intraoperative homologous blood requirement. Therefore its routine use in OLT is recommended."}
{"id": "1712136", "title": "In vitro study of the effects of aprotinin on coagulation during orthotopic liver transplantation.", "content": "In vitro study of the effects of aprotinin on coagulation during orthotopic liver transplantation."}
{"id": "1682674", "title": "Thrombelastography in pregnant patients on low-dose aspirin.", "content": "Thrombelastography in pregnant patients on low-dose aspirin."}
{"id": "1679906", "title": "Role of thrombelastography in bleeding diatheses and regional anaesthesia.", "content": "Role of thrombelastography in bleeding diatheses and regional anaesthesia."}
{"id": "1678210", "title": "[Harvesting of mononuclear cells from peripheral blood in malignant hemopathies].", "content": "[Harvesting of mononuclear cells from peripheral blood in malignant hemopathies]. After demonstrating through animal models that progenitor cells with haemopoietic regenerative capability are present in peripheral blood, such precursor cells were also found in the mononucleated cell (MNC) fraction of human peripheral blood. It was shown that such cells increase in the recuperative period following chemotherapy. A number of studies have demonstrated that autologous infusion of such MNC achieved by cytapheresis may lead to a quick restoration of haemopoiesis. The initial results of peripheral blood MNC achievement in 18 patients with different malignancies of the blood are presented in this paper. Ninety-one cytapheresis sessions were carried out, 88 with a Fenwall CS-3000 continuous-flow machine, and the remaining three with a Haemonetics V-50 discontinuous-flow cell separator. The number of sessions per patient ranged from three to six and the harvested MNC count was 19.3 x 10(9)/L, the percentage of recovery being 56.4%. Some studies are currently in course aimed to analyse the MNC subpopulations in order to measure the progenitor-cell fraction and to establish the viability of such cells for further transplants. Since only five patients have recently been transplanted, all successfully, no definite conclusions can be drawn presently in this connection."}
{"id": "10149526", "title": "Bone marrow processing on the Haemonetics V50 cell separator.", "content": "Bone marrow processing on the Haemonetics V50 cell separator. We have processed 27 bone marrow (BM) harvests using the Haemonetics V50 cell separator with a paediatric plasmapheresis set and programmed for lymphocyte collection. The mean starting volume of 843 mL was processed in 6-8 cycles to a buffy coat (BC) with a mean volume of 230 mL. The mean starting mononuclear cell (MNC) count was 1.22 x 10 8/kg recipient weight, and recovery was 92%. Clonogenic potential of the BC was assessed using CFU-GM assays and recovery was measured after cryopreservation or purging. On 4 occasions where major ABO incompatibility existed between donor and recipient, both BM and BC were consecutively diluted in compatible blood and processed twice. This achieved a calculated reduction in donor erythrocytes of 98%. The procedure was efficient and yielded a BC fraction suitable for cryopreservation and purging. Adequate stem-cells were retained as verified by CFU-GM assays and documentation of stable engraftment."}
{"id": "2401414", "title": "Rheological studies on patients with posterior subretinal neovascularization and exudative age-related macular degeneration.", "content": "Rheological studies on patients with posterior subretinal neovascularization and exudative age-related macular degeneration. To investigate the potential influence of a decreased perfusion rate of the choriocapillaris on the development of age-related macular degeneration (ARMD) with subretinal neovascularization (SRNV) apparently caused by disturbed flow properties of blood, we compared the hemorheological parameters of blood from 35 patients suffering from ARMD with SRNV with those from the 35 healthy patients of the same age. In both groups hematocrit, plasma viscosity, erythrocyte filtrability, aggregation, aggregating proteins, leukocyte and thrombocyte count, differentiation of leukocytes, thrombelastography, PTT, Quick test, and rheological profiles were comparable. The differences were not significant (P greater than 0.05). These results refute the hypothesis that changed flow properties of blood are the primary cause of the pathogenesis of ARMD with SRNV."}
{"id": "2391175", "title": "Detection and analysis of particles during thrombocytapheresis with a Haemonetics V 50 cellseparator.", "content": "Detection and analysis of particles during thrombocytapheresis with a Haemonetics V 50 cellseparator. One type of cellseparators (Haemonetic V 50) was investigated by us concerning the problem whether particles disintegrate during the donation from the tubing set. We did find particles in the range from 18 microns to 180 microns consisting of silicone or aluminum."}
{"id": "2385125", "title": "Platelet-rich plasma reduces postoperative blood loss after cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Platelet-rich plasma reduces postoperative blood loss after cardiopulmonary bypass. To study the effect of plasma sequestration and reinfusion of platelet-rich plasma on blood loss after cardiopulmonary bypass, 18 patients undergoing heart operations were randomly selected either to have collected or not to have collected approximately 250 ml of platelet-rich plasma before initiating cardiopulmonary bypass with the use of the Haemonetics Plasma Saving System (Haemonetics Corporation, Braintree, Mass.). All patients had standardized anesthesia and cardiopulmonary bypass. After reversal of heparin, autologous platelet-rich plasma was reinfused in nine patients. Thrombocyte counts, hemoglobin, and hematocrit were calculated before, during, and after cardiopulmonary bypass, and 24 and 48 hours postoperatively. Blood loss and total number of transfusions were recorded. Although 9% of the total platelet volume was removed, there were no hemodynamic complications related to the use of the Haemonetics Plasma Saving System. In both groups, significant low levels of thrombocytes, hemoglobin, and hematocrit were seen after cardiopulmonary bypass. Platelet-rich plasma-reinfused patients had a significantly higher number of platelets after heparin reversal. They also had significantly less blood loss after the operation, necessitating 65% less banked blood products (p less than 0.05). We concluded that reinfusion of autologous platelet-rich plasma may serve as an effective and safe way to restore some of the hematologic derangements after cardiopulmonary bypass."}
{"id": "2383328", "title": "[Original technic for preoperative hemodilution permitting deferred autologous transfusion (apropos of 106 cases)].", "content": "[Original technic for preoperative hemodilution permitting deferred autologous transfusion (apropos of 106 cases)]. To carry out normovolemic haemodilution in the best security conditions we elaborate a new method of preoperative haemodilution. Collection of red cell concentrates and adequate compensation are made either in the blood bank or at the patient's bed side. There are two ways of proceeding: *manual plasmapheresis technic is used for the collection of less than 450 ml packed red cells; *collection of more than 450 ml packed red cells is carried out on a PCS Haemonetics cell separator. CPD autologous red cells concentrates prepared in that way can be stored to meet the patient's need during and after the operation. The patient is identified as donor and receiver as regards laboratory analysis and computer treatment as well. Information's transmission between blood bank hospital and clinics is secured with the same document. This method enables homologues transfusion save and completes autologous transfusion in 68% cases among 106 patients. It is to be noticed that none of the 98 haemodiluted patients suffered from thrombosis."}
{"id": "2371016", "title": "Dual tracer technique to measure salvaged red cell survival following autotransfusion in aortic surgery.", "content": "Dual tracer technique to measure salvaged red cell survival following autotransfusion in aortic surgery. The survival of autotransfused red cells was measured for two salvage devices used in 12 elective aortic reconstructions. Six patients underwent cell salvage with the Solco-trans device and six with the Haemonetics cell saver. A double tracer technique was used to take account of post-operative blood loss and fluid replacement. Comparison was made with the results of a group of normal volunteers. A comparison was made of the labelling efficiency of damaged and undamaged red cells using chromium to check that red cells damaged during autotransfusion can be labelled. No significant difference was seen. There was no significant difference in red cell survival between the volunteer group and either of the two salvage device groups. These results suggest that red cell survival is not compromised by the autotransfusion process using these two devices."}
{"id": "2363083", "title": "Boomslang bite--diagnosis and management. A report of 2 cases.", "content": "Boomslang bite--diagnosis and management. A report of 2 cases. Bites by boomslang are uncommon and usually occur in adult snake handlers who are aware of the potentially fatal consequences, i.e. disseminated intravascular coagulation with delayed onset of spontaneous haemorrhage. Accidental bites in children are rare. Aids to diagnosis include the description of the bite, identification of the snake, and the recognition of an abnormal bleeding tendency before the onset of spontaneous haemorrhage. Specific boomslang antivenin arrests established bleeding but may not be immediately available, in which case the administration of heparin should be considered. Thrombo-elastography is a useful aid to diagnosis and management."}
{"id": "2360006", "title": "[Quantitative and qualitative analysis of various blood-preserving measures in heart surgery].", "content": "[Quantitative and qualitative analysis of various blood-preserving measures in heart surgery]. We assessed quantitative aspects of blood salvage retrospectively in 270 consecutive coronary bypass patients over one year. They were assigned either to group A (n = 10, Cellsaver [Haemonetics]), B (n = 189, centrifugated oxygenator blood), C (n = 107, retransfusion of shed mediastinal blood) or D (n = 74, combination of method B and C). In addition, blood quality was studied prospectively in group A (n = 5), B (n = 10) and C (n = 10) and each group compared to a control group. Results (mean values/patient) were: Blood salvage with A yielded 570 +/- 230 ml (hematocrit = 50%), B 509 +/- 156 ml (69%) and C 593 +/- 430 ml (26%). The required homologous blood products, i.e. packed cells (PC) and fresh frozen plasma (FFP) diminished significantly when combined autologous blood salvage was used (PC 6.0 +/- 3.4 vs 3.4 +/- 1.9, p less than 0.05; FFP 3.4 +/- 3.8 vs 2.6 +/- 3.0). Autologous erythrocyte function assessed by 2,3DPG was normal in all three methods (range 14.77-16.03 mumol/gHb). ATP was nearly normal in A (3.34 +/- 0.45 mumol/gHb), reduced by 20% in B (3.21 +/- 1.14 mumol/gHb) and by 30% in C (2.56 +/- 0.78 mumol/gHb) compared to the corresponding preoperative patient value. Hemolysis (free plasma hemoglobin) (was elevated in A (63 +/- 7 mg/dl), B (202 +/- 57 mg/dl) and C (211 +/- 44 mg/dl). However, no increase of free plasma hemoglobin was encountered in our patients after retransfusion of either A, B or C. No side effects were detected and bacteriology remained negative in all examined blood samples in C.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2353008", "title": "Killing capacity of LAK cell transduced lymphocytes harvested by Haemonetics V50 lymphosurge technique.", "content": "Killing capacity of LAK cell transduced lymphocytes harvested by Haemonetics V50 lymphosurge technique."}
{"id": "2352966", "title": "Storage of haemonetics V50 derived platelets for five days.", "content": "Storage of haemonetics V50 derived platelets for five days."}
{"id": "2351341", "title": "Collection of peripheral blood stem cells using an automated discontinuous flow blood cell separator.", "content": "Collection of peripheral blood stem cells using an automated discontinuous flow blood cell separator. Twenty collections of peripheral blood stem cells were performed in 3 patients (2 NHL, 1 AML) using the Haemonetics V50S discontinuous flow blood cell separator. A modified lymphocyte collection protocol (Nebraska Surge) was used in all instances. Leukapheresis were performed after 1 or 2 courses of chemotherapy and started when peripheral blood leukocytes count reached 1 x 10e9/l and platelets count 80 x 10e9/l. A mean blood volume of 5.9 +/- 0.6 litres was processed per procedure and the mean yields for mononuclear cells, nucleated cells and CFU-GM were respectively 5.4 +/- 1.4 x 10e9, 4.9 +/- 1.6 x 10e9 and 128.5 +/- 182.3 x 10e4 per procedure. Haemonetics V50S had showed a mean collection efficiency for mononuclear cells of 67.5 +/- 5.0% per procedure. Results obtained are not significantly different from the ones obtained with an automated continuous flow separator even if extracorporeal circulation is consistently high in patients with a low hematocrit when the 250 ml Latham Bowl is used."}
{"id": "2334557", "title": "The use of fresh blood to control severe haemorrhage associated with massive blood transfusion after cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "The use of fresh blood to control severe haemorrhage associated with massive blood transfusion after cardiopulmonary bypass. A 61-year-old man with severe factor XI deficiency presented for coronary artery bypass surgery. The clotting deficiency was corrected preoperatively with factor XI concentrate. Surgery resulted in severe postoperative haemorrhage of 55 liters of blood. This was managed successfully with a cell saver device (Haemonetics). Repeated platelet transfusions were ineffective in correcting the platelet dysfunction. The severe haemorrhage stopped suddenly after the infusion of 4 units of fresh blood. The case demonstrates how fresh blood can be useful in the management of severe haemorrhage after massive blood transfusion."}
{"id": "2308991", "title": "Density-gradient separation for 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide purging of autologous bone marrow grafts.", "content": "Density-gradient separation for 4-hydroperoxycyclophosphamide purging of autologous bone marrow grafts. We studied density-gradient separation of autologous bone marrow grafts in preparation for ex vivo 4-hydroperoxy-cyclophosphamide (4-HC) purging. A two-step procedure of buffy coat isolation followed by Ficoll-diatrizoate separation was used. Buffy-coat cells were isolated primarily either using the COBE 2991 Blood Cell Processor or Haemonetics 30 Cell Separator. All density-gradient separations were performed using the COBE 2991. The nucleated cell recoveries after buffy-coat isolation were 44.3 +/- 10.4% and 85.1 +/- 10.5% (+/- standard deviation, P less than 0.001) for the Haemonetics 30 and COBE 2991 isolated grafts, respectively. The final nucleated cell recoveries after density-gradient separation for these two buffy-coat techniques were 24.2 +/- 10.1% and 29.5 +/- 14.7% (p = 0.30). Compared to manual density-gradient separation, the techniques using the COBE 2991 recovered slightly higher numbers of nucleated cells and CFU-GM. The red blood cell concentration of the 4-HC incubation mixture was 1.0 +/- 0.6% and the CFU-GM survival after treatment was 2.4 +/- 2.6%. The variability in CFU-GM survival after 4-HC incubation of the density-gradient separated grafts appears less than previous experience treating buffy-coat cells. Density-gradient separation of autologous bone marrow appears to provide a more uniform treatment with 4-HC and may improve the clinical transplant course of the autograft recipient."}
{"id": "2298715", "title": "Haemonetics V50 and Plasma Collection System: common concerns and troubleshooting.", "content": "Haemonetics V50 and Plasma Collection System: common concerns and troubleshooting. The Haemonetics V50 and PCS are automated centrifugal systems designed for the collection of a variety of apheresis products. The microprocessor-controlled systems increase collection efficiency through many safety features and high donor and operator appeal. Troubleshooting the systems has been simplified through a systematic approach and easily understood display messages."}
{"id": "2287155", "title": "[Capillary resistance in premature and newborn infants and its relation to hemostatic potential].", "content": "[Capillary resistance in premature and newborn infants and its relation to hemostatic potential]. Capillary resistance, platelet count, platelet adhesiveness and aggregation and thrombelastogramm (TEG) were studied in 40 healthy newborn infants (term eutrophic, preterm eutrophic and hypotropic). The capillary resistance was normal in all cases. The physiologic decrease of platelet aggregation in newborns and the prolonged clotting time in TEG (hypotrophic infants) were without influence on the capillary resistance. An important factor of the normal capillary resistance in newborns is normal platelet adhesiveness."}
{"id": "2285713", "title": "Thrombelastograph monitoring: a clinical perspective.", "content": "Thrombelastograph monitoring: a clinical perspective. Thrombelastography (TEG) has been used widely during hepatic transplantation procedures to detect intraoperative changes in blood coagulation and as a guide to determine appropriate treatment of these changes. The current literature identifies the use of TEG for intraoperative management of coagulation as a proven reliable and rapid monitoring system. The clinical applicability of TEG monitoring for the anesthesia provider will give better intraoperative management of hemostasis, optimizing patient care and minimizing blood component use."}
{"id": "2282869", "title": "[Clinical research of hypercoagulation in patients with diabetes mellitus, glomerular diseases and pregnancy induced hypertension].", "content": "[Clinical research of hypercoagulation in patients with diabetes mellitus, glomerular diseases and pregnancy induced hypertension]. The hypercoagulable state in patients with diabetes mellitus, glomerular diseases and pregnancy induced hypertension was studied by using new methods. The research items included platelet function, coagulation, anti-coagulation system, fibrinolysis and TEG examination. The results showed that there was a hypercoagulable state in patients with diabetes mellitus, pregnancy induced hypertension and glomerular diseases, especially in those with uremia and nephrotic syndrome."}
{"id": "2267740", "title": "[Side-effects of continuous and discontinuous cytapheresis].", "content": "[Side-effects of continuous and discontinuous cytapheresis]. The authors evaluate the incidence of complications in 767 cytapreheses made on two types of blood cell separators. Complications, incl. technical problems before cytapheresis proper, were encountered more frequently during work with the discontinuous blood cell separators Haemonetics model 30 (27.%) than during work with the continuous automatic blood cell separator Fenwal CS 3000 (13.2%). Most frequently collapse and symptoms of hypocalcaemia were involved. Serious reactions account only for 7.6 and 4.4% of all reactions. The authors discuss the causes and possible prevention of complications during cytapheresis. With regard to the assessed results cytaprehesis by means of a separator can be considered a safe method in blood donors."}
{"id": "2261255", "title": "[Hemorheology and blood thrombotic potential in pulmonary thromboembolism].", "content": "[Hemorheology and blood thrombotic potential in pulmonary thromboembolism]. Examination of 138 patients with acute venous thrombosis of the lower limbs, which was complicated by thromboembolism of the pulmonary artery in 49 of them, showed the rheologic status to be disturbed to a greater extent in patients with pulmonary embolism than in those with acute venous thrombosis. An interrelationship between the rheologic properties and the coagulation system of the blood in various conditions of the hemostasis system was revealed. It is pointed out that pathogenetically grounded correction of the disorders of the blood coagulation and rheologic systems is necessary in choosing the method for treatment and prevention of acute venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism."}
{"id": "2240696", "title": "[Technical constraints in rapid vascular fluid replacement].", "content": "[Technical constraints in rapid vascular fluid replacement]. Rapid fluid infusion remains the cornerstone for therapy of hypovolaemic shock. The principal limitations of flow rate are governed by the four variables of Poiseuille's law: tube internal diameter and length, viscosity of the fluid passing through the tube, and the pressure gradient between the two ends of the tube. Conventional transfusion systems, with wide bore tubing (up to 5.0 mm internal diameter), large bore cannulas (8.5 French introducer catheters), high pressure (up to 300 mmHg) and diluted blood, can result in a maximum flow rate of about 1,000 ml.min-1 (for crystalloid solutions). Specific apparatus for rapid infusion can increase this to 1,500 ml.min-1 (Rapid Infusion System, Haemonetics). Dry-heat warming devices and microfiltration, to remove microaggregates and prevent non haemolytic febrile transfusion reactions, seem necessary when carrying out rapid transfusions. However, the use of microaggregate filters could be avoided by the routine production of leukocyte-poor red blood cell concentrates."}
{"id": "2237008", "title": "[Transient global amnesia (a study of 30 cases)].", "content": "[Transient global amnesia (a study of 30 cases)]. The authors have studied 30 patients with transient global amnesia aged between 49 and 76 years (median age of 63 years), without focal neurologic signs that have been followed for periods varying between 6 months and 10 years. Three of the patients had recurrent attacks of transient global amnesia, and another three had a stroke, although at some distance from the amnesia attack. Association was noted with certain risk factors including high blood pressure, and angiopathic changes of the eye fundus (in 50% of the patients), dyslipidemia (in 30%), diabetes (in 10%), and essential polyglobulia (in 7%). Coagulation studies including thrombelastograms were carried out in 22 patients, and demonstrated hypercoagulability in 50% of them. Changes in the arterial wall were noted in 85% of the 14 patients in whom carotid sphygmograms were recorded. The presence of these risk factors could explain the occurrence of cerebrovascular accidents in patients with transient global amnesia. Electroencephalograms performed immediately or a short time after the amnesia attack have evidenced in 18 patients rapid-type dysrhythmia, or diffuse theta waves, predominantly located in the deep layers of the left and right temporal areas. The EEG tracings were either flat or normal in the remaining 12 patients. Of the 30 patients presenting with global transient amnesia only two had migraine in antecedents, and another six had headache during the evolution of amnesia. The neurologic examination did not reveal any abnormality in 27 of the patients. Sequelar signs of neurological deficits were noted in the remaining three patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2226884", "title": "Prospective randomised evaluation of a new cell saving device in elective aortic reconstruction.", "content": "Prospective randomised evaluation of a new cell saving device in elective aortic reconstruction. In order to evaluate the clinical and haematological implications of salvage autotransfusion using the Haemolite device (Haemonetics, Leeds, UK), 67 aortic reconstructions were studied. Bank blood transfused during the operation fell from a median of four units in the control group to zero using the cell saver (P less than 0.0001), and wound drainage decreased from 250 to 200 ml (P = 0.12). Evidence of fibrinolytic and platelet activation was found during salvage, but no bleeding diathesis was encountered. There was no morbidity or mortality related to the technique, and median hospital stay was reduced in autotransfused patients. The Haemolite is a safe effective device for autotransfusion in elective aortic surgery, and can substantially reduce exposure of both patients and staff to the dangers of homologous blood."}
{"id": "2209247", "title": "[The application of plasma exchange therapy in refractory diseases].", "content": "[The application of plasma exchange therapy in refractory diseases]. 115 plasma exchange (PE) procedures were performed in 27 patients using the Haemonetics V50 plasmapheresis system 20 patients improved; among them 15 improved remarkably. Adverse reactions were observed 30 times (26.1%). PE showed beneficial effects in certain disease states which did not respond to conventional treatment or traditionally known therapeutic measures, especially patients in critical condition. Prevention and treatment of associated infections are very important in order to obtain a better efficacy of PE."}
{"id": "2185479", "title": "[Hemoglobin niosomes. II. In vitro interactions of plasma proteins and phagocytes].", "content": "[Hemoglobin niosomes. II. In vitro interactions of plasma proteins and phagocytes]. We have studied the in vitro interactions versus some blood components of the hemoglobin niosomes whose preparation and physicochemical and oxyphoric properties have been published in a precedent paper (this journal, 1989, No. 7, p. 192). This work was devoted to the research of 1) Agglutination phenomena with ABO blood group substances, plasma, some of its components and three plasma expanders, finally main erythrocytic phenotypes. 2) Adsorption of plasma proteins by immunoelectrophoresis. 3) Effects of niosomes on blood coagulation by thromboelastography. 4) Interactions between niosomes and phagocytes by electron microscopy, chemotactic migration, oxygen consumption, superoxide generation and oxydases function. These assays allow to observe and conclude that: 1) The agglutination phenomena are almost constant except with red blood cells. The agglutinates are dissociable by shaking. The agglutination appears to be nonspecific of a niosome component but is not observed with \"classical\" DPPC-chol-DCP liposomes. 2) Albumin and eventually transferrin are adsorbed at the surface of niosomes but without destabilizing them. 3) The vesicules show no important effects on coagulation factors, the enhancement of clotting time appearing essentially the consequence of blood dilution. 4) Niosomes phagocytosis is important but all the measurements fail to show any cellular metabolism activation: cell oxygen consumption, oxygenated metabolites generation and oxydases activity are not enhanced whatever the \"electric\" charge or the niosomes/phagocytes ratio used."}
{"id": "2177970", "title": "Usefulness of thrombelastography for dosage monitoring of low molecular weight heparin and unfractionated heparin during hemodialysis.", "content": "Usefulness of thrombelastography for dosage monitoring of low molecular weight heparin and unfractionated heparin during hemodialysis. Low molecular weight heparin (LMH) acts as an anticoagulation agent mainly through its anti-activated coagulation factor X (Xa) activity. Thrombelastography (TEG) is expected to be useful to monitor the dosage of LMH during hemodialysis because reaction time on TEG (TEG-r) is considered to reflect blood thromboplastin formation time, which depends on the formation of Xa. To test this possibility, we compared the usefulness of TEG, activated coagulation time (ACT), activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT), and anti-Xa activity in 28 hemodialysis patients using both conventional unfractionated heparin (UFH) and LMH on separate dialysis procedures. Anti-Xa activity of LMH was comparable to that of UFH when it was measured using both LMH and UFH as standards. Anti-Xa activity, which theoretically depended on the heparin concentration in blood samples, did not correlate with the degree of dialyzer clotting. The APTT correlated well with anti-Xa activity in patients using LMH (r = 0.686, p less than 0.01) and UFH (r = 0.906, p less than 0.01), but not with the degree of dialyzer clotting. The TEG-r correlated well with the degree of dialyzer clotting both in patients using LMH and those using UFH (measurements of samples obtained from the venous side of the extracorporeal circuit) and weakly correlated with anti-Xa activity in patients using LMH (r = 0.402, p less than 0.05). The ACT did not correlate with the degree of dialyzer clotting or anti-Xa activity. These results suggest that TEG-r reflects the efficacy of heparin in the extra-corporeal blood circuit, whereas APTT mainly reflects heparin concentration of the blood samples.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2175076", "title": "[Osmotic homeostasis and blood rheology in patients in the acute period of ischemic cerebral infarction].", "content": "[Osmotic homeostasis and blood rheology in patients in the acute period of ischemic cerebral infarction]. The authors describe the role of changes in osmotic homeostasis and hemorheology in the pathogenesis of ischemic brain stroke. 48 patients experiencing an acute period of ischemic brain stroke were examined. For this purpose the following methods were employed: measurements of blood, urine and CSF osmolality by Knauer osmometer; glucose and urea by the enzymatic assay; blood electrolytes by flame photometer; aggregation of platelets, red blood cells, blood viscosity, fibrinogen, hematocrit; the ethanol test, and thromboelastography. The data obtained demonstrate that the unfavorable prognostic signs may include steady and increasing hyperosmia, rise of the mmol discriminant of osmolality to over 35-40 mOsm/l, a progressive decrease of the rheological blood parameters and of colloid-osmotic pressure together with a progressive reduction of the urine/blood osmolality, which points to the rupture of the compensation for osmotic homeostasis and decompensation for the functional system regulating the blood aggregation state."}
{"id": "2151779", "title": "In vitro testing method of polymers candidate destined for contact with blood.", "content": "In vitro testing method of polymers candidate destined for contact with blood. Research aiming at obtaining athromobogenic biomaterials destined for contact with blood have been the subject of interdisciplinary studies carried out since 1980. When testing candidate materials, it is advisable that preliminary classification as well as elimination of materials not conforming to the requirements of athromobogenesis should be performed. Practicable laboratory methods were selected facilitating in vitro evaluation of materials of modified surface and conforming to the definite requirements. The testing of candidate materials of athromobogenic properties comprises basic research methods enabling instantaneous classification. The applied experimental model comprises the following: scanning electron microscopy (SEM), thromboelastography (TEG), formula: [see text] examining clotting systems by determining calcium, cephalincalcium times as well as the amount of blood platelets, biochemical examination. Application of the above-mentioned methods enables objective preliminary evaluation of candidate materials that may be applied in obtaining implantation products and medical appliances for the contact with blood."}
{"id": "2138182", "title": "The new phosphodiesterase inhibitor enoximone in patients following cardiac surgery--pharmacokinetics and influence on parameters of coagulation.", "content": "The new phosphodiesterase inhibitor enoximone in patients following cardiac surgery--pharmacokinetics and influence on parameters of coagulation. Enoximone is a selective inhibitor of the phosphodiesterase-III enzyme (PDE-III) and possesses positive inotropic and vasodilatory properties. The PDE-inhibitor amrinone has been associated with adverse effects on coagulation by decreasing platelets. To investigate the influence of enoximone on hemostasis, 18 patients undergoing elective aorto-coronary bypass grafting and receiving enoximone were compared to a control group (n = 18). In addition, the plasma levels of enoximone and its major metabolite (enoximone-sulfoxide) were studied following a single injection (0.5 mg/kg) and during a continuous infusion (5 and 10 micrograms/kg.min) before, during and after extracorporeal circulation (ECC). No difference between study and control groups was found for the parameters of coagulation during the investigation period; in particular there were no differences in platelet count and platelet function (thrombelastography). Following the single bolus, peak plasma levels decreased during ECC to ineffective levels. Continuous infusion, however, maintained effective plasma levels of enoximone; sulfoxide levels were twice as high as enoximone concentrations up until the end of the investigation period. It is concluded that enoximone can be judged to be safe in respect to its effects on coagulation even following ECC and at relatively high doses. The use of continuous infusion results in plasma levels which remain at an effective concentration through to the time that the patient is transferred to the intensive care unit."}
{"id": "2132349", "title": "Case 4--1990. A 66-year-old woman who is taking aspirin continues to bleed after routine care.", "content": "Case 4--1990. A 66-year-old woman who is taking aspirin continues to bleed after routine care."}
{"id": "2115010", "title": "[Preparations of alpha-lipoic acid: the dynamics of their content in the blood and their effect on hemostasis in lesions of the human liver].", "content": "[Preparations of alpha-lipoic acid: the dynamics of their content in the blood and their effect on hemostasis in lesions of the human liver]. The changes in blood coagulating activity before and after treatment with alpha-lipoic acid drugs as compared with blood lipoic acid content were studied in 130 patients with chronic diffuse diseases of the liver of the virus and alcohol etiology. A moderate correlation between the increase in blood alpha-lipoic acid concentration in patients with the liver diseases during the replacement therapy with alpha-lipoic acid drugs and a number of parameters of thrombelastogram was established. It was shown that relief of coenzyme deficit against the background of treatment with lipoic acid is associated with relief of hypocoagulative syndrome and an elevation of the blood ATP level. It is suggested that the ability of the coenzyme to stimulate the bioenergetic protection of hemostasis processes plays the important role in the mechanism of action of alpha-lipoic acid drugs."}
{"id": "2102438", "title": "[Comparison of the mechanical properties of resorbable bone substitutes].", "content": "[Comparison of the mechanical properties of resorbable bone substitutes]. The mechanical properties of blood clots stabilized with collagen, gelatine and alginate sponges were compared with the oid of thrombelastography and volumetric tests. The collagen sponges were distinctly inferior to gelatine and alginate in stabilizing the clot against retraction. There was no evidence of any interaction between collagen and blood clot."}
{"id": "2097752", "title": "[Effect of biguanides on the indicators of thrombelastography and the level of lactic acid in diabetes mellitus].", "content": "[Effect of biguanides on the indicators of thrombelastography and the level of lactic acid in diabetes mellitus]. The authors analyze the results of examinations of 232 patients with diabetes mellitus; 48 of these suffering from type I diabetes and 64 from type II diabetes were treated with biguanides. Thromboelastograms were recorded in the presence of hyperglycemia and repeatedly during stable compensation of diabetes, and their values were analyzed with due consideration for therapy administered. Since biguanides are known to induce lactate acidosis, blood serum lactic acid levels were measured when the patients were hospitalized, in the presence of hyperglycemia, and then after a standard exercise test (to detect latent acidosis). When stable compensation of diabetes mellitus was achieved, the examination scheme described before was repeated, i. e. lactic acid measurements before and after exercise test, with due consideration for the therapy administered. Biguanides were found to be conducive to normalization of thrombelastogram values, not elevating the blood serum content of lactic acid even after exercise test."}
{"id": "2094568", "title": "[The use of the Haemolite Cell Saver in cardiovascular surgery].", "content": "[The use of the Haemolite Cell Saver in cardiovascular surgery]. In eighteen adult patients scheduled for cardiac and vascular surgery, shed blood was treated with the Haemonetics Cell Saver Haemolite. On average by patient, the autologous blood volume restored was 471.94 +/- 235.7 ml. The haemoglobin level was 16.88 g.dl-1 and haematocrit level was 49.31 +/- 7.2%. Thirteen by eighteen patients did not require any homologous blood transfusion. The Cell Saver Haemolite technique is restricted to moderate and gradual peroperative bleeding. This technique is particularly designed for vascular and pediatric surgery. Postoperative shed blood salvage is a marginal indication."}
{"id": "2093400", "title": "Orbitometer flow and thrombus formation.", "content": "Orbitometer flow and thrombus formation. Orbitometry (Hartert) is a rheological ex-vivo method to follow up physical assembly of a coagulum in layers during natural intensity of flow by orbital movement. Fibrin elasticity in the Orbitometers mode of Resonance Thrombography is differentiated from platelet activity as well as e.g. from the effects of disseminated coagulation-minimal in liver disease and maximal during disturbances of delivery. Transition into the mode of dynamic Tendography (Hartert) will e.g. register all fast going tests lasting minutes or seconds. It is comparable to an accelerated form of Thrombelastography (Hartert), the intercourse of which with coagulum yet is an exclusively static operation. Another category is measurement of blood and plasma viscosity. In concentrated blood it seizes plasticity of blood cells as well as their intensity of aggregation in orbital flow. The latest methodical development of Orbitometry is control of platelet activity in its function of adhesion. This is realized by measurement of specific physical effects released in platelet containing coagulum. They generate a structural degradation of fibrin elasticity modul as well as a tendency for coagulum adhesion. The practical use of Adhesiography is control of anticoagulants and platelet protecting substances in their quantitative influence on coagulum structure and on the mentioned platelet activities. A special disturbance of these platelet depending mechnisms obviously is getting evidence in case of v. Willebrand's syndrome."}
{"id": "2085237", "title": "[Determination of C3a and C5a in hemapheresis procedures].", "content": "[Determination of C3a and C5a in hemapheresis procedures]. Study of the interface between blood and artificial surfaces reveals numerous undesirable reactions. For example, the formation of biologically active peptides, C3a and C5a (anaphylatoxins), is a result of complement activation via the alternative pathway. It cannot be denied that the reinjection of large quantities of these molecules could be at the origin of serious side effects. We report herein the anaphylatoxin levels found with 9 hemapheresis procedures (4 plasma filtration membranes, 3 systems for platelet collection, 2 plasma treatment techniques (dextran sulfate cellulose column and cascade filtration)). All the filtration procedures generated very high levels of anaphylatoxins, especially C3a. In contrast, the centrifugation systems produced lower levels. However, considerable amounts of C3a were found with the Cobe Spectra and V50 Haemonetics blood cell separators. The anaphylatoxins generated by the primary filter were partially retained by the dextran sulfate column. These high toxin levels enable an assessment of the degree of hemo-incompatibility of these systems. However, it remains difficult to evaluate whether these anaphylatoxins are dangerous or not."}
{"id": "2084957", "title": "Anticoagulant properties of placenta protein 4 (annexin V).", "content": "Anticoagulant properties of placenta protein 4 (annexin V). A placenta protein, originally termed PP4, was found to inhibit the aPTT in a concentration-dependent manner. PP4 which turned out to be identical with a vascular anticoagulant of the annexin type, inhibits the blood clotting process by binding of the essential lipids in a reaction which is dependent on calcium ions. Also in the presence of calcium PP4 combines with platelet membranes neutralizing their procoagulant effect. By fluorescence-microscopy binding of PP4 to stimulated macrophages is shown. The antithrombotic effect of PP4 is demonstrated by means of thrombelastography of human blood. Coagulation triggered by the addition of thromboplastin/lipid-mixtures is extinguished by PP4."}
{"id": "2078718", "title": "[In vitro studies of the blood compatibility of amorphous silicon carbide].", "content": "[In vitro studies of the blood compatibility of amorphous silicon carbide]."}
{"id": "2073680", "title": "Anticoagulant activity with dose-related response of glycoconjugates from bovine sublingual gland.", "content": "Anticoagulant activity with dose-related response of glycoconjugates from bovine sublingual gland. In this study we extracted glycoconjugates from bovine sublingual gland and attempted to investigate anticoagulant properties on blood coagulation of humans. To this purpose we performed the thromboelastographic technique and selective hemocoagulation screening tests. In particular, findings from screening tests indicated the occurrence of hemostatic effects on thrombin time (TT) and activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) with a response in a dose-related manner, whereas significant changes were not found on prothrombin time (PT)."}
{"id": "1976380", "title": "Autologous rescue with blood-derived stem cells in a child with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma.", "content": "Autologous rescue with blood-derived stem cells in a child with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. Autologous blood-derived stem cells were used for stem-cell rescue in a 5-year-old boy with chemotherapy-resistant B-Non-Hodgkin's lymphoma (B-NHL) involving bone marrow. The high dose chemoradiotherapy was carried out 5 months after initial diagnosis during partial remission. The preparative regimen consisted of 12 Gy fractionated, total-body irradiation (FTBI) before 60 mg/kg etoposide. There were 22.96 X 10(4)/kg body weight myeloid precursor cells, granulocyte-macrophage committed stem cells (CFU-GM) collected by intermittent blood flow separation with a Haemonetics 30R in two cytaphereses and stored in liquid nitrogen. Also 11, 82 X 10(4) CFU-GM/kg body weight were recovered and transfused after thawing. Rapid hematopoietic reconstitution ensued: Erythroid precursors were detected on day 9, 1 X 10(9)/L leucocytes were counted on day 11, and 0.5 X 10(9)/L granulocytes on day 13, respectively. The patient required 3 single-donor platelet transfusions, the last one on day 10. On day 17, 100 X 10(9)/L platelets were reached. A bone marrow aspirate on the same day showed good trilineage regeneration. The patient remained in complete remission 7 months after autografting with a normal stem cell content of the bone marrow and in the peripheral blood. On day 226, after stem cell infusion, a bone marrow relapse occurred."}
{"id": "1971763", "title": "Expansion by folinic acid of the peripheral blood progenitor pool after chemotherapy: its use in autografting in acute leukaemia.", "content": "Expansion by folinic acid of the peripheral blood progenitor pool after chemotherapy: its use in autografting in acute leukaemia. We have tested folinic acid (FA) for ability to increase peripheral blood stem cells (PBSC) after chemotherapeutic aplasia in acute leukaemia. Five adult patients (four AML, one ALL) entered the study, each patient underwent two series of three leukapheresis, the first following induction chemotherapy and the second following the first course of consolidation. The first leukapheresis of each series was done when the white blood cell count reached 10(9)/l with subsequent leukapheresis every other day. Folinic acid (Lederle Laboratories, France) was administered at a dose of 50 mg (i.v.) per day, 15 days from initiation of chemotherapy and continuing through the third leukapheresis of the series (days 25-30). PBSC were collected on a Haemonetics V50 cell separator. In these five cases we observed an increased yield of both colony-forming units, granulocyte macrophage (CFU-GM) and burst forming units-erythroid (BFU-E) expressed per ml of cytapheresis product: CFU-GM x 18, BFU-E x 3 and if expressed per 10(4)/kg of body weight: CFU-GM x 30, BFU-E x 3 (CFU-GM P less than 0.05, BFU-E less than 0.01). Long-term blood culture (LTSC) from FA stimulated leukapheresis, in an attempt to quantitate the most primitive stem cells, demonstrated that this expansion of the PBSC was sustained in time. We found by means of LTSC that FA did not stimulate CFU-L from patients with AML (two cases tested). Finally two AML patients were grafted with FA-PBSC after Cytotoxan and total body irradiation (TBI). Haematopoietic reconstitution was rapid complete and sustained in time in both patients. This indication for folinic acid should be further studied with or as an alternative to haematopoietic growth factors."}
{"id": "1963973", "title": "[Recurrent acute disorders of cerebral circulation].", "content": "[Recurrent acute disorders of cerebral circulation]. The authors provide the results of examining 122 patients with recurrent disorders of cerebral circulation using ultrasonic dopplerography, computer-aided tomography, thromboelastography, measurements of blood viscosity, hematocrit, platelet and red blood cell aggregation. The pathogenesis of recurrent acute disorders of cerebral circulation are analyzed and approaches to their prevention are discussed."}
{"id": "1703832", "title": "[Techniques for bone marrow preparation--a comparison of various systems].", "content": "[Techniques for bone marrow preparation--a comparison of various systems]. Marrow cell concentration is a fundamental requirement when it becomes necessary to remove red blood cells prior to freezing for autologous or ABH-incompatible allogenous marrow transplantation. We compared 5 different separation techniques and two different cell separators (a: Haemonetics V50 and b: IBM/COBE 2997) routinely used for platelet and granulocyte production."}
{"id": "1703829", "title": "[Stem cell concentrates in autologous transplantation].", "content": "[Stem cell concentrates in autologous transplantation]. For some years, there has been an increasing success in transplanting PBSC instead of autologous bone marrow in patients suffering from leukemic diseases. In healthy cytapheresis donors, we achieved peripheral blood mononuclear cell (PBM) recoveries of 74%, using a discontinuous flow separation technique (Haemonetics V50, Lymphosurge). At the moment, we have collected PBSC from 4 patients (3 AML, 1 ALL) in 28 cytapheresis procedures ranging from 12.9% to 80.1% (mean: 40.1%), whereas stem cell recoveries, defined by CFU-GM, were significantly better (mean: 66%). At present, one of these patients has been transplanted with PBSC alone, receiving 2.11 x 10(8) PBM/kg with 2.8 x 10(4) CFU-GM/kg. His posttransplantation cytopenia was shorter compared to other patients undergoing autologous bone marrow transplantation. The period of disease-free survival is now more than eight months while he is completely reintegrated into social and working life."}
{"id": "1703825", "title": "[Use of phospholipids (Fibraccel) for hemostasis in thrombocytopenic-thrombocytopathic patients].", "content": "[Use of phospholipids (Fibraccel) for hemostasis in thrombocytopenic-thrombocytopathic patients]. Eight thrombocytopenic/pathic patients received an intravenous infusion of phospholipids. In-vitro-bleeding test, thrombelastography and resonance thrombography were performed in order to show the hemostatic effect. There was no case in which phospholipids had an efficacy comparable to the transfusion of platelets. Two patients suffered from a severe anaphylactoid reaction after the administration of phospholipids."}
{"id": "1703812", "title": "[Comparison of 4 procedures in plasmapheresis: studies of modifying the hemostasis potential].", "content": "[Comparison of 4 procedures in plasmapheresis: studies of modifying the hemostasis potential]. The separation of plasma using the systems \"Plasmapur Monitor\" (Fa. Organon), \"Autopheresis-C\" (Fa. Baxter) and \"PCS\" (Fa. Haemonetics) was compared with the conventional blood bag centrifugation. In 16 apheresis per method, several parameters with the main focus on blood coagulation were examined in addition to other criteria. Compared to conventional centrifugation of blood bags, the plasma separation machines led to an only slight activation of the coagulation system, which seems to be negligible for donors as well as recipients. Furthermore, a decrease of coagulation factors and inhibitors in the collected plasma was most pronounced using bag centrifugation. Beyond this, particularly in apheresis systems with plasma filtration the low number of remaining cells meets the aim to reach a high quality of transfused plasma."}
{"id": "1695616", "title": "[Autologous blood replacement in urology].", "content": "[Autologous blood replacement in urology]. In a total number of 67 urological operations (24 transurethral resections of the prostate, 30 transvesical resections of the prostate, 13 radical prostatectomies) intraoperative blood loss was saved, cleaned, and reinfused to the patients as washed, packed red blood cells with a \"Cell Saver\" (Haemonetics). Patients with preoperative urinary tract infection were excluded from reinfusion in transurethral resections of the prostate. Although radical prostatectomy is oncologic surgery we consider it an ideal possibility for intraoperative autotransfusion. Based on our experience, autotransfusion seems to be warranted also in urological surgery."}
{"id": "1695271", "title": "[A thromboelastographic method of determining the antiaggregation activity of the vascular wall].", "content": "[A thromboelastographic method of determining the antiaggregation activity of the vascular wall]. Thromboelastography was used for the assessment of the vascular wall antiaggregation function; this function was determined as the activity of prostacyclin, synthesized and released by the vascular wall after local ischemia of the limb vessels, antiaggregatory towards the blood platelets. This method permits a rapid and easy objective assessment of the vascular wall antiaggregation function and gives information on the role of the blood ingredients, the prostacyclin activity contributing to their effect."}
{"id": "1695166", "title": "[Mechanical plasmapheresis by means of the Haemonetics-ultralite- plasma collection system: 2. Generation of platelet-rich plasma].", "content": "[Mechanical plasmapheresis by means of the Haemonetics-ultralite- plasma collection system: 2. Generation of platelet-rich plasma]. 70 plateletpheresis were performed in a clinical study to evaluate the quality of platelet-rich-plasma prepared by the new developed Haemonetics-Ultralite-Plasmacollection system. The procedure took in average 54 minutes, resulting in a platelet content of 1.6 X 10(11) platelets. Platelets function (hypotonic stress response, ADP- and collagen-induced aggregation) was well maintained. The after differential centrifugation prepared platelet concentrate may be stored in the collection bag for 1 day at room temperature with acceptable functional recovery."}
{"id": "2818773", "title": "[Performance of Pall filters (RC 100 and PL 100) for the removal of leukocytes from red-cell concentrates and platelets].", "content": "[Performance of Pall filters (RC 100 and PL 100) for the removal of leukocytes from red-cell concentrates and platelets]. 20 red cell concentrates (buffy-coat not removed), 5 pools of 5 and 5 pools of 10 standards plateles concentrates, as well as 5 single donor platelet concentrates obtained through Haemonetics V50-1 cytoplasmapheresis procedure, were filtered, within 48 hours after donation, using RC 100 and PL 100 blood filters developed by Pall Company. Using the RC 100 filter on red cell concentrates, the rate of leukocyte removal exceeded 99% of the initial values. The residual leukocyte count per unit was 5.8 +/- 3.4 10(6). Leukocytes in red cell concentrates filtered after a previous one on the same filter numbered 18.6 +/- 8.9 10(6). The rate of platelet removal exceeded 97% of the initial amount. Red cell loss was 6 +/- 9% or 4 +/- 3% of a single or a subsequent unit were filtered respectively. Using the PL 100 filter on platelet concentrates, the rate of leukocyte removal exceeded 88% of the initial values. Residual leukocyte counts were 1.4 +/- 0.4 10(6), 6.2 +/- 3.8 10(6) and 1.4 +/- 0.8 10(6) respectively in 6-unit pools, 10-unit pools and machine prepared platelet concentrates. The average platelet loss was 15%. There was no evidence of alteration in the qualitative parameters of red cells or platelets. The filters were easy to handle and the time needed for the whole filtration process was remarkably short."}
{"id": "2817543", "title": "[Autologous transfusion by peroperative salvage in orthotopic transplantation of the liver].", "content": "[Autologous transfusion by peroperative salvage in orthotopic transplantation of the liver]. As large quantities of blood are required during orthotopic liver transplantation, intraoperative autotransfusion is therefore often carried out in adult patients. This study aimed to assess the ease of use of this technique, its efficiency and possible side-effects. Intraoperative blood salvage was carried out using a Cell Saver 4R (Haemonetics) in 14 patients. The chest blood was collected, anticoagulated with heparin and sodium citrate, centrifuged and washed with Ringer lactate. During surgery, and the subsequent 5 days, the following data were recorded: red cell and platelet count, haemoglobin concentration, parameters of renal function, potassium, citrate and fibrinogen levels, parameters of renal function, blood cultures and the extubation delay. Autotransfusion was simple to use, with no side-effects during the procedure. An average of 20.5 red cell packs were required, of which 59.2 +/- 2.3% were supplied by autotransfusion. The volume of transfused blood was similar, or inferior, to other studies. The different haematological parameters, blood gases and serum potassium levels remained stable. Only 4 +/- 2.8 red cell packs were required postoperatively to maintain a stable haematocrit value. There was no increase in thrombin time, and therefore no effect due to the used heparin. Citrate levels were correlated with the amount of autotransfused blood. They were lower than in other studies because autotransfusion limited the citrate load. There was no haemolysis. Postoperative renal function remained normal. There was no change in the blood coagulation profile, except when large volumes were transfused, resulting in a dilutional coagulopathy. Extubation was always carried out during the first two postoperative days. Bacteriological studies remained negative, no bacteraemia being noted. During orthotopic liver transplantation autotransfusion is a simple, reliable technique, with few side-effects."}
{"id": "2815074", "title": "Factor XIII is not involved in human platelet-collagen interaction.", "content": "Factor XIII is not involved in human platelet-collagen interaction. A role of factor XIII (FXIII) on the interaction of human platelets with collagen was investigated using either formaldehyde fixed-washed platelets (FWP) or nonfixed platelets. The adhesion of FWP to bovine type I collagen was measured by using either an aggregometer or a collagen immobilized glass beads column. The interaction of non-fixed human platelets with collagen was measured with in vitro bleeding time (Thrombostat-4,000), which was performed by passing citrated whole blood through the filter covered with rat type I collagen under the constant shear stress. FWP adhesion to the collagen immobilized column (1,300 micrograms collagen) was not changed by the addition of commercial FXIII preparation (Fibrogammin); the adhesion was 42.7% in the presence of 1% human serum albumin, 42-43% in the presence of 1-2 U/ml of FXIII. The addition of rabbit antibody to FXIII to normal FWP did not change the degree of adhesion; 42.3% (1:100 anti-FXIII) and 46.1% (normal rabbit serum). Furthermore, platelets from the patient with congenital FXIII deficiency normally aggregated by bovine collagen and the adhesion of the patient FWP to the collagen was similar to that of normal FWP. Prolongation of partial thromboplastin time and the changes of thromboelastograph of normal plasma were observed after mixing with the collagen, and factor VIII, FXIII and von Willebrand factor were adsorbed by the collagen. The amount of FXIII in normal human plasma bound to collagen was 17, 23 and 54% at the concentration of the collagen 250, 500 and 1,000 micrograms/ml, respectively. The binding of plasma ristocetin cofactor was not different between normal control and the patient with FXIII deficiency. These data suggest that FXIII is not involved in human platelet interaction with the type I collagen, while FXIII in normal human plasma binds to the collagen."}
{"id": "2796695", "title": "[A photodynamic method of studying hemocoagulation].", "content": "[A photodynamic method of studying hemocoagulation]. Herein are offered some principles, photodynamic method and the specialised unit (photocoagulograph) for investigation of the optical and rheological properties of the coagulated substrate. On the basis of the results of recalcified plasma, rich in thrombocytes, the quantitative parameters for description of component hemocoagulation phases are offered, i.e. thrombocyte aggregation, prothrombinase formation, thrombin, monomer fibrin, polymerization and stabilization of the clot by fibrinase as well as its elastic properties and disolvent kinetics in fibrinolization process."}
{"id": "2787951", "title": "Adoptive immunotherapy for head and neck cancer with killer cells induced by stimulation with autologous or allogeneic tumour cells and recombinant interleukin-2.", "content": "Adoptive immunotherapy for head and neck cancer with killer cells induced by stimulation with autologous or allogeneic tumour cells and recombinant interleukin-2. Peripheral blood lymphocytes drawn by leukapheresis using Haemonetics V50 were mixed and cultured with autologous or allogeneic tumour cell line to activate killer cells by tumour antigenic stimulation, and further with recombinant interleukin-2 (rIL-2). Killer cells were intra-arterially infused, as a primary therapy, in 5 patients with maxillary and one with lingual cancer (squamous cell carcinoma). Effects on reduction of primary tumour size were significantly high without any severe side effects. The effects were interpreted mainly by direct day-by-day observation of the site, findings of CT and histology. Histological findings of the tissue obtained by surgical operation performed after adoptive immunotherapy were remarkable changes, such as infiltration of lymphoid cells around the cancer nets, degeneration of cancer cells, infiltration of scavenger macrophages (giant cells) and so on. The results suggested that adoptive immunotherapy by the killer cells can be a powerful treatment to bring the cancer under control, in with combination of other therapies."}
{"id": "2776172", "title": "Effects of mammal submandibular gland glycoderivatives on human hemostatic system.", "content": "Effects of mammal submandibular gland glycoderivatives on human hemostatic system. The aim of this study was to investigate the effects of glycoconjugate components extracted from the submandibular glands of four mammal species (rat, mouse, rabbit, hare) on human hemostatic system. The following analyses were performed: thromboelastography and hemocoagulation screening tests (Thrombin Time, Prothrombin Time, Partial Thromboplastin Time). Findings showed that all glycoconjugates induce modifications of fibrin clot formation time, modulus of elasticity and some hemocoagulation tests (TT, PTT). The anticoagulant effects were of inhibitory type."}
{"id": "2773029", "title": "5-day storage of platelets collected on a blood cell separator.", "content": "5-day storage of platelets collected on a blood cell separator. One of the earliest devices available for plateletpheresis is the Haemonetics system; this machine has been updated recently to permit the use of software in a closed system and thus storage of the collected platelets beyond 24 hours. The authors examined the in vitro and in vivo function of platelets collected on the Haemonetics AutoSurge machine and stored for 5 days in two separate 1000-mL CLX bags. The average count per bag was 1.8 +/- 0.4 x 10(11) in approximately 200 mL of plasma. Immediately following collection, the platelet response to ADP and epinephrine represented 78 and 35 percent, respectively, of the preapheresis values. Aggregation to single stimuli subsequently decreased to 29 and 0 percent, respectively by Day 5. This response is equal to or better than the response reported with the Fenwal CS-3000, the only other plateletpheresis device routinely used for long-term storage. The pH of the preparations was well maintained throughout storage, and there was little alteration in hypotonic shock response or serotonin uptake. Serotonin release decreased consistently. The morphology scores indicated good maintenance of shape immediately following collection; this subsequently decreased after 5 days of storage. Bacterial cultures were negative in all instances. The 51Cr in vivo survival and recovery was good with 65.5 +/- 7.1 percent recovery and an average survival of 7.3 +/- 1.3 days (multiple hit; n = 5). The data indicate that storage of the Haemonetics plateletpheresis product is feasible and that the product is as good as others currently available."}
{"id": "2768161", "title": "Platelet transfusion therapy in thrombocytopaenia of haematologic malignancies.", "content": "Platelet transfusion therapy in thrombocytopaenia of haematologic malignancies. Thirty thrombocytopaenic patients of acute leukaemias and myelodysplastic syndrome were transfused platelets collected from ABO-matched donors using Haemonetics V30 and V50 blood processors. Twenty-seven patients had septicaemia and/or splenomegaly; 2 patients had disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC). Pre-transfusion platelet count was 11.0 +/- 4.0 X 10(9)/L. The mean corrected count increments (CCI) 1 hour and 18 hours post-transfusion were 13.02 X 10(9)/L and 3.88 X 10(9)/L respectively, in the absence of DIC. Active bleeding stopped when platelet count was above 15.0 X 10(9)/L. There was no difference between the platelet yield from two blood processors."}
{"id": "2765034", "title": "[Rheologic and cytologic study of autologous blood collected with Cell Saver 4 during cesarean].", "content": "[Rheologic and cytologic study of autologous blood collected with Cell Saver 4 during cesarean]. Intra-operative autologous transfusion has been frequently used in vascular and traumatic surgery for about ten years. The technique would be justified in other procedures when intra-operative bleeding is significant and the quality of retrieved blood is satisfactory. We have studied the potential use of intra-operative autologous transfusion during caesarean section of 15 parturients. The quality of autologous blood (at different stages of the procedure) was assessed after being recovered and washed by \"Cell Saver 4\" (Haemonetics). Blood quality was assessed through 1) measuring the following: erythrocyte deformability with Erythrometer and Hemorheometer; blood and plasma viscosities; ATP, 2.3 DPG and plasma hemoglobin rates; and RBC morphology through SEM; 2) bacterial detection and identification; 3) detection of foetal cells which could create immunological disturbances if reinjected into the mother. The results showed: 1) little variation in RBC deformability properties with ATP and 2.3 DPG rates which, apart from a slight decrease, remained within the normal range; 2) a 20 fold increase in plasma hemoglobin persisting, despite successive washes, in 80% of cases; 3) positive Staphylococcus epidermidis hemoculture clinically irrelevant in the reinjectable bag in 90% of cases; 4) close to 1% foetal cells in the reinjectable bag in 20% of cases; 5) 8% abnormal cells as seen on SEM (Stage I echinocytes) and a slight swelling of the RBCs, which could account for their fragility. These preliminary results show that intraoperative autologous transfusion could be used in obstetrical surgery, provided that certain precautions are taken to minimize the aforesaid drawbacks."}
{"id": "2749798", "title": "[Blood coagulation evaluation of the biocompatibility of dental plastics].", "content": "[Blood coagulation evaluation of the biocompatibility of dental plastics]. Using thromboelastography the authors have studied the effect of fluorax and ethacryl manufactured by compaction and centrifugal moulding on the coagulation properties of patients. An analysis of the mechanism of the plastic surface and monomer effects on the blood coagulation phases and platelets allow the authors to conclude that the considered stomatological materials are biocompatible and that centrifugal moulding is superior to compaction."}
{"id": "2742171", "title": "Comparison of viscoelastic measures of coagulation after cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Comparison of viscoelastic measures of coagulation after cardiopulmonary bypass. Postoperative hemorrhage remains a major cause of morbidity after cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB). Treatment remains empiric because of the need for immediate correction and the lack of availability of rapid intraoperative coagulation monitoring (except for ACT) at most institutions. Thrombelastography (TEG) and Sonoclot analysis (SCT) are measures of viscoelastic properties of blood which allow rapid intraoperative evaluation of coagulation factor and platelet activity as well as overall clot integrity from a single blood sample. Routine coagulation tests (RCT) including activated clotting time (ACT), prothrombin time (PT), partial thromboplastin time (PTT), fibrinogen level (FIB), and platelet count (PLT) were determined and compared to TEG and SCT to assess which best predicted clinical hemostasis after CPB. Forty-two patients prospectively felt to be at high risk for excessive post-CPB bleeding had blood obtained for RCT, TEG, and SCT analysis before systemic heparinization and 30 min after protamine administration. Nine of 42 patients had excessive chest tube drainage, but no reoperations were required. After CPB, mean values for RCT were normal, but there were abnormalities in TEG and SCT parameters that reflect platelet-fibrin interaction. Both TEG and SCT were 100% accurate in predicting bleeding in these nine patients and, overall, both tests were significantly better predictors of postoperative hemorrhage than RCT. We conclude that viscoelastic determinants of clot strength may be abnormal after CPB and that SCT and TEG are, therefore, more useful than RCT for the detection and management of coagulation defects associated with CPB."}
{"id": "2736598", "title": "[Comparison of the Haemonetics V50, Fenwal CS 3000 and IBM 2997 blood separators].", "content": "[Comparison of the Haemonetics V50, Fenwal CS 3000 and IBM 2997 blood separators]. Haemonetics V 50 (HV-50), Fenwal CS 3000 (FCS-3000) and IBM 2997 separators are compared according to the results of donor plateletaphereses. The mean platelet yield of HV-50, FCS-3000 and IBM-2997 was 464 X 10(9), 551 X 10(9) and 468 X 10(9) respectively (the difference both between FCS-3000 and HV-50 and between FCS-3000 and IBM-2997 being significant - p less than 0.01). The median leukocyte contamination of platelet concentrates was 0.3 X 10(9), 0.2 X 10(9) and 5.3 X 10(9) respectively (the difference between FCS-3000 and HV-50 being not significant). The separators are further compared on the basis of platelet concentrate volume, erythrocyte contamination of thromboconcentrates, processing time, donor and staff convenience, our experience concerning product reliability and service quality, and finally the price of both the separators and the disposables."}
{"id": "2715990", "title": "The thromboelastogram and circulating lupus anticoagulant.", "content": "The thromboelastogram and circulating lupus anticoagulant. Abnormal lupus anticoagulant (LA) levels, as measured with the activated partial tissue thromboplastin and tissue thromboplastin inhibition tests, are associated with a predisposition toward thromboembolic phenomena. Thromboelastogram (TEG) measurements have been proposed as a standardized assay to predict such a predisposition. We therefore correlated LA and TEG assessments in 46 women who were either apparently healthy controls or who had abnormal LA levels with such conditions as endometriosis and repeated pregnancy wastage. The coefficient of correlation (Rho) was .3282 (P = .025). Seven patients with an abnormal LA demonstrated a normal TEG, and eight with a normal LA exhibited an abnormal TEG. Only nine had concomitant LA and TEG abnormalities. We conclude that LA and TEG apparently are not interchangeable as predictors of a hypercoagulable state. While this study did not address which of the two assays has a better predictive value for thromboembolic phenomena, it suggested that each can identify a different patient population."}
{"id": "2711748", "title": "[Various aspects of the interrelations between blood phospholipids, blood coagulation and microcirculation in chronic bronchitis].", "content": "[Various aspects of the interrelations between blood phospholipids, blood coagulation and microcirculation in chronic bronchitis]. Studies of conjunctival microcirculation, thromboelastographic coagulation (as assessed by 8 parameters) and plasma phospholipid spectrum (with 8 fractions obtained), carried out in 136 patients with acute phases of chronic bronchitis, have demonstrated considerable disorders of microcirculation, hypercoagulation and shifts of blood phospholipid spectrum. Marked perivascular disorders were matched by increased levels of plasma lysophosphatidylcholines, which promote increased capillary permeability. Intravascular changes (erythrocyte aggregation and sludging, intermittent flow and stasis of blood) were accompanied by established hypercoagulation and increased phosphatidylethanolamines, producing a coagulating effect. A drop in plasma phosphatidylcholines is a symptom of disrupted synthesis of this phospholipid class in the lungs, and a disorder of pulmonary surfactant structure and function. The level of phosphatidylserins, conducive to histamine release by mast cells, rose in patients with the bronchospastic syndrome. Shifts in other phospholipid fractions, typical for different types and stages of chronic bronchitis, have also been demonstrated. Basically, the magnitude of shifts was greater prior to treatment in the majority of parameters."}
{"id": "2697951", "title": "[The effect of dimethyl sulfoxide on the thromboelastographic indices and the microcirculation in patients with rheumatic diseases].", "content": "[The effect of dimethyl sulfoxide on the thromboelastographic indices and the microcirculation in patients with rheumatic diseases]. Using a blind method for assessing the results, a study was made of the effect of dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) on fibrin formation and microcirculation in 42 patients with rheumatic diseases (rheumatoid arthritis, systemic scleroderma, Raynaud's syndrome). It has been shown that the therapeutic effect of DMSO in rheumatic diseases is determined to a definite degree by its normalizing action on fibrin formation and microcirculation."}
{"id": "2678662", "title": "[Blood-saving procedures--anesthesiologic aspects. Autotransfusion procedures at a large clinic].", "content": "[Blood-saving procedures--anesthesiologic aspects. Autotransfusion procedures at a large clinic]. A major risc of blood transfusion is transmission of infectious diseases. The pattern of these diseases varies in different parts of the world. The fact, that diseases such as hepatitis or AIDS cannot completely be avoided has led to an increasing interest in autologous blood transfusion systems. In the Department of Anaesthesiology and Intensive Care Medicine of the Justus-Liebig-University Giessen the following methods of autotransfusion are performed: Acute normovolaemic haemodilution (ANH), intra- and postoperative autotransfusion (Cell-Saver, Haemonetics Corp.; Autotrans, Dideco Corp.), autologous donor-plasmapheresis and autologous predeposit. Using this methods the anaesthesiologic autotransfusion system in Giessen is capabel reducing bank blood requirements particularly in elective surgery such as cardiovascular surgery and orthopaedic surgery to a minimum. Most of these surgical procedures can be performed without transfusing any homologous blood substitutes."}
{"id": "2665575", "title": "Intraoperative coagulation changes in children undergoing liver transplantation.", "content": "Intraoperative coagulation changes in children undergoing liver transplantation. Intraoperative changes in blood coagulation were observed in eight children undergoing liver transplantation using a simplified coagulation profile (prothrombin time [PT], activated partial thromboplastin time [aPTT], and platelet count) and thrombelastography. Preoperatively, PT and aPTT were moderately prolonged (1.5 times control), and platelet count was greater than 100,000/mm3 in all patients but one (91,000/mm3). During the preanhepatic and anhepatic stages, PT, aPTT, reaction time, and coagulation time improved toward normal values, but platelet count and maximum amplitude did not change. Significant changes in coagulation occurred on reperfusion of the grafted liver: PT, aPTT, reaction time, and coagulation time were prolonged, and platelet count, maximum amplitude, and clot formation rate decreased. A heparin effect, which did not require treatment, was seen on reperfusion in four patients. Fibrinolysis occurred during the operation in five patients and was treated with Epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA) in one. Blood coagulation improved slowly, and values were close to baseline 90 min after reperfusion. In general, the coagulation changes seen in these children are similar to those in adults but less severe, possibly because of the preponderance of cholestatic disease in children compared with the more common hepatocellular disease in adults."}
{"id": "2662519", "title": "Comparison of Thromboelastograph and Sonoclot coagulation analyzer for assessing coagulation status during orthotopic liver transplantation.", "content": "Comparison of Thromboelastograph and Sonoclot coagulation analyzer for assessing coagulation status during orthotopic liver transplantation."}
{"id": "2659117", "title": "Continuous infusion of complement by an automated cell processor enhances cytotoxicity of monoclonal antibody sensitized leukemia cells.", "content": "Continuous infusion of complement by an automated cell processor enhances cytotoxicity of monoclonal antibody sensitized leukemia cells. We report the use of the Haemonetics cell processor for monoclonal antibody (MoAb) and complement (C')-mediated lysis of leukemia cells. Using the HL-60 promyelocytic leukemia cell line, we can achieve a six-log depletion of HL-60 colony-forming cells in cell mixtures containing 1% HL-60 cells and 99% normal peripheral blood or bone marrow leukocytes at 10(7)/ml after a single 60-min treatment with an anti-myeloid MoAb, PM-81, plus C'. In this procedure, we continuously infuse a solution of fresh C' while removing medium containing spent C'. We have utilized this procedure to purge remission bone marrow from patients with acute myelogenous leukemia in preparation for autologous bone marrow transplantation. There were no adverse effects to normal progenitor cells of the granulocyte, monocyte and erythrocyte lineages as measured in colony-forming assays. Other potential benefits of using the cell processor method of cytotoxicity include reduction in treatment time and the amounts of costly reagents."}
{"id": "2646481", "title": "Hemodynamic and metabolic changes in hepatic transplantation.", "content": "Hemodynamic and metabolic changes in hepatic transplantation. In this study, we retrospectively analyzed the intraoperative hemodynamic, laboratory, and coagulation data on the first 83 patients who underwent an initial liver transplantation procedure at our institution. The major hemodynamic changes at the time of reperfusion of the donor liver were significant decreases in arterial blood pressure, systemic vascular resistance, and pulmonary artery temperature and significant increases in cardiac output and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure. The alterations in laboratory values reflected intraoperative therapeutic manipulations. Citrate toxicity is a concern, and the amount of calcium chloride administered reflected the volume of blood transfused. On reperfusion, the fibrinogen concentration decreased and both the prothrombin time and the activated partial thromboplastin time increased. This coagulopathy was also evident in the thromboelastographic values. Aggressive monitoring and prompt intervention are necessary to maintain hemodynamic and metabolic homeostasis in these patients."}
{"id": "2622028", "title": "[Clinical significance of the thrombelastograph in blood coagulo-fibrinolytic tests].", "content": "[Clinical significance of the thrombelastograph in blood coagulo-fibrinolytic tests]."}
{"id": "2621742", "title": "Multiple uterine rupture and crushing injury of the fetal skull after blunt maternal trauma. A case report.", "content": "Multiple uterine rupture and crushing injury of the fetal skull after blunt maternal trauma. A case report. Multiple pelvic fractures and explosive-type uterine lacerations occurred in a previously healthy 17-year-old primigravida involved in a motor vehicle accident. The fetus suffered a crushed skull and was completely extruded with the placenta from the uterus. Treatment was complicated by severe disseminated intravascular coagulation with secondary fibrinolysis. Thrombelastography enabled us to rapidly evaluate the patient's coagulation status and to monitor her response to goal-directed therapeutic interventions (surgery, specific blood product therapy and epsilon-aminocaproic acid)."}
{"id": "2615877", "title": "[Autotransfusion by peroperative recuperation in neurosurgery. Preliminary study apropos of 40 cases].", "content": "[Autotransfusion by peroperative recuperation in neurosurgery. Preliminary study apropos of 40 cases]. Preliminary results of autotransfusion by peroperatory recuperation and washing of red blood cells in neurosurgery using the Cell Saver IV Haemonetics are reported. The goals of the study were the confirmation of the feasibility and innocuousness of the technique, and the evaluation of its role in the economy of homologous blood derivatives. Our series includes 40 patients with benign cerebral or spinal lesions selected on the basis of a significant hemorrhagic risk. The activation of peroperatory recuperation is rapid and can be undertaken in extreme emergencies. It represents, even in elective surgery, a safety factor for the patient and the surgical team. The washing and the means of retransfusion by gravity eliminates all the inconveniences of preceding generations of these systems, particularly systemic residual anticoagulation, overload of free hemoglobin, blood coagulation problems and air embolism. In our study the number of unites recuperated is significant by reason of the selection modality of patients according to hemorrhagic risk. For its part, autotransfusion represented 68.71% of transfused red blood cells and 44.27% of the entirely of blood derivatives used. The risk of infectious disease transmission was reduced for all these patients, it was annulled for 45% of them. In our study, autotransfusion by recuperation and washing of red blood cells in neurosurgery improves the safety of patients and allows for an important reduction in the use of homologous blood derivatives. This final result is even more effective through association, given the same patient, of several autotransfusion techniques."}
{"id": "2609747", "title": "[Thromboelastography in patients with focal scleroderma and their dynamics during electroacupuncture].", "content": "[Thromboelastography in patients with focal scleroderma and their dynamics during electroacupuncture]. Presents thromboelastography data on the blood coagulation system in focal scleroderma patients over the course of electroacupuncture."}
{"id": "2608366", "title": "[Rheological properties of blood in children and adolescents with borderline arterial hypertension].", "content": "[Rheological properties of blood in children and adolescents with borderline arterial hypertension]."}
{"id": "2600721", "title": "Management of malpositioned central venous catheters.", "content": "Management of malpositioned central venous catheters. Through research and clinical trials at The University of Texas M. D. Anderson Cancer Center, central venous catheters have gained wide acceptance and are being used for an increasing number of applications. More than 30,000 patients have had a CVC placed since the inception of the M. D. Anderson program in 1976. The soft and less thrombogenic silicone elastomer catheter is the most commonly used catheter in the institution. This study found that most commonly observed malpositions are related to the puncture site and technique, venous anatomy, and catheter characteristics. The study also indicated that the majority of malpositioned central venous catheters need not be removed but can be safely repositioned using rapid flushing, patient positioning, partial withdrawal, or simple or deflective guidewire techniques. Early recognition and management of malpositioned central venous catheters not only guard against serious complications but also allow proper catheter function and prevent delay of intravenous therapy."}
{"id": "2598360", "title": "[Antiplatelet aggregation effect of Andregraphis paniculata].", "content": "[Antiplatelet aggregation effect of Andregraphis paniculata]. This article deals with the antiplatelet aggregation effect of Andregraphis paniculata (AP), 61 blood samples and 8 volunteers were investigated to observe the effect of AP on platelet function in vitro and in vivo respectively. The results showed that the crude extract of AP could inhibit significantly one-phase and two-phase platelet aggregation induced by ADP (P less than 0.001, 0.01). The potency of AP crude extract seemed to be somewhat stronger than Ligustrazine and Persantin injection in vitro, but the difference was not statistically significant (P greater than 0.05). A dose-effect relationship of AP was demonstrated also (r = 0.93). The rapid effect of this drug on platelet aggregation in vivo suggested that AP could be absorbed quickly, but the effect lasted for only a short time. 12 hours after with-drawing of AP, the 1 minute and 5 minutes aggregation rates increased by 18.67%, 36.63% respectively, as compared with the lowest aggregation rate after administration. The activating effect of AP on fibrinolysis was also detected by shortened euglobulinlysis time (211.50 vs 182.50 min in vitro, 219.38 vs 149.38 min in vivo, P less than 0.001). In addition, the influence of AP upon coagulation and thrombelastogram was determined. This study suggested that AP in a promising antithrombogenic agent. This drug might be beneficial in preventing and treating arterial thrombotic diseases."}
{"id": "2598358", "title": "[Clinical and experimental studies of yiqi huoxue principles in treating ulcerative colitis].", "content": "[Clinical and experimental studies of yiqi huoxue principles in treating ulcerative colitis]. Yiqi Huoxue principle (YH) was applied to treat 30 cases of ulcerative colitis while Yiqi Jianpi ( ) and Qingre Qushi ( ) principle (YJQQ), which had been proved its therapeutic effect, was used as the control therapy. The herbal medicines were taken by oral and enema. The course of treatment was 6 weeks. The length, wet and dry weights of thrombus, the platelet adherence and the r, k, Ma, M values of thrombelastogram were measured before and after medications. Before medication, the value mentioned above were all abnormal in both YH and YJQQ group. After medication, with alleviation of the symptoms and signs of the colitis, all these values trend gradually to normal levels (P less than 0.01). The rat models of ulcerative colitis were made by immunological and local stimulation methods. The models were divided into three groups: YH(I), YJQQ(II) and water group(III). Three weeks after medication, the results showed that the lesion degree of the colon, the length and weight both wet and dry thrombus were remarkably lower in group I than those in group III. It was also showed that there was a positive correlation between the lesion degree of colon and the dry weight of thrombus (r = 0.7941, P less than 0.01). It suggested that the therapeutic effects of YH was similar to those of YJQQ in treating ulcerative colitis."}
{"id": "2597614", "title": "The plasma collection system: a new concept in autotransfusion.", "content": "The plasma collection system: a new concept in autotransfusion. We have used the Haemonetics Cell-Saver autotransfusion technique in over 6,500 cases since 1979, salvaging more than 11,000 units of packed red blood cells. Major utilization has been in cardiac, vascular, and orthopedic cases. Coagulopathy associated with hypothermia, shock, multiple transfusions, and the autotransfusion technique, which removes clotting factors and platelets, often necessitated use of fresh-frozen plasma and platelet packs postoperatively to control bleeding and clotting problems. However, this defeats the prevention of disease transmission, transfusion reaction, and autoimmunization. Haemonetics has recently developed a plasma collection system which salvages up to 1,000 cc of platelet-rich plasma. Early experience suggests this technique will not only decrease the incidence of postoperative bleeding but further decrease the use of homologous (bank) blood and components. A step-by-step guide to the plasma collection system is discussed. The plasma collection system augments the present autotransfusion technique that conserves red blood cells, thus making complete autologous blood transfusion a reality."}
{"id": "2559131", "title": "[Successful therapy with tegafur and lentinan after TAE for hepatocellular carcinoma--a case report].", "content": "[Successful therapy with tegafur and lentinan after TAE for hepatocellular carcinoma--a case report]. A 46-year-old male (performance status 1) with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), which diffusely involved the anterior segment of the right lobe, occluded the second portal branch and metastased to the left lobe (stage IV-A), was on combined therapy with TAE of lipiodol (LPD), mitomycin C (MMC) 10 mg and gelatin sponge at the time of angiography on March 16, 1987. Immunochemotherapy with tegafur suppository (Teg sp) 1,000 mg/day and OK432 i.m. was performed for one month after TAE. Instead of OK432, lentinan (LNT) 2 mg in 20% glucose sol. 20 ml i.v./wk was combined with Teg sp 1,000 mg/day from May 13, 1987. Teg sp was reduced to 1,000 mg/2 days from June of the same year, and since then the same therapy of Teg + LNT has been continuing even now. Serum AFP values showing 150 X 10(4) ng/ml at maximum were decreased down to less than 20 ng/ml 13 months after this therapy (total doses: Teg ca. 250 g, LNT 108 mg), remaining still normal. Marked reduction in the size of the lesion (PR) by the therapy has also been proved by the body CT. His PS is now in grade 0. Although in this case the initial steep decline in AFP values was possibly brought about by TAE, the successive antitumor effect indicated by persistent low AFP values may have been mainly due to Teg + LNT. Collection of data on the therapy is needed to clarify this point."}
{"id": "2554502", "title": "Comparative human pharmacology of low molecular weight heparins.", "content": "Comparative human pharmacology of low molecular weight heparins. The pharmacodynamics of LMW heparins differ consistently from those of normal heparin. The relative bioavailability is greater than 90% and for some LMW heparins more than 100% after subcutaneous administration, as measured by the anti-Factor Xa activity. This indicates release of endothelial bound glycosaminoglycans with anti-Factor Xa-like activities. Direct determination of the LPL and HTGL activities demonstrate higher capacities of two and a lower capacity of three LMW heparins to release these enzymes from their endothelial glycoprotein receptors into the bloodstream. Thus, all LMW heparins are characterized by improved pharmacodynamics compared with normal heparin, but their anti-Xa to APTT and anti-Xa to anti-IIa ratios and half-lives differ among each other. The neutralization of the anticoagulant effects of LMW heparins by protamine are similar in vitro and in vivo at equigravimetric doses. However, unfractionated heparin and LMW heparins are not completely antagonized by protamine on a whole blood clotting test (thrombelastography). This inhibition of Factor Xa of LMW heparins is counteracted not completely by protamine. This may be due to a release of other glucosaminoglycans by LMW heparins. The present overview demonstrates that a comparative human pharmacology gives useful devices for prophylactic and therapeutic regimen for LMW heparins in patients in addition to the data obtained from animal models."}
{"id": "2525934", "title": "Biomembranes as models for polymer surfaces. V. Thrombelastographic studies of polymeric lipids and polyesters.", "content": "Biomembranes as models for polymer surfaces. V. Thrombelastographic studies of polymeric lipids and polyesters. Our approach to the design of haemocompatible biomaterials is based upon the concept that coating a polymer or metal surface with phosphatidylcholine polar groups (corresponding to the major phospholipid of the human erythrocyte outer cell membrane) will improve their haemocompatibility. We have examined the effect on blood coagulation of a number of substrates: those normally used in prosthetic devices such as polyethylene terephthalate (Dacron), expanded polytetrafluoroethylene, silicone and new polymers which contain the phosphatidylcholine head group (phosphorylcholine). The effect on coagulation of blood exposed to these substrates was determined by the technique of material thrombelastography, a relatively new method for the in vitro screening of biomaterial thrombogenicity. The results obtained with Dacron, polytetrafluoroethylene and silicone are compared with those obtained with a phospholipid-dipalmitoyl-phosphatidylcholine, a polymerized phospholipid-diacetylenicphosphatidylcholine, and a range of recently synthesized polyesters, each of which contains the phosphorylcholine polar head group."}
{"id": "2525287", "title": "Applications of ultraviolet light in the preparation of platelet concentrates.", "content": "Applications of ultraviolet light in the preparation of platelet concentrates. Passenger lymphocytes in platelet concentrates (PCs) may induce the formation of lymphocytotoxic antibodies (LCTAbs) and subsequent refractoriness to platelet transfusions. Ultraviolet (UV) irradiation can prevent lymphocytes' acting as stimulator or responder cells in mixed-lymphocyte reactions (MLRs) and could theoretically prevent LCTAb formation in vivo. A system has been devised for the delivery of UV irradiation to PCs; platelet storage characteristics and MLRs were evaluated in UV-irradiated PCs harvested from healthy donors with the Haemonetics V50 and PCS cell separators. MLR and response to phytohemagglutinin stimulation were abolished by a dose of 3000 joules per m2 at a mean wavelength of 310 nm. Platelet aggregatory responses to adenosine diphosphate (ADP), ristocetin, collagen and epinephrine, hypotonic shock response, and pH showed no important differences when control PCs and PCs irradiated as above were compared during 5 days of storage in Fenwal PL-1240 packs. Lactate production during storage was significantly higher in UV-treated PCs (p less than 0.001), but values did not exceed 20 mmol per L. UV transmission at 310 nm in standard blood product containers, including the Fenwal PL-146, PL-1240, and PL-732, was low (less than 30%), but it was acceptable in the Delmed Cryostorage and DuPont SteriCell packs (greater than 50%). UV irradiation may provide a simple and inexpensive means of producing nonimmunogenic PCs."}
{"id": "2524627", "title": "New haemocompatible polymers assessed by thrombelastography.", "content": "New haemocompatible polymers assessed by thrombelastography. Mimicry of the nonthrombogenic surface of the erythrocyte has been advocated as the starting point for the development of nonthrombogenic biomaterials. Phosphorylcholine forms 88% of the outer surface of the erythrocyte, and so materials containing it should be nonthrombogenic. We have evaluated the thrombogenicity of such materials and compared them with Dacron and PTFE. Three materials containing phosphorylcholine were used: a naturally occurring phospholipid (dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, DPPC), a polymerized phospholipid (diacetylenic phosphatidylcholine, DAPC) and a polyester polyurethane (Polyester G). The thrombogenic potential of these materials was assessed by material thrombelastography (MTEG). This technique uses human whole blood at 37 degrees C, without an air interface, and records the elasticity of the blood clot produced. Since each material is evaluated with a control surface, extraneous differences due to factors other than the test material are eliminated. Analysis, and examples of the MTEG traces are shown and discussed. The phosphorylcholine containing materials were found to have a reduced amount of clotting factor activation, but only DPPC was better than Dacron and PTFE. MTEG demonstrated the known thrombogenicity of Dacron towards platelets. A striking reduction in platelet activation was shown for the three phosphorylcholine containing materials. These three materials show only 25% of the platelet activation of PTFE. These materials warrant further investigation as potentially very useful biomaterials."}
{"id": "2524360", "title": "Effects of three types of combined O.C. pills on blood coagulation, fibrinolysis and platelet function.", "content": "Effects of three types of combined O.C. pills on blood coagulation, fibrinolysis and platelet function. The results of a prospective longitudinal controlled study comparing the coagulation effects of a standard low-dose combined oral contraceptive (Microgynon 30), a desogestrel-containing pill (Marvelon) and a triphasic preparation (Triquilar) after one year's treatment in ethnic Chinese women is presented in this paper. In general the changes in coagulation parameters are similar to those seen in Caucasian women. The rise in Factor VII levels seen at 6 and 12 months in Marvelon users was not present to a significant degree in the other pill users. Antithrombin III levels remained unchanged in Microgynon and Marvelon users but with Triquilar there was a significant fall at 6 and 12 months of use. Whether these differences have any clinical relevance in the local Chinese population with low incidence of thromboembolism remains to be seen. 81 healthy Chinese women of proven fertility and between the ages of 18-34 years were recruited for this prospective and longitudinal controlled study comparing the coagulation effects of a standard low-dose combined oral contraceptive (Microgynon 30), a desogestrel-containing pill (Marvelon), and a triphasic preparation (Triquilar) after 1 year's treatment. Study participants were randomly allocated to 1 of the 3 pill types and were followed up at 3 and 6 months and thereafter yearly. The subjects were encouraged to come earlier if they experienced any problems. Each volunteer acted as her own control. Blood sampling was performed at pretreatment (control value) and at 6 months and 12 months of treatment. The samples were taken between days 22-24 of the menstrual cycle at the same time of the day. There were 24 subjects recruited for Marvelon, 27 for Microgynon 30, and 30 for Triquilar treatment. Physical characteristics of the subjects were comparable on entry and showed no statistically significant mean weight or blood pressure change at the end of 12 months of treatment when compared with pretreatment values. In the screening tests, there was no change in hemoglobin concentration and maximum elasticity of the clot, even after 12 months of treatment for all OC subjects under treatment when compared with pretreatment levels. A lowered hematocrit was seen only in Marvelon subjects at 6 months treatment; the hematocrit returned to pretreatment levels after 12 months of treatment. Significant shortening of Activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (APTT) was observed both with Microgynon 30 and Triquilar subjects but not with Marvelon subjects after 12 months of treatment. Significant shortening of prothrombin time was seen at both 6 and 12 months of Microgynon 30 treatment; this change was seen only after 12 months of Marvelon treatment and absent at 12 months in Triquilar subject. In thromboelastogram (TEG), a shortening of reaction and clotting time was observed in all subjects after 12 months of treatment without affecting any change in maximum clot elasticity. There was no significant change seen in Fibrinogen, Coagulation Factor VIIIC, and Factor VIIIR:Ag, even after 12 months of treatment in all subjects. No appreciable change in Factor II was seen in Microgynon 30 and Triquilar subjects, but in Marvelon treatment a significant increase was observed after 12 months treatment. Factor V showed an increase in Microgynon 30 subjects only at 12 months treatment and 6 months treatment for Triquilar subjects, but no change was seen in Marvelon subjects."}
{"id": "2521029", "title": "Desmopressin acetate following cardiopulmonary bypass: evaluation of coagulation parameters.", "content": "Desmopressin acetate following cardiopulmonary bypass: evaluation of coagulation parameters. Desmopressin acetate (DDAVP) has been advocated as efficacious in reducing mediastinal bleeding following cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB), and has been shown to ameliorate platelet dysfunction; however, this has not been evaluated during routine coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG). In the present study, this therapy was evaluated utilizing the thromboelastograph (TEG), a rapid, on-line means of diagnosing a coagulopathy. During elective CABG, 20 patients received either DDAVP, 0.3 microgram/kg, intravenously, following heparin reversal after CPB, or a placebo infusion, in a randomized, double-blind fashion. Hemostasis was monitored with both the TEG and conventional coagulation tests. No significant differences between the two groups were found at induction, postprotamine, post-\"study infusion,\" or 2 hours postoperatively, with the exception of the postoperative PTT (31.1 +/- 3.2 v 36.5 +/- 5.9 seconds for DDAVP v placebo, P = 0.03). Total blood products transfused intraoperatively, and in the first 8, 16, 24, or 48 postoperative hours, were also similar between the groups. No manifestations of hypercoagulability were seen, but hypotension during the infusion was noted in four patients receiving DDAVP, and in none of the controls. It is concluded that the expense and potential complications of DDAVP therapy do not justify its routine use in CABG."}
{"id": "2521014", "title": "Heparin rebound: a comparative study of protamine sulfate and protamine chloride in CABG surgery.", "content": "Heparin rebound: a comparative study of protamine sulfate and protamine chloride in CABG surgery."}
{"id": "2514639", "title": "[Systematic peroperative use of an autotransfusion system in heart surgery. A prospective and comparative study in 283 patients].", "content": "[Systematic peroperative use of an autotransfusion system in heart surgery. A prospective and comparative study in 283 patients]. A series of 283 patients undergoing cardiac bypass surgery was studied to determine whether intraoperative autotransfusion, haemodilution, and a change in transfusion techniques of the same surgical team could reduce homologous blood requirements. The Cell-Save Haemonetics* system was used systematically in 167 consecutive patients (Group I). This group of autotransfused patients was analysed prospectively and compared with a control group (Group II) of 116 patients operated one year before and analysed retrospectively. During the whole hospitalisation, homologous blood products were required in 40.7% of patients in Group I compared with 73.3% of patients in Group II (p less than 0.0001). The average requirements of packed cells per patient were 2.7 +/- 1.3 in Group I compared with 4.1 +/- 2.5 in Group II (p less than 0.0001). The haematocrit on discharge from the department was 29.9 +/- 4% in Group I compared with 32 +/- 4.5% in Group II (p less than 0.0001). The average volume of blood recovered by the system and then autotransfused was 620.8 +/- 242.6 ml. There was no significant difference in postoperative bleeding in the first 24 hours between the two groups. This study confirms that peroperative autotransfusion during cardiac surgery and the acceptance of a clinically well tolerated normovolumic anaemia are associated with a significant reduction in homologous blood consumption."}
{"id": "2504556", "title": "Studies on hypercoagulation state in thromboangiitis obliterans.", "content": "Studies on hypercoagulation state in thromboangiitis obliterans. Thirteen hypercoagulation parameters related to coagulation, anticoagulation, platelet functions, dynamics of clot formation and hemorrheology were determined in 15-109 patients with thromboangiitis obliterans (TAO). The results showed that VIIIR = Ag, PAdT, PagT, HPF, and whole blood and plasma viscosity were elevated, fibrinogen elevated in the active stage, AT-III declined, RBC electrophoresis time prolonged, and changes suggesting hypercoagulation in thromboelastogram. All these indicated the existence of a hypercoagulation state in TAO patients, which could contribute to the process of thrombosis. The relationship between immune reactions and blood hypercoagulability could be crucial in the pathogenesis of TAO. Immune reactions causing injury of vascular endothelium play a primary and fundamental role, and blood hypercoagulability could play a secondary but important role in the course of the disease."}
{"id": "2501890", "title": "Binding of tissue plasminogen activator to vascular grafts.", "content": "Binding of tissue plasminogen activator to vascular grafts. Tissue plasminogen activator labeled with radioactive iodine (125I-tPA) was immobilized on vascular prostheses chemically modified with a thin coating of water-insoluble surfactant, tridodecylmethylammonium chloride (TDMAC). Surfactant-treated Dacron, polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE), silastic, polyethylene and polyurethane bound appreciable amounts of 125I-tPA (5-30 micrograms 125I-tPA/cm2). Upon exposure to human plasma, the amount of 125I-tPA bound to the surface shows an initial drop during the first hour of incubation, followed by a slower, roughly exponential release with a t 1/2 of approximately 75 hours. Prostheses containing bound tPA show fibrinolytic activity as measured both by lysis of clots formed in vitro, and by hydrolysis of a synthetic polypeptide substrate. Prior to incubation in plasma, tPA bound to a polymer surface has an enzymic activity similar, if not identical to that of the native enzyme in buffered solution. However, exposure to plasma causes a decrease in the fibrinolytic activity of both bound tPA and enzyme released from the surface of the polymer. These data demonstrate that surfactant-treated prostheses can bind tPA, and that these chemically modified devices can act as a slow-release drug delivery system with the potential for reducing prosthesis-induced thromboembolism."}
{"id": "2499962", "title": "Systemic effects of tissue plasminogen activator-associated fibrinolysis and its relation to thrombin generation in orthotopic liver transplantation.", "content": "Systemic effects of tissue plasminogen activator-associated fibrinolysis and its relation to thrombin generation in orthotopic liver transplantation. Orthotopic liver transplantation is frequently associated with hyperfibrinolysis, the origin and clinical relevance of which is largely unknown. In 20 orthotopic liver transplantations, we studied the occurrence and systemic effects of hyperfibrinolysis. Severe fibrinolysis was defined to be present when the euglobulin-clot lysis time and the whole-blood-clot lysis time, as measured by thrombelastography, were shorter than 60 and 90 min, respectively, at some time during the operation. Based on these criteria, 7 patients had minimal fibrinolysis (group I), and 13 patients had severe fibrinolysis (group II). In group II a gradual increase of tissue-type plasminogen activator (t-PA) activity was seen during the anhepatic stage, followed by an \"explosive\" increase immediately after graft reperfusion (P = 0.0004, compared with group I), and a reduction of plasminogen activator inhibitor (PAI) activity. Plasma degradation products of fibrinogen and fibrin increased parallel to t-PA activity, and levels were significantly higher at 45 min after graft reperfusion in group II compared with group I (P less than 0.04). Thrombin-antithrombin III complexes showed an identical steady increase in both groups, indicating that increased t-PA activity was not related to thrombin formation. A combination of increased endothelial release and reduced hepatic clearance may have caused the increased t-PA activity. The t-PA-associated destruction of fibrinogen and fibrin after graft reperfusion is consistent with the clinical signs of severe oozing often seen in this period. These observations may have important clinical implications for the treatment of bleeding in patients undergoing orthotopic liver transplantation."}
{"id": "2499120", "title": "A novel second-generation polyolefin container for storage of single-donor apheresis platelets.", "content": "A novel second-generation polyolefin container for storage of single-donor apheresis platelets. A non-blow-molded LE-2 polyolefin (PO) container was developed to store single-donor apheresis platelet concentrates (PCs) processed by the Haemonetics Plasma Collecting System (PCS) at 22 degrees C for over 1 day. We molded PO containers with heat-sealing of light-weight polymer alloy films with a thickness of 0.25 mm. The film was made of polymer blends consisting of polypropylene, styrene ethylene butylene styrene-block copolymer, and ethylene ethylacrylate copolymer. The PO container with enough strength and flexibility in routine practice has 2 and 1.6 times higher oxygen and carbon dioxide gas transfer properties than standard polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic containers. PCs (1-1.9 x 10(11) platelets) processed from 450 ml platelet-rich plasma were stored in 0.6-liter PO containers at 22 degrees C with flatbed agitation for up to 6 days. The pH of PCs was well maintained at the mean values of 7.0 in PO containers after 6 days in the well-oxygenated condition. The energy metabolism of stored platelets was determined. Oxygen consumption rates of platelets stored in PO containers averaged 1.5 nmol/min/10(9) platelets. The rates of glucose consumption and lactate production were 0.4 and 0.8 nmol/min/10(11) platelets, respectively. The rates of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) generation of platelets, 9.7 nmol/min/10(9) platelets, in PO containers did not differ from those in the PVC containers. Aggregation responses to adenosine diphosphate and hypotonic shock response of platelets were better maintained in PO containers. The morphological changes into sphere forms with projections and the appearance of unclassified forms were more frequently observed in PO than in PVC containers.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2483715", "title": "The pharmacological profile of the low molecular weight heparin 21-23 in man: anticoagulant, lipolytic and protamine reversible effects.", "content": "The pharmacological profile of the low molecular weight heparin 21-23 in man: anticoagulant, lipolytic and protamine reversible effects. The anticoagulant, lipolytic and protamine reversible effects of high doses of low molecular weight (LMW) heparin 21-23 and unfractionated heparin were compared in man. 7,500 units of each heparin were applied, which corresponds to 90 mg LMW heparin and 48 mg unfractionated heparin. The anticoagulant properties of the LMW heparin are characterized by a doubled half life of factor Xa activity, smaller influence on aPTT and thrombin after intravenous (i.v.) and subcutaneous (s.c.) injection, and higher bioavailability of factor Xa activity after s.c. administration (90% versus 15%). Protamine chloride completely neutralizes the effect on aPTT and thrombin and reduces the anti factor Xa activity by 60%. The bleeding time is prolonged by both normal and LMW heparin by 20%. This effect is normalized by protamine chloride, too. Thrombelastography with recalcified whole blood demonstrates that protamine chloride shortens but not completely normalizes the coagulation time in presence of either unfractionated or LMW heparin. The half life of lipoprotein lipase (LPL) activity is 60 min after i.v. administration of unfractionated heparin and 120 min with LMW heparin. Although the release of lipases (LPL and HTGL) is higher after i.v. and s.c. administration of the LMW heparin they do not induce higher releases of free fatty acids. This indicates that the lipolytic activity of this LMW heparin and unfractionated heparin is similar. The results show an improved anticoagulant pharmacological profile of this LMW heparin as compared to unfractionated heparin. Protamine normalizes the anticoagulant effects of LMW heparin with exception of a residual anti factor Xa activity and normalizes the changes of bleeding time and thrombelastography."}
{"id": "2475417", "title": "[Mechanical donor plasmapheresis using the Haemonetics Ultralite plasma collection system. 1. Collection of fresh plasma].", "content": "[Mechanical donor plasmapheresis using the Haemonetics Ultralite plasma collection system. 1. Collection of fresh plasma]. In a clinical study altogether 449 machine donor plasmapheresis for collection of platelet poor fresh plasma were carried out using the new developed Haemonetics-Ultralite-Plasma-Collection-System. The average time of donation for 600 g of plasma amounted to 36 min. In comparison to other automated plasmapheresis-systems an effective plasma flow is recorded for the Ultralite-machine. All plasmapheresis procedures were well tolerated by the donors. The collected plasma is equivalent to the requirements for fresh frozen plasma. Complications due to the device or donors are small with 2.9% of the performed procedures."}
{"id": "2470189", "title": "[Autologous blood transfusion in urology].", "content": "[Autologous blood transfusion in urology]. In a total of 67 urological patients (24 transurethral resections of the prostate, 30 transvesical resections of the prostate and 13 radical prostatectomies) the blood lost during the operation was collected by using the Haemonetics cell saver, washed and cleaned of cells, haemoglobin and plasma haemoglobin and retransfused to the patients in the form of erythrocyte concentrate. When patients lose a large volume of blood, the lost plasma volume and the lost clotting factors must be substituted: in addition to electrolyte and colloidal solutions we use autologous fresh frozen plasma (FFP). Preoperatively we usually obtain FFP from the patient by plasmapheresis. All patients have tolerated the preoperative plasmapheresis very well and also the subsequent retransfusion of the intraoperatively saved autologous blood. Only 1 patient (who unexpectedly suffered a postoperative haemorrhage) received homologous blood; in other cases no homologous transfusion became necessary despite blood losses of up to 4500 ml."}
{"id": "17171959", "title": "Thromboelastography used for detection of perioperative fibrinolysis: a report of four cases.", "content": "Thromboelastography used for detection of perioperative fibrinolysis: a report of four cases."}
{"id": "3397375", "title": "Haemonetics plasma collection system (PCS): automated collection of platelet-poor or platelet-rich plasma.", "content": "Haemonetics plasma collection system (PCS): automated collection of platelet-poor or platelet-rich plasma. The PCS is an automated centrifugal system designed for rapid collection of platelet poor plasma (PPP) for source or fresh frozen uses, or platelet concentrate and PPP. The microprocessor-controlled system increases plasma collection efficiency through improved plasma yields, increased donor safety, and operation of multiple machines per operator. 600 ml of plasma can be collected in an average of 35 minutes per procedure with greater than 50,000 collections by U.S. commercial organizations. PCS plasma yields 10% greater Factor VIII recovery through fractionation when compared to manually-collected plasma based upon multiple studies throughout the world. Collection of PRP is an efficient, reliable, safe, and cost-effective method for processing plasma and the only system available for combined platelet and plasma procurement."}
{"id": "3394905", "title": "[Heparin elimination and free hemoglobin following cell separation and washing of autologous blood with Cell Saver 4].", "content": "[Heparin elimination and free hemoglobin following cell separation and washing of autologous blood with Cell Saver 4]. Haemoseparation is used for recovery of autologous blood following cardiac surgery protecting patients from various hazards accompanying homologous blood transfusion. Former studies demonstrated that autotransfusion did not increase blood loss after cardiac surgery despite reduced plasma and platelets following centrifugation and washing of oxygenator content. The purpose of our study was to determine the content of heparin and unbound haemoglobin in autologous packed red cells. METHODS. 10 consenting patients undergoing cardiac surgery (table 1) were investigated. Immediately after termination of bypass blood samples were collected from the oxygenator and from autologous blood following concentration and washing with saline solution in the Haemonetics Cell-Saver 4. Contents of haemoglobin, haematocrit, heparin - with and without addition of antithrombine III - and unbound haemoglobin were analysed. RESULTS. Mean duration of extracorporeal circulation was 100.4 minutes. The oxygenators' volume averaged 2089.9 ml blood with a haemoglobin content of 6.7 g/dl and a haematocrit of 20.4%. This was reduced to 660.8 ml autologous blood with a haemoglobin content of 17.9 g/dl and a haematocrit of 57.2% (table 2). The heparin content of the oxygenator blood was 0.47 U/ml without AT III, and with AT III 0.87 U/ml. Autologous blood contained 0.009 U/ml without AT III; with AT III we measured 0.41 U/ml heparin. Unbound haemoglobin content amounted to 11.4 mg/dl in the oxygenator blood and 71.8 mg/dl in the autologous blood (table 3). CONCLUSIONS. Our results demonstrate that autologous blood following concentration and washing of the oxygenator blood with a Haemonetics Cell-Saver 4 contains heparin, but the amount of heparin is not enough to provoke bleeding after retransfusion.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3385834", "title": "Autotransfusion of blood contaminated by enteric contents: a potentially life-saving measure in the massively hemorrhaging trauma patient?", "content": "Autotransfusion of blood contaminated by enteric contents: a potentially life-saving measure in the massively hemorrhaging trauma patient? The role of autotransfusion of shed blood is well established in thoracic, abdominal, vascular, and orthopedic elective surgery. When hollow viscera or infected organs are uninvolved, autotransfusion is also well accepted in trauma surgery. Less clear is whether shed blood from an injury violating hollow organs in the abdomen can be used safely in the trauma patient. We retrospectively identified 11 patients with penetrating thoracoabdominal trauma who had received enteric contaminated shed blood, processed by the Haemonetics Cell Saver, and reviewed their records for infectious morbidity or mortality. All patients received parenteral broad-spectrum antibiotics. Three patients developed infectious wound complications, one probably nosocomial from the intensive care unit. No patient developed intra-abdominal sepsis and no deaths were reported. Based on the results of this preliminary result, it may be appropriate to use autotransfusion of shed blood in trauma patients with gastrointestinal injuries, if banked blood is not readily available and the patients receive perioperative broad-spectrum antibiotics."}
{"id": "3361827", "title": "[Parameters of hemostasis in persons with neurocirculatory dystonia under conditions of \"dry\" immersion].", "content": "[Parameters of hemostasis in persons with neurocirculatory dystonia under conditions of \"dry\" immersion]. Twelve volunteers, aged 45-55 years, with hypertension type neurocirculatory dystonia were exposed to 7-day \"dry\" immersion. Plasma, platelet and vessel hemostasis was investigated. \"Dry\" immersion was found to stimulate hypercoagulatory changes in the above hemostasis systems. It was also shown that the test subjects developed a slow process of readaptation."}
{"id": "3354830", "title": "[The effect of intraoperative autotransfusion on the oxygen affinity of erythrocytes].", "content": "[The effect of intraoperative autotransfusion on the oxygen affinity of erythrocytes]. Intraoperative autotransfusion provides several advantages over homologous transfusion for the recipient. Since the harvested red cells have a normal 2,3-DPG concentration [15, 18], the decreased oxygen affinity of hemoglobin [26] that occurs in the recipient after the transfusion of stored blood is thought to be avoidable by intraoperative autotransfusion. In a study on the influence of harvested cells on oxygen affinity in patients by Orr and Blenko [18], however, it was not possible to demonstrate the superiority of these erythrocytes over stored red cells in the recipient: whereas 2,3-DPG remained at the preoperative level in both groups after transfusion, oxygen affinity increased postoperatively in the study group but not in the control group. In this study we directly determined oxygen affinity in addition to 2,3-DPG in the harvested cells after processing. The influence on the recipients' oxygen affinity after transfusion was analyzed and compared to that of a group of patients who received only stored blood. Three groups of patients were studied: Group 1 received only autotransfusion blood, group 2 autotransfusion and stored blood, and group 3 only stored blood. For harvesting, centrifugation, and washing of the red cells the Haemonetics Cell Saver (CS III) was used. The p50 value - which is generally accepted as a measurement of oxygen affinity - was determined as described by M\u00fcller-Plathe and M\u00fcller-Plathe [17]. For analysis of these data, blood was drawn from patients pre- and postoperatively and for the majority of cases also one or more days postoperatively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3354042", "title": "Density gradient isolation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells using a blood cell processor.", "content": "Density gradient isolation of peripheral blood mononuclear cells using a blood cell processor. Large numbers of mononuclear cells (MNC) are needed for hematologic reconstitution using peripheral blood stem cells. The possibility of isolating those cells by discontinuous Ficoll-diatrizoate density gradient centrifugation in two blood cell processors (the Haemonetics V50 [V50] and the Cobe 2991 [2991]) were examined. Buffy coats from peripheral blood containing 6.23 X 10(8) MNC were separated in the V50, resulting in a recovery of 75 percent. The purity of the cells, defined as the percentage of lymphocytes and monocytes among all leukocytes, was 95 percent. With larger cell loads (3 to 7 X 10(9) MNC), the yield was higher in the V50 than in the Cobe 2991 (92 versus 75%). After separation in the V50 or the 2991, the cloning efficiencies of hematopoietic progenitor cells (CFU-GM and BFUe) were not different from those of cells isolated on 5 ml Ficoll-diatrizoate gradients in centrifuge tubes. Both leukapheresis and MNC separation can be carried out with the same bowl and tubing set in the V50. With that approach, an average of 6 X 10(9) MNC were processed in 16 experiments. An average recovery of 82 percent with 95 percent purity was achieved. The authors conclude that, in terms of simplicity of operation, cost effectiveness, and maintenance of sterility, the V50 may be better suited than the 2991 for the purification of MNC from peripheral blood."}
{"id": "3348019", "title": "Extended storage of single-donor apheresis platelets in CLX blood bags: effect of storage on platelet morphology, viability and in vitro function.", "content": "Extended storage of single-donor apheresis platelets in CLX blood bags: effect of storage on platelet morphology, viability and in vitro function. A CLX (Cutter Laboratories, Berkeley, Calif.) bag system was evaluated for storage of single-donor apheresis platelets collected with the Haemonetics V-50 blood processor. Concentrates (n = 21) containing 3.9-5.2 x 10(11) platelets in 292 (+/- 41.8) ml were stored in two 1-liter bags for 7 days at 22 degrees C. pH was well maintained, declining from an initial pH of 7.0 (+/- 0.04) to 6.92 (+/- 0.20) after 7 days. Platelet morphology, response to a hypotonic stimulus and aggregation induced by paired agonists (epinephrine and ADP, or collagen) were also well-preserved. Concentrates with a wide variation of platelet yields (2.0 greater than or equal to 5.2 x 10(11), n = 43) also maintained pH (6.96 +/- 0.26), morphology and aggregation when stored for 7 days. All platelet concentrates (n = 64) were sterile at collection. Single-donor apheresis platelets may be stored in this bag system for up to 7 days."}
{"id": "3250634", "title": "Analysis of thromboelastogram on coagulation and fibrinolysis.", "content": "Analysis of thromboelastogram on coagulation and fibrinolysis. Hartert's thromboelastography has been used in the diagnosis of abnormal blood clotting for more than 20 years. From a thromboelastogram three parameters are obtained, viz, the reaction time 'r', the rate of formation of fibrin clot 'k', the maximum elasticity of thrombus 'amax'. It is desirable, however, to know the equation that describes the thromboelastogram both in the period in which the complex modulus increases with time because of coagulation, and in the period in which the complex modulus decreases with time because of fibrinolysis. The parameters of the equation could then be used as a diagnostic criterion; yielding information on the mechanism of coagulation and fibrinolysis. Based on our experimental results on human blood in normal and abnormal subjects, we found that the complex modulus of thromboelastograms can be expressed by the sum of two terms, one describing the increase of the complex modulus during coagulation, G1 = G'1 Exp (-tau 1/t), the other describing the decrease of the complex modulus during fibrinolysis, G2 = G'2 Exp (-tau 2/(t-D) when t greater than D. G2 = 0 when t less than D. The compound complex modulus from coagulation to fibrinolysis is G = G1 - G2. Here t is the clotting time, and G'1, G'2, tau 1, tau 2, and D are five constants to be identified. These five constants can be used for diagnostic and prognostic purposes."}
{"id": "3247983", "title": "[Erythropheresis in 4 cases of congenital hemolytic anemia].", "content": "[Erythropheresis in 4 cases of congenital hemolytic anemia]. Erythrocytapheresis was performed 6 times in 4 patients with sickle cell anemia and thalassemia. Good results were obtained, particularly in pregnant patients, no crisis being observed during pregnancy. In the other patients the painful crisis was suppressed over 4 months. The technic is very easy. The Haemonetics H 30 was used, 70% of red cell volume being removed and replaced with leukocyte-poor blood."}
{"id": "3239672", "title": "[Possibilities of thromboelastography in the evaluation of the hemostasis system in pregnant women with hypertension].", "content": "[Possibilities of thromboelastography in the evaluation of the hemostasis system in pregnant women with hypertension]."}
{"id": "3218723", "title": "[Haptoglobin determination in the serum of patients following intraoperative autotransfusion using the Haemonetics Cell Saver III. Studies on the loading of patients with free hemoglobin in retransfused erythrocyte concentrate].", "content": "[Haptoglobin determination in the serum of patients following intraoperative autotransfusion using the Haemonetics Cell Saver III. Studies on the loading of patients with free hemoglobin in retransfused erythrocyte concentrate]. In addition to hemodilution, mechanical intraoperative autotransfusion (IAT) is the most important method of preventing or minimizing the transfusion of homologous blood in operations with major blood loss. Most of the problems associated with IAT could be solved by the use of cell separators, but the separated red blood cells still contain an average of 200 mg/dl free hemoglobin. By the determination of haptoglobin levels before and after IAT, we studied the effects of free hemoglobin on the patient. Seventy-seven patients with hip-joint replacement were studied. In one group, n = 47, both intraoperative blood loss and drainage blood (for 6 h post-operatively) were collected and transfused back to the patient after cell separation with the Haemonetics Cell-Saver III as a red-cell concentrate. A second group, n = 34, received only homologous blood. Serum haptoglobin was determined after anesthesia induction and after the last transfusion on the day of operation. There were no significant differences in preoperative haptoglobin levels between both groups. In the IAT group, haptoglobin was significantly lower then in the control group after transfusion (t-test, P = 0.05). In both groups 14% of the patients' haptoglobin levels were pathologic preoperatively. Post-transfusion 60% of the IAT group showed minimum levels while in another 14% no haptoglobin could be measured. In these 14%, free hemoglobin was circulating in the patients' blood because the transport capacity was exhausted. In the control group only 26.5% of the haptoglobin levels were below normal and in no case was transport capacity exhausted (Table 3). The correlation between volume of retransfused autologous blood and decrease in haptoglobin level was small (r = 0.15). In a few cases with low volumes of retransfused blood the haptoglobin decrease may have been greater, so that free hemoglobin may have been present."}
{"id": "3214771", "title": "[Autotransfusion using Cell Saver III. Experience with 90 cases of surgery of the spine in childhood and adolescence].", "content": "[Autotransfusion using Cell Saver III. Experience with 90 cases of surgery of the spine in childhood and adolescence]. Intra-operative transfusion was used with Cell Saver Haemonetics III in 90 children undergoing spinal surgery for scoliosis. This technic keeps pace with controlled bleeding by collecting and processing shed blood and reinfusing washed packed red cells. During high blood loss procedures this device allowed to save up 51% of shed red cells. Our study of the intra-operative bleeding and its replacement was assessed with calculation using an individual regression line for each patient. Statistical analysis was performed by using multivariate correlation and \"step wise analysis\"."}
{"id": "3196810", "title": "Fibrin elasticity and coagulation.", "content": "Fibrin elasticity and coagulation. Sudden increase of viscosity in former times indicated the start of coagulation. Yet its measurement destroyed the structure of coagulum. By the precursor method of thrombelastography the author 1944 found elasticity to be the essential physiological property of coagulum. In the production of elastic fibrin structure its early phase is the most efficient in this respect. The speed of prime structure formation is extremely fast in presence of enough phospholipid as well as of plasma factor XIII. Even high amounts of thrombin cannot replace one or both of these substances indispensable to grow rapidly a perfect fibrin web. This phase yet does not become effective if it is not accompanied by the orbital micro-flow of the new orbitometry method. Its shear is comparable to that in a coronary artery. The special resonance effect of the method in combination with the early phase of fibrin production is generating some kind of a physiological feed back: increasing fibrin will strengthen shear stress as long as less platelets are entangled which will reduce the elastic flexibility of fibrin web. Some kind of a \"coagulation spin effect\" in optimal combination of shear stress, phospholipid and factorXIII, will extremely fast originate a firm fibrin structure, a mechanism which may be of significance for a fast occlusion of arterial stenoses."}
{"id": "3187934", "title": "Elasticity of fibrin and protofibrin gels is differentially modulated by calcium and zinc.", "content": "Elasticity of fibrin and protofibrin gels is differentially modulated by calcium and zinc. The mechanical properties of fibrin and protofibrin gels in the presence of physiologic levels of Ca(II) and Zn(II) are described. As monitored with a thrombelastograph, Ca(II) (0.5-2 mM) increases the rate of development and the maximum level of gel elastic modulus (G) of fibrin and protofibrin gels. Zn(II) (10-50 microM) decreases the elastic modulus of those gels, even in the presence of a large excess of Ca(II). This contrasts with the ability of both divalent cations to increase fibrin and protofibrin gel turbidity. Unlike the turbidity or fibre thickness of fibrin and protofibrin gels, both of which are increased by these cations, gel elasticity is increased by Ca(II) but decreased by Zn(II). It is demonstrated that Ca(II) and Zn(II) modulate fibrin and protofibrin gels independently of one another, and that they have opposing effects on the mechanical properties of the gels. The disparity between the visual (turbidity, TEM) and the mechanical (elasticity) properties of (proto)fibrin gels indicates the need for new conceptual and analytic paradigms."}
{"id": "3176024", "title": "New closed system using a sterile connection device and preconnected PRP pack for extended storage of apheresis platelet products.", "content": "New closed system using a sterile connection device and preconnected PRP pack for extended storage of apheresis platelet products. In order to prevent bacterial contamination during the procedure of plateletapheresis, preconnected platelet-rich plasma (PRP) packs were prepared which include the apheresis bowl of a plasma collecting system (Haemonetics) with a 16G needle and a 0.6- and 1-liter double-bag system. The anticoagulant line of the PRP pack and that from the bag containing acid-citrate-dextrose formula A solution were welded by a sterile connection device (SCD model 312, DuPont). No additional care was needed to perform plateletapheresis with the present closed system. Platelet concentrates (PCs) stored in 1-liter bags made of polyvinyl chloride plastics with a plasticizer of either di (2-ethylhexyl) phthalate or tri (2-ethylhexyl) trimellitate were demonstrated to be sterile. The pH of PCs was maintained over 6.8 after 5-day storage. Preliminary studies suggest that the present closed system using the preconnected PRP pack and sterile connection device will be useful for reducing the risk of bacterial contamination in platelet products during single-donor plateletapheresis."}
{"id": "3175989", "title": "Material thrombelastography: an assessment of phosphorylcholine compounds as models for biomaterials.", "content": "Material thrombelastography: an assessment of phosphorylcholine compounds as models for biomaterials. The use of phosphorylcholine (PC) containing compounds as possible biomaterials has been evaluated by material thrombelastography (MTEG). The detailed analysis of the MTEG technique is discussed. A remarkable reduction of thrombogenicity by compounds containing the PC group is demonstrated. The results observed with a polymerised PC-lipid indicate potential use of such substances as biomaterials with minimal thrombogenicity."}
{"id": "3172700", "title": "Blood coagulation studies in guineapigs (Cavia porcellus).", "content": "Blood coagulation studies in guineapigs (Cavia porcellus). Blood coagulation studies were performed on 45 healthy, adult guinea pigs. Additionally thrombelastograms of 30 animals were recorded. Guineapigs revealed short partial thromboplastin times and euglobulin lysis times, but long prothrombin times and thrombin times. Fibrinogen values were within the range of human normal values. Biphasic ADP-induced aggregation of platelets, as occurs in man, was found in 29% of the animals. Short r (reaction time until the beginning of clot formation) and k times (time from the beginning of clot formation until an amplitude of 20 mm) of their thrombelastograms indicate, that whole blood clotting is enhanced in guineapigs. Higher maximum amplitudes in this species suggest a stronger clot stability than in man."}
{"id": "3126342", "title": "[Thrombolytic therapy of deep venous thrombosis with rt-PA].", "content": "[Thrombolytic therapy of deep venous thrombosis with rt-PA]. Recombinant human tissue-type plasminogen activator (rt-PA) was given to seven patients with phlebographically documented deep vein thrombosis at a dose of 60-120 mg/day (0.71-1.76 mg/kg body weight/24 h) for 2 to 4 days. rt-PA induced evident recanalization in 6 of 7 cases. The lowest here used dose of 0.71 mg/kg/24 h was thrombolytical highly effective, but a dose of 1.4 mg/kg/24 h and over was accompanied by bleeding from venous puncture sites. Coagulation analysis showed no obvious decrease of fibrinogen, while euglobulin clot lysis time and thrombelastography demonstrated the systemic fibrinolytic activity. Thus, therapy with rt-PA may represent an alternative and effective therapeutic procedure in treatment of venous thrombosis. The initial results make a case for expanded investigational use of rt-PA in patients with deep vein thrombosis to clarify conceivable advantages of therapy with this fibrin selective thrombolytic agent."}
{"id": "3056085", "title": "[Short-lasting infusions of Fibraccel following aortocoronary bypass surgery. The effect on postoperative blood loss and hemostasis depending on the time of extracorporeal circulation].", "content": "[Short-lasting infusions of Fibraccel following aortocoronary bypass surgery. The effect on postoperative blood loss and hemostasis depending on the time of extracorporeal circulation]. Bleeding is a major problem in the post-operative period (p.o.) after aortocoronary bypass surgery. Harke et al. have investigated the beneficial effect of homologous phospholipid complex (Fibraccel) after mitral and/or aortic valve replacement. No actual data were available evaluating therapy with Fibraccel after aortocoronary bypass grafting. We were especially interested in the influence of Fibraccel on routine blood coagulation parameters: partial thromboplastin time (PTT), thrombin time (TT), prothrombin time = Quick fibrinogen, platelet count and activated clotting time, spontaneous platelet aggregation (alpha 2/Tr, platelet aggregation test II of Breddin), thrombelastography, blood loss from the chest drain, use of fresh frozen plasma, and side-effects of the substance after aortocoronary bypass grafting. Forty patients (6 female, 35 male, mean age 58 years, ASA III-IV) were studied in a randomized order. Patients who had acetylsalicylic acid (ASS) or anticoagulants during the last 7 days before operation were excluded. In 20 patients 50-ml Fibraccel infusions lasting 30 min each were started immediately after antagonism by protamine chloride. Subsequent 50-ml Fibraccel infusions were given every 4 h until 20 h after extracorporeal circulation (ECC). The other 20 patients received placebo infusions at corresponding times. Each patient had a routine ASS medication (0.5 gi.v) about 8 h p.o. Blood samples for immediate analysis were taken: I = before operation; II = after ECC, before protamine; III = 90 min after protamine; IV = on the first p.o. day (20.5 h after protamine).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3054284", "title": "[Intra- and postoperative autotransfusion--a quality analysis].", "content": "[Intra- and postoperative autotransfusion--a quality analysis]. In clinical practice intra- and postoperative autotransfusion is well established, especially in combination with other blood saving techniques (praeoperative blood deposit, praeoperative plasmapheresis and normovolaemic haemodilution). During autotransfusion red blood cells should be separated and washed in physiological saline to remove plasma free haemoglobin, potassium, intracellular enzymes and triglycerides as well as anticoagulant, activated clotting factors and debris. After knowing the mechanism of the recently developed autotransfusion devices (Haemonetics Cell Saver or Dideco Autotrans) acceptance of this procedure is very high in anaesthesiologists and surgeons due to microelectronic equipment. Considering the contraindications (bacterial contamination of the operative field and cancer surgery) intra- and postoperative autotransfusion is a very safe procedure for the patient undergoing major operations."}
{"id": "3044206", "title": "[Treatment of fulminant falciparum malaria with erythrapheresis].", "content": "[Treatment of fulminant falciparum malaria with erythrapheresis]. Ten days after his return from Cameroon, a twenty-six year old Frenchman, serving on voluntary service overseas, presented with fulminant falciparum malaria: shock, altered consciousness, haemolytic anaemia, threatening disseminated coagulation (platelets less than 150 X 10(-6).l-1; prothrombin time and Stuart factor less than 50%; fibrinogen less than 1.5 g.l-1). In spite of quinine therapy, parasitaemia increased from 4 to 35% within 24 h. Using an Haemonetics V50, the exchange of one and a half red blood cell masses was carried out with 17 red blood cell packs. Calcium gluconate was used to prevent the hypocalcaemia induced by the anticoagulant solution. The patient's platelets and plasma were completely reinjected. The result was very satisfactory. This kind of exchange, well tolerated clinically and biologically, would seem better than the classical exchange transfusion. When 10% of the red blood cells are infected by Plasmodium falciparum, it is necessary to exchange from one and a half to two blood masses. Lesser exchanges are always associated with important relapses and quinine therapy must be carried on during and after the exchange. Restricting this exchange only to red blood cells enabled the patient to benefit from his own coagulation factors, antibodies and platelets, and consequently to reduce the number of blood donors involved. However, metabolites (especially bilirubin and circulating immune complexes) were not eliminated. Partial plasmapheresis may be associated with erythropheresis using human albumin as plasma substitute. This technique needs to be assessed, in order to optimize immediate efficiency and post-transfusion infectious risk."}
{"id": "3041874", "title": "[Hemodynamics in donor plasmapheresis].", "content": "[Hemodynamics in donor plasmapheresis]. Several studies have demonstrated that preoperative withdrawal and storage of autologous plasma as fresh frozen plasma is effective in blood conservation. For that purpose patients with elective surgery (orthopaedic surgery, open heart surgery, neurosurgery and others) have to undergo donor plasmapheresis without staying in the hospital. Depending upon the need the procedure can be performed several times preoperatively, taking about 900 ml in a normal weighting subject at once. The collection of autologous plasma should be finished at least 14 days before surgery. In order to investigate the haemodynamic effects of donor plasmapheresis 30 patients scheduled for coronary bypass surgery were devided into two groups. 15 patients underwent plasmapheresis (10 ml plasma/kgbw) by one-needle-technique using a Haemonetics seperator (PCS) after premedication but before onset of anaesthesia. Blood withdrawal was performed with 0.5 ml/kgbw x min. Another 15 patients, serving as control had no plasma withdrawal and were measured at identical times as the other group. Both groups had an identical fluid replacement with 500 ml Ringer's solution during the investigation period. Plasma withdrawn was not substituted by colloidal solution (simulating the situation when plasmapheresis is performed at the outpatient). Haemodynamic measurements (both groups) included heart rate, arterial blood pressure, right- and left-atrial pressure, systemic- and pulmonary-vascular resistance and cardiac output. There were no relevant effects of plasmapheresis on haemodynamic function during and after the investigation period in that patients: neither heart rate, blood pressure or vascular resistance changed significantly nor did pre- and afterload or cardiac index. No differences to the group without plasmapheresis could be observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2901880", "title": "Concentration of bone marrow progenitor cells by separation on a Percoll gradient using the Haemonetics model 30.", "content": "Concentration of bone marrow progenitor cells by separation on a Percoll gradient using the Haemonetics model 30. To perform an optimal ex vivo bone marrow purge, it is necessary to concentrate the bone marrow progenitor cells and to eliminate both the red blood cells and the polymorphonuclear leucocytes. To achieve this goal which cannot be accomplished by using the Haemonetics model 30 alone, we used the Haemonetics model 30 and a density gradient together in a two-step procedure. In the first step we obtained the buffy coat from original bone marrow grafts and in the second we reintroduced these buffy coats into the Haemonetics bowl followed by Percoll, adjusted to 1.079 g/ml, at 5 ml/min in order to recover the light density mononuclear cells. After this second step, the mean volume of the marrow and the RBC and nucleated cell contaminations were reduced to 9%, 0.96% and 16% of their original values the unseparated bone marrow, respectively. This was far better than the values obtained after the first step (volume: 19%; RBC: 10%; nucleated cells: 54%). The CFU-GM recoveries after the first and second steps were 71% and 70% of the original samples, respectively. The entire procedure lasted between 75 and 150 min. At this time, 17 of the 24 patients whose bone marrow was separated using Percoll gradient in the Haemonetics bowl have been grafted. Thirteen of these 17 patients had an evaluable haematological recovery which was complete and rapid for all but one patient with acute myeloid leukaemia. These results demonstrate that the introduction of a density gradient into the Haemonetics model 30 bowl is possible and effective. The reduction in total volume and cell number permits ex vivo purging, without decreasing the grafting capability."}
{"id": "2851965", "title": "[Treatment of acute pulmonary embolism with a low molecular weight heparin by the intravenous route. Study of the optimal dosage].", "content": "[Treatment of acute pulmonary embolism with a low molecular weight heparin by the intravenous route. Study of the optimal dosage]. Experimental studies on rabbits have shown that CY 222, a low molecular weight heparin (mean: 2.500 daltons), has the anti-thrombosis properties of heparin but reduces the risk of haemorrhage in optimal doses of 1.000 AXa IC (Institut Choay) units/kg/day. The safety and effectiveness of CY 222 were tested in 47 patients presenting with a less than 5 days' old pulmonary embolism. The patients were divided into three groups according to dosage: group I (n = 16) received 500 AXa ICu/kg/day; group II (n = 17), 750 AX ICu/kg/day, and group III (n = 14), 1.000 AXa ICu/kg/day. The drug was administered by continuous intravenous infusion during 10 days. Its effectiveness was assessed from the Miller index calculated on conventional pulmonary angiograms on days 0, 5 and 10. On the 10th day of treatment, the percentage of revascularization was similar in all three groups (group I 65.9 +/- 9.9 p. 100; group II 71 +/- 6.8 p. 100; group III 68 +/- 8.5 p. 100), but the improvement was significantly more rapid in group III patients. Embolism recurred in 5 cases (2 in group I, 1 in group II, 2 in group III) and was fatal in 1 case (group I). Haemorrhagic complications were noted in 3 cases (group III patients). Except for thromboelastography, all coagulation tests were unmodified by CY 222. The anti Xa and the (very low) anti IIa activities of the drug were directly related to the doses administered.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2836259", "title": "[Prevention of thromboembolism in hysterectomies with low molecular weight heparin Fragmin].", "content": "[Prevention of thromboembolism in hysterectomies with low molecular weight heparin Fragmin]. In comparison to standard heparins, the low-molecular types are said to have equal or better antithrombotic action and--since they affect coagulation less--to induce fewer hemorrhage complications. As they have a longer biologic half-life, a single subcutaneous injection per day is sufficient. In a prospective randomized study patients who had undergone vaginal and abdominal hysterectomy were given either the low-molecular heparin Fragmin (n = 95) or a combination of heparin-dihydergot (n = 98) as prophylaxis against thrombosis. Dosages of Fragmin were 2 X 2500 anti-Xa units on the day of surgery (Day 1) and 1 X 5000 anti-Xa units from Days 2 to 8; the dosage of heparin-dihydergot (HDHE) was 2 X 5000 IU heparin with 0.5 mg DHE from Days 1 to 8. There was no difference between the two groups with regard to the tendency to intraoperative bleeding, the incidence of severe wound hematomas and the postoperative hemoglobin course. Blood quantities in the drains were somewhat higher in the Fragmin group. Hemostasis studies showed that, also in patients on Fragmin, the activated partial thromboblastin time, thrombin time and reaction and clot formation time in the thromboelastogram are significantly prolonged three to four hours after injection. The heparin activity measured as the anti-Xa factor was higher by a factor of ten in patients on Fragmin than in those on HDHE. The thromboserate, recorded thermographically with the DeVeTherm unit, was the same in the two groups. Subjective acceptance of Fragmin prophylaxis was distinctly higher. Further studies to establish the required dose and show the effectiveness of low-molecule heparins seem necessary."}
{"id": "2463006", "title": "Concentration of bone marrow mononuclear cells for in vitro treatment and AB0-incompatible transplantation: a rapid and reproducible procedure using the haemonetics V50 cell separator.", "content": "Concentration of bone marrow mononuclear cells for in vitro treatment and AB0-incompatible transplantation: a rapid and reproducible procedure using the haemonetics V50 cell separator. Forty-nine allogeneic and 14 autologous bone marrow grafts were processed with the Haemonetics V50 cell separator (Haemonetics Corp., Braintree, USA) for in vitro treatment with antibodies and cryopreservation respectively. The concentration of hemopoietic progenitor cells was performed without any sedimentation or density gradient agents. The recovery is given in percent (mean +/- sd) of the original marrow values: mononuclear cells (MNC) 74 +/- 10%, polymorphonuclear cells (PMC) 48 +/- 17%, red blood cells (RBC) 12 +/- 5%, granulocyte/monocyte progenitors (CFU-GM) 83 +/- 36%, and erythroid progenitors (BFU-E) 78 +/- 38%. The recovery of nucleated cells (NC) was 90 +/- 13% and the viability 82 +/- 11% after cryopreservation. The technique described provides a simple, rapid and efficient preparation of large bone marrow volumes for in vitro treatment and AB0-incompatible transplantation."}
{"id": "17165316", "title": "Use of thromboelastography in the management of von Willebrand's disease during cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Use of thromboelastography in the management of von Willebrand's disease during cardiopulmonary bypass."}
{"id": "3828152", "title": "[Morphometry of the brainstem with transverse section of the upper pons].", "content": "[Morphometry of the brainstem with transverse section of the upper pons]. The authors developed new method of morphometry in the brainstem, which used transverse section of the upper pons. After fixation with formalin, the brainstem was separated from the cerebrum and the cerebellum. Both junctions of midbrain-pons and pons-medulla were cut and then the pons was horizontally separated into four slices. The oral surface of the second slice from oral side, in which the central portion of the locus ceruleus is located, was measured with computed digitizer after enlarging the picture. The authors measured the total size of the slice in the pons (Total S), the tegmentum size (Teg S), the total length (Total L), the tegmentum length (Teg L) and so on. The tegmentum was separated from the base along the ventral line of the medial leminiscus. In the study of 23 control cases (16 to 77 year old, 13 male and 10 female, all were Japanese), Total S (563 +/- 85 mm) and Teg S (136 +/- 19 mm) ranged to some extent, while the percentage of the tegmentum size to the total size (Teg S/Total S X 100: %Teg S) distributed in narrow range (24.4 +/- 2.3%), which was considered to be an appropriate index to reveal normal structure of the upper pons. The percentage of the tegmentum length to the total length (%Teg L) was also an appropriate and a simple index. Using this method to stained preparation, it was confirmed that the tegmentum size of such cases with olivopontocerebellar atrophy or infantile spasms were significantly small."}
{"id": "3819793", "title": "Thromboelastography as an indicator of post-cardiopulmonary bypass coagulopathies.", "content": "Thromboelastography as an indicator of post-cardiopulmonary bypass coagulopathies. Postoperative hemorrhage in patients undergoing open-heart surgery is a major cause of morbidity and mortality. Monitoring of coagulation in these patients has routinely involved the activated clotting time. Thromboelastography is currently used as a monitor of coagulation during liver transplantation. The thromboelastogram, by providing information on the interaction of all the coagulation precursors, gives more clinically useful information on coagulation than that available from the coagulation profile or the activated clotting time alone. This study was done to assess the usefulness of thromboelastography in open-heart surgery. Thirty-eight patients (29 undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting and 9 undergoing valve replacement) were studied with activated clotting time, thromboelastography, and coagulation profiles during three periods: before bypass, during bypass, and after protamine administration. Thromboelastography was a significantly better predictor (87% accuracy) of postoperative hemorrhage and need for reoperation than was the activated clotting time (30%) or coagulation profile (51%). Thromboelastography is easy to use and provides diagnostic data within 30 minutes of blood sampling."}
{"id": "3679528", "title": "Side-effects of cytapheresis with cell separators.", "content": "Side-effects of cytapheresis with cell separators. The rate of procedure-related side-effects was evaluated in 11,895 cytaphereses performed with a Haemonetics 30 (H-30) cell processor (2,486 procedures) or with a Haemonetics V-50 (H-50) cell processor (6,813 procedures) or with the Fenwal CS-3000 cell processor (2,596 procedures). The overall rate of side-effects was 7.41% (absolute number 881). There was a significant difference between female and male donors concerning the frequency of hypotension episodes and citrate toxicity related reactions. There were also distinct differences between the single cell separator types concerning the frequency and type of side effects. Hypotension episodes and citrate-related reactions were observed most frequently during cytapheresis with the H-30 (7.65 and 2.96% respectively). Venous access and technical problems appeared more often when the H-50 or the CS-3000 were used. Thus both the H-50 as well as the CS-3000 cell separators allow safe cytapheresis with a low number of side-effects."}
{"id": "3679527", "title": "[The safety of apparative cytapheresis].", "content": "[The safety of apparative cytapheresis]. In a retrospective analysis 1568 platelet apheresis procedures and 652 leukocytophereses performed from April 1976 to June 1986 were examined. 886 procedures were performed using the Fenwal CS 3000, 777 with the IBM 2997, and 293 with the Haemonetics V50, whereas in 264 procedures the Model 30 was used. The study aims to answer 3 donor-related questions: To what extent are the blood cells changed by the donation? How does the donor respond to the technical requirements of the donation, such as length of the procedure, blood volume processed, amount of concentrate removed during the donation? How often did side-effects or undesired reactions occur? We found that thrombocytapheresis led to a decrease in platelets in the peripheral blood of between 20% (CS3000) and 33.7% (IBM), and an increase in leukocytes of between 4.24% (IBM) and 17.8% (Model 30), whereas erythrocytes, hemoglobin and hematocrit showed a similar decrease within a range of between 1.1% and 2.67% in all systems. Following leukocytapheresis the leukocyte counts of the peripheral blood were decreased by up to 12%, erythrocyte counts by up to 5% and platelets between 15% (IBM) and 29% (Model 30). The list of irregularities included technical problems and donor reactions (e.g., citrate reactions, reactions of blood circulation, and blood flow in the donor). There were no serious side-effects. Early terminations of 42 (= 1.9%) donations were for prophylactic reasons exclusively. Few moderate undesired reactions occurred (4 = 0.2%), but none of the donors contributing to the more than 2,000 donations were ever hospitalized, demonstrating the safety of cytapheresis with all separators."}
{"id": "3662735", "title": "[Ultrastructural differences of fibrin coagulation before and after cardiovascular arrest].", "content": "[Ultrastructural differences of fibrin coagulation before and after cardiovascular arrest]. The reconstruction of killing offences often requires the differentiation between vital and postmortal blood traces at the sites of action and finding. Earlier investigations seemed to imply the possibility of such a differentiation depending on the different clot structure. We therefore examined clots prior and after 10 minutes of complete occlusion of the upper extremity morphologically and morphometrically with the REM. The morphologic comparison of these clots revealed narrow, round shaped fibrin fiber networks for clots of native blood, whereas clots after occlusion showed linear, rarely connected long fibrin fibers. The morphometry of the fibrin free spaces revealed a significant enlargement of the single fibrin free spaces as well as of the total fibrin free space after occlusion. For capillary blood a significant decrease in fiber diameter was observed after occlusion. The examination of clinical clotting parameters revealed alterations of thrombocyte aggregation for the collagen induction, a slightly reduced thrombocyte retention and slightly steeper flanks in the thromboelastogram after occlusion. The reason for these changes was interpreted as lack of high energetic phosphates in the retraction process as the clotting cascade itself requires a very high amount of these phosphates. Use of these results in the forensic practice will have to take factors as temperature, drying out, surface-structure and many others into account."}
{"id": "3631642", "title": "Functional vascular disorders: treatment with pentoxifylline.", "content": "Functional vascular disorders: treatment with pentoxifylline. A group of 11 female patients (mean age 33.7 +/- 8 years) with a clearly proven primary Raynaud's syndrome of up to five years' duration were subjected to a two-month oral treatment with 3 X 400 mg pentoxifylline per day. The following parameters were studied without and with exposure to cold conditions: hemodynamics (finger photoplethysmography), red cell deformability (filtration test), various clotting variables (prothrombin activity, antithrombin III, plasma fibrinogen, partial thromboplastin time, thrombin time, thrombelastogram), and clinical symptomatology. After treatment 7 of the 11 patients showed a distinct improvement of peripheral blood flow and of symptoms (decrease or removal of asphyxia attacks, pain, color change) under basal conditions, as well as after exposure to cold. Red cell filtration was significantly (p less than 0.05) improved, increasing by 35% under normal conditions and by 30% after exposure to cold. Positive changes were also found in respect to antithrombin III (increase) and plasma fibrinogen (decrease). The thrombelastogram was unchanged. Clinical and instrumental improvements were probably ascribable to better microcirculatory flow due to increased red cell deformability, reduced viscosity, and decreased fibrinogen, all capable of influencing in various degrees the blood flow at the microcirculatory level."}
{"id": "3619091", "title": "Effects of progressive blood loss on coagulation as measured by thrombelastography.", "content": "Effects of progressive blood loss on coagulation as measured by thrombelastography. The effects of progressive blood loss on coagulation were studied in 87 adults (age 23-66 yr) undergoing a variety of operations under general anesthesia. None had preoperative alterations in coagulation or liver function and none were receiving anticoagulant or antiplatelet medication. Whole blood coagulation status was quantitated using thrombelastography (TEG). Blood samples for TEG were obtained 5 min before and 15 min after induction of anesthesia, after each increment of blood loss (EBL) equalling 5% of estimated blood volume (EBV), at the end of surgery, and 2 hr post-operatively. Patients with EBL exceeding 0.15 EBV were given packed red cells and crystalloid solution. Patients with EBL less than 0.15 EBV received only crystalloid. Thrombelastography analysis showed a trend toward increased coagulability with progressive blood loss. Two of four patients with 80% loss of EBV maintained normal to enhanced coagulation status, although the other two developed clinical and thrombelastographic evidence of coagulopathy. Thrombelastography allowed rapid intraoperative diagnosis and specific treatment of loss of platelet activity in the latter two patients. We conclude that during moderate to massive blood loss, use of supplemental fresh frozen plasma and/or platelets should be reserved for patients with documented defects in coagulation. Thrombelastography is useful for the detection and management of coagulation defects associated with intraoperative blood loss."}
{"id": "3604178", "title": "Plateletapheresis using single vein access: a comparison of Haemonetics V-50 and Fenwal CS-3000 blood cell separators.", "content": "Plateletapheresis using single vein access: a comparison of Haemonetics V-50 and Fenwal CS-3000 blood cell separators. Donors were randomly selected for plateletapheresis using either the Haemonetics V-50 surge procedure or the Fenwal CS-3000 with special modifications. Six procedures using the V-50 were performed with 6 collection cycles. Platelet yields averaged 3.9 X 10(11) with an average white cell contamination of 3.8 X 10(8). Ten procedures were performed with 8 collection cycles. Platelet yields averaged 4.5 X 10(11) with an average white cell contamination of 1.2 X 10(8). CS-3000 procedures were performed using either 4,000 or 4,800 ml whole blood processed as the endpoint. Concentrates obtained using 4,000 ml (n = 10) as the endpoint contained 3.9 X 10(11) platelets with a white cell contamination of 9.2 X 10(8). A 4,800 ml (n = 5) endpoint produced concentrates with a yield of 4.5 X 10(11) and white cell contamination of 10.4 X 10(8)."}
{"id": "3603398", "title": "[Microcirculation, blood coagulation and blood phospholipids in acute pneumonia].", "content": "[Microcirculation, blood coagulation and blood phospholipids in acute pneumonia]. The state of conjunctival microcirculation, thromboelastographic hemocoagulation by 10 indices and 8 fractions of citrated blood plasma phospholipids was studied in 145 patients with acute pneumonia. Microcirculatory disorders with an increase in all conjunctival indices, marked hypercoagulation with raised concentration of phosphatidylethanolamine, lysophosphatidylcholines in parallel with a decrease in the level of phosphatidylcholines of the blood plasma, particularly at the peak of an inflammatory pulmonary process, were found. The relationship of phospholipids with plasma coagulation and microcirculation as a result of the development of a pathological pulmonary process was revealed."}
{"id": "3599664", "title": "[Results of thrombelastographic studies in obese children].", "content": "[Results of thrombelastographic studies in obese children]."}
{"id": "3596794", "title": "[Collection of thrombocyte concentrates and coagulation active fresh plasma with the Haemonetics PCS system].", "content": "[Collection of thrombocyte concentrates and coagulation active fresh plasma with the Haemonetics PCS system]. More intensive chemotherapeutic regimens in patients with leukemia or malignant disease lead to an increasing demand for platelet concentrates. As conventional preparation of platelets from fresh whole blood is limited by the number of blood donors, new methods have to be investigated. Plasmapheresis with simultaneous collection of platelets is favored. We tested the new Haemonetics PCS system (Haemonetics Corp., Braintree, Mass.). Beside the effectivity of the measure, we were interested in the quality of the products. The simultaneous collection of hemostatic active plasma and platelet concentrates did not produce the same quality as our routine products."}
{"id": "3590103", "title": "Thrombelastography of blood from subjects with chronic renal failure.", "content": "Thrombelastography of blood from subjects with chronic renal failure. Blood samples from 23 subjects with chronic renal failure and 19 controls were tested using thrombelastography and other hematologic tests. The uremic subjects were divided into two groups, those who had not yet begun maintenance hemodialysis treatments (12 subjects) and those who had (11 subjects). Compared to those from control subjects, the thrombelastograms from the uremic subjects consistently indicate normal clotting times but significantly elevated amplitudes. The increased amplitudes correlate positively in the dialyzed uremic group with both platelet count and fibrinogen concentration and correlate negatively in both uremic groups with hematocrit. Thrombelastography demonstrates a hypercoagulability in these samples in vitro, despite the prolonged bleeding time that commonly occurs in uremic subjects."}
{"id": "3586487", "title": "[Regional orthostatic hypertension and thromboangiitis of the lower extremities].", "content": "[Regional orthostatic hypertension and thromboangiitis of the lower extremities]. A study of local orthostatic disorders of pulse blood filling, microcirculation and acid-base state in the affected limbs of 84 patients with thrombo-angiitis has suggested that local orthostatic distal vascular hypertension in the lower limbs, along with subsequent vascular tissue metabolic and coagulation response, conditions preferential development and progress of spastic, ischemic and thrombotic manifestations of the disease."}
{"id": "3573531", "title": "[Clotting and fibrinolytic activity of erythrocytes during different courses of the acute period of a myocardial infarct].", "content": "[Clotting and fibrinolytic activity of erythrocytes during different courses of the acute period of a myocardial infarct]."}
{"id": "3570544", "title": "Plateletapheresis with \"Haemonetics 30\" through a new three-way reinfusion set.", "content": "Plateletapheresis with \"Haemonetics 30\" through a new three-way reinfusion set."}
{"id": "3570543", "title": "Donor plasmapheresis: a comparative study using four different types of equipment.", "content": "Donor plasmapheresis: a comparative study using four different types of equipment. From September 1985 to May 1986, 106 healthy volunteers underwent automated plasmapheresis in our Institution (CT-AVIS, PAVIA) using four different types of equipment. The aim of this study was to verify the feasibility of harvesting plasma from a single donor and to ascertain: the acceptability of the procedure to donors; the speed, economy and safety of the different types of equipment; the quality of the plasma. The equipment employed in this study was: PCS (Plasma Collection System-Haemonetics) FILTRA (Dideco) PLASMAPUR (Organon Teknika). AUTOPHERESIS CTM-(Hemascience). All four used a single-needle technique. Procedures were well tolerated by donors; no significant changes were observed in pre- and post-procedure laboratory values."}
{"id": "3500032", "title": "[Combination autotransfusion in heart surgery. Use of acute normovolemic hemodilution in coronary heart disease].", "content": "[Combination autotransfusion in heart surgery. Use of acute normovolemic hemodilution in coronary heart disease]. Normovolemic hemodilution (15 mg/kg body-weight: group I) was undertaken in 100 patients immediately before the start of coronary-artery surgery. In addition, a Cell-Saver (Haemonetics, Munich) was used for intra-operative autotransfusion. Another group of 100 patients (group II) was similarly operated on without autotransfusion (the study was conducted on 200 consecutive patients undergoing aorto-coronary bypass). Before blood (autologous or homologous) was administered a reduction of hemoglobin to 9 g/100 ml and hematocrit to 0.28 was well tolerated (during extracorporeal circulation: 6.5 g/100 ml and 0.16, respectively). Due to intra- and postoperative complications, such as infarct bleeding (including reoperation) or septicemia, the number of patients placed in group I fell to 94, that in group II to 90. Acute normovolemic hemodilution increased cardiac output and oxygen transport capacity, while other hemodynamic parameters remained unchanged, and there was no effect on extravascular lung water. Autotransfusion reduced the need for homologous blood derivatives by 71% (fresh blood, fresh plasma, RBC concentrates). No clinically significant disadvantages occurred."}
{"id": "3495194", "title": "[Haemoseparation in heart surgery].", "content": "[Haemoseparation in heart surgery]. The Haemonetics Cell-Saver, a device developed for the recovery of autologous blood, was evaluated at our department, the major areas of concern being: quantity of blood salvaged, reduction in blood bank usage and possible monetary saving. In addition, various coagulation analyses were performed at frequent intervals. This study consisted of 292 patients undergoing cardiac surgery, who were randomly divided into two groups: 148 patients (group I) receiving autotransfusion (immediate centrifugation of oxygenator content after termination of cardiopulmonary bypass) were compared to 144 patients without autologous transfusion (group II). In the group of autotransfused patients, a mean of 2.27 units of bank blood were used throughout their entire hospital stay, as compared to 6.12 units of homologous blood in the other group (II) without autotransfusion. There were no significant differences between the two groups in respect of laboratory parameters and clinical course during the perioperative period. The data presented indicate a significant reduction in bank blood usage, thus protecting the patients from various hazards accompanying homologous blood transfusion (hepatitis, AIDS). Since the cost of Haemonetics software is recovered by 1.25 units of bank blood, a cost reduction of about US $135.-was achieved."}
{"id": "3447197", "title": "[Hypercoagulable ulcers. Apropos of a recent case].", "content": "[Hypercoagulable ulcers. Apropos of a recent case]. We describe the case of a cafe waiter aged 38, with an extensive sub-malleolar left internal varicose ulcer, which was chronic and very painful. This ulcer had been developing for 17 years and had not cicatrized for two years, which meant professional invalidity despite repeated attempts at therapy (qualified local care in a special department, hospitalizations, stripping, and filament graft). In the absence of any arterial, deep venous or lymphatic affection, deep biological disturbances meant this ulcer was classed in the category of hypercoagulable ulcers. A heparin treatment transformed the local situation and made it possible for a complementary surgical graft. Vascular ulcers resistant to properly administered local, vascular and general treatments, should lead us to investigate the possibility of hypercoagulability, whose best parameter is the high index of potential thrombodynamic (I.P.T.) calculated according to the thromboelastogram on the total blood. These hypercoagulable ulcers can be cured with a prolonged heparin treatment, in doses sufficient to normalize the I.P.T. without having to investigate true hypercoagulability with the T.C.K. It seems to us that this treatment is most effectively carried out in hospital, where it is possible to achieve constant heparinization by electric syringe and reequilibration of the biological constants."}
{"id": "3440010", "title": "[Changes in granulocyte functions during intraoperative cell-saving with a Haemonetics Cell-Saver].", "content": "[Changes in granulocyte functions during intraoperative cell-saving with a Haemonetics Cell-Saver]."}
{"id": "3433205", "title": "[Effect of minidoses of heparin on the blood coagulation and thrombocytic links of hemostasis in myocardial infarct in middle-aged and elderly patients].", "content": "[Effect of minidoses of heparin on the blood coagulation and thrombocytic links of hemostasis in myocardial infarct in middle-aged and elderly patients]. A study was made of the effect of moderate (300-500 units/kg per day) and minimum (200-250 units/kg per day) heparin doses in intravenous drop administration on the coagulation and thrombocytic links of hemostasis in 26 elderly and advanced age patients with myocardial infarction. The patients were divided into 2 groups: streptodecase and heparin were administered to the patients of the 1st group and heparin only was administered to the patients of the 2nd group. No significant effect of streptodecase on the hemocoagulation link of hemostasis with a low risk of developing hemorrhagic complications was noted. In 72-96 h of treatment intravenous heparin administration resulted in a decrease in a level of blood antithrombin III causing a decrease in the efficacy of heparin therapy. Control over a level of blood antithrombin III in addition to routine tests (thrombin time, thromboelastogram) provided an opportunity for adequate anticoagulant therapy. A negative effect of heparin on the thrombocytic link of hemostasis with deterioration of disaggregation properties and an increase in aggregation was noted. Antiaggregation therapy in parallel with the start of heparin administration was found necessary."}
{"id": "3316024", "title": "Side-effects and technical problems in cytapheresis with cell separators. Results of a retrospective multicenter study.", "content": "Side-effects and technical problems in cytapheresis with cell separators. Results of a retrospective multicenter study. On the basis of a survey, the acute side-effects and technical problems in a total of 77,525 cytaphereses (IFC 36,530, CFC 40,995) in donors at 39 hemapheresis centers were retrospectively analysed statistically. In general, relevant donor side-effects (0.78%-1.05%) were more rare than the primary donor-independent disturbances (1.65%-2.63%). The donor side-effects predominated merely with the use of the cell separators Haemonetics M30/Belco (1.06% vs. 0.57%). These were mainly circulatory reactions (0.83%), which were generally much more frequent with IFC (0.54%) than with CFC (IBM/Cobe 0.11%, CS-3000 0.19%). Potentially fatal complications were not reported. The frequency of side-effects, disturbances and discontinuations correlated inversely with the separation rate of the individual centers per method. Centers in which two or three methods were applied simultaneously reported a higher frequency of side-effects and disturbances. Hemolysis was only observed with IFC (0.09%), but not with the use of the Haemonetics V50. The greater susceptibility to disturbances of technical/methodological/operational origin essentially results from the more elaborate, but not yet perfected technology, including computer control and monitoring, as well as defects in the production of the much more complicated disposable sets. Thus the highest rate of discontinuations was calculated for the system which is so far the most sophisticated technically (CS-3000, 1.85%). Although the primary donor-independent problems sometimes correlate directly with the manifestation of donor side-effects, the greater technological sophistication of automatically controlled and monitored systems cannot be dispensed with, since only in this way can potentially fatal risks for the donors be largely ruled out.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3296855", "title": "Epsilon-aminocaproic acid for treatment of fibrinolysis during liver transplantation.", "content": "Epsilon-aminocaproic acid for treatment of fibrinolysis during liver transplantation. In 97 adult patients receiving liver transplants, the coagulation system was monitored by thrombelastography and by coagulation profile including PT; aPTT; platelet count; level of factors I, II, V, VII, VIII, IX, X, XI, and XII; fibrin degradation products; ethanol gel test; protamine gel test; and euglobulin lysis time. Preoperatively, fibrinolysis defined as a whole blood clot lysis index of less than 80% was present in 29 patients (29.9%), and a euglobulin lysis time of less than 1 h was present in 13 patients. Fibrinolysis increased progressively during surgery in 80 patients (82.5%) and was most severe on reperfusion of the graft liver in 33 patients (34%). When whole blood clot lysis (F less than 180 min) was observed during reperfusion of the graft liver, blood coagulability was tested by thrombelastography using both a blood sample treated in vitro with epsilon-aminocaproic acid (0.09%) and an untreated sample. Blood treated with epsilon-aminocaproic acid showed improved coagulation without fibrinolytic activity in all 74 tests. When whole blood clot lysis time was less than 120 min, generalized oozing occurred, and the effectiveness of epsilon-aminocaproic acid was demonstrated in vitro during the pre-anhepatic and post-anhepatic stages, epsilon-aminocaproic acid (1 g, single intravenous dose) was administered. In all 20 patients treated with epsilon-aminocaproic acid, fibrinolytic activity disappeared; whole blood clot lysis was not seen on thrombelastography during a 5-h observation period, and whole blood clot lysis index improved from 28.5 +/- 29.5% to 94.8 +/- 7.4% (mean +/- SD, P less than 0.001). None of the treated patients had hemorrhagic or thrombotic complications.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3151765", "title": "Coagulopathy in patients with hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome.", "content": "Coagulopathy in patients with hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome. Hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome in Korea (Korean hemorrhagic fever) is an acute viral disease characterized by fever, hemorrhage and renal failure. In Korean patients, the disease manifests more distinctive bleeding tendencies than those of hemorrhagic fever with renal syndrome found in western countries. To investigate the nature and role of the coagulation, fibrinolysis, kinin and immune system in the pathogenesis of such a hemorrhagic manifestation, alterations of these systems were assessed from the early phase of the disease. Decreased platelet count and shortened platelet survival were observed with giant platelets in the peripheral blood. The marked prolongations of bleeding time, prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time were noticed with the decreased plasma activities of coagulation factors II, V, VIII, IX and X. Shortened half life of fibrinogen, increased fibrinogen-fibrin degradation product, with decreased plasma levels and activities of plasminogen, alpha 2-plasmin inhibitor and antithrombin III were found. On thrombelastogram, the existence of procoagulant activity was confirmed, and prolonged reaction time and clot formation time with decreased maximum amplitude were observed. The appearance of circulating immune complexes was found along with decreased C3 and normal C4 in the serum. Significant decrease of serum C3 was evident in the patients with disseminated intravascular coagulation. These findings of coagulopathy were normalized within ten days of the illness in most cases. Therefore, it can be concluded that disseminated intravascular coagulation and thrombocytopenia in the early phase, and azotemia developing later might play an important role in the pathogenesis of bleeding tendency in Korean hemorrhagic fever."}
{"id": "3116098", "title": "Large scale production and purification of human IL-2 from buffy coat lymphocytes stimulated with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate and calcium ionophore A23187.", "content": "Large scale production and purification of human IL-2 from buffy coat lymphocytes stimulated with 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate and calcium ionophore A23187. Methods for the production of high titers of interleukin-2 (IL-2) from human buffy coat lymphocytes, and subsequent purification of the IL-2 are described. 50 buffy coats containing 1 X 10(11) leukocytes were first depleted of erythrocytes by batchwise leukapheresis using a Haemonetics model 15 blood wash centrifuge. Further lymphocyte enrichment was achieved using a one-step sedimentation in the presence of hydroxyethyl starch, which produced suspensions of more than 90% lymphocytes. This degree of lymphocyte purity was important since phagocytes were inhibitory to 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate/calcium ionophore (TPA/A23187)-induced IL-2 production when their concentration exceeded 15% of the total cells. Cell culture was performed in stirred fermenters. Using TPA/A23187 induction, up to 500 micrograms of IL-2 per liter were produced. The IL-2 was purified by absorption from the supernatants onto controlled pore glass and elution with 50% ethylene glycol, followed by Fractogel chromatography, and then preparative high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC) using an RP-6 column and elution with a gradient of n-propanol. A final HPLC rechromatography step using an analytical RP-6 column gave a homogeneous preparation with specific activity of 1.2 X 10(7) U/mg and a recovery from the starting supernatant of 22%."}
{"id": "3114572", "title": "Hemostatic evaluation of patients undergoing liver transplantation.", "content": "Hemostatic evaluation of patients undergoing liver transplantation. A detailed coagulation and thromboelastographic study was done on the first 50 liver transplantation procedures performed at the Mayo Clinic between March 1985 and June 1986. Most of the patients suffered from primary sclerosing cholangitis, primary biliary cirrhosis, or chronic active hepatitis. Seven patients required a second liver transplantation, and six patients died, none intraoperatively. Most of the patients had distorted hemostatic mechanisms preoperatively, as would be expected because the liver generates most of the clotting factors. The outstanding exception was factor VIII, which was usually in the high-normal range or even more elevated. Substantial deterioration of coagulation factors occurred regularly during reperfusion of the donor liver. In some instances, this trend was corrected within 1 hour, but platelet counts continued to decrease, and some coagulation factors rebounded only partially. Because thromboelastographic tracings are quickly available to the liver transplant team and because they tend to forewarn of impending hemostatic problems, we believe that thromboelastography is a reasonably effective procedure for monitoring coagulation during liver transplantation."}
{"id": "3106697", "title": "[Effect of nitroglycerin on hemostasis and the rheologic properties of the blood in acute myocardial infarct].", "content": "[Effect of nitroglycerin on hemostasis and the rheologic properties of the blood in acute myocardial infarct]."}
{"id": "3104693", "title": "Blood conservation for myocardial revascularization. Is it cost effective?", "content": "Blood conservation for myocardial revascularization. Is it cost effective? A total of 284 patients undergoing myocardial revascularization were prospectively studied to determine if the use of intraoperative autotransfusion or intraoperative autotransfusion plus postoperative reinfusion of shed mediastinal blood decreased transfusion requirements and the use of one or both techniques was cost effective. The Haemonetics Cell Saver System was used for intraoperative autotransfusion and the Sorenson Receptaseal autotransfusion system for postoperative reinfusion of shed mediastinal blood. During Phase 1, the Cell Saver System was used for 57 patients and 93 patients served as a control group. During Phase 2, the Cell Saver System plus the autotransfusion system were used in 43 patients and 91 patients were in the control group. Separate parallel analyses to compare the blood conservation groups to control groups were conducted for each phase of the study. The patient groups were comparable with regard to age, sex, preoperative red cell mass, preoperative hematocrit value, number of bypasses, and use of internal mammary grafts. Blood conservation techniques resulted in significant reductions in the use of bank blood. During Phase 1, Cell Saver System patients received an average of 2.8 units of packed cells versus 4.7 units for control patients. Transfusion was avoided entirely in 14% of Cell Saver System patients compared to 3% of control patients. During Phase 2, patients subjected to both the Cell Saver System and the autotransfusion system received an average of 1 unit of packed red cells versus 3 units for control patients. Transfusion was required in only 42% of patients subjected to both the Cell Saver System and the autotransfusion system compared to 85% of control patients. Multiple logistic regression analysis confirmed that the use of the Cell Saver System in Phase 1 and the Cell Saver System and autotransfusion system in Phase 2 were each independently predictive of decreased transfusion requirements. The total \"blood-related costs\" (including cost for all bank blood products plus Receptaseal and Cell Saver System equipment) was slightly lower for the blood conservation patients in both Phase 1 ($555.00 versus $615.00, no significant difference) and Phase 2 ($373.00 versus $426.00, no significant difference). Intraoperative use of the Cell Saver System is associated with substantial savings of bank blood, and the addition of postoperative reinfusion of shed mediastinal blood results in further bank blood savings. The use of blood conservation techniques is cost effective; that is, the costs incurred for the blood conservation equipment are more than offset by the resultant dollar savings for blood products."}
{"id": "3103556", "title": "Coagulopathy post peritoneovenous shunt.", "content": "Coagulopathy post peritoneovenous shunt. In 1942, 53% of medically treated patients with cirrhosis were dead 6 months after the onset of ascites. Only 30% survived 1 year. This dismal outlook has improved only slightly with advances in medicine. Yet, some internists reject the peritoneovenous shunt (PVS) for this fatal condition even if they are aware that a diminished blood volume causes the abnormal sodium retention responsible for ascites. Their objections are based on life-threatening complications of PVS, especially post shunt coagulopathy (PSC). Blood shed into the peritoneal cavity becomes incoagulable. Such blood is immediately coagulated by a protocoagulant (soluble collagen) and concurrently lysed by tissue plasminogen activator (TPA) secreted by the peritoneal serosa. Wide zones of lysis surround peritoneal tissue placed on fibrin plates. Large volumes of ascitic fluid infused into circulating blood simulates the fate of blood shed into the peritoneal cavity with lysis playing the major role. Addition of ascitic fluid to normal platelet-rich plasma in vitro initiates clot lysis on thromboelastogram (TEG). Epsilon-aminocaproic acid (EACA) counteracts this lysis. EACA and clotting factors normalize the TEG and arrest PSC. Disposal of ascitic fluid at surgery prevents or ameliorates PSC. Mild PSC was encountered only twice in 150+ consecutive patients (1.3%) with only one case being clinically significant (0.6%). Severe PSC occurred seven times in 98 early shunt patients whose ascitic fluid was not discarded. Severe PSC requires shunt interruption and control of bleeding with clotting factors and EACA. Peritoneal lavage with saline prevents the recurrence of PSC on reopening the shunt. In four patients, EACA and clotting factors were adequate to arrest coagulopathy. Three earlier patients died of PSC before its cause and treatment were understood. Proper management eliminates this life-threatening complication, and PSC cannot be considered a deterrent to PVS. Disseminated intravascular coagulopathy (DIC) is produced in experimental animals only by the injection of thrombin or thromboplastin. PSC is a distinct entity differing from DIC; EACA and not heparin is the antidote for PSC."}
{"id": "2891592", "title": "A new family with congenital factor XIII deficiency showing a deficit of both subunit A and B. Type I factor XIII deficiency.", "content": "A new family with congenital factor XIII deficiency showing a deficit of both subunit A and B. Type I factor XIII deficiency. In this study we present a new case of Factor XIII deficiency. The proposita, a 34 year old woman, showed a deficiency of both subunit a and subunit b, and a moderate bleeding tendency. Because of the concomitant decrease of subunits a and b the proposita is considered to be an example of Type I disease. Factor XIII levels were less than 10% both as activity and antigen. Several family members showed intermediate levels of both subunit a and b and were asymptomatic. They were considered to be heterozygotes. The hereditary pattern is autosomal incompletely recessive. Type I disease appears much less frequent than Type II."}
{"id": "2888172", "title": "[Physiopathologic correlations regarding changes in the lipid spectrum and hemostasis in patients with essential arterial hypertension].", "content": "[Physiopathologic correlations regarding changes in the lipid spectrum and hemostasis in patients with essential arterial hypertension]."}
{"id": "2822317", "title": "Treatment of acute myocardial infarction with subcutaneous heparin at low doses.", "content": "Treatment of acute myocardial infarction with subcutaneous heparin at low doses. Heparin has been used intensively in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction and preinfarction angina (PA) at full doses as a single drug by us. However, heparin may be used at smaller doses for similar purposes. These doses are not exactly anticoagulant, even though they reduce blood hypercoagulability, and act mainly in an antithrombotic capacity. We studied 529 patients with acute myocardial infarction, of whom 262 were treated with subcutaneous heparin at low doses (5000 IU every 12 h) and 267 received conventional therapy without antithrombotic drugs. Heparin used was Heparina (Abbott) and Liquemine (Roche), in vials with the equivalence 1 cm3 = 50 mg = 5000 IU. Blood rheologic factors (thromboelastography, platelet adhesiveness, total blood viscosity, and number of platelets) were determined in all patients, those treated with heparin at low doses and also the control group, before and after the 30-day treatment period. Diagnosis was based on clinical symptoms, laboratory studies, and electrocardiogram examination. In both the 262 patients treated with heparin at low doses and in the control group of 267 patients, baseline values of rheological factors were high. After 30 days (i.e., after study completion) these high values which are statistically significant compared with normal values, with p less than 0.0001 for both groups, remained constant in the control group who did not receive heparin. On the contrary, in the group treated with heparin at low doses, all these factors changed. Heparin provides protection against thrombosis by increasing the negative charge of the vessel wall and by other reactions at the endothelial surface. Heparin requires a plasmatic component called antithrombine III.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "2448527", "title": "[Thromboelastographic and electrocoagulographic characteristics of blood coagulation in patients with Willebrand's disease].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic and electrocoagulographic characteristics of blood coagulation in patients with Willebrand's disease]."}
{"id": "2440758", "title": "[Changes in blood coagulation, thrombocyte function and vascular prostacyclin synthesis caused by magnesium sulfate].", "content": "[Changes in blood coagulation, thrombocyte function and vascular prostacyclin synthesis caused by magnesium sulfate]. Magnesium deficiency, prostacyclin deficiency and reduced prostacyclin sensibility of the thrombocytes may possibly play an important pathophysiological role in gestosis/pre-eclampsia. For this reason, we studied the influence of magnesium sulphate (in vitro 2-16 mVal/l) on thromboelastogram, spontaneous and ADP-induced thrombocyte aggregation, prostacyclin sensitivity of the thrombocytes and prostacyclin liberation from umbilical cord vessel preparations. The thromboelastogram showed an inhibitory influence of magnesium sulphate on all measurement parameters. Spontaneous and ADP-induced thrombocyte aggregation were inhibited to a statistically significant extent. The prostacyclin sensibility of the thrombocytes was increased by magnesium-sulphate. Magnesium sulphate enhanced prostacyclin liberation from the vascular wall significantly by 20-36%. It is possible that in gestosis magnesium sulphate may exercise a favourable influence on the disturbed balance between prostacyclin production and prostacyclin sensibility of the thrombocytes by exercising an influence on coagulation, thrombocyte function and prostacyclin liberation, and that it can thus contribute towards stabilising coagulation disturbances."}
{"id": "2437374", "title": "[Program for calculating thrombelastogram indices on microcalculators].", "content": "[Program for calculating thrombelastogram indices on microcalculators]."}
{"id": "2436343", "title": "Cell saver versus hemofilter for concentration of oxygenator blood after cardiopulmonary bypass.", "content": "Cell saver versus hemofilter for concentration of oxygenator blood after cardiopulmonary bypass. Concentration of superfluous blood in the oxygenator after the termination of a cardiopulmonary bypass was studied in 46 aortocoronary bypass patients. 15 patients were treated with a centrifugation system, the Haemonetics Cell Saver, 16 patients were treated with the Gambro Hollow Fibre Hemofilter and the remaining 15 patients received as much as possible from the untreated oxygenator contents and served as controls in a coagulation study. Both methods functioned well, the time consumption for operation of the two systems was similar. The products differed greatly as centrifugation revealed highly concentrated red cells in saline solution while hemofiltration produced protein-rich concentrated whole blood. A coagulation study of the patients who had received the concentrated products showed no signs of activation of the coagulation factors nor of the fibrinolytic system."}
{"id": "2435965", "title": "[Method of determining the anticoagulant activity of urine].", "content": "[Method of determining the anticoagulant activity of urine]."}
{"id": "3946010", "title": "Complement activation and adult respiratory distress syndrome during intermittent flow apheresis procedures.", "content": "Complement activation and adult respiratory distress syndrome during intermittent flow apheresis procedures. We observed complement (C) activation during intermittent flow apheresis procedures (Haemonetics model 30) in four subjects, two of whom developed adult respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Actual C3 conversion during apheresis was illustrated by the finding of significantly elevated C3d levels (p less than 0.05) and of significantly increased alpha-1-antitrypsin/C3 ratios (p less than 0.05) in postapheresis serums. Similarly, marked granulocyte aggregating activity was found in these serums, indicative of the generation of significant amounts of the C-derived anaphylatoxin, C5a or C5a desarginine. A mean decrease of 59.75 percent in neutrophil count during the four procedures suggested sequestration of aggregated granulocytes in the pulmonary vasculature. Moreover, granulocytes activated by apheresis serums induced significant 51Cr leak from cultured human endothelial cells is vitro (p less than 0.001). We conclude that inflammatory C components produced during apheresis procedures may provoke granulocyte aggregation and embolization, leading to plugging of the pulmonary vasculature, and that apheresis-activated granulocytes may induce endothelial cytotoxicity, leading to the capillary leakage syndrome, characteristic of ARDS. Individual variability in C5a generation capacity or alterations in normal C5a clearing mechanisms may account for the low incidence of clinical C activation and true ARDS during apheresis. In these instances, high-dose steroids, which interfere with granulocyte-C interactions, may be beneficial."}
{"id": "3807263", "title": "[Neutralization of low molecular weight heparin Kabi 2165 by protamine chloride].", "content": "[Neutralization of low molecular weight heparin Kabi 2165 by protamine chloride]. Low molecular weight (LMW) heparin Kabi 2165 possesses improved pharmacodynamic properties compared with conventional heparin. It is currently investigated in the prophylaxis of thromboembolism. The neutralization of Kabi 2165 by protamine chloride was analysed after i.v. injection of both the agent and the antidot in healthy persons. The anticoagulant effects of the LMW heparin on the activated partial thromboplastin time, thrombin, and thromboelastography are completely and immediately suppressed by protamine chloride. The inhibition of factor Xa is antagonized up to 50%-60%. The bleeding time remained unaffected. The data indicate that protamine chloride may be used in clinical situations as an antidot to the LMW heparin Kabi 2165. A rebound phenomenon of the anticoagulant effect does not occur."}
{"id": "3805895", "title": "[Preliminary study of the use of low-molecular weight heparin to prevent thrombotic risk].", "content": "[Preliminary study of the use of low-molecular weight heparin to prevent thrombotic risk]. This study involved two stages: In vitro study. Three LMWHs, CY 216-CY 222 (Choay) and PK 10169 (Pharmuka), were compared to standard heparin, SH (Choay), and to a high-molecular-weight heparin, HAF (Choay), which particularly revealed a dissociation of anti-Xa (++) and anti-IIa (+) activities for the LMWHs: (table: see text) In vivo study. Healthy volunteers. Subcutaneously injections of PK 10169 or CY 222 according to various protocols (rythm of injections, dosage). For both LMWHs, the dissociation of anti-Xa and anti-IIa activities reoccurs in vivo. A peak of anti-Xa effect was observed 3 to 4 hours after the injections. The duration period of this activity is about 12 hours. The importance of the global platelet tests HT and TEG (modified for the highest doses) should be noted. Study of haemorrhagic tendencies in patients with slight thrombotic risk. From this preliminary study, protocols with CY 216, CY 222 and PK 10169 are proposed for the prevention of thrombotic risk in orthopaedic surgery (injections at 12-hour intervals)."}
{"id": "3781704", "title": "Recent advances of knowledge on the mechanism of action of drugs modifying the bronchial secretions.", "content": "Recent advances of knowledge on the mechanism of action of drugs modifying the bronchial secretions. In order to explain the mechanism of action of drugs modifying the bronchial secretions, their subdivision into agents with a direct or an indirect action seems justified: the former primarily modify already formed secretions, whilst the latter act on the bronchial structures originating mucus. In hypersecretive states with increased viscoelasticity of mucus, a widespread therapy is represented by the use of direct reducing drugs, which act by breaking the mucofibrillar network. Among them the most important are those with free sulphydryl groups (-SH), which can break the disulphide bonds of the bronchial secretions. The mechanism of action of substances such as acetylcysteine and tiopronin, that are included in those with a direct reducing action, was already verified by researches with the modified thrombo-elastograph (MTE) and has been recently confirmed by the present authors by employing a simple biochemical method, by which the action of such drugs on the structure of serum IgM can be studied in vitro. The same method permits the classification of carbocisteine and letosteine as amongst the drugs with indirect action. From the results obtained by such in vitro experiences, the necessity to examine more closely the consequences of secondary effects which direct mucolytic agents may cause by modifying the rheological, biochemical and immunological properties of bronchial secretions has been demonstrated."}
{"id": "3778206", "title": "Intraoperative autotransfusion in urologic oncology.", "content": "Intraoperative autotransfusion in urologic oncology. The value of autotransfusion is widely recognized in the surgical community and may be of increasing importance in prevention of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome and hepatitis. The concern of potential contamination of the blood with viable tumor cells has resulted in limited use of autotransfusion in cancer surgery. The objective of this study was to examine the benefits and safety of autotransfusion in patients undergoing major surgery of genitourinary tumors. Autotransfusion was used in 49 consecutive patients. Twenty-four patients had radical cystectomy, ten had radical prostatectomy, 13 had radical nephrectomy, and two had other types of operations. An autotransfusion machine (Haemonetics Cell Saver) was used. The follow-up included physical examination, chest roentgenogram every three months, and bone scan and computed tomographic scan if clinically indicated. Liver and renal profiles were routinely performed every three months. Five of 49 patients developed metastases during follow-up examination from 12 to 23 months. The low incidence of metastatic spread and the pattern of spread fall to implicate autotransfusion as a cause of tumor dissemination. Autotransfusion and predeposited blood banking may result in elimination of or significant reduction in homologous transfusions."}
{"id": "3776414", "title": "[Pathogenesis of \"diurnal\" and \"nocturnal\" strokes].", "content": "[Pathogenesis of \"diurnal\" and \"nocturnal\" strokes]. A comprehensive clinico-physiological investigation involved 23 patients of whom 13 had had a \"diurnal\" and 10 a \"nocturnal\" cerebral stroke. The structure of the nocturnal sleep was studied by polygraphic recording; the authors also studied the circadian rhythm of the clotting properties of blood, pulse blood filling of the cerebral vessels and arterial pressure. It was found that the structure of dream in patients with a history of a \"nocturnal\" stroke was characterized by an increase in the activity of the mechanisms responsible for the phase of rapid sleep. Characteristic features of the circadian dynamics of the hemostatic system and hemodynamic parameters in patients with a history of a \"diurnal\" and \"nocturnal\" stroke were identified. A conclusion is drawn that the circadian distribution of acute disturbances of the cerebral blood circulation is determined by individual characteristics of some circadian rhythms of the patients' bodies."}
{"id": "3765416", "title": "[Preparation of leukocyte and thrombocyte concentrates using the Haemonetics model 30 blood cell separator].", "content": "[Preparation of leukocyte and thrombocyte concentrates using the Haemonetics model 30 blood cell separator]."}
{"id": "3753416", "title": "[Thrombocyte function in vitro using the Fenwal CS-3000 and Haemonetics V50 cell separators].", "content": "[Thrombocyte function in vitro using the Fenwal CS-3000 and Haemonetics V50 cell separators]."}
{"id": "3750270", "title": "Further studies on the modulation of blood coagulation by human serum amyloid P component and its acute phase homologue C-reactive protein.", "content": "Further studies on the modulation of blood coagulation by human serum amyloid P component and its acute phase homologue C-reactive protein. Serum amyloid P component (SAP), and its acute phase homologue C-reactive protein (CRP), prolonged activated partial thromboplastin times (APTT) in cell free plasma when assayed at physiological concentrations in the presence of heparin. SAP also inhibited clot formation initiated through the extrinsic and terminal phases of coagulation in heparinized cell free plasma, an activity not shared with CRP. When CRP and SAP were similarly evaluated in whole blood using the thromboelastograph (TEG), CRP delayed the onset of coagulation and the initial rate of fibrin formation/polymerization; final clot patency was unaltered. SAP suppressed the anticoagulant activity of heparin in the TEG assay, unlike results obtained in heparinized cell free plasma, by facilitating a more rapid onset of coagulation, increasing the rate of fibrin formation/polymerization, and correcting clot patency. The data provided offer further evidence that these homologues can intercede in blood coagulation."}
{"id": "3739331", "title": "Technical aspects of different donor plasmapheresis systems and biological results obtained in collected plasma.", "content": "Technical aspects of different donor plasmapheresis systems and biological results obtained in collected plasma. Four plasmapheresis systems were comparatively studied: a centrifugation system (Haemonetics Model 50) and three filtration ones (Dideco BT 810, Organon Teknika PLASMAPUR and HemaScience Autopheresis Plasmacell). For each separator we studied the technical conditions for plasma separation, the biological characteristics of the collected plasma and the in vitro recovery of factor VIIc after preparation of cryoprecipitates. Concerning the plasma extraction rate, the HemaScience apparatus was the most efficient but values were quite similar to those obtained with the Organon Teknika machine. Contaminating cells were only found in plasma separated with the Haemonetics. Total protein and immunoglobulin levels were higher in plasma collected with the Haemonetics and HaemaScience systems. Factor VIIIc activity was comparable in plasma separated by filtration or by centrifugation while fibrinopeptide A levels were higher in plasma collected by Haemonetics. Whatever the machine, no statistical difference was observed when in vitro recovery of factor VIII was studied."}
{"id": "3739330", "title": "Plasmapheresis technology.", "content": "Plasmapheresis technology. Manual plasmapheresis is done worldwide on both paid donors, and to a much smaller extent on volunteer donors in order to generate source plasma to be fractionated into albumin, clotting factor concentrates, and gamma globulin. Automated technology has now been developed utilizing both centrifugal, and membrane separation devices (Haemonetics PCS centrifugal, Organon Teknika PLASMAPUR-membrane, HemaScience Autopheresis-C-spinning membrane) and is much faster and safer than the manual techniques with regard to the donor. The single biggest difficulty with automated technology is the high cost of the software, making the cost of producing source plasma by this type of technology, in general, not cost efficient at this time. However, fresh frozen plasma can be generated by this technology, which is cost efficient and provides a single donor source of 500 ml plasma, making the product safer for those patients that do require fresh frozen plasma by reducing the number of donor exposures to the patient."}
{"id": "3727715", "title": "Clotting properties in diverse valve prostheses.", "content": "Clotting properties in diverse valve prostheses. With regard to both hemolysis and thrombophilia the St. Jude Medical prosthesis shows only minor alterations in comparison to normals. The most significant alterations concerning platelets and hemolysis have been found in patients with Starr-Edwards prostheses. Even in tissue valves, major alterations of the clotting system and chronic intravascular hemolysis were found. For long-term anticoagulation in mechanical prostheses--even with sinus rhythm--vitamin K antagonists should be preferred. During the first months of gravidity only heparin can be recommended. In St. Jude Medical valves anticoagulation with dicumarolum must be recommended; whether antiaggregation drugs can be recommended is not yet proved. Anticoagulation may be discontinued three months after tissue valve implantation if there are no additional risk factors. Diminishing platelet adhesivity in tissue valves may support these conclusions."}
{"id": "3726631", "title": "[Thromboelastography in diseases of the stomach].", "content": "[Thromboelastography in diseases of the stomach]."}
{"id": "3717700", "title": "Nonionic contrast medium: effects on blood coagulation and complement activation in vitro.", "content": "Nonionic contrast medium: effects on blood coagulation and complement activation in vitro. A nonionic contrast medium was evaluated in vitro for its effects on coagulation and complement activation in comparison to a low osmolal contrast agent. In clotting assays each contrast medium was mixed with blood and clotting parameters were analyzed by using a thromboelastographic machine. Platelet function was studied by incubating platelet-rich plasma with individual contrast medium, and the subsequent challenge of a platelet aggregating agent. Complement activation was assessed by the hydrolysis of C3 protein into C3c fragment in contrast medium-incubated serum. Immunoelectrophoresis was used to detect C3c protein. Both the nonionic contrast medium and the low osmolal contrast agent acted as anticoagulant and antiplatelet agents, however, results with the low osmolal contrast agent were more pronounced compared to the nonionic contrast medium. Even at nonphysiologic concentration of contrast medium, no significant conversion at C3 to C3c was seen. Since these two agents caused hypocoagulable states in vitro, it is likely that patients with thrombocytopenia, severe liver disease and with clotting factor deficiencies may present hemostatic complications during angiographic procedures."}
{"id": "3715155", "title": "Thromboelastographic assays of the clotting process in situations of obesity and caloric restriction.", "content": "Thromboelastographic assays of the clotting process in situations of obesity and caloric restriction. A study on blood clotting has been carried out in a number of obese individuals and compared to a group of non-obese persons, in order to assess if the former can be considered to be in \"high risk\" regarding the onset of a thromboembolic process. The technique of thromboelastography was chosen. The results point out that in obese people a series of alterations take place, both in the time of clot formation, which is enlarged, as in the organization of its nets, which appear strongly structured, favoured by the hyperfibrinogenemia and thrombocytosis detected in these subjects. Likewise, the effect of a hypocaloric diet on clotting in obese persons has been evaluated and compared with the former groups. Clotting in treated obese individuals is modified in the same way as in the untreated group when compared to the non-obese population; nevertheless, when both groups of obese people are compared, no significant difference is observed in the different parameters studied, even though constants determined in citrated whole blood are closer to normality in the subjects undergoing caloric restriction."}
{"id": "3702304", "title": "[Hemostasis in ischemic heart disease patients undergoing hyperbaric oxygenation].", "content": "[Hemostasis in ischemic heart disease patients undergoing hyperbaric oxygenation]."}
{"id": "3700355", "title": "Plateletpheresis: a comparative study of six different protocols.", "content": "Plateletpheresis: a comparative study of six different protocols. Six different protocols were employed in 710 plateletpheresis employing Haemonetics 30, Fenwal CS-3000, IBM 2997 dual stage channel, IBM 2997 single-stage channel, and Haemonetics V-50 \"surge pump\" method. When Haemonetics 30 and IBM 2997 single-stage channel procedures were used, 5.4 to 5.9 X 10(11) platelets were collected with significant leukocyte contamination (10.8 to 11.6 X 10(9)). With Fenwal CS-3000, dual-stage channel of IBM 2997 and Haemonetics V-50 \"surge pump\" there was less leukocyte contamination in concentrates (0.3 to 0.9 X 10(9)) as well as a lower platelet yield (3.4 to 4.3 X 10(11)). No difference in yield was observed when plateletpheresis was performed with ACD-A or ACD-B employing the single-stage channel of IBM 2997. Paresthesias was the most frequently seen side effect in donors, with a higher incidence when using ACD-A and IBM 2997."}
{"id": "3700354", "title": "Optimization of parameters for maximization of plateletpheresis and lymphocytapheresis yields on the Haemonetics Model V50.", "content": "Optimization of parameters for maximization of plateletpheresis and lymphocytapheresis yields on the Haemonetics Model V50. Automated apheresis techniques afford the opportunity of tailoring collection parameters for each donor's hematologic profile. This study investigated the effect of various settings of the volume offset parameter as utilized in the Haemonetics Model V50 instrumentation during platelet- and lymphocytapheresis to optimize product yield, purity, and collection efficiency. In both types of procedures, increased product yield could be obtained by using an increased volume offset for donors having lower hematocrits. This improvement was related to an increase in collection efficiency. Platelet products also contained fewer contaminating lymphocytes with this approach. Adjustment of the volume offset parameter can be utilized to make the most efficient use of donors and provide higher-quality products."}
{"id": "3606276", "title": "Causal relationships between drug-induced hypercoagulability and priapism.", "content": "Causal relationships between drug-induced hypercoagulability and priapism."}
{"id": "3521079", "title": "Enrichment of human bone marrow aspirates for low-density mononuclear cells using a haemonetics discontinuous blood cell separator.", "content": "Enrichment of human bone marrow aspirates for low-density mononuclear cells using a haemonetics discontinuous blood cell separator. Isopycnic density floatation centrifugation has been proven to be a suitable technique to enrich bone marrow aspirates for clonogenic cells on a small scale. We have tested a Haemonetics semicontinuous blood cell separator in order to process large volumes of bone marrow with minimal bone marrow manipulation. The efficacy of isopycnic density floatation was tested in a one and a two-step procedure. Both procedures showed a recovery of about 20% of the nucleated cells and 1-2% of the erythrocytes. The enrichment of clonogenic cells in the one-step procedure appeared superior to the two-step enrichment, first separating buffy coat cells. The recovery of clonogenic cells was 70 and 50%, respectively. Repopulation capacity of the low-density cell fraction containing the clonogenic cells was excellent after autologous reinfusion (6 cases) and allogeneic bone marrow transplantation (3 cases). Fast enrichment of large volumes of bone marrow aspirates with low-density cells containing the clonogenic cells by isopycnic density floatation centrifugation can be done safely using a Haemonetics blood cell separator."}
{"id": "3516980", "title": "Improved method for automated red cell exchange in sickle cell disease.", "content": "Improved method for automated red cell exchange in sickle cell disease. An improved method for intermittent-flow erythrocytapheresis in patients with sickle cell disease is reported. The method, a modification of the standard red cell exchange procedure for the Haemonetics 30S unit, dilutes with physiologic saline the patient's blood as it flows from the draw line and before it reaches the centrifugation bowl. The blood dilution (approximately 1.6 parts saline to 1 part blood) is used only during the first two passes, when the proportion of sickle erythrocytes in the patient's blood is still high. Only that amount of bowl supernatant (saline-diluted plasma) necessary to maintain extracorporeal volume below 500 ml is returned to the patient. The method described largely prevents the clumping of sickle erythrocytes in the centrifugation bowl, a complication frequently encountered with the Haemonetics 30S unit. Thus, changing the bowl between passes is avoided. Furthermore, the sickle red cells can be collected with the first pass and cryopreserved for possible future uses including the option of autotransfusion."}
{"id": "3461716", "title": "Hemostatic changes in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia treated according to two different L-asparaginase schedules.", "content": "Hemostatic changes in children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia treated according to two different L-asparaginase schedules. Hemostatic changes in 20 children with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) who were induced with L-asparaginase (L-asp), vincristine (VCR), and prednisone (PDN) (Group A) were prospectively evaluated. These data were compared with those of a previous group of ALL patients who received L-asp as a single agent during consolidation (Group B). In Group A patients, mean plasma antithrombin activity decreased in the first 2 weeks, though not significantly. Relative to pretreatment values, mean fibrinogen concentration diminished particularly by week 3 (p less than 0.001). Activated partial thromboplastin time (APTT) decreased in the last week as well as after cessation of therapy with L-asp (p less than 0.05). Mean platelet count increased significantly by week 3 (p less than 0.05). Thromboelastograms performed in seven patients confirmed the tendency for thrombosis evidenced by a decreased APTT. Patients in Group B (L-asp alone during consolidation) had decreased concentrations of fibrinogen, AT, and Factors IX and X after L-asp therapy. APTT was prolonged. Our data demonstrate that the tendency for thrombosis is the predominant manifestation of L-asp induced coagulopathy, when the drug is associated with VCR and PDN. Thus the risk/benefit ratio for the use of L-asp early in induction in children with low risk ALL needs to be further evaluated."}
{"id": "2946093", "title": "In vitro comparison of fibrinolytic activity of plasminogen activators using a thrombelastographic method: in vivo evaluation of the B-chain-streptokinase complex in the dog model using pre-titered doses.", "content": "In vitro comparison of fibrinolytic activity of plasminogen activators using a thrombelastographic method: in vivo evaluation of the B-chain-streptokinase complex in the dog model using pre-titered doses. Thrombelastography was used to quantitatively compare the clot-lysing efficiency of 6 different plasminogen activators, using human whole blood, pooled normal plasma, and platelet rich plasma. The activators compared were the B-chain-streptokinase complex, the plasmin-streptokinase complex, the mini-plasminogen-streptokinase complex, tissue plasminogen activator, streptokinase, and urokinase. The most efficient activator found was the B-chain-streptokinase complex. This complex was 4.0 times more effective than streptokinase, 3.0 times more effective than the plasmin-streptokinase complex, 1.3 times more effective than the mini-plasminogen-streptokinase complex, 2.3 times more effective than tissue plasminogen activator, and 16.0 times more effective than urokinase. Although there were differences in both the coagulation and fibrinolysis thrombelastographic patterns between plasma and whole blood, the comparative efficiencies of each activator were the same with either plasma or blood. The B-chain-streptokinase complex was evaluated as a thrombolytic agent in clot-lysis experiments in the jugular vein in the dog model, using a thrombelastographic method to determine the minimum dose of activator necessary for clot-lysis. With 6 dogs infused locally with 0.25 mg (8000 I.U.) of the plasmin-streptokinase complex, the cumulative clot-lysis was 18.0 +/- 3.0% with the first dose, 33.0 +/- 2.1% with the second dose, and 55.2 +/- 8.6% with the third dose. With 6 dogs infused locally with 0.03 mg (2000 I.U.) of the B-chain-streptokinase complex, the cumulative clot-lysis was 30.6 +/- 6.4% with the first dose, 54.4 +/- 9.6% with the second dose, and 80.2 +/- 9.0% with the third dose."}
{"id": "2908802", "title": "Procoagulant activity and thrombelastography in Korean hemorrhagic fever.", "content": "Procoagulant activity and thrombelastography in Korean hemorrhagic fever. Twenty male patients with Korean hemorrhagic fever were evaluated with thrombelastography (TEG) to assess the changes in coagulation system, and the results were compared with those of conventional coagulation tests. Procoagulant activity in the plasma was determined by comparing the reaction time \"r\" of the normal plasma and that of the mixture of equal parts of the normal plasma and the patient's plasma. The TEG was found to be a useful measure of the changes in the coagulation profile, and provided instant accurate assessment of the patient's hemostatic function. Presence of the procoagulant activity was demonstrated in the plasma of the patients and indicated occurrence of active intravascular coagulation during the early stage of the disease."}
{"id": "2869599", "title": "Harvesting of committed hematopoietic progenitor cells (CFU-GM) by hemapheresis.", "content": "Harvesting of committed hematopoietic progenitor cells (CFU-GM) by hemapheresis. In order to investigate collection of committed hematopoietic progenitor cells (CFU-GM) by hemapheresis, four protocols using a discontinuous cell separator (Haemonetics) were evaluated. The combined platelet and granulocytapheresis procedure using hydroxyethyl starch (HES) but no steroids was significantly more efficient (75%) than a standard plateletapheresis (40%, p less than 0.001) or a plateletapheresis modified by either using HES during the collection (49%, p less than 0.05) or pretreating the donors with steroids in an attempt to raise circulating stem cell levels prior to harvesting (46%, p less than 0.001). Donor basal CFU-GM levels were very variable but could be predicted by the circulating lymphocyte levels. In all four protocols, there was a direct correlation between the number of stem cells circulating at the start of the procedure and the final harvest. With this equipment, an appropriate transplant dose of CFU-GM could be provided for a child under 30 kg with less than seven procedures."}
{"id": "2438639", "title": "Action of hormonal contraceptives on the coagulation system and some of its inhibitors.", "content": "Action of hormonal contraceptives on the coagulation system and some of its inhibitors. Changes in the level of inhibitors of the coagulation system, primarily of thrombin neutralizing factors have been studied during the prolonged use of four products of contraceptive preparations containing various amounts of oestrogens and progestogens, two fixed dose pills (Bisecurin, Ovidon), a low dose combination pill (Rigevidon) and a biphasic preparation (Anteovin). Thrombelastographic values referred to hypercoagulability while the results of other examinations indicating activation of the coagulation system did not show definite changes in comparison with the control. The activity and quantity of antithrombin III decreased but never below 80%. Except Anteovin all contraceptives significantly enhanced alpha 1-antitrypsin while alpha 2-macroglobulin levels, remained nearly the same as the control values. Attention is called to that the increased alpha 1-antitrypsin level may be a biochemical risk factor. The results showed that the increased coagulability and disposition to thromboembolic disorders caused by hormonal contraceptives may be attributed not only to the decrease of thrombin inhibitors but also to increased alpha 1-antitrypsin levels which may cause increased inhibition of the fibrinolytic system. Inhibitors of the coagulation system were measured in 71 women taking 4 oral contraceptives for 1-8 years, 2 combined pills, Bisecurin and Ovidon, a low-dose combined pill, Rigevidon, and a biphasic, Anteovin. The article begins with a review of the clinical significance and recent research on serine protease inhibitors. The pill formulations were: Bisecurin, 50 mcg, ethinyl estradiol and 1 mg ethinodiol diacetate; Ovidon, 50 mcg, ethinyl estradiol and 250 mcg, d-norgestrel; Rigevidon, 30 mcg ethinyl estradiol and 150 mcg, d-norgestrel; Antiovin 50 mcg, ethinyl estradiol and 50 mcg, d-norgestrel for 11 days and with 125 mcg d-norgestrel for 10 days. Thromboelastographic values r and I, indicating hypercoagulation, were significantly higher for pill users compared to 28 controls. No change was seen in prothrombin time (PT), and partial prothrombin time (PTT), fibrinogen values or ethanol gelation. Antithrombin III biological activity and quantity assayed immunologically decreased as much as 20%. The fixed dose pills significantly enhanced alpha 1-antitrypsin, a possible biochemical risk factor for thromboembolic disease. Alpha 2-macroglobulin levels did not change. The results showed that the increased coagulability and enhanced incidence of thromboembolic disorders associated with oral contraception may be caused by a decrease in thrombin inhibitors as well as increased alpha 1 antitrypsin, which inhibits the fibrinolytic system."}
{"id": "2431976", "title": "Fibrin stabilization, factor XIII transamidase activity and subunits \"A\" and \"B\" concentration in plasma of patients with liver cirrhosis.", "content": "Fibrin stabilization, factor XIII transamidase activity and subunits \"A\" and \"B\" concentration in plasma of patients with liver cirrhosis. The parameters found in the last phase of blood clotting were measured in patients with liver cirrhosis against a background of some coagulation and fibrinolysis tests. The significant decrease of the fibrin stabilizing activity of plasma and the fall of plasma free -SH groups concentration were documented in the patients. It was accompanied by impaired whole blood clot elasticity in the thrombelastogram. Cirrhotic patients also revealed diminished factor XIII transamidase activity as well as decreased concentrations of its subunits \"A\" and \"B\". The data emphasize the necessity of factor XIII substitution and -SH groups supplement in patients with liver cirrhosis."}
{"id": "2431970", "title": "[The effect of the cell separation procedure on neutrophilic granulocyte function. II. Research on the bactericidal capacity and the NBT reduction ability of isolated granulocytes].", "content": "[The effect of the cell separation procedure on neutrophilic granulocyte function. II. Research on the bactericidal capacity and the NBT reduction ability of isolated granulocytes]. The investigations were aimed at examining the impact of methodically simple separating and enriching techniques for gaining granulocytes on the bactericidal capacity and NBT reduction in isolated granulocytes. For this purpose, granulocytes were gained by the technique of sedimentation and flotation. Granulocytes isolated by the cell separator Haemonetics model 30 were used as reference material. The findings of the investigations together with those of previous studies revealed no indication of the granulocyte function and morphology being damaged by the separating techniques used."}
{"id": "2431969", "title": "[The effect of the cell separation procedure on neutrophilic granulocyte function. I. Research on the morphology and phagocytosis behavior of isolated granulocytes].", "content": "[The effect of the cell separation procedure on neutrophilic granulocyte function. I. Research on the morphology and phagocytosis behavior of isolated granulocytes]. The investigations were aimed at detecting the impact of various cell separating techniques on the morphology and function of neutrophilic granulocytes. Methodically simple cell separating techniques were used, such as spontaneous sedimentation of ACD-AG blood and mechanically defibrinated blood and a flotation technique which makes use of cell isolation by means of a separating solution and centrifugation. Granulocytes which were isolated by the cell separator Haemonetics M 30 for therapeutic purposes and which, according to data in literature, are not damaged by cell separating techniques were used as reference cells. The electronic-optical evaluation of granulocyte morphology and the in vitro investigation of the phagocytic capacity for rice starch (ingestion rate) of differently isolated granulocytes were made after cell separation."}
{"id": "4090829", "title": "[Value of paraclinical methods of examination in the differential evaluation of posttraumatic and vascular cerebral pathology in the late period of wartime closed craniocerebral injuries].", "content": "[Value of paraclinical methods of examination in the differential evaluation of posttraumatic and vascular cerebral pathology in the late period of wartime closed craniocerebral injuries]. Using a number of electrophysiological (EEG, REG, echoventriculometry and audiometry) and biochemical (thromboelastography and determination of blood lipids) methods the authors examined comprehensively 95 men aged 56-70 years who had sustained a closed craniocerebral injury including blast contusion during the Great Patriotic War. The most informative signs were identified which may be used as additional criteria of the severity of traumatic and vascular changes of the brain in a long-term period of a war-related closed craniocerebral injury both for the purpose of therapy and expert medical evaluation of the working capacity."}
{"id": "4090411", "title": "Isolation of mononuclear leukocytes in a plastic bag system using Ficoll-Hypaque.", "content": "Isolation of mononuclear leukocytes in a plastic bag system using Ficoll-Hypaque. Mononuclear cells, present in bone marrow and peripheral blood, have been isolated from red cells and granulocytes using a ficoll-hypaque density centrifugation process. Cells isolated by this process which uses centrifuge tubes may become contaminated. In 19 studies in our laboratory we used Ficoll-Hypaque treatment to isolate mononuclear cells from cellular residues obtained during plateletpheresis using a modified 600-ml polyvinyl-chloride (PL-146) plastic bag with the Haemonetics blood processor V-50 or the Fenwal CS-3000 blood processor. The 600-ml PVC plastic bag was modified by sealing its vertical edges using radio frequency to form a narrow bag with a volume of approximately 200 ml. A 125-volume of diluted apheresis cellular residue was collected, and the mononuclear cells were isolated as follows: the diluted cellular residue was layered onto 75 ml of Ficoll-Hypaque with a specific gravity of 1.077 and was centrifuged at 260 g for 30 min at 22 degrees C. The supernatant plasma was removed. The mononuclear cell layer was transferred to a sterile 600-ml transfer bag, and the cells were washed with saline. Of the 4.24 +/- 0.9 X 10(9) mononuclear cells applied to the gradient, approximately 3.73 +/- 0.8 X 10(9) cells were recovered. The recovered cells consisted of 77.3 +/- 8% lymphocytes, 19.0 +/- 7% monocytes, and 3.6 +/- 3% granulocytes. There was no significant difference in tissue culture growth in the CFU-GEMM assay of mononuclear cells whether the plastic tube or the plastic bag system was used. Aerobic bacteriologic cultures were negative. The PL-146 plastic bag system used in this study proved to be a significant aid in isolating mononuclear cells from plateletpheresis residue."}
{"id": "4079228", "title": "[Changes in the hemostatic system in patients with ischemic heart disease after isovolemic hemodilution].", "content": "[Changes in the hemostatic system in patients with ischemic heart disease after isovolemic hemodilution]. To specify indications for isovolumic hemodilution, hemostatic parameters (fibrinogen, soluble fibrin, fibrin decomposition products, platelet aggregation, thromboelastograms) were compared with clinical manifestations of coronary heart diseases (CHD) and coronarographic and bicycle-ergometric findings in 41 coronary patients. The increased blood viscosity syndrome was found in 63% of the patients. Isovolumic hemodilution was performed to control the detected disorders in 17 patients. Hemodilution was shown to be an effective means of controlling hemostatic disorders in coronary patients, hemostatic normalization being accompanied with clinical improvement in part of the cases."}
{"id": "4076678", "title": "[Relation between thromboelastographic indices in healthy subjects and the condition of the geomagnetic field].", "content": "[Relation between thromboelastographic indices in healthy subjects and the condition of the geomagnetic field]."}
{"id": "4075737", "title": "Lymphocytopenia in donors undergoing regular platelet apheresis with cell separators.", "content": "Lymphocytopenia in donors undergoing regular platelet apheresis with cell separators. The effect of regular platelet apheresis on lymphocyte count was investigated in 142 platelet donors who donated up to 113 times on Haemonetics Model 30 and Fenwal Model CS-3000 cell separators. Lymphocytopenia (lymphocyte count less than 0.9 X 10(9)/l) was found in 21 out of 113 (18.6%) donors who donated solely on the Haemonetics Model 30 compared with 2 out of 100 (2%) whole blood donors and none of 100 plasmapheresis donors (P less than 0.002). Lymphocyte count was inversely related to the total number of platelet donations (r = 0.51, P less than 0.001) and total estimated lymphocyte loss (r = 0.49, P less than 0.001) suggesting a cumulative effect. T4 and T8 lymphocyte subsets were found to be reduced in each of 13 lymphocytopenic platelet donors tested but T4/T8 ratios were similar to those of controls (2.51 +/- 0.79 and 2.33 +/- 0.58 respectively). No adverse effects on platelet donor health were observed but it is suggested that platelet apheresis protocols should be designed to minimize lymphocyte loss."}
{"id": "4072529", "title": "[Hemostasis and rheologic properties of blood in patients with minor strokes].", "content": "[Hemostasis and rheologic properties of blood in patients with minor strokes]. The hemostasis and rheological properties of the blood were studied in 88 patients with minor stroke (MS), 26 with transient disorders of the cerebral circulation (TDCC), and in 34 patients with stroke with minimum residual symptoms (SMRS). It has been established that disturbances of the hemostasis and rheological properties of the blood are one of the pathogenetic factors with respect to MS. In terms of severity and reversibility the latter occupies an intermediate position between TDCC and SMRS."}
{"id": "4060692", "title": "Cryopreservation of human platelets using 6% dimethyl sulfoxide and storage at -80 degrees C. Effects of 2 years of frozen storage at -80 degrees C and transportation in dry ice.", "content": "Cryopreservation of human platelets using 6% dimethyl sulfoxide and storage at -80 degrees C. Effects of 2 years of frozen storage at -80 degrees C and transportation in dry ice. Platelet studies were done in healthy male volunteers and in thrombocytopenic patients. Some of the platelets used in the study were isolated by mechanical apheresis using either the Haemonetics blood processor 30, the IBM blood processor 2997 or the Fenwal CS-3000 blood processor before freezing. Other platelets were isolated from individual units of whole blood and pooled before freezing. The platelets were frozen with a 6% cryoprotectant (DMSO) in a polyvinylchloride (PVC) plastic bag or a polyolefin plastic bag at -80 degrees C in a mechanical freezer and stored for as long as 3 years. Some of the frozen platelets were transported in dry ice in polystyrene foam containers to determine whether they would be adversely affected by such treatment. Platelet recovery after freezing, thawing and washing was about 75%. In the healthy male volunteers, in vivo recovery of autologous platelets 1-2 h after transfusion was about 33%, and the life span was about 8 days. In the thrombocytopenic patients, in vivo recovery values were 50% of those from fresh platelets. The transfusion of previously frozen washed platelets reduced clinical bleeding in the thrombocytopenic patients with bleeding. There was no evidence of quality deterioration in platelets after storage at -80 degrees C for at least 2 years, as determined from in vivo recovery and in vivo survival values, nor was there any adverse effect as a result of shipment of the frozen platelets in dry ice in polystyrene foam containers from one facility to another."}
{"id": "4058912", "title": "[Effect of hormonal contraceptives on the coagulation system with special reference to its inhibitors].", "content": "[Effect of hormonal contraceptives on the coagulation system with special reference to its inhibitors]. A controlled study of the antithrombin III (AT III), alpha2-macroglobulin (alpha2M), alphal-antitrypsin values of 71 long-term users of local oral contraceptives (OC) indicated that OCs are the most reliable contemporary anticontraceptive drugs, although thromboembolic side effects can be expected. The subjects were 16-35 years old and used Bisecurin, Ovidon, Rigevedon or Anteovin for 1-8 years. Thrombelastography (TEG) was performed to study the global coagulation process, and the 3 TEG parameters, reaction time (r), coagulation time (c), and maximum amplitude (A max) were calculated, yielding a hypercoagulation index. Prothrombin time (PT) and partial thromboplastin time (PTT) were also measured. Results showed a significant shortening of r values and slight decrease of c values in the OC users, as compared to the control (a 28-year old nonuser). The value of A max did not change much. Hypercoagulation was evident in all 3 groups, especially in Ovidon users. PT, PTT, and fibrinogen values did not change significantly. AT III:HC (heparin cofactor) values decreased 83% for Anteovin users, 91-96% for other OC users, but they did not drop to the critical 80% level. The alpha2M values became slightly elevated and alphalAT levels increased significantly in all except Anteovin users. These inhibitors of coagulation play an important role in hemostasis, and it is more likely that hypercoagulation is caused by the decreased level of inhibitors rather than the increase of coagulation factors. The significantly increased level of alpha1AT can pose a biochemical risk factor for thrombosis of veins, as it inhibits the fibrinolytic activity of granulocytes i.e., the formation of cellular fibrinolysis. Therefore, it is important to investigate the alpha1AT levels whenever AT III is normal in thrombosis."}
{"id": "4055112", "title": "Evaluation of two new filtration systems--Fenwal PS400 and Organon Teknika Curesis--and comparison of results with two centrifugation systems--IBM model 2997 and Haemonetics V50.", "content": "Evaluation of two new filtration systems--Fenwal PS400 and Organon Teknika Curesis--and comparison of results with two centrifugation systems--IBM model 2997 and Haemonetics V50. Two new filtration systems (Fenwal CPS 10TM - PS 400 and Organon Teknika Curesis - M82) were evaluated and compared with two centrifugal cell separators (IBM 2997 and Haemonetics V50). 11 patients with auto immune diseases and dermatological diseases underwent 230 consecutive plasma exchanges. For the filtration systems, the average whole blood rate was 50 ml/min and the plasma separation rate was about 21 ml/min for a transmembrane pressure about 70 mmHg. The pre/post percent reduction and sieving coefficient were calculated for some plasma and blood components. A variety of laboratory studies was monitored to assess the efficacy of plasma separators, their biocompatibility and some yields. These results show that the 2 filters appear safe and efficacious but their modules are too simple and do not offer a great security (no transmembrane pressure control or no extracorporeal fluid balance). For a blood banker, IBM 2997 seems more interesting if we take in account its characteristics during plasma exchanges and the possibility which is offered to carry out cytapheresis procedures. But for a thrombopenic patient the filtration systems keep their advantages."}
{"id": "4044231", "title": "Hemostatic changes after saline infusion.", "content": "Hemostatic changes after saline infusion. An in vitro trial was performed to detect a thrombotic tendency in patients receiving saline infusions before surgery. The following tests were performed: thromboelastography (TEG) with the three indices of the reaction time (r), clot formation time (k) and maximum amplitude (MA), and antithrombin III, which was investigated immunologically as well as by a functional test with a chromogenic substrate and an automated method. The use of these tests together with others for the detection of high-risk patients is suggested, since no single laboratory test was found to be sufficient for the prediction of thrombotic diseases."}
{"id": "4035364", "title": "A primate model (Macaca mulatta) to study the pharmacokinetics of heparin and its fractions.", "content": "A primate model (Macaca mulatta) to study the pharmacokinetics of heparin and its fractions. We have extensively studied the hemostatic parameters and the responses to the anticoagulant action of heparin and its fractions in the primate model (M. mulatta) and found these to be identical to those obtained in humans. The functional properties of antithrombin III, alpha 2-antiplasmin, and platelet factor 4 were also identical to humans in amidolytic and coagulant assays. Human antibodies against FPA, B beta 15-42 peptide, platelet factor 4, and thromboxane B2 reacted with the primate antigen, and assays were developed to measure these parameters in primates. Infusion of activated prothrombin complex concentrates (more than 100 U/kg/day) on a continual basis up to 3 days resulted in a hypercoagulable state manifested by an elevation of FPA, thromboxane B2, and changes in the thrombelastographic patterns. Similarly, infusion of homologous primate serum also resulted in a hypercoagulable state, as was evident by a sharp increase in the FPA levels. The antithrombotic effects of intravenous and subcutaneous administration of heparin, its low molecular fraction, and their constituents were studied after intravenous and subcutaneous injections. The low molecular weight fractions showed the most effective antithrombotic effects, whereas somewhat milder protection was observed with the starting material and highly anionic fraction. The prolongation of global tests, such as the APTT, TT, and changes in the thromboelastogram did not correlate with the reduction in the blood markers of hypercoagulable state. A modified simplate bleeding time method was used to study the effect of heparin and its fractions on the bleeding profile of heparin fractions. The components of fibrinolytic systems were also measurable in both the clot-based and amidolytic methods to predict the profibrinolytic actions of heparin fractions in its mode. These studies suggest that plasma markers, such as the platelet release proteins, products of thrombin activation, and prostaglandin metabolites, may provide better indices in the monitoring of the antithrombotic actions of newer heparins and antithrombotic drugs. Studies suggest that the pathophysiologic responses after a thrombogenic trigger in the primate model are close to humans, and drug modulation of these may provide relevant clinical information. This model provides the most similar preclinical model to study the actions of heparin fractions."}
{"id": "4030709", "title": "The clinical effectiveness and safety of chronic plasmapheresis in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis.", "content": "The clinical effectiveness and safety of chronic plasmapheresis in patients with primary biliary cirrhosis. Primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) is a chronic nonsuppurative, destructive cholangitis, whose etiology is unknown. Morbidity arises early from pruritus and later from hypercholesterolemia with xanthoma formation. Therapy is supportive and directed at the complications of cholestasis. Plasmapheresis has been reported to benefit patients with hyperlipidemia and PBC; thus a pilot study of plasmapheresis utilizing the Haemonetics Model 30 with replacement by albumin and saline was conducted. Five patients (four female and one male) with a mean age of 43 (range 29-58) and a mean duration of illness of 9.5 years (range 6-21) with marked jaundice, xanthomas, xanthelasma, hepatomegaly, fatigability, anorexia, and pruritus, as well as mild nausea were studied. Peripheral neuropathy was present in two patients. Two patients had splenomegaly. Two patients had an associated Sjogren syndrome. All patients had high serum bilirubin, alkaline phosphatase, and cholesterol levels and mild elevations in aspartate amino transferase and alanine amino transferase activities. Immune complexes measured in four patients were present. Antimitochondrial antibody titers were significant in all patients. Patients underwent a mean of 63 plasmapheresis procedures over a mean of 112 weeks removing a mean of 94.7 liters of plasma. No serious toxicity was seen. All patients showed a reduction in pruritus, xanthomas, xanthelasmas, and serum cholesterol values. The two patients who had evidence of Sjogren syndrome noted subjective improvement. All patients who had fatigue, anorexia and nausea also noted moderate improvement. There was no change in hepatomegaly or splenomegaly in patients demonstrating such organomegaly. Liver function did not change significantly. Overall, four patients had improvement in their condition and one patient achieved stability.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "4024233", "title": "Modified fluid gelatin. An alternative macromolecular agent for centrifugal leukapheresis.", "content": "Modified fluid gelatin. An alternative macromolecular agent for centrifugal leukapheresis. We studied a French modified fluid gelatin (MFG), substituting it for hydroxyethyl starch (HES) in leukapheresis procedures using three currently available blood cell separators, and observing its effects on the function of platelets and granulocytes. As a cell-collecting agent, we found MFG to be as effective as HES with intermittent flow centrifugation (Haemonetics), and slightly less so with one continuous flow device (IBM 2997). MFG was clearly less effective than HES with the Fenwal CS-3000 continuous flow separator, although we have reason to believe it would be possible to improve efficiency with this machine by changing the operating variables. Tests of platelet and granulocyte function showed negligible alteration with either agent and no difference between them. MFG disappears much more rapidly from the circulation than HES (after a single injection, it is undetectable by the third day). Reaction frequency with MFG was about the same as that of HES, with perhaps somewhat more frequent allergic manifestations."}
{"id": "4002308", "title": "Factors that influence lymphocyte yields in lymphocytapheresis.", "content": "Factors that influence lymphocyte yields in lymphocytapheresis. The recent use of lymphocytapheresis to treat immune-mediated diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis prompted a study of factors that influence the cell composition of lymphocytapheresis concentrates. Following single cytapheresis procedures, using protocols recommended by manufacturers, lymphocyte yields were significantly higher with the model 2997 (IBM) and CS-3000 (Fenwal) cell separators as compared to the model 30 (Haemonetics) separator (9.8 +/- 1.1 and 7.1 +/- 1.2 X 10(9) lymphocytes, respectively, versus 4.6 +/- 1.1 X 10(9); p less than 0.01). The lymphocyte concentrate obtained with the CS-3000 separator contained the smallest number of monocytes (0.6 +/- 0.4 X 10(9) versus 1.4 +/- 1.6 and 1 +/- 0.3 X 10(9) for the model 2997 and 30 cell separators, respectively). Platelet contamination of the lymphocyte concentrate was highest with the CS-3000 (6.5 +/- 2.4 X 10(11], and erythrocyte contamination was highest when the model 30 was used (21 +/- 3.0%). Studies using the model 2997 indicated that lymphocyte yields were significantly influenced by donor pre-apheresis absolute lymphocyte counts, and for this cell separator by specific operating variables, such as channel centrifugation speed and positioning of the red cell interface during lymphocyte collection. Maximal yields were obtained when the channel centrifugation speed was 800 to 1000 rpm (equivalent to 100-150 X g) and the red cell interface was adjusted to yield a cell concentrate with a hematocrit less than 4 percent. These results suggest that it will be necessary to standardize lymphocytapheresis collection protocols in future studies to assess the role of lymphocytapheresis in the management of immune-mediated diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis."}
{"id": "3996457", "title": "Monitoring of antifibrinolytic treatment in subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Monitoring of antifibrinolytic treatment in subarachnoid hemorrhage. 21 patients (aged 28-81 years) with recent subarachnoid hemorrhage (10 saccular aneurysms, 3 arteriovenous angiomas, 8 normal angiograms) were continuously infused with tranexamic acid at a dosage of 5 g daily for up to 14 days. Therapy was surveyed by daily measurement of the available plasminogen activity (aPl) with the chromogenic substrate S-2251 and by a modified bioassay, whereby the concentration of tranexamic acid was determined thrombelastographically and expressed as antifibrinolytic equivalent. In addition, a battery of blood coagulation tests was performed daily. 5 patients died, 1 after postoperative stroke, 3 as a result of general complications during intensive care treatment, but only 1 due to rebleeding. 4 patients were successfully operated during the first week, 1 patient after 2 weeks. aPl fell from 99.2% (SEM 3.0%, n = 21) before treatment to 72.9% (SEM 3.5%, n = 21) after 24 h and to the therapeutic level between 50 and 60% from day 2 on. The mean steady state of the antifibrinolytic equivalent corresponded to about 150 micrograms/ml of tranexamic acid during infusion. Intra- and interindividual changes were relatively small for aPl, when compared with the antifibrinolytic equivalent measured by the bioassay. In 2 elderly patients tranexamic acid infusion had to be terminated because of clinical and laboratory signs of disseminated intravascular coagulation, whereby aPl fell below the therapeutic range, elucidating that this method is a sensitive indicator for a hypercoagulable state and useful for the surveillance of therapy with antifibrinoltic agents."}
{"id": "3994847", "title": "[Accentuated and irregular post-maximal deflection in thromboelastographic tracings: occurrence in various pathologies].", "content": "[Accentuated and irregular post-maximal deflection in thromboelastographic tracings: occurrence in various pathologies]. The increased and irregular post-maximal deflection of the two limbs of thromboelastographic traces has been variably interpreted by the Authors who utilize TEG as a global screening test for haemostasis evaluation. These thromboelastographic patterns have been attributed either to enhanced fibrinolytic activity or to raised clot's rectractility or even to incorrect technique. In our study, 1701 TEG's traces carried out in the last five years have been reviewed in order to evaluate the incidence of such patterns in both healthy subjects and in patients affected by different diseases. The data obtained show that such irregular post-maximal deflection's patterns are quite absence in healthy subjects while reaches a statistically significant incidence only in patients affected by diabetes mellitus, obesity or systemic hypertension. The results seem to suggest that the increased and irregular post-maximal TEG deflection is not a simply product of technique's mistake but may represent an useful index of some haemostatic alterations which need further studies."}
{"id": "3989338", "title": "[Fundamental studies on the management of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) with antithrombin III (AT-III) concentrate].", "content": "[Fundamental studies on the management of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) with antithrombin III (AT-III) concentrate]. The anticoagulant effect of antithrombin III (AT-III) in the management of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) was investigated. When AT-III concentrate (4 mg/0.2 ml) was added to pregnant whole blood (0.8 ml), r(21.0 +/- 0.6 mm) and K(7.2 +/- 0.3 mm) (Mean +/- SE) were prolonged as compared with the saline control (C) (r: 18.6 +/- 0.6, K: 4.6 +/- 0.2 mm), and ma was decreased from 68.8 +/- 1.2 mm (C) to 60.3 +/- 1.0 mm (AT-III) on the TEG (p less than 0.01). PT and aPTT were also prolonged by the addition of AT-III concentrate (p less than 0.01). DIC models in rabbits were induced by continuous infusion of endotoxin (E). AT-III concentrate was administered two hours after starting infusion of E. Anticoagulant activity was evident on the TEG. In the data on coagulative and fibrinolytic factors, there were no significant differences between the control and the group administered AT-III concentrate. Fibrin deposits in the renal glomeruli were reduced after administration of AT-III concentrate (control: 46.5 +/- 38.7%, AT-III: 13.4 +/- 27.9%). The decreasing rate of AT-III antigen was the same in E infusion and non-infusion groups. However, the rate of decrease in activity was higher in the former than in the latter (rate of decrease: 40.0% and 24.6% 8 hours after administration of the AT-III concentrate). This indicated that inactive AT-III combined with thrombin and Xa might remain in the blood in DIC."}
{"id": "3982692", "title": "[Control of subcutaneous calcium-heparin therapy by the thrombodensitogram].", "content": "[Control of subcutaneous calcium-heparin therapy by the thrombodensitogram]."}
{"id": "3982691", "title": "[The thrombodensitogram: a photometric and dynamic study of the clot (the slow clotting test)].", "content": "[The thrombodensitogram: a photometric and dynamic study of the clot (the slow clotting test)]."}
{"id": "3969704", "title": "Granulocyte concentrates. Glucose concentrations and glucose utilization during storage at 22 degrees C.", "content": "Granulocyte concentrates. Glucose concentrations and glucose utilization during storage at 22 degrees C. Neutrophil metabolism is dependent on the available stores of either exogenous or endogenous glucose. We studied 38 granulocyte concentrates collected by four different centrifugal cytapheresis systems: Haemonetics model 30, IBM 2997, Fenwal CS-3000, and Fenwal Celltrifuge II. Extracellular glucose concentrations were measured immediately following collection and after 24 hours of storage. The Fenwal CS-3000 produced the highest concentrations of platelets and leukocytes, and the units had the lowest initial glucose levels and pH. After 24 hours of storage, there was a mean glucose of 1.7 mg per dl in the Fenwal CS-3000 granulocyte concentrates and 9 of 12 units had no detectable glucose. In contrast, concentrates collected from other systems had sufficient glucose available to support neutrophil metabolism for a longer period."}
{"id": "3938858", "title": "[Hemostatic management in hemophilia A. Usefulness of APTT and TEG as a method for monitoring Factor VIII concentrates].", "content": "[Hemostatic management in hemophilia A. Usefulness of APTT and TEG as a method for monitoring Factor VIII concentrates]."}
{"id": "3929386", "title": "A modified stasis thrombosis model to study the antithrombotic actions of heparin and its fractions.", "content": "A modified stasis thrombosis model to study the antithrombotic actions of heparin and its fractions. The original stasis thrombosis model of Wessler has been modified. Numerous thrombogenic agents were evaluated for their pathophysiologic effects and were classified in terms of stasis clot in the jugular vein. Alterations produced in coagulation parameters, such as the PT, APTT, thrombin time, activated recalcification time (Hemachron), and thrombelastographic pattern were recorded. Since the pathophysiologic activation of the hemostatic system varies considerably in different diseases, a proper animal model along with a proper type of thrombogenic trigger should be carefully selected to produce pathogenesis and to study the therapeutic responses of heparin and its derivatives. In the modified stasis thrombosis model, besides monitoring the formation of the jugular vein stasis clot, it is proposed that the following tests may be useful to establish hypercoagulable states: Functional levels of various coagulation factors, platelet counts, fibrinogen levels, and whole blood activated clotting times. The nature of activation processes in each thrombogenic challenge should be carefully analyzed in terms of pathways involved; for example, the administration of heterologous serum (such as human, monkey) to rabbits produces anaphylactoid reactions, including hemolysis, thrombocytopenia, clinical chemistry abnormalities (enzymes), and many problems that may involve the complement and immune systems. All previous data obtained using heterologous sera as a thrombogenic trigger are of questionable value as to the efficacy of some of the antithrombotic agents tested against it. In addition to the species and the thrombogenic challenge, the following factors may contribute significantly to the pathophysiologic response and its alteration by various agents: (1) Composition of the thrombogenic agent; (2) effect of preparatory drugs, such as anesthetics, on the hemostatic parameters; (3) alterations on injection time, volume, osmolarity, and temperature; (4) variations in the circulation time of the thrombogenic agent and stasis time of the ligated jugular vein stasis segment; and (5) blood sample collection and handling. Since the kallikrein-kinin cascade is closely associated with the coagulation and the fibrinolytic network, a systemic monitoring of blood pressure may provide information on the effect of thrombogenic agents on hemodynamics.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)"}
{"id": "3927636", "title": "[Neuropathologic syndromes in the late period of closed cranio-cerebral injuries].", "content": "[Neuropathologic syndromes in the late period of closed cranio-cerebral injuries]. Using a comprehensive psychoneurological examination including a number of paraclinical methods (EEG, REG, echoventriculometry, thromboelastography, audiography, etc.) the authors studied 160 war veterans who had sustained a closed craniocerebral injury of a mild or moderate degree during the Great Patriotic War. The following neuropathological syndromes most characteristic for its long-term period were identified: cochleo-vestibular disorders, oculomotor and optico-vestibular disorders, as well as vegetovascular, hypothalamic, Parkinsonism, dyssomnic, epileptic and hydrocephalohypertensive syndromes. The authors also describe a number of the features of these syndromes related to the type of the course of the long-term period of the injury and to the predominance in the clinical picture of the disease of posttraumatic or cerebrovascular disturbances."}
{"id": "3919530", "title": "Plasmapheresis in hyperviscosity syndrome.", "content": "Plasmapheresis in hyperviscosity syndrome. Three patients with Waldenstr\u00f6m's macroglobulinaemia developed circulatory complications due to increased plasma viscosity, i.e. relative viscosity value above 4. Plasmapheresis was performed either in a Haemonetics 30 S cell separator, by plasma filtration through a CPS 10 TM filter or by a double-double pack Fenwal system. All three methods reduced the plasma viscosity and abolished the clinical symptoms. In cases of acute hyperviscosity syndrome, apheresis of small amounts of plasma by the double-double pack system may serve as an alternative to the more advanced techniques."}
{"id": "3917130", "title": "[The value of graphic methods: thrombodynamoelastography, resonance thrombography and coagulography in the detection of hemostasis disorders in patients with liver cirrhosis].", "content": "[The value of graphic methods: thrombodynamoelastography, resonance thrombography and coagulography in the detection of hemostasis disorders in patients with liver cirrhosis]."}
{"id": "3913559", "title": "Standardization and characterization of the procedure for in vitro treatment of human bone marrow with cyclophosphamide derivatives.", "content": "Standardization and characterization of the procedure for in vitro treatment of human bone marrow with cyclophosphamide derivatives. Thirty human bone marrow (BM) suspensions from patients with acute leukaemia patients in remission were processed with the Haemonetics 30 flow cell separator in order to separate buffy-coats and to treat them in vitro with a derivative of cyclophosphamide (ASTA Z 7557). After processing, the volumes of BM suspensions were reduced to 25%. Recoveries of leucocytes, CFUc and BFUe were respectively 62, 85 and 84%. In vitro treatment with doses of ASTA Z ranging from 50 to 140 micrograms/2 X 10(7) leucocytes (according to the CFUc sensitivity of each patient) destroyed 95 +/- 5% of initial CFUc. After freezing and thawing, recovery of CFUc from treated BM was poor (24%) in comparison to that obtained with untreated BM (79%)."}
{"id": "3896028", "title": "Intraoperative changes in blood coagulation and thrombelastographic monitoring in liver transplantation.", "content": "Intraoperative changes in blood coagulation and thrombelastographic monitoring in liver transplantation. The blood coagulation system of 66 consecutive patients undergoing consecutive liver transplantations was monitored by thrombelastograph and analytic coagulation profile. A poor preoperative coagulation state, decrease in levels of coagulation factors, progressive fibrinolysis, and whole blood clot lysis were observed during the preanhepatic and anhepatic stages of surgery. A further general decrease in coagulation factors and platelets, activation of fibrinolysis, and abrupt decrease in levels of factors V and VIII occurred before and with reperfusion of the homograft. Recovery of blood coagulability began 30-60 min after reperfusion of the graft liver, and coagulability had returned toward baseline values 2 hr after reperfusion. A positive correlation was shown between the variables of thrombelastography and those of the coagulation profile. Thrombelastography was shown to be a reliable and rapid monitoring system. Its use was associated with a 33% reduction of blood and fluid infusion volume, whereas blood coagulability was maintained without an increase in the number of blood product donors."}
{"id": "3890249", "title": "[Characteristics of beta 2-adrenergic regulation of gastric secretion, hemostasis and cardiac rhythm in patients with duodenal ulcer and a history of hemorrhagic complications (effect of alupent)].", "content": "[Characteristics of beta 2-adrenergic regulation of gastric secretion, hemostasis and cardiac rhythm in patients with duodenal ulcer and a history of hemorrhagic complications (effect of alupent)]. The effect of intravenous infusion of alupent (0.1 microgram/kg/min for 1 h) on the main parameters of gastric secretion, thromboelastogram, electrocoagulogram, ADP-induced platelet aggregation, the kinetics of fibrinolysis and vegetative regulation of the cardiac rhythm was studied in 59 subjects (10 healthy males, 23 patients suffering from peptic ulcer of the duodenum with a history of hemorrhages, 26 patients with uncomplicated duodenal ulcer). In healthy subjects and in patients with uncomplicated ulcer, the beta 2-adrenoagonist caused an increase in the volume of basal secretion, production of acid and pepsin, acceleration of blood coagulation, and fibrinolysis activation. At the same time in 2/3 of patients with a history of hemorrhages due to duodenal ulcer alupent inhibited gastric secretion of acid and pepsin and, along with stimulation of plasmic factors of coagulation, inhibited activated fibrinolysis. Vegetative dysfunction in patients with uncomplicated ulcer was marked by the predominance of the parasympathetic regulation of the cardiac rhythm, whereas in patients with a history of hemorrhages by sympatheticotonia. These features of beta 2-adrenergic regulation can be used for predicting hemorrhages and development of pathogenetically validated treatment methods."}
{"id": "3006606", "title": "Leukopheresis for treatment of psoriasis: is therapeutical benefit related to reduced activities of neutral proteinases of polymorphonuclear leukocytes?", "content": "Leukopheresis for treatment of psoriasis: is therapeutical benefit related to reduced activities of neutral proteinases of polymorphonuclear leukocytes? Ten patients were treated with repeated leukophereses performed one to three times per week for 2-5 weeks. Two of the patients was cleared completely, four exhibited regression of more than one-half of the lesions, and four showed only a slight improvement. The therapy did not markedly affect the granulocyte count in peripheral blood, and the beneficial clinical response was not related to the number of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (PMNs) removed by leukophereses. During therapy, the activities of elastase, cathepsin G, lysozyme, and myeloperoxidase in PMNs were determined by spectrophotometry. PMNs isolated using a Haemonetics 30 blood-cell separator were about 50% deficient in these activities in comparison to cells obtained directly from peripheral blood. Thus, leukopheresis induces a marked degranulation of PMNs. Repeated leukophereses were found to generate significant variations in the activities of circulating PMN granule enzymes and in the levels of acid-soluble proteins. Remission or great improvement were observed in patients who, during therapy, exhibited decreased PMN elastase and cathepsin G activities, whereas a poor clinical response was accompanied by high enzymatic activities."}
{"id": "2581864", "title": "A case of congenital factor XIII deficiency.", "content": "A case of congenital factor XIII deficiency. The case of a 53 years old woman was described in whom a congenital factor XIII deficiency was suspected because of deforming scars and hemorrhagic diathesis. A thromboelastographic declination of elasticity as well as decreased factor XIII level up to 5% of normal range were only found in all hemostatic examinations. In 2 children factor XIII decreased to half of its normal level, whereas in the youngest daughter that level was 25%. Sporadically the girl had mild diathesis. No changes in thromboelastograms were observed in members of the patient's family. The platelet function was unchanged in all examined cases."}
{"id": "2416995", "title": "[Informativeness of the thromboelastographic method in evaluating coagulative hemostasis in oncological patients].", "content": "[Informativeness of the thromboelastographic method in evaluating coagulative hemostasis in oncological patients]."}
{"id": "6734457", "title": "[Heparin level and coagulation potential after subcutaneous injection of 7500 international units of heparin calcium].", "content": "[Heparin level and coagulation potential after subcutaneous injection of 7500 international units of heparin calcium]. A dosage of 7500 IU heparin calcium (Calciparin) was administered subcutaneously twice daily in 15 probands. Prior to and after the 1st and 7th injection heparin levels were determined in plasma and coagulation studies were done. The highest heparin levels were found around 4 hours after the injection. They were significantly higher after the 7th injection than after the 1st. Values decreased markedly after 8 hours. After 10-12 hours they approached the initial values, however remained significantly increased. The appropriate changes were seen in activated partial thromboplastin time, thrombin time and reaction- and clotting time in the thrombelastogram. Activity and concentration of antithrombin III decreased by about 10%. Fibrinogen and platelets remained largely unaffected. The results show that twice daily subcutaneous injections of 7500 IU heparin calcium are able to close the anticoagulation gap in plasma which occurs with administration of twice 5000 IU between two injections."}
{"id": "6710437", "title": "Detection of a procoagulant activity in acute ischaemic heart disease.", "content": "Detection of a procoagulant activity in acute ischaemic heart disease."}
{"id": "6706205", "title": "[Role of thromboelastography in the prognostication of pneumonia after lung surgery].", "content": "[Role of thromboelastography in the prognostication of pneumonia after lung surgery]."}
{"id": "6589122", "title": "[Is thrombelastography useful in daily practice?].", "content": "[Is thrombelastography useful in daily practice?]."}
{"id": "6536656", "title": "Granulocyte collection: a comparison of Fenwal CS 3000, IBM 2997, and haemonetics cell separators.", "content": "Granulocyte collection: a comparison of Fenwal CS 3000, IBM 2997, and haemonetics cell separators. With the advent of sophisticated automated blood processors, the collection of large numbers of granulocytes for transfusion has been made more practical in the past ten years. Harvesting granulocytes by filtration leukapheresis has been abandoned in most centers because of adverse reactions in both donors and recipients. Currently, both continuous and discontinuous flow centrifugation leukapheresis techniques are available. However, both corticosteroids and hydroxyethyl starch are required for optimal granulocyte collection. In this paper, we critically compare the three major cell separators used for the collection of granulocytes by centrifugation leukapheresis. All three instruments separate blood cells by centrifugation; the IBM-2997 and the Fenwal CS-3000 function by continuous-flow centrifugation, and the Haemonetics Model 30 by discontinuous-flow centrifugation. Factors such as the donor preapheresis white blood cell count, the blood flow rate through the machine and the centrifuge speed effect granulocyte collection. Comparisons will be made of the cost of the software for each machine, the time required for granulocyte collection, the convenience of set-up and tear-down, the amount of skill and experience demanded of the operator. Donor factors will be discussed. Since the blood processor may be used for other procedures including plateletpheresis, therapeutic plasma exchange, lymphocytapheresis and erthrocytapheresis, the pros and cons of each machine as used for some of these procedures will be included in the discussion. In our experience, total leukocytes and granulocytes (neutrophils) collected with the three different instruments varied only slightly when unstimulated donors were studied.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)"}
{"id": "6527859", "title": "[Use of disaggregants in treating diabetic retinopathy].", "content": "[Use of disaggregants in treating diabetic retinopathy]."}
{"id": "6525160", "title": "[Work on the Haemonetics 30 blood cell separator].", "content": "[Work on the Haemonetics 30 blood cell separator]. Our experience with cell separator led us to the conclusion that platelet concentration is rather high (6,94 X 10(11)/L), especially in the part of separated blood which contains significant percentage of erythrocytes. A considerable amount of leukocytes (1,6 X 10(10)/L) can be separated as well. It should be mentioned that leukocyte concentrations are significantly higher when Dexan is administered intravenously and Plasmasteril is used. Therapeutic plasmapheresis requires different approach which varies from the usual work with blood donors, since complications can be expected. Appropriate choice of plasma substituents should be made, as well as constant monitoring of electrocardiographic changes in patients."}
{"id": "6506834", "title": "[Relation between procoagulant activity and fetal lung maturity in amniotic fluid].", "content": "[Relation between procoagulant activity and fetal lung maturity in amniotic fluid]. A total of 146 samples of amniotic fluid from the 15th to 43rd weeks of pregnancy were taken by either transabdominal amniocentesis or amniotomy during birth. In addition to the palmitic/stearic ratio (P/S) the following coagulation tests were determined: clotting time, modified prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time (PTT), recalcification time and, in selected samples, thrombelastograms. In the course of pregnancy there is a significant shortening of all coagulation tests measured in amniotic fluid. Comparing the values obtained in the 15th to 18th and the 37th to 43rd weeks of gestation and literature results the following values may indicate fetal maturity: clotting time less than 100 sec., modified prothrombin time less than 80 sec., PTT less than 30 sec. and recalcification time less than 80 sec. The lower limit for P/S ratio in normal pregnancy is 5,0. In 58 cases, amniotic fluid was obtained in the 37th to 43rd week at most 24 hours before delivery; there was no case of RDS in this group. Eliminating intermediate P/S values of 4,5 to 5,0 a false negative rate of 1,7% for the prediction of fetal lung maturity was seen. The corresponding rate for the modified prothrombin time was 3,4% and for the clotting time 6,4%. In 7 RDS cases all cases could be properly predicted from the recalcification time and the PTT. The fetal lung maturity may be estimated by means of simple and rapid coagulation tests and this may facilitate the indication for RDS-prophylaxis. The determination of the L/S or P/S ratios, however, cannot yet be dispensed with."}
{"id": "6500033", "title": "[Effect of heparin on the aggregation function of thrombocytes].", "content": "[Effect of heparin on the aggregation function of thrombocytes]. It has been demonstrated in experiments in vitro that addition of heparin to platelet enriched plasma potentiates the ADP-induced platelet aggregation and that heparin itself can provoke aggregation of platelets. Heparin exerts an inhibitory action on the thrombin-induced aggregation, which seems likely to be associated with its inhibitory effect on thrombin, an inducer of aggregation. It has been discovered that heparin action on the hemostasis is determined by its concentration. The doses under 0.05 U/ml enhance the ADP-induced platelet aggregation and accelerate the time of blood coagulation, whereas the doses from 0.3 to 2 U/ml exert a more powerful effect on aggregation, inhibiting blood coagulation."}
{"id": "6479561", "title": "[Effect of 1,4-naphthoquinone preparations on the platelet aggregation process].", "content": "[Effect of 1,4-naphthoquinone preparations on the platelet aggregation process]."}
{"id": "6474360", "title": "Effect of continuous low-dose intravenous heparin administered during operation on postoperative measurements of antithrombin III and antifactor Xa.", "content": "Effect of continuous low-dose intravenous heparin administered during operation on postoperative measurements of antithrombin III and antifactor Xa. A preliminary subcutaneous dose of heparin given with premedication, followed by a continuous infusion of low-dose heparin up to 2 hours after operation, was given to 20 of 40 patients undergoing major abdominal operation randomly allocated to either act as controls or receive prophylaxis. The anticoagulant effect of heparin was determined by immunologic measurements of antithrombin III (AT III) and by assay of AT III and antifactor Xa activity on postoperative days 1 and 3. Despite lowered plasma AT III levels on postoperative day 3, the patients who had received low-dose heparin had significantly increased plasma antifactor Xa activity when compared with control patients (P less than 0.05). The incidences of thrombosis within 48 hours (early deep venous thrombosis) after operation were 9 of 20 control patients and 1 of 20 patients who received prophylaxis (P less than 0.01 by Fisher's exact test). Preoperative blood samples from another group of patients undergoing major abdominal operation were examined by the thromboelastograph saline dilution test, which has previously been shown to be a predictor of the risk of early deep vein thrombosis. The patients who were considered to be at high risk were treated with low-dose heparin as before, and the low-risk patients received no prophylaxis. The high-risk patients had lower levels of AT III before operation and before heparin administration than the low-risk patients and significantly lower levels on day 3 (P less than 0.02), whereas on day 3 the high-risk patients had significantly raised levels of plasma antifactor Xa. No patient in either group developed deep vein thrombosis within 48 hours of operation."}
{"id": "6466788", "title": "Biorheology in the practice of medicine: resonance thrombography.", "content": "Biorheology in the practice of medicine: resonance thrombography."}
{"id": "6464614", "title": "[Clotting properties of the blood in severe craniocerebral injuries].", "content": "[Clotting properties of the blood in severe craniocerebral injuries]. The time-course of changes in the blood coagulation potential were studied from the 1st to the 12th day in patients with craniocerebral injury by thromboelastography. Some of the thromboelastogram indices studied and their time-course are of prognostic significance in appraising the patients' condition. Irrespective of the severity of the clinical condition, similar changes were revealed in the coagulation system of patients and were regarded as disseminated intravascular coagulation of blood. Intravascular coagulation is the most intensive in patients with a fatal outcome. Hemostasis monitoring and correction of disorders of the coagulation system in the patients are recommended."}
{"id": "6443085", "title": "[Hypercoagulative state and thrombelastography in severe preeclampsia].", "content": "[Hypercoagulative state and thrombelastography in severe preeclampsia]."}
{"id": "6207362", "title": "[Fluorometric method of studying thrombocyte endo- and exocytosis during heparin exposure].", "content": "[Fluorometric method of studying thrombocyte endo- and exocytosis during heparin exposure]."}
{"id": "6207361", "title": "[Physiological and clinical significance of blood clot retraction (review of the literature)].", "content": "[Physiological and clinical significance of blood clot retraction (review of the literature)]."}
{"id": "6204110", "title": "[Comparative evaluation of methods of determining fibrinolytic activity of whole blood in oncology patients].", "content": "[Comparative evaluation of methods of determining fibrinolytic activity of whole blood in oncology patients]."}
{"id": "6887843", "title": "The transfer test: a new screening procedure for thrombotic diseases.", "content": "The transfer test: a new screening procedure for thrombotic diseases. The transfer test (TT) measures by means of thromboelastography the capacity of a plasma to shorten the coagulation time of a control plasma. The value of the TT was compared to that of fibrin(ogen), degradation products (FDP), and ethanol gelatin test (EGT) in various diseases (group I), in confirmed deep venous thrombosis (group II), and in confirmed pulmonary embolism (group III). In 211 consecutive patients admitted for various diseases the results of the TT, FDP, and EGT were abnormal in 12.3, 11.3, and 66.6%, respectively, of the cases. In 59 consecutive patients with deep venous thrombosis confirmed by radiological phlebography the results of TT, FDP, and EGT were abnormal at admission time in 96.6, 89.8, and 44%, respectively, of the cases. In 45 consecutive patients with pulmonary embolism confirmed by lung scintigraphy the results of TT, FDP, and EGT were abnormal at admission time in 97.7, 97.6, and 88%, respectively, of the cases. Among the three parameters which were evaluated, the TT seems to be the most sensitive screening procedure for thrombotic diseases. A normal result of TT is a strong argument against a recent thrombotic venous phenomenon."}
{"id": "6879795", "title": "[Withdrawal of donor blood using the Haemonetics 30 cell separator. Preparation of thrombocyte products].", "content": "[Withdrawal of donor blood using the Haemonetics 30 cell separator. Preparation of thrombocyte products]."}
{"id": "6867586", "title": "Contribution of the erythrocytes physical qualities (deformability and aggregability) to the viscoelastic properties of the blood clot in patients with acute cerebral thrombosis.", "content": "Contribution of the erythrocytes physical qualities (deformability and aggregability) to the viscoelastic properties of the blood clot in patients with acute cerebral thrombosis."}
{"id": "6865293", "title": "[The effect of diamicron on various blood coagulation indices in patients with type II diabetes mellitus].", "content": "[The effect of diamicron on various blood coagulation indices in patients with type II diabetes mellitus]."}
{"id": "6840829", "title": "[Heparin elimination in intraoperative autotransfusion with the haemonetics cell saver].", "content": "[Heparin elimination in intraoperative autotransfusion with the haemonetics cell saver]. Intraoperative autotransfusion has proved useful in decreasing decisively the need of donor blood in major operations. Due to an important technical development of the equipment used including the possibility to separate red blood cells and to wash them in physiological saline, typical problems occurring during intraoperative autotransfusion seem to be overcome for the most part. One of these problems is the retransfusion of the citrate or heparin added for anticoagulation of blood. Heparin itself may be responsible for a disturbance of coagulation. The efficiency of eliminating heparin by washing it in the Haemonetics Cell Saver was tested by means of a high sensitive heparin test. Partly the samples were totally free of heparin, partly small remains of heparin could be found. Even the maximum value of 60 I.E. measured in one autologous red blood cell concentrate is of no importance for the daily clinical practice. Intraoperative autotransfusion with the Haemonetics Cell Saver is also superior to a homologous transfusion of blood with its unavoidable share of citrate."}
{"id": "6821712", "title": "Studies on a family with the factor VII defect.", "content": "Studies on a family with the factor VII defect. Investigations in a family with an isolated factor VII deficiency are reported. In one of the propositi VII Ag was reduced, in all other family members VII Ag was in the low normal range. Other investigators have observed various activation patterns of factor VII in four deficient families which were tested with thromboplastins from different sources. In contrast to most of these earlier studies the degree of activation with different thromboplastins was very similar regardless which thromboplastin was tested. These results confirm the heterogeneity of the factor VII defect. Platelet aggregation which was tested in one of the propositi with ADP, adrenaline, and collagen was found to be normal. No cold activation of factor VII was observed."}
{"id": "6684936", "title": "[Use of neomycin-bacitracin irrigating solution with intraoperative autotransfusions during orthopedic operations].", "content": "[Use of neomycin-bacitracin irrigating solution with intraoperative autotransfusions during orthopedic operations]. Although there is doubt about the importance of rinsing the operative field with a solution containing locally acting antibiotics, it is frequently done. In this paper we tried to answer the question, wether intraoperative autotransfusion (IAT) with the Haemonetics Cell Saver is contraindicated during rinsing the operative area with locally acting antibiotics or vice versa. The measured serum concentrations for neomycin and bacitracin (Nebacetin) were extremely low. Therefore IAT is recommended with a system separating and washing the autologous red blood cells even under circumstances of rinsing the operative field with a solution containing locally acting antibiotics."}
{"id": "6680179", "title": "[Effect of an electric charge on athrombogenic properties of polyvinyl chloride foil].", "content": "[Effect of an electric charge on athrombogenic properties of polyvinyl chloride foil]. The authors present the results of investigation of fresh, human citrate blood after and before the contact with monoelectret of polyvinyl chloride (PVC). The investigations concerned the influence of electric charge of the results of thromboelastographic test and the outcome of microscopic examination. It was proved that blood after the contact with monoelectret contrary to the blood after the contact with sample lacking electret effect, had markedly prolonged thromboelastographic coagulation time and time of clot formation to standard elasticity."}
{"id": "6678359", "title": "Blood coagulation studies in domestic pigs (Hanover breed) and minipigs (Goettingen breed).", "content": "Blood coagulation studies in domestic pigs (Hanover breed) and minipigs (Goettingen breed). Blood coagulation studies were performed on 60 Hanover domestic pigs ready for slaughter and a total of 84 Goettingen minipigs. A tendency to hypercoagulability was found in these pigs, expressed in a shortened PTT, r- and k-time in the thromboelastogram and a slightly reduced plasminogen and plasmin level. Many values were similar to those of man. Thrombin time was longer. This may be due more to enhanced formation of fibrin degradation products (anti-thrombin VI) than to greater amounts of endogenous heparin being released. The longer reptilase and thrombin coagulase times support this. The thrombocyte count differed only slightly. The findings suggest that the Goettingen minipigs and Hanover domestic pig are suitable animals for comparative blood coagulation studies."}
{"id": "6667245", "title": "Estimation of coagulation-fibrinolytic factors in DIC.", "content": "Estimation of coagulation-fibrinolytic factors in DIC. A computer analysis of the coagulation laboratory records at the first department of Hokkaido University Hospital over a three-year period (1979-1981) was performed on 553 patients with presumptive intravascular coagulation. It is indicated that the most important diagnostic tests for DIC were Fbg, FDP, and AT III. DIC may have developed not only in patients with reduced Fbg but also in patients with normal or elevated Fbg. It is necessary to estimate the actual situations in the patients with DIC by utilizing sequential laboratory tests. In DIC, SDS-PAGE patterns of Fbg indicated the marked reduction of LMW Fbg, and the activated fibrin formation must be caused by the high affinity of thrombin for HMW Fbg. Changes in the immunoprecipitative second peak of AT III may indicate the binding of different serine proteases to AT III in DIC. Rapid and simple diagnostic tests for DIC are clinically required. An analysis of the TEG pattern using normal plasma mixed with the patient's plasma can indicate the presence of procoagulant activity in patient plasma. Such a laboratory test using TEG is the most useful and rapid diagnostic test in DIC. An anticoagulant effect of heparin therapy is determined by APTT and heparin levels. The antithrombotic effect of heparin therapy is determined by FPA as an immediate index and by Fbg, FDP, and AT III as a slow index."}
{"id": "6660398", "title": "[Thromboelastography in obstetrical practice].", "content": "[Thromboelastography in obstetrical practice]."}
{"id": "6655007", "title": "[Coagulation and the general surgeon. Its physiology and laboratory tests].", "content": "[Coagulation and the general surgeon. Its physiology and laboratory tests]. Mechanisms of coagulation and appropriate laboratory tests necessary for general surgical procedures are outlined. Physiologic features discussed include: platelet coagulation (with a brief analysis of the release and the role of prostaglandins); the equilibrium between plasma coagulation and lysis, each dependent on activators and inhibitors (a total of 4 enzymatic systems); and finally the role of the liver, lungs, and reticuloendothelial system. However, the two types of coagulation are narrowly intricated. Vessel endothelium prevents or assists platelet adhesion, coagulation, and lysis. An important feature is that total blood coagulates more rapidly than plasma. Physiopathological features described are activation of platelets or their inhibition by anti-aggregants, and induction of coagulation by endothelial lesions or eruption of an autologous or heterologous protease, as well as a brief outline of consumption coagulopathy and disseminated intravascular coagulation, and the concept of hypercoagulability. With respect to laboratory tests it is suggested that an overall picture of coagulation of total blood and not of plasma should be obtained before individual examinations for certain coagulation or lysis elements. Minimum data necessary preoperatively are the coagulation and bleeding times, completed by questioning the patient, the costs of these procedures being insignificant. If laboratory tests are necessary, these should involve a thromboelastogram of total blood, sometimes combined with a test of ADP-induced platelet aggregation. Certain plasma tests can provide complementary confirmatory data. These remarks are obviously applicable to general and digestive surgery only, and not to research investigations or the study of rare phenomena."}
{"id": "6645327", "title": "[Thromboelastography and non-enzymatic fibrinolysis in various renal diseases].", "content": "[Thromboelastography and non-enzymatic fibrinolysis in various renal diseases]."}
{"id": "6636675", "title": "[Thromboelastographic characteristics of blood coagulation in patients with primary arterial hypotension].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic characteristics of blood coagulation in patients with primary arterial hypotension]."}
{"id": "6635451", "title": "[Determination of plasma hemoglobin in fresh plasma for therapeutic use by the TMB (3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine) method].", "content": "[Determination of plasma hemoglobin in fresh plasma for therapeutic use by the TMB (3,3',5,5'-tetramethylbenzidine) method]. The maximum level of plasma hemoglobin in standard fresh frozen plasma before freezing has been mixed at 50 mg/l by french regulations. As no reference method is specified by the standards, we have adapted a technique where pseudo-peroxydasic activity of the hemoglobin is revealed by 3,3'-5,5', tetramethylbenzidine, a non carcinogenic chromogen derivate from benzidine. A 4 points reference scale is plotted for each plasma to be tested, thus reducing eventual interferences between pseudo-peroxydasic activity of the hemoglobin and other plasma proteins. We compared our modified technique to other existing ones: Vanzetti's extraction technique [8] whose main drawbacks are the use of flammable solvents and carcinogenic chromogen. Standefer's technique [10] involving plasma preincubation in H2O2 solution, which reveals protein interferences but is imprecise as it relies on only one reference point and does not show whether chromogen saturation is present. The level fixed by regulations is higher than the mean level indicated by our method, based on 118 samples of fresh plasma obtained by double centrifugation of whole blood collected on CPD as anticoagulant. It is also higher than the level indicated by the same method for plasma samples drawn from continuous or discontinuous flow cytapheresis (IBM 2997; Haemonetics V 50) using ACD - A or ACD - AA 16 as anticoagulant. Our method measures with precision low levels in plasma. Furthermore it is cheap, simple and easy to run in a blood transfusion center."}
{"id": "6614559", "title": "[The effect of different types of anesthesia on blood coagulating and anticoagulating systems in patients with stomach cancer].", "content": "[The effect of different types of anesthesia on blood coagulating and anticoagulating systems in patients with stomach cancer]."}
{"id": "6613270", "title": "[Intraoperative autotransfusion in extensive orthopedic interventions].", "content": "[Intraoperative autotransfusion in extensive orthopedic interventions]. In large orthopaedic operations massive blood losses sometimes can hardly be avoided. Apart from other autotransfusion methods (repeated preoperative withdrawal of blood or isovolaemic haemodilution) the intraoperative autotransfusion (IAT) has proved particularly useful. By means of the autotransfusion system Haemonetics Cell Saver, whose functional performance is described in the following, there was a decrease in homologous erythrocytes of 60.5 l, that is more than 300 erythrocyte concentrates. With regard to the intraoperative period the average reduction in donor blood for each patient was between 68.0 and 94.8%. Considering the compensation of postoperative blood losses there was a decrease in donor blood of between 55.6 and 66.2%. The importance of this reduction in donor blood (decreased hepatitis risk and better quality of the autologous erythrocytes) is discussed. On close and critical examination of advantages and disadvantages concerning the intraoperative autotransfusion, we have to give the preference to the Haemonetics Cell Saver, especially in the orthopaedic range."}
{"id": "6612944", "title": "[Reaction of morphological dissociation of coagulated blood in patients with venous diseases of the lower extremities].", "content": "[Reaction of morphological dissociation of coagulated blood in patients with venous diseases of the lower extremities]."}
{"id": "6601877", "title": "[Von Willebrand's disease unmasked by a juvenile hypothyroidism].", "content": "[Von Willebrand's disease unmasked by a juvenile hypothyroidism]."}
{"id": "6601741", "title": "[Plasma factors of blood coagulation and changes in fibrinolysis in patients with borderline arterial hypertension in thermoneutral water immersion].", "content": "[Plasma factors of blood coagulation and changes in fibrinolysis in patients with borderline arterial hypertension in thermoneutral water immersion]. The effect of 7-day \"dry\" immersion on the hemocoagulation system of male test subjects aged 45-55, was examined. The experiments were carried out on 15 volunteers, 11 of whom had boundary arterial hypertension (BAH) (according to the WHO classification) and 4 were healthy controls. The data obtained (thromboelastograms and coagulograms) show that \"dry\" immersion induces hypercoagulopathic changes in the hemocoagulation system. The BAH patients have displayed a more marked fibrinolysis depression, indicating a decline of their reserve-adaptive capabilities."}
{"id": "6578747", "title": "Toxicity studies with human fibroblast interferon.", "content": "Toxicity studies with human fibroblast interferon. Acute toxicity studies of interferon derived from human fibroblasts (FHIF) were performed in mice and rats with doses between 6 X 10(4) and 480 X 10(4) IU/kg i.v. and an observation period of 14 days. No severe toxic effects, such as loss of weight or other pathological clinical signs were observed. In local innocuity studies (i.v., i.a., paravenous) in rabbits FHIF proved to have no adverse effects. 180,000 IU/kg were pyrogen free in rabbits, in the limulus test the content of lipopolysaccharides (LPS) was 208 pg/ml as compared to the FDA standard EC-2. Studies were performed to assess the pharmacological safety of FHIF in 10 monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). The i.v. injection of 60,000 IU/kg had no pathological effects on circulation, respiration, number of blood cells, or body temperature. In six monkeys a short decrease of arterial blood pressure was noted a few minutes after injection of 120,000 IU/kg i.v. Both doses caused an increase of thrombelastographic time (TEG). The proposed single human dose of approximately 60,000 IU/kg has been proved safe in the acute toxicity studies and the pharmacological safety assessment in mice, rats, rabbits, and monkeys. The LPS content is low."}
{"id": "6405702", "title": "Intraoperative autotransfusion. Experience in 725 consecutive cases.", "content": "Intraoperative autotransfusion. Experience in 725 consecutive cases. Autologous intraoperative transfusion employing the Haemonetics Cell Saver is reported in 725 patients from a general hospital population, of which 75% were cardiovascular patients. The remaining cases included various orthopedic procedures, splenectomy, craniotomy, ectopic pregnancies, Caesarian sections, and exploratory laparotomy. On occasion, this method was utilized in trauma and in pediatric surgery. The product of washed red blood cells gave an average yield of 573 cc per case with an average hematocrit of 55 cc/dl available for autologous infusion. In 100 consecutive open heart procedures operated prior to the Cell Saver period, an average of 1.97 units of bank blood was utilized during operation, as compared with 0.75 units in 100 consecutive cases studied employing the Cell Saver (p less than 0.0001). Homologous blood utilization during cardiac surgery declined more than 50% with the use of the Cell Saver. Quality control was monitored scrupulously and included special precautions against air embolism, abnormal coagulation, and sepsis. The overall mortality rate was 2.8%, and in no instance was mortality or morbidity ascribable to the autologous transfusion. Numerous advantages offered by autotransfusion include prevention of sensitization of the recipient to various antigens in donor erythrocytes, leucocytes, platelets, and plasma, and avoidance of transfusion-transmitted diseases, especially viral hepatitis. Additionally, autologous blood, the only perfectly compatible product, provided immediate availability while conserving blood bank resources. In circumstances in which the intraoperative blood loss exceeded 1000 cc in the adult, its use was observed to be cost-effective. In the present study, autotransfusion proved safe, efficient, and in some instances life saving."}
{"id": "6402000", "title": "Effects of dazoxiben on exercise performance in chronic stable angina.", "content": "Effects of dazoxiben on exercise performance in chronic stable angina. 1 We have performed a double-blind, randomized, 7-d cross-over study of the thromboxane synthetase inhibitor dazoxiben (UK 37248) in 20 patients with stable coronary heart disease. 2 All patients had a history of exertional angina of greater than two years duration and no patient had suffered a myocardial infarction in the preceding twelve months. 3 All patients had a positive exercise stress test for myocardial ischaemia and 15 had undergone coronary angiography. All these patients had a 50% narrowing in at least one vessel. 4 All patients were on conventional anti-anginal medication and the doses of their various therapies remained unchanged in the three months prior to and during the study period. 5 Therapy with dazoxiben 200 mg four times daily produced no alteration in the subjective or objective features of angina in these patients. There was no alteration in angina attack rate, glyceryl trinitrate consumption or duration of treadmill exercise. 6 Dazoxiben produced a highly significant reduction in both the resting and the post-exercise levels of serum thromboxane B2 levels, although there was no significant difference between the pre-exercise and post-exercise values. 7 Dazoxiben is an effective inhibitor of the synthesis of thromboxane but it has no effect on the subjective or objective features of stable coronary disease. This would suggest that the production of thromboxane and the development of circulating platelet aggregates play no part in the mechanism of angina in patients with stable coronary heart disease."}
{"id": "6359571", "title": "The effects of prostacyclin on the coagulation of whole blood.", "content": "The effects of prostacyclin on the coagulation of whole blood. The effects of prostacyclin (PGI2) on mechanical properties of forming clots were investigated by testing human blood samples on a Thrombelastograph. Concentrations greater than 50 ng/ml (blood) caused a biphasic development of clot stiffness. During the first phase, PGI2 partially inhibited the platelet involvement in coagulation causing initial clot formation at a normal time but with reduced clot stiffness. The second phase occurred after neutralization of PGI2 activity and was characterized by recovery of platelet activity to produce a final clot with normal shear modulus. The duration of the inhibitory effects depended on PGI2 concentration and hematocrit. With a normal hematocrit, a PGI2 concentration of 60 ng/ml caused an inhibition for about 40 min whereas a concentration of 100 ng/ml caused inhibition for about 75 min."}
{"id": "6344348", "title": "[Flavellagic acid influence on blood coagulation and hemostasis disturbed by whole body irradiation].", "content": "[Flavellagic acid influence on blood coagulation and hemostasis disturbed by whole body irradiation]. By experimentations in vitro with human blood, we found out that an addition of flavellagic acid influences the initial stage of the coagulation system by activating the XIIth coagulation factor. So there is another substance besides the ellagic acid that activates in solution the XIIth coagulation factor. Our experimentations on sound rats showed that an intravenous administration of flavellagic acid in a dose of 0.7 mg/kg body weight has a short-term hemostatic action and that the r and k values and the m epsilon value in the thrombelastogram are increased. There was a similar effect in rats receiving an intravenous injection of flavellagic acid on the twelfth day after a whole-body irradiation with 8.0 Gy."}
{"id": "6336417", "title": "Species-related differences of blood coagulation on polymer surfaces, evaluated by means of thrombelastography.", "content": "Species-related differences of blood coagulation on polymer surfaces, evaluated by means of thrombelastography."}
{"id": "6305083", "title": "Factor XIII deficiency associated with Klippel-Weber disease, platelet dysfunction and cryofibrinogenemia.", "content": "Factor XIII deficiency associated with Klippel-Weber disease, platelet dysfunction and cryofibrinogenemia. A 23-year-old woman with factor XIII deficiency was presented. The patient had no consanguinity, but familial traits were present. A bleeding tendency and poor wound healing had been noted in the patient since birth. She had hemangiomas in the leg and vulva (Klippel-Weber disease). Hematologic studies revealed platelet dysfunction, cryofibrinogenemia and mild chronic disseminated intravascular coagulation with prolonged PT and PTT, hypofibrinogenemia, a high turnover rate of 125I-fibrinogen and mild elevation of fibrinogen-fibrin degradation products, beta-thromboglobulin and platelet factor 4. A decrease in clot retraction and a marked reduction in maximal amplitude of thrombelastogram were also found. The assay of the factor XIII level was 10% by the antiserum inhibition method, and the assay of subunits A and S were 16 and 29%, respectively, by the electroimmunoassay method. Transamidase activity of factor XIII was 26%. The level of factor XIII of her sister was low, similar to that of the patient. The concentration of cold-insoluble globulin in EDTA-plasma was 36.5 mg/dl."}
{"id": "6220520", "title": "Pilot study for large-scale plasma procurement using automated plasmapheresis.", "content": "Pilot study for large-scale plasma procurement using automated plasmapheresis. A pilot study for large-scale automated plasmapheresis using the Haemonetics Model 50 machine was undertaken in the Yorkshire Region of the United Kingdom to determine the viability of such a programme for national self-sufficiency in fresh plasma procurement for factor VIII concentrate production. The study was designed to resolve three areas of concern: donor safety and recruitment; a cost analysis, and the choice of anticoagulant for optimum factor VIII yields. The results show that large-scale automated plasmapheresis could safely and economically produce high-quality source plasma necessary for national self-sufficiency."}
{"id": "6196275", "title": "A statistical analysis of some thromboelastographic parameters in normal subjects.", "content": "A statistical analysis of some thromboelastographic parameters in normal subjects. Thromboelastographic parameters r, k and am have been statistically evaluated in 777 normal subjects, 506 females and 271 males. The relationship existing among the parameters and their relationship with age have been investigated: r and k resulted to be correlated both in the male and female group. The same was true for k and am. On the contrary, a non-Gaussian distribution was noted together with the lack of correlation with age."}
{"id": "6192058", "title": "[Drug effect on the rotation thromboelastogram in newborn infants].", "content": "[Drug effect on the rotation thromboelastogram in newborn infants]. The impact of the antibiotics carbenicilin and gentamycin on the aggregation and adhesiveness of thrombocytes and on the rotation thrombelastogramme is investigated in healthy newborns. Thrombocyte aggregation was markedly inhibited by carbenicilline; gentamycine had no influence. Thrombocyte adhesiveness was less influenced by both medicaments. The parameters of TEG, viz. reaction time, clotforming time, thrombus elasticity and index were compared before and after rotation and with and without medicaments. Under carbenicilline a prolongation of the clotforming time and a decrease of thrombus elasticity could be shown to exist after rotation. The impact of medicaments on the rotation thrombelastogramme can only be conceived by comparing the values before and after rotation in each case with and without medicament and not simply evaluating it, so that the rotation thrombelastogramms cannot be recommended to be used for assessing the disturbance of thrombocyte function induced by medicaments."}
{"id": "6192049", "title": "[Heparin and antiheparin in childhood. 3. Heparin level measurements and their importance in heparin monitoring].", "content": "[Heparin and antiheparin in childhood. 3. Heparin level measurements and their importance in heparin monitoring]. Measurements of the heparin level were made under continuous anticoagulation in a total of 7 patients. For the purpose of monitoring heparin the coagulation time values were determined parallelly. Except a patient with a sepsis and a 7 days old newborn baby the desired prolongation for the partial thromboplastin time and the reaction time of thrombelastogram resulted from heparin titres lying within the range of 0.2-0.7 U/ml of plasma. Even after applying depot preparations there was a relatively good correspondance of heparin level curves and coagulation parameters. In childhood the partial thromboplastin time is primarily suitable for monitoring the heparin therapy. Heparin half-life times calculated during the transumbilical exchange transfusion in 7 children amounted to values ranging between 40-110 minutes. In addition to checking low dose heparinizing, measurements of the level are suitable for deriving dosage standards for neutralizing heparin effects by protamine sulfate."}
{"id": "6191115", "title": "[Analysis of the results of thromboelastogram measurements by the \"Elektronika BZ-21\" computer].", "content": "[Analysis of the results of thromboelastogram measurements by the \"Elektronika BZ-21\" computer]."}
{"id": "7181148", "title": "[Thromboelastographic blood studies in rectal cancer patients during general anesthesia and artificial ventilation of the lungs with a helium-oxygen mixture].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic blood studies in rectal cancer patients during general anesthesia and artificial ventilation of the lungs with a helium-oxygen mixture]."}
{"id": "7180355", "title": "[Blood platelet function in 3 cases of thrombocythemia].", "content": "[Blood platelet function in 3 cases of thrombocythemia]."}
{"id": "7176386", "title": "[Hemiasymmetric blood reactions to unilateral inflammatory processes in children].", "content": "[Hemiasymmetric blood reactions to unilateral inflammatory processes in children]."}
{"id": "7173257", "title": "Fibrinogen half-life in children with cyanotic congenital heart disease.", "content": "Fibrinogen half-life in children with cyanotic congenital heart disease."}
{"id": "7164678", "title": "[Use of mathematical methods of pattern recognition to evaluate the status of blood coagulation in acute cerebral ischemia].", "content": "[Use of mathematical methods of pattern recognition to evaluate the status of blood coagulation in acute cerebral ischemia]. The state of blood coagulation was examined in 244 patients with acute cerebral ischemia from the data of thromboelastography performed with the use of the image recognition methods. Eight variants of the hemocoagulation system response grouped into 3 leading hemocoagulation syndromes, such as hypercoagulation, hypocoagulation and mixed (hyper-hypocoagulation) ones, were differentiated. Rapid determination of the hemocoagulation response type (with the aid of discriminant analysis, without using a computer) in any patient with cerebral ischemia makes it possible to conduct (on respective clinical indications) individualized differentiated treatment with anticoagulants, desaggregants, or their combination. The method may be of use in treating other pathological conditions (thromboembolic disease, myocardial infarction, obliterations of lower extremity vessels, etc.) with these means."}
{"id": "7157687", "title": "[The validity of thrombelastographic examination in patients with chronic renal insufficiency].", "content": "[The validity of thrombelastographic examination in patients with chronic renal insufficiency]."}
{"id": "7147855", "title": "A new approach to washing red blood cells frozen with a high concentration of glycerol in a special freezing container.", "content": "A new approach to washing red blood cells frozen with a high concentration of glycerol in a special freezing container. We report here on a new approach to washing red blood cells frozen with a high concentration of glycerol in a special freezing container. The wash solution consists of a 150-ml volume of 12% sodium chloride and 2 liters of 0.9% sodium chloride-0.2% glucose-25 mEq/l disodium phosphate. Both the Haemonetics Blood Processor 115 and the IBM Blood Processor 2991 have been used with this protocol, with similar results. The in vitro recovery of red blood cells frozen with 8.6M glycerol was 89%, and that of red blood cells frozen with 6.2M glycerol was 93%. The 24-hour posttransfusion survival values averaged 88% for eight units of outdated-rejuvenated previously frozen red blood cells washed by this protocol and stored at 4 degrees C for 3 days before autotransfusion."}
{"id": "7147159", "title": "Intraoperative anticoagulation during arterial reconstructive procedures.", "content": "Intraoperative anticoagulation during arterial reconstructive procedures. The technique of thromboelastography was used to monitor the intraoperative administration of heparin during vascular surgical procedures. Interpatient response to 70 units per kilogram of heparin varied widely. There was no need, in any patient, for the use of protamine to reverse the effect of heparin. This, coupled with the absence of hemorrhagic complications, indicates that thromboelastography is a useful method for monitoring the administration of heparin during vascular surgical procedures."}
{"id": "7146584", "title": "[Coagulation parameters in patients with hypertension].", "content": "[Coagulation parameters in patients with hypertension]. Thrombelastography in the whole blood and determination of antithrombin III by means of chromogenic substrates were performed in a group of 10 patients with hypertension. The results of the thrombelastograms showed a slight shift toward hypercoagulability, as revealed by a significant increase in the thrombodynamic potential index. There was no significant change in antithrombin activity as compared with control group."}
{"id": "7137542", "title": "[Experiences with the Haemonetics cell saver].", "content": "[Experiences with the Haemonetics cell saver]. The Haemonetics-Cell-Saver offers a new method for autotransfusion. It was used in 25 patients intraoperatively as well as in the intensive care ward. Total blood losses amounted to 67 l, of which 47.7 l could be recollected into the sterile processing system. Thus 17.8 l of washed red cell concentrates with an average haemoglobin content of 17.8 g/dl and a haematocrit of 53.8% could be produced, which corresponded to a 53% recovery of RBC loss. Activators of haemostasis and cell debris were successfully eliminated. Changes in cellular and fluid homeostasis and in exogenic and endogenous clotting parameters following autotransfusion were studied."}
{"id": "7135352", "title": "Detection of hypercoagulability by the measurement of the dynamic loss modulus of clotting blood.", "content": "Detection of hypercoagulability by the measurement of the dynamic loss modulus of clotting blood. The dynamic loss modulus of clotting whole blood was measured in thrombotic patients to characterize the physical properties of coagulation in the hypercoagulable state. The dynamic loss modulus was measured by a Sonoclot. Thrombotic patients consisted of 30 with deep vein thrombosis and 25 with arterial thrombosis. An accelerated increment rate of the dynamic loss modulus at the beginning of gelling was the characteristic of hypercoagulability. This characteristic occurred more frequently than other abnormalities in other tests for hypercoagulability (beta-thromboglobulin, antithrombin III and TEG). Only in deep vein thrombosis, a moderately positive correlation was noted between the increment rate of the dynamic loss modulus and the plasma fibrinogen level."}
{"id": "7135350", "title": "On the interaction of heparin-containing polymers with plasma proteins and blood.", "content": "On the interaction of heparin-containing polymers with plasma proteins and blood. In vitro exper iments showed that polymeric hydrogels containing covalently immobilized heparin affect the parameters of blood clotting system. This is not accounted for by the elution of heparin into the surrounding medium and this property of heparin-containing polymers is caused by specific interaction of immobilized heparin with plasma proteins. By the methods of coagulograms and thromboelastography it was revealed that the decrease of total blood anticoagulant activity takes place due to the decrease in blood of fibrinogen, prothrombin and thrombin content and the suppression of fibrin stabilizing factor activity. Free heparin content in blood was left unaffected. It was found that plasma proteins permeate the hydrophilic polymer matrix and interact with immobilized heparin. Binding strength for immobilized heparin is decreased in the array fibrinogen congruent to thrombin much greater than plasmin greater than serum albumin. Complexes of immobilized heparin with fibrinogen, thrombin and plasmin display lytic action towards unstabilized fibrin."}
{"id": "7135339", "title": "The significance of thromboelastography in comparison with other global clotting tests.", "content": "The significance of thromboelastography in comparison with other global clotting tests."}
{"id": "7125286", "title": "[Effect of proteolysis inhibitors from Ascaris lumbricoides on the coagulation and fibrinolysis of human plasma].", "content": "[Effect of proteolysis inhibitors from Ascaris lumbricoides on the coagulation and fibrinolysis of human plasma]. By means of the method of ROLA & PUDLES modified by the authors the effect of trypsin and chymotrypsin inhibitors isolated from body walls of Ascaris lumbricoides on coagulation and fibrinolysis of human plasma in vitro was studied. The effect of both Ascaris inhibitors on coagulation phases I and II, the inhibition of thromboplastin and thrombin generations (thromboelastography, prothrombin and thrombin times) and the fibrinogenesis retardation of human plasma (time of lysis of euglobulin clot, time of clot fibrinolysis activated by streptokinase) were found. \"The stairs phenomenon\" was observed on thromboelastographic curves. The plasmin activity in an active form as well as its formation from plasminogen by streptokinase activation were reduced by chymotrypsin and trypsin Ascaris inhibitors alike."}
{"id": "7113133", "title": "[characteristics of the course of ischemic heart disease in obesity].", "content": "[characteristics of the course of ischemic heart disease in obesity]."}
{"id": "7101835", "title": "Granulocyte yields using the Haemonetics 30. Effects of variations in corticosteroid regimen and donor selection.", "content": "Granulocyte yields using the Haemonetics 30. Effects of variations in corticosteroid regimen and donor selection. The factors of donor selection, corticosteroid drug choice, dose, timing and route of administration were studied to optimize granulocyte yield employing the Haemonetics Model 30 Blood Processor. Our data suggest that donors giving one excellent yield do not necessarily do so again. Donors with high initial granulocyte counts had only marginal increases in counts after taking corticosteroids. Selecting donors on the basis of high previous yield or granulocyte count is not a feasible strategy for improving granulocyte yields. Highest yields of granulocytes (16 X 10(9) total; 4 X 10(9)/liter processed) were obtained with any of four split-dose corticosteroid regimen. This increment is almost twice as large as the previously reported improvement using continuous-flow centrifugation. The choice of steroid, the route of administration and the timing of the split doses are not critical."}
{"id": "7099757", "title": "Spinal fluid clotting activity: a new method of evaluating neonatal brain damage.", "content": "Spinal fluid clotting activity: a new method of evaluating neonatal brain damage."}
{"id": "7091514", "title": "Modification of the Haemonetics Cell Saver for optional high flow rate autotransfusion.", "content": "Modification of the Haemonetics Cell Saver for optional high flow rate autotransfusion. Intraoperative autotransfusion is a technique well-suited to major vascular surgery. It is most effective when salvage and reinfusion of shed blood can be accomplished at flow rates compatible with the degree of hemorrhage encountered in both elective and emergency procedures. Appropriate equipment modifications can render commercially available autotransfusion devices safer and more effective in the management of intraoperative blood loss. The Cell Saver, a device which concentrates and washes salvaged red blood cells, is limited in its potential as an autotransfusion device because of its slow reinfusion rate. A modification was devised which expands the flow capabilities of the Cell Saver and allows rapid reinfusion of autologous whole blood. The modified blood circuit has been employed in 10 major vascular cases with favorable results, thus demonstrating its efficacy in the management of massive hemorrhage during vascular repair. Guidelines for the safe and effective use of the modified unit are stressed."}
{"id": "7085748", "title": "Prophylaxis of early post-operative deep venous thrombosis by monitored heparin infusion.", "content": "Prophylaxis of early post-operative deep venous thrombosis by monitored heparin infusion. Increases in whole blood coagulability in patients undergoing abdominal surgery have been measured with the thrombelastograph. A continuous, low dose intravenous infusion of heparin has been administered in the operative period in an attempt to control these coagulability increases without increasing the risk of haemorrhage. A preliminary sub-cutaneous dose of heparin followed by a continuous infusion throughout the operation and for two hours afterwards effectively prevented the expected coagulability increase and resulted in reduction of early deep venous thrombosis incidence from 9/20 in controls to 1/19 in treated patients (p less than 0.05). The infusion has also been used in conjunction with a pre-operative test to predict the risk of deep venous thrombosis. Of 20 patients examined, 11 were designated as high risk and received an intra-operative heparin infusion and 9 predicted low risk patients received no specific prophylaxis. No venous thrombosis occurred in any patient within 48 hours of surgery."}
{"id": "7078794", "title": "[Chronobiology in hemodynamic imbalance syndromes and in the prevention of vascular diseases].", "content": "[Chronobiology in hemodynamic imbalance syndromes and in the prevention of vascular diseases]."}
{"id": "7072194", "title": "Leucocyte-depleted blood: a comparison of cell-washing techniques.", "content": "Leucocyte-depleted blood: a comparison of cell-washing techniques. Non-haemolytic febrile transfusion reactions are common in multi-transfused patients. It is generally accepted that the majority of these reactions occur when more than 0.5 x 10(9) leucocytes are transfused. Values equal to or lower than this threshold, which we have called for convenience the critical antigenic load for leucocytes (CALL), can be achieved by decreasing the leucocyte content in one unit of whole stored blood by about 80%. We have compared the efficiency of leucocyte depletion of whole stored blood, using fixed-speed centrifugation (Haemonetics Model 15 and Model 115 cell washer), variable-speed centrifugation (Dideco Progress 90 Cell Separator), and serial centrifugation (IBM 2991 Blood Cell Processor. Fixed-speed centrifugation was least effective in depletion leucocytes; a reduction of 25 and 60% was achieved using the Haemonetics Model 15 and Model 115, respectively. Variable speed and serial centrifugation produced more satisfactory results with leucocyte depletions of 82 and 89% using the Dideco Progress 90 Cell Separator and the IBM 2991 Blood Cell Processor, respectively. Platelet depletion of over 90% was achieved with all the cell washers, except the Haemonetics Model 15. Red cell losses varied from 3 to 30%. It seems unlikely that consistently high (over 90%) leucocyte depletion can be obtained using cell-washing techniques without associated high red cell losses."}
{"id": "7072079", "title": "[Changes in blood composition and properties in children with external fistulae].", "content": "[Changes in blood composition and properties in children with external fistulae]. The investigation of the composition and properties of blood in 20 children with small intestine fistulas has revealed hypovolemia, disorders in the electrolyte composition, increased hematocrit and viscosity, changes of tests of coagulogram and thromboelastogram pointing to disseminated intravascular coagulation. Similar changes were noted in experimental studies in 20 dogs with duodenal fistulas. Drugs improving rheological properties of blood and anticoagulants gave better results of the treatment."}
{"id": "7071169", "title": "Prophylaxis of early post operative deep venous thrombosis by monitored heparin infusion.", "content": "Prophylaxis of early post operative deep venous thrombosis by monitored heparin infusion. Increases in whole blood coagulability in patient undergoing abdominal surgery have been measured with the thrombelastograph. A continuous, low dose intravenous infusion of heparin has been administered in the operative period in an attempt to control these coagulability increases without increasing the risk of haemorrhage. A preliminary sub-cutaneous dose of heparin followed by a continuous infusion throughout the operation and for two hours afterwards effectively prevented the expected coagulability increase and resulted in reduction of early deep venous thrombosis incidence from 9/20 in controls to 1/19 in treated patients (p less than 0.05)."}
{"id": "7065387", "title": "[The Haemonetics cell saver in open heart surgery (author's transl)].", "content": "[The Haemonetics cell saver in open heart surgery (author's transl)]. A prospective study in 20 patients undergoing open heart surgery showed that up to 48 per cent of the required transfusion volume could be provided by autologous centrifuged blood. Re-transfusion of the washed packed red cells free of cell debris, heparin and aggregate significantly reduced blood loss both during and after the operation. The haemonetics cell saver is a valuable aid in the auto-transfusion technique."}
{"id": "7064601", "title": "[Age and changes in blood coagulation during treatment of cerebral ischemia with indirect anticoagulants].", "content": "[Age and changes in blood coagulation during treatment of cerebral ischemia with indirect anticoagulants]. Using the thromboelastographic method the age peculiarities of blood coagulation changes were examined in 131 patients treated for cerebral ischemias with rapid indirect-action anticoagulants (syncumar, pelentan, phenylin). In patients under 45 years of age these anticoagulants acted upon all the blood coagulation phases during the first three days of the treatment. Their use led to a lowering of the prothrombin complex activity and fibrinogen concentration as well as to activation of the anticoagulation system. In patients aged from 45 to 59 years these anticoagulants acted substantially on phases I and II of blood coagulation only, while their action on phase III was much weaker. In the elderly age group (60 to 74 years) no effect of the drugs on phase III of blood coagulation was observed. Adverse effects of the anticoagulant therapy in the forms of hemorrhagic complications and \"pathological hypocoagulation\" were more frequent in the middle-aged and elderly groups of the patients than in the young ones (the difference being statistically significant). The elderly patients showed more pronounced reactions to discontinuation of the anticoagulant treatment. These reactions manifested in rapid and considerable progress of hypercoagulation development."}
{"id": "7064457", "title": "[Effect of quinidine on thromboelastogram indices in myocardial infarct].", "content": "[Effect of quinidine on thromboelastogram indices in myocardial infarct]."}
{"id": "6984982", "title": "Use of Haemonetics Cell Saver for autotransfusion in cardiovascular surgery.", "content": "Use of Haemonetics Cell Saver for autotransfusion in cardiovascular surgery. The Haemonetics Cell Saver was evaluated as a tool for the refining of blood shed during cardiovascular surgery. After blood filtration the red cells are concentrated, washed and re-infused as red cells suspended in normal saline (CS blood) with haematocrit around 60%. Platelets and plasma with desired and undesired components are removed. In 50 patients undergoing elective but complicated cardiovascular surgery an average of 4.4 units CS blood were produced. In 3 Jehovah's Witnesses the method was used in combination with immediate preoperative prebleeding and dextran infusion. No blood products were given. The haematocrit was maintained at a safe level subsequent to retransfusion. Platelet counts were never critically low and extremely low total protein did not lead to peripheral or pulmonary oedemas or coagulation problems. In an in vitro study it was shown that extreme dilution of coagulation factors is well tolerated before the clotting time (ACT) is affected. The Cell Saver proved to be an effective, reliable and safe device for autotransfusion of salvaged blood during cardiovascular surgery."}
{"id": "6981035", "title": "Survival of autotransfused red blood cells recovered from the surgical field during cardiovascular operations.", "content": "Survival of autotransfused red blood cells recovered from the surgical field during cardiovascular operations. The survival of autologous red blood cells (RBCs) collected during operation from the surgical field and processed immediately by the Haemonetics Cell Saver was compared to the survival of autologous nonprocessed RBCs obtained by venipuncture in nine patients undergoing reconstructive vascular operations and four patients undergoing coronary artery bypass. A double isotope technique (Cr-51 and In-111) was used to determine the survival of the different cell populations. Seven patients undergoing coronary artery bypass served as controls to characterize the isotopes by labeling the same population of RBCs with each radionuclide. Comparison of the data in all groups failed to show any significant difference in either the immediate or long-term survival between autotransfused (Cell Saver--processed) blood and nonprocessed RBCs. This study indicates that shed blood collected and processed at operation with the Haemonetics Cell Saver can be autotransfused and that the in vivo survival of these cells is not significantly different from the survival of nonprocessed blood."}
{"id": "6803690", "title": "The cell saver during cardiac surgery: does it save?", "content": "The cell saver during cardiac surgery: does it save? Conservation and autotransfusion of autologous blood have been proposed as a means to decrease the homologous blood requirements of cardiac surgery. Use of the Haemonetics Cell Saver System to salvage blood shed in the sterile surgical field resulted in a net saving of 105 +/- 88.7 ml of packed red cells in 20 patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass. The system is not a cost-effective way to save blood or decrease homologous blood requirements during routine cardiac operations."}
{"id": "6762457", "title": "[A study of urokinase lysis time in patients with various renal diseases].", "content": "[A study of urokinase lysis time in patients with various renal diseases]."}
{"id": "6757561", "title": "[Mathematical modelling of hypocoagulation in the treatment of cerebral ischemia with sinkumar].", "content": "[Mathematical modelling of hypocoagulation in the treatment of cerebral ischemia with sinkumar]."}
{"id": "6755331", "title": "[Coagulation disorders in tumors and hemoblastoses].", "content": "[Coagulation disorders in tumors and hemoblastoses]. Thromboembolic and haemorrhagic complications are not rarely seen in the course of malignant diseases. The underlying coagulation disorders were investigated by means of coagulation analysis in 61 patients with solid tumors and 60 control persons as well as 51 patients with leukemia and 50 control persons. As a cause for the thrombotic diathesis in patients with solid tumors and leukemias can be demonstrated a hypercoagulability (shortened PTT and raised factor VIII activity). In addition we found a raised level of fibrinogen, a hypofibrinolysis (prolonged euglobulin lysis time) and in increased platelet aggregation in patients with solid tumors. Predominantly bleeding complications in leukemias are caused by thrombopenia. Another reason, however, may be an activated fibrinolysis or a clot instability because of the reduction of factor XIII. Pathogenetic mechanisms, underlying the tumor induced coagulation disorders, as for example the release of tumor cell thromboplastins from malignant cells are discussed."}
{"id": "6291889", "title": "[Effects of cimetidine and ranitidine on blood coagulation].", "content": "[Effects of cimetidine and ranitidine on blood coagulation]. The influence of cimetidine and ranitidine on blood coagulation and plasmatic fibrinolysis were assessed in vitro and in vivo. After an intravenous bolus of 200 mg cimetidine a marked prolongation of plasmatic thrombin time was observed, which however did not occur after 50 mg of ranitidine. In vitro addition of cimetidine (0.12 mg/ml) and ranitidine (0.06 mg/ml) again led to prolongation of plasmatic thrombin time only after cimetidine, reaching double the initial value. This requires application of cimetidine in acute intestinal haemorrhage not as a bolus, but only by drip infusion. Continuous application of 600 mg over 12 hours did not result in changes of coagulation values. In contrast, ranitidine may be administered as a bolus. Bolus injections of 50 to 100 mg did not result in any prolongation of plasmatic thrombin time. The antifibrinolytic effect of both H2-receptor antagonists was investigated in the streptokinase-induced fibrinolysis spindle of the thrombelastogram. Clear-cut antifibrinolytic properties were not demonstrable for either preparation with this method."}
{"id": "6125343", "title": "Enrichment and cryopreservation of bone marrow progenitor cells for autologous reinfusion.", "content": "Enrichment and cryopreservation of bone marrow progenitor cells for autologous reinfusion. From 20 patients with solid tumors or acute nonlymphocytic leukemia in remission, hemopoietic progenitor cells were taken and stored in liquid nitrogen, for use in autologous bone marrow transplantation. Bone marrow aspiration resulted in a volume of 920(+/- 170) ml containing 16.8(+/-6.0) x 10(9) nucleated bone marrow cells and 7.2(+/-4.4) x 10(6) myeloid progenitor cells (CFUc). With use of the Haemonetics blood cell separator a progenitor cell-enriched fraction is obtained. This fraction is depleted of 90(+/-6)% of the erythrocytes and 59(+/-15)% of the neutrophils contained in the original. The original aspirate volume is reduced to one-fifth (21 +/- 3%) while containing 88(+/-38)% of the original CFUc's and 52(+/-11)% of the nucleated bone marrow cells. This technique of bone marrow enrichment has the advantage of a minimum of open-air contact, being independent of extensive laboratory facilities and manpower. The enriched fraction is frozen in autologous plasma and a final concentration of 10% (v/v) DMSO, using a program-controlled freezer (L'Air Liquide). Materials are stored at liquid nitrogen temperature in bags (Gambro) and test vials. Total CFUc recovery in test vials after thawing was 81(+/-32)%."}
{"id": "6122751", "title": "[Effect of adrenergic beta-receptor blockaders on thrombocyte aggregation capacity in arterial hypertension].", "content": "[Effect of adrenergic beta-receptor blockaders on thrombocyte aggregation capacity in arterial hypertension]. The study of the aggregation capacity of platelets and the coagulation system of the blood by thromboelastography was undertaken in 36 patients with different forms of arterial hypertension. In 11 patients receiving obsidan these tests were repeated every 4-20 days. In patients with hypertension and pyelonephritis the aggregation capacity of platelets was enhanced, and in patients with glomerulonephritis it was not materially changed. All patients showed a shift in the food coagulation system toward moderate hypercoagulation, which did not change much with obsidan. A relationship between the blood pressure (BP) level and the functional properties of platelets was recorded. There was a simultaneous tendency to the decrease of BP and the inhibition of the aggregation capacity of platelets. Obsidan produces antiaggregation effect related to the decreased stability of platelet aggregates."}
{"id": "7466909", "title": "Heparin removal in an autotransfusor device.", "content": "Heparin removal in an autotransfusor device. In order to determine the residual heparin in the supernatant fluid recovered from blood washed with increasing amounts of solution in the Haemonetics Cell Saver, various modifications of Grann's polybrene neutralization test applied. It is suggested that each 450 to 500 ml of recovered heparinized blood be washed with a minimum of 500 ml of saline, although 700 ml is advisable. The red color from hemolyzed erythrocytes may clear while unacceptably high levels of heparin remain."}
{"id": "7349759", "title": "[Experience in the preparation of leukocytes and thrombocytes for transfusion].", "content": "[Experience in the preparation of leukocytes and thrombocytes for transfusion]. The authors convey their experience gained during the work with Haemonetics M-30 Separator. They had performed 80 separations in total. They had separated leukocytes and thrombocytes simultaneously for 67 times. Most of the donors (51) had been stimulated by corticosteroids in order to obtain the increase of yield. The average concentrate quantity was 355 +/- 91 ml. The leukocytes yield in the concentrate was means = 27,3 +/- 7,8 x 10(9)/1, with 19,2 +/- 5,6 x 10(9)/1 (70%) of polymorphonuclears. The thrombocytes yield was means = 7,80 +/- +/- 1,83 x 10(11)/1. Only thrombocytes were separated 13 times. The average concentrate quantity was 273 +/- 77 ml. The thrombocytes yield in the concentrate was 8,94 +/- 1,26 x 10(11)/1. During the study, the symptoms and signs of hypotony appeared in one the donors."}
{"id": "7347399", "title": "[The influence of an electric charge on thromboelastographic examinations of human blood].", "content": "[The influence of an electric charge on thromboelastographic examinations of human blood]."}
{"id": "7339763", "title": "[Clinico-biological effectiveness of triflusal during the postoperative period of patients with chronic ischemic syndrome of the extremities].", "content": "[Clinico-biological effectiveness of triflusal during the postoperative period of patients with chronic ischemic syndrome of the extremities]. A group of 15 patients, suffering of chronic ischaemia of the lower limbs, were treated with triflusal, a new antiaggregant and antithrombotic agent, at the dose of 300 mg/day, during the first 90 days after artery by-pass grafting. Clinical exploration of patients included: physical inspection, pulses palpation, intermittent claudication (in metres), arteriography before surgery, and postoperative evolution of oscillometric and Doppler indexes. Determinations of platelet aggregation, induced by ADP, epinephrine and collagen, as well as of prothrombin time, platelet adhesiveness, and of thromboelastography parameters in PRP ane PPP were also carried out. Biochemical and hematological data were determined; gastric tolerance and other side effects were written down. Results show a clear improvement of all patients due to surgery, but with triflusal, it has been possible to maintain a prophylactic effect without thrombosis of the graft or of the distal vessel of patients, during the postoperative period. Actually, lower limbs temperature and pulses were maintained, with a good capillary content and with an improved walking distance. No changes in prothrombin time an platelet adhesiveness, have been observed. Five patients showed a clear hypoaggregant tendency, and thromboelastography in PRP indicates a statistically significant increase of R and K parameters as well as a decrease of am. It must be noticed the absence of gastric, hepatic, renal or metabolic side effects and no haemorrhagic lesions were observed. In conclusion, the treatment of these patients with triflusal prevents the otherwise frequent appearance of postoperative thrombosis in this kind of arterial surgery."}
{"id": "7336674", "title": "Plateletpheresis experience with the Haemonetics Blood Processor 30, the IBM Blood Processor 2997, and the Fenwal CS-3000 Blood Processor.", "content": "Plateletpheresis experience with the Haemonetics Blood Processor 30, the IBM Blood Processor 2997, and the Fenwal CS-3000 Blood Processor. Comparisons were made of the apheresis instruments Haemonetics Blood Processor 30, IBM Blood Processor 2997 and Fenwal CS-3000, for collection of platelets from normal donors. With each instrument the mean recovery was at least 4 x 10(11) platelets per procedure, and each instrument afforded a safe and reliable collection. The Haemonetics Blood Processor gave the lowest recovery of platelets per minute per procedure. The IBM Blood Processor 2997 required the longest time for set-up and priming and processed 1.5 liters more donor blood per collection than the other instruments. The Fenwal CS-3000, which is a computer-controlled instrument, was the least time consuming. The donor suffered a significantly greater drop in platelet count after collection with the IBM Blood Processor 2997 (31%) than after collection with the other instruments (19%), and we were unable to account for this observation."}
{"id": "7330829", "title": "Comparison of thrombelastography with common coagulation tests.", "content": "Comparison of thrombelastography with common coagulation tests. Thrombelastography, although proven as a useful research tool has not been evaluated for its clinical utility against common coagulation laboratory tests. In this study we compare the thrombelastographic measurements with six common tests (the hematocrit, platelet count, fibrinogen, prothrombin time, activated thromboplastin time and fibrin split products). For such comparisons, two samples of subjects were selected, 141 normal volunteers and 121 patients with cancer. The data was subjected to various statistical techniques such as correlation, ANOVA, canonical and discriminant analysis to measure the extent of the correlations between the two sets of variables and their relative strength to detect blood clotting abnormalities. The results indicate that, although there is a strong relationship between the thrombelastographic variables and these common laboratory tests, the thrombelastographic variables contain additional information on the hemostatic process."}
{"id": "7326404", "title": "Resonance-thrombography, theoretical and practical elements.", "content": "Resonance-thrombography, theoretical and practical elements."}
{"id": "7314224", "title": "Granulocyte transfusion therapy in chronic granulomatous disease. Report of a patient and review of the literature.", "content": "Granulocyte transfusion therapy in chronic granulomatous disease. Report of a patient and review of the literature. A l6-year-old boy with chronic granulomatous disease (CGD) and multiple Staphylococcus aureus hepatic abscesses failed to respond to intense antimicrobial therapy and surgical drainage procedures. He was started on a l3-day course of daily granulocyte transfusions obtained by intermittent-flow leukapheresis (haemonetics Model 30 [Braintree, Massachusetts]) utilizing hydroxyethyl starch. Each transfusion contained an average of 9 X l0(9) granulocytes. He defervesced on the seventh transfusion day, and the sedimentation rate returned to normal on the thirteenth transfusion day. Radionuclide scan showed decrease in size of the liver abscesses. No other new therapeutic modalities were attempted during the period of granulocyte transfusion. Although the use of granulocyte transfusion has been suggested to treat infections in CGD, we report the first successful use of granulocyte transfusion therapy in S. aureus abscess disease in CGD. Granulocyte transfusions may be helpful in treating infections refractory to standard medical-surgical management in patients with CGD and other disorders of neutrophil function."}
{"id": "7314222", "title": "Factors influencing yield of plateletpheresis by discontinuous centrifugation.", "content": "Factors influencing yield of plateletpheresis by discontinuous centrifugation. Plateletphereses performed by the Haemonetics Model 30 Blood Processor under a fixed condition were retrospectively analyzed. The mean platelet yield was 5.97 X l0 (ll) (+/- l.46 X l0 (ll). Prepheresis platelet count was significantly correlated to platelet yield (p less than 0.001), but hematocrit was not (p greater than 0.1). Blood-drawing time showed a significant correlation (p less than 0.01) and may suggest than an infusion rate of 60 ml/minute is a technique of choice. A large number of platelets (% platelet recovery = 73.0 +/- l4.l%) was discarded in order to remove erythrocytes and leukocytes from the initial product. The recovery was negatively correlated to the percentage removal of leukocytes (p less than 0.01), which means that a platelet product of good quality not containing leukocytes can be prepared at the sacrifice of a large quantity of platelets. It is desirable to devise a simple and practical technique to obtain pure platelets without loss."}
{"id": "7292581", "title": "Cryopreserved red blood cells for pediatric transfusion. Frozen storage of small aliquots in polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic bags.", "content": "Cryopreserved red blood cells for pediatric transfusion. Frozen storage of small aliquots in polyvinyl chloride (PVC) plastic bags. Human nonrejuvenated and rejuvenated red bood cells were prepared for cryopreservation and subsequent pediatric transfusion. Glycerol was added to the red blood cells in the primary polyvinyl chloride plastic collection bag to achieve a concentration of 40 per cent W/V. The red blood cells were concentrated by centrifugation, and the supernatant glycerol was discarded. Each glycerolized unit was divided into four equal aliquots in the individual 600-ml bags of a dry quadruple polyvinyl chloride plastic system, and each aliquot was frozen and stored at -80 C. After thawing, sodium chloride solutions were used to wash the aliquots in the IBM Blood Processor 2991-1 or 2991-2 or the Haemonetics Blood Processor 115, and the washed aliquots were stored in a sodium chloride-glucose-phosphate solution at 4 C for 24 hours. Freeze-thaw recovery of the red blood cells was about 97 per cent, and freeze-thaw-wash recovery was about 84 per cent. Twenty-four-hour posttransfusion survival values were about 92 per cent for both nonrejuvenated and indated-rejuvenated red blood cells. Nonrejuvenated red blood cells, those frozen within three to five days of collection without biochemical modification, had normal oxygen transport function at the time of transfusion; rejuvenated red blood cells, those biochemically treated with PIGPA Solution A after three to five days of storage at 4 C, had improved oxygen transport function at the time of transfusion."}
{"id": "7292224", "title": "[Alternate bag protocol for leukapheresis using Haemonetics-30 (author's transl)].", "content": "[Alternate bag protocol for leukapheresis using Haemonetics-30 (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "7283060", "title": "Modern autotransfusion. Experience with a washed red cell processing technique.", "content": "Modern autotransfusion. Experience with a washed red cell processing technique. The technique of intraoperative autotransfusion utilizing the Haemonetics Cell Saver is described. This device separates and washes red blood cells removed from the surgical field. Advantages of this unit over others are (1) no systemic anticoagulation is required, (2) circulatory fibrin debris is removed, (3) plasma hemoglobin is removed, and (4) any circulating anticoagulant is removed. Experience with 136 consecutive cases. 101 elective and 35 emergency, is reported. The only complication was coagulopathy, which occurred in 5.1 percent of the cases. It is easily treated with blood component therapy and occurs in those patients in whom greater then 3,500 cm3 of blood is autotransfused. The Cell Saver has proven an important adjunct in surgical patients in whom greater than 1,000 cm3 of blood will be lost, as well as in emergency patients. It provides an efficient, economical and safe method to autotransfuse blood."}
{"id": "7276077", "title": "Coagulation changes during major surgery and relationship to post-operative deep vein thrombosis.", "content": "Coagulation changes during major surgery and relationship to post-operative deep vein thrombosis. Nineteen patients undergoing aortic surgery during which 5,000 units of heparin were given intravenously were compared with 39 patients undergoing laparotomy or herniorrhaphy. There was an expected significant reduction in coagulability as measured by thrombelastography in those patients undergoing aortic surgery. Moreover, the early post-operative deep vein thrombosis (DVT) rate was significantly less. This implies that a reduction in coagulability by I.V. heparin during surgery is associated with a lower incidence of early post-operative deep vein thrombosis. Among the laparotomy and hernia group who developed a DVT, coagulability was significantly greater both before and during the operation and on the first post-operative day."}
{"id": "7269873", "title": "[Hormonal contraceptives of differentiated composition -- effects on thrombocyte function (author's transl)].", "content": "[Hormonal contraceptives of differentiated composition -- effects on thrombocyte function (author's transl)]. The number, proliferation, and aggregation of thrombocytes, platelet adhesiveness, and thromboblastographic values were investigated in the context of 52 women, who were on a compound hormonal contraceptive with threefold-differentiated gestagen, and of ten women with a compound hormonal contraceptive of two-fold gestagen differentiation. Tests were conducted over six months. Significant deviations from normal values were recordable. No definite conclusions, however, can be drawn from such individual observations. Disorders in thrombocyte function and change in thromboblastographic values, when considered with all their implications, are likely to suggest the presence of effects from hormonal contraceptives. Yet, both type and concentrations of oestrogens and gestagens are of minor importance to such change. Nevertheless, somewhat higher risk of thrombo-embolism should be assumed, if other conductive factors are present, at the same time."}
{"id": "7257238", "title": "Recovery, life span, and function of stored plateletpheresis units.", "content": "Recovery, life span, and function of stored plateletpheresis units. Plateletpheresis units collected using the Haemonetics Model 30 or the IBM 2997 cell separator were stored for 24 h at 22 degrees C. Autologous recovery and life span measurements averaged 64 +/- 13% (1 SD) and 8.9 +/- 1.3 (1 SD) days. The hemostatic effectiveness of these preparations were satisfactory; the corrected increment 4-6 h and 18-24 posttransfusion was 20,400 and 13,400/microliter/m2, respectively, and the bleeding time showed improvement in each patient. There was no significant difference in these parameters between collection devices."}
{"id": "7250434", "title": "[Thrombelastographic technic for studying the contractile properties of blood platelets].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic technic for studying the contractile properties of blood platelets]."}
{"id": "7235167", "title": "[Hemorheological disorders and their correction in late pregnancy toxicosis].", "content": "[Hemorheological disorders and their correction in late pregnancy toxicosis]."}
{"id": "7233509", "title": "Donor platelet response and product quality assurance in plateletpheresis.", "content": "Donor platelet response and product quality assurance in plateletpheresis. Retrospective analysis of 352 donors who underwent plateletpheresis at least four times, each using the Haemonetics Model 30 Blood Processor, indicated that a postpheresis platelet count of less than 100,000/microliter occurred in only 2.7 per cent of phereses. Restricting pheresis to those with a prepheresis platelet count of greater than 150,000/microliter would have lowered this to 1.3 per cent and eliminated only 3.7 per cent of donations. The donors' platelet counts returned to baseline approximately four days and rebounded above baseline eight to eleven days after pheresis. To minimize the chance of a donor having a postpheresis platelet count less than 100,000/microliter, the prepheresis platelet count should be greater than 150,000/microliter. A platelet count greater than 150,000/microliter immediately following the previous pheresis can be used instead of the prepheresis platelet count. The yield was related to the prepheresis platelet count, number of cycles, sex, type of procedure (platelet or platelet-leukapheresis), and the yield recorded during an individual's previous procedures. Seventy-five per cent of plateletpheresis products contained more than 3.3 x 10(11) platelets. This might be a satisfactory standard for quality assurance."}
{"id": "7233508", "title": "A new technique for the collection of plasma: machine plasmapheresis.", "content": "A new technique for the collection of plasma: machine plasmapheresis. The Haemonetics Model 50 permits the collection of 500 ml of plasma within an average of 30 minutes, and the donor is never disconnected from his cells. In a detailed assessment of 28 donors, we found no detrimental effect of the procedure. There was no evidence of fibrin split products or complement activation. The plasma showed good recovery of protein with slightly elevated factor VIII levels; citrate levels are only two-thirds of manual plasmapheresis values. While there was a relatively large number of platelets collected into this plasma, the platelets were small, with a mean diameter of 1.8 mu and poor response to aggregation. Therefore it would appear that this plasma should not be used to make a platelet preparation. Nonetheless, evaluation of this machine indicated that the performance parameters are acceptable and that donor acceptance is exceptional, with widespread enthusiasm for this \"new\" method of blood donation."}
{"id": "7223223", "title": "[State of the clotting and anticoagulant systems of the blood in children with cerebrovascular insufficiency of congenital etiology].", "content": "[State of the clotting and anticoagulant systems of the blood in children with cerebrovascular insufficiency of congenital etiology]. The author investigated the hemocoagulation system in 59 children with chronic cerebrovascular insufficiency caused by sequelae of natal inadequacy of the cervical division of the vertebral column and vertebral arteries. In children examined, pronounced thromboelastographic changes were noted. These changes pointed to a tendency to hypercoagulation combined with manifestations of hypocoagulation in the third phase of the blood clotting. This is an indication of activation of the secondary anticoagulation mechanism which plays a compensatory role in preventing intravascular thrombosis."}
{"id": "7222198", "title": "Freezing in the primary polyvinylchloride plastic collection bag: a new system for preparing and freezing nonrejuvenated and rejuvenated red blood cells.", "content": "Freezing in the primary polyvinylchloride plastic collection bag: a new system for preparing and freezing nonrejuvenated and rejuvenated red blood cells. Red blood cells were stored at 4 C in the primary bag with an integrally attached empty transfer pack so that the red blood cells could be rejuvenated or not, as desired before glycerolization and freezing. The rejuvenation and glycerol solutions were added through ports in the system. After glycerolization, the red blood cells were concentrated by centrifugation to remove the supernatant glycerol before freezing with 40% w/v glycerol in the primary polyvinylchloride (PVC) plastic container at -80 C. After thawing, the red blood cells were washed using either the Haemonetics Blood Processor 115 or the IBM Blood Processor 2991-1 or 2991-2. In each system, 50 ml of 12% sodium chloride and 1.5 to 1.6 liters of 0.9% sodium chloride-0.2% glucose-25 meq/l disodium phosphate were used. Recovery of red blood cells in vitro was 91 per cent. After three days of postwash storage at 4 C, nonrejuvenated red blood cells had a mean 24-hour posttransfusion survival of 88 per cent, and outdated-rejuvenated red blood cells a value of 81 per cent. This new system is simpler and safer than methods previously used in this laboratory, and red blood cell recovery and 24-hour posttransfusion survivals were comparable or better."}
{"id": "7221909", "title": "[Ischemic heart disease and blood coagulation (data on the epidemiological examination of men 40-59 years of age by thrombelastography)].", "content": "[Ischemic heart disease and blood coagulation (data on the epidemiological examination of men 40-59 years of age by thrombelastography)]."}
{"id": "7215935", "title": "[Thromboelastography in various forms of acute suppurative, destructive pneumonia in children].", "content": "[Thromboelastography in various forms of acute suppurative, destructive pneumonia in children]."}
{"id": "7211759", "title": "Evaluation of erythrocyte washing using the Haemonetics Model 102 Cell Washer.", "content": "Evaluation of erythrocyte washing using the Haemonetics Model 102 Cell Washer. The Haemonetics Model 102 Cell Washer was evaluated for efficiency of leukocyte removal and erythrocyte recovery. Groups of 25 units of blood were washed using five different protocols, including the methods recommended by the manufacturer. Mean erythrocyte recovery ranged from 83% to 91% and median residual leukocytes ranged from 1% to 4% for the five protocols. The mean erythrocyte recovery for units washed with 30 sec of increased pump speed was 95%, while it was 84% for units washed with 90 sec of increased pump speed (P less than 0.001). The median residual leukocytes was 1% for units washed after buffy coat removal and 4% for all other units (P less than 0.001). There was no other significant difference among the different protocols. These findings could not be explained on the basis of age of units, prewash erythrocyte mass, or prewash total leukocytes."}
{"id": "7199294", "title": "[Clinical problems of microrheology in disseminated intravascular coagulation (author's transl)].", "content": "[Clinical problems of microrheology in disseminated intravascular coagulation (author's transl)]. Among the earliest products of a potentially succeeding disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) are the soluble fibrin monomer complexes representing a state of hypercoagulability. They are passing microcirculation as long as there are no precipitation activities, which may involve only one single organ. A typical example is the endotoxin shock followed by fibrination of the kidneys. The clogging of microcirculation by fibrination specifically released in this organ or another may be prevented in case of a well-timed diagnosis, but scarcely can be removed therapeutically (possibly therapeutical fibrinolysis). The effects of localising fibrination yet independent of clotting mechanism may be tackled by treating the causal disease. Hypercoagulability always preceding DIC can be controlled mainly by heparin. Its well-timed application depends on diagnostics which are able to define the momentary situation in the mostly progredient process, comprising a mortality of about 50%. Finally, as a possible method to assess the clinical situation the resonance thrombography, a successor of thrombelastography, is put forward."}
{"id": "7039989", "title": "[A discussion on the bleeding manifestation in patients with leukemia and lymphoma (author's transl)].", "content": "[A discussion on the bleeding manifestation in patients with leukemia and lymphoma (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "7027996", "title": "Sterility studies of platelet concentrates produced with Haemonetics 30.", "content": "Sterility studies of platelet concentrates produced with Haemonetics 30."}
{"id": "7025290", "title": "The thrombelastographic diagnosis of hemostatic defects.", "content": "The thrombelastographic diagnosis of hemostatic defects. The thrombelastogram as designed by Hartert has now been in use for more than 30 years. Within 30 minutes, it provides a global account of clot formation and fibrinolysis or the time and degree of the interaction between the activators and inhibitors of both systems. On the basis of our own experience, it seems justifiable to assert that although its sensitivity to technical variables requires stringent laboratory control, the TEG offers a simple, reliable method of defining the key areas of hemostatic incompetence or for assessing the efficacy of a therapeutic program. Thrombelastographic hypercoagulability, which has deservedly been given prominence in the recent literature, may add an exciting dimension to the diagnostic spectrum of an elegantly conceived instrument."}
{"id": "7022292", "title": "[Discontinuous cell separation as depletion therapy in chronic leukemias].", "content": "[Discontinuous cell separation as depletion therapy in chronic leukemias]. Blood cell separators have been successfully used in the treatment of chronic leukaemias. With the intermittent flow system Haemonetics model 30, we found it important to collect 150-300 ml buffy coat/cycle in order to obtain a substantial depletory effect. In 2 patients with chronic myeloid leukaemia on short-term leukapheresis and in 1 patient with prolymphocytic leukaemia on long-term leukapheresis we found a definite decrease in the WBC count. 2 of them experienced a transitory improvement of their disease. Only minor side-effects occurred. However, the loss of erythrocytes and plasma albumin necessitated replacement therapy. From our experience the intermittent flow blood cell separator can be successfully used in the treatment of well-defined forms of chronic leukaemia."}
{"id": "7015242", "title": "[Functional characteristics of granulocytes separated by haemonetic cytapheresis (author's transl)].", "content": "[Functional characteristics of granulocytes separated by haemonetic cytapheresis (author's transl)]. Granulocytes have been transfused systematically for several years owing to the utilisation of cells separators. It seems profitable to test these granulocytes from a functional standpoint since they are centrifuged and then collected in plastic bags. Several function tests are used and demonstrate that the quality of these granulocytes is on the average diminished without altering them significantly. Morphological studies complementing these qualitative studies demonstrate membrane fusions and partial degranulation."}
{"id": "6970434", "title": "The safety of weekly plateletpheresis: effect on the donors' lymphocyte population.", "content": "The safety of weekly plateletpheresis: effect on the donors' lymphocyte population. Ten normal donors were monitored before, during, and after ten weekly donations of platelet concentrates prepared using the Haemonetics Model 30 blood processor. Analysis of these data indicates about a 20 per cent decrease of lymphocytes, with B cells being significantly decreased in half of these patients. While coincident immunoglobulin deficiencies did not develop in this short-term study, it is presumed that these would occur with a prolongation of platelet donations, as has been noted in previous studies. Additional studies are indicated to further delineate the lymphocyte depletion in normal platelet donors."}
{"id": "6944514", "title": "[An effect of mature neutrophils on the disorder of hemostasis in patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia: with special reference to clinical observation of 54 cases and studies on thrombelastograms (author's transl)].", "content": "[An effect of mature neutrophils on the disorder of hemostasis in patients with chronic myelogenous leukemia: with special reference to clinical observation of 54 cases and studies on thrombelastograms (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "6781890", "title": "Sodium valproate, platelet dysfunction, and bleeding.", "content": "Sodium valproate, platelet dysfunction, and bleeding. The antiepileptic drug sodium valproate (VPA) can provoke a thrombocytopenia or platelet dysfunction, with or without hemorrhages. These unwanted side effects are probably infrequent or, at least, have little clinical importance except in patients undergoing surgery. Thromboelastography appears to be a reliable screening test. As hematological abnormalities are often dose related, VPA dosages greater than 40 mg/kg/day are not advised."}
{"id": "6454998", "title": "Hematologic parameters during treatment with high-dose medroxyprogesterone acetate.", "content": "Hematologic parameters during treatment with high-dose medroxyprogesterone acetate. Blood clotting, platelet aggregation, complete blood count and lipid profile were evaluated in 12 postmenopausal patients with advanced breast cancer. Patients under treatment with high-dose MPA were considered not at risk for thomboembolic disease and were given MPA orally, 800 mg/day, for at least 3 months. Laboratory investigations were performed prior to treatment with MPA then once weekly during the first month and every 2 weeks during the following months. PTT, TEG, antithrombin III and platelet adhesiveness underwent statistically significant changes, tending towards hypercoagulability, although, on the average, they did not exceed the upper normal range. The authors conclude that a clinically relevant thrombotic activity cannot be attributed to MPA at the administered oral doses in the absence of additional risk factors."}
{"id": "6453415", "title": "[In vitro study of a human plasmin (CY 218) and its association with urokinase (author's transl)].", "content": "[In vitro study of a human plasmin (CY 218) and its association with urokinase (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "7466305", "title": "A critical review of platelet yield by Haemonetics 30 . Based on literature and own observations.", "content": "A critical review of platelet yield by Haemonetics 30 . Based on literature and own observations. By means of a haemonetics 30 cell separator platelets were collected for transfusion purposes from 18 different blood donors. A median yield of 5.7 X 10(11) platelets was obtained. The yield of platelets was found to be linearly related to the donors' initial platelet counts. The procedures were standardized by using one size of bowl (225 ml), performing 10 cycles per procedure, and performing all cycles as uniformly as possible. The median time per procedure was 118 min. Mild donor reactions were seen in 8 donors (44%) consisting of circumoral tingling. The decrement in the donors' platelet count was 86 X 10(9)/1, 37% of the initial platelet counts. The choice of the bowl size of 225 ml is motivated. The absurdity of the expression of yield pe h of processing, and of yield per 1 of blood processed is discussed. Furthermore, it is shown, that neither the fall in haematocrit nor the fall in the platelet count during the procedure are linear. The formulas commonly used for calculating the blood volume and platelet extraction efficiency, which are based on these assumptions, cannot therefore, in our opinion, be used."}
{"id": "7462735", "title": "[Studies on the use of priming blood after extracorporeal circulation - analysis on \"Haemonetics Cell Saver\" (author's transl)].", "content": "[Studies on the use of priming blood after extracorporeal circulation - analysis on \"Haemonetics Cell Saver\" (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "7443456", "title": "[Blood viscosity: correlations with parameters of thrombelastography].", "content": "[Blood viscosity: correlations with parameters of thrombelastography]."}
{"id": "7428360", "title": "Effects of oral contraceptives containing 50 microgram estrogen on blood coagulation in non-Caucasian women.", "content": "Effects of oral contraceptives containing 50 microgram estrogen on blood coagulation in non-Caucasian women. In one of the first longitudinal studies of 163 non-Caucasian women, comprehensive coagulation, fibrinolysis and platelet function tests were performed before and during 24 months of oral contraceptive pill usage containing 50 microgram estrogen. Results of this ongoing study indicate a state of abnormal coagulability with increase in fibrinogen, prothrombin, Factor V and Factor X. There was also a decrease in antithrombin III level. There was a shortening of overall clotting parameters measured by prothrombin time and Kaolin cephalin time. The significance of these changes in the aetiology of thromboembolism is discussed. 163 non-caucasian women in Singapore were studied in the first of a series of longitudinal studies to determine effects of 50-mcg estrogen oral contraceptive (OC) formulations on blood coagulation in these women as compared with effects reported in caucasian women. 2 of the formulations contained hilots interviewed were active in giving hakop 50 mcg of ethinylestradiol. Comprehensive coagulation, fibrinolysis, and platelet function tests were performed during the first 24 months of OC use (all combined formulations). Prothrombin time was significantly reduced only after 12 months of use. The Kaolin cephalin clotting time was reduced and was significant from the 3rd month (P .0005). The thromboelasticity, as shown by thromboelastography, showed no significant alternation in pattern in most patients. There was an increase in fibrinogen level which was significant from the 3rd month (P .025). Factor V and X were significantly increased from the 3rd month (P .0l and P .0l, respectively). And factor II was only significantly increased in the 3rd and 6th month (P .0l) before reverting to pre-OC levels. Factor VII and VIII were not significantly changed, although there was a tendency to rise; at 2 years, the rise was significant for factor VIII. Antithrombin III levels were reduced significantly from the 9th month, and alpha macroglobulin tended to rise, but not significantly. Plasminogen level was significantly increased (P .005). Spontaneous fibrinolytic activity and euglobulin fraction were increased (P .05 for both). Fibrinogen degradation products were unchanged, until after 2 years, when they rose significantly. The number of platelets was significantly increased (P .02) after 9 months, except for a sudden decrease at 24 months. No changes in aggregation or adhesiveness were noted, except for the latter at 24 months."}
{"id": "7424983", "title": "Red cell exchange in the pregnancy complicated by a major hemoglobinopathy.", "content": "Red cell exchange in the pregnancy complicated by a major hemoglobinopathy. A new method of partial erythrocyte exchange for pregnancies complicated by a major hemoglobinopathy is described. The Haemonetics 30 Cell Separator allows efficient withdrawal and discard of the patient's erythrocytes. The patient's leukocytes, platelets, and plasma are conserved and returned with washed, compatible donor red cells which contain Hb AA. Three pregnant black women with significant hemoglobinopathies were treated by this modality during their pregnancies. Vaginal term deliveries were accomplished in each case. The method offers advantages in the efficiency of blood quantity displacement, patient comfort, adaptability to the patient with severe anemia, and the use of outpatient facilities. The method is suggested for use whenever a patient with an obstetrically significant hemoglobin variant needs transfusions of erythocytes."}
{"id": "7415185", "title": "Monitoring heparin therapy with thromboelastography and activated partial thromboplastin time.", "content": "Monitoring heparin therapy with thromboelastography and activated partial thromboplastin time."}
{"id": "7413365", "title": "[Blood coagulation state and the dynamic properties of the thrombocytes in acute bronchopulmonary diseases in young infants].", "content": "[Blood coagulation state and the dynamic properties of the thrombocytes in acute bronchopulmonary diseases in young infants]."}
{"id": "7413237", "title": "The value of the thromboelastogram as means of monitoring the sub-cutaneous preventive action of calcium heparinate.", "content": "The value of the thromboelastogram as means of monitoring the sub-cutaneous preventive action of calcium heparinate. The index of the thrombodynamic potential (I.T.P.) as one of the biological means of controlling the prophylactic effect of sub-cutaneous injections of Calcium Heparinate has been studied in 34 spinal cord injuries during the acute phase. Individual tolerance variations, some of them important, have been noted as well as the necessity of adjusting the doses, according to the time after injury. A biological hypercoagulability has been noted within the first and third month after injury. The interest and the cost of such a method are discussed and further comparative biological investigations, using other methods, have started."}
{"id": "7412103", "title": "[Blood rheological and coagulation properties in abdominal aortic aneurysm].", "content": "[Blood rheological and coagulation properties in abdominal aortic aneurysm]. From the analysis of information on 158 patients who underwent operation for aneurysm of the abdominal aorta and on the basis of complications associated with impaired hemostasis, considerable disorders were revealed in the blood rheologic and coagulative properties. These disorders intensify during the operation and in the first 3 postoperative days and may lead to the development of microcirculatory and thrombotic complications. The syndrome of generalized intravascular coagulation may develop in patients with large aneurysms of the abdominal aorta, in which operations are most traumatizing. A scheme for correcting disturbances in the blood rheologic and coagulative properties in the pathological condition is given."}
{"id": "7411873", "title": "[Functions of platelets isolated by Haemonetics blood processor Model 30 (author's transl)].", "content": "[Functions of platelets isolated by Haemonetics blood processor Model 30 (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "7411861", "title": "[Neutrophil transfusion. Part 1. Collection of neutrophils by Haemonetics Model 30 (author's transl)].", "content": "[Neutrophil transfusion. Part 1. Collection of neutrophils by Haemonetics Model 30 (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "7407667", "title": "The effect of enflurane and fentanyl anaesthesia on human platelet aggregation in vivo.", "content": "The effect of enflurane and fentanyl anaesthesia on human platelet aggregation in vivo. In 30 patients undergoing major operations, and anaesthetized with either nitrous oxide, oxygen and enflurane, or nitrous oxide, oxygen and fentanyl, there was no significant alteration in platelet aggregation induced by either adenosine diphosphate or collagen. The absence of any significant effect on platelet function was confirmed by an unchanging thromboelastogram pattern during the study."}
{"id": "7406158", "title": "[Hemorrhagic diathesis in obstetrical complications and its relationship to nonenzymatic fibrinolysis].", "content": "[Hemorrhagic diathesis in obstetrical complications and its relationship to nonenzymatic fibrinolysis]."}
{"id": "7405631", "title": "Clinical use of Haemonetics 30 blood cell separator in transfusiology and other fields of medicine.", "content": "Clinical use of Haemonetics 30 blood cell separator in transfusiology and other fields of medicine."}
{"id": "7404637", "title": "Cryopreservation of human platelets isolated by discontinuous-flow centrifugation using the Haemonetics Model 30 Blood Processor.", "content": "Cryopreservation of human platelets isolated by discontinuous-flow centrifugation using the Haemonetics Model 30 Blood Processor. Platelets were isolated from normal volunteers by discontinuous-flow centrifugation using the Haemonetics Model 30 Blood Processor. The numerical equivalent of about five single units of platelets collected at each pheresis were frozen together in a -80 C mechanical freezer with a 6% final concentration of dimethylsulfoxide (DMSO) as the cryoprotectant. Platelet freeze-thaw-wash recovery in vitro was about 80 per cent and the platelet recovery value depended upon the method used to enumerate the platelets. The 51Cr survival values in vivo were about 50 per cent less than those in fresh platelets. These values were not significantly different from those seen when platelets were isolated from single units of blood by differential serial centrifugation. Transfusion of two and one-half units of freeze-preserved platelets provided an increase in the recipient's circulating platelet count comparable with that from one unit of fresh platelets. The hemostatic effectiveness of freeze-preserved platelets isolated by discontinuous-flow centrifugation has not yet been studied."}
{"id": "7402733", "title": "[Dynamic changes in the coagulation system in pneumonia in children according to thromboelastographic data].", "content": "[Dynamic changes in the coagulation system in pneumonia in children according to thromboelastographic data]."}
{"id": "7384963", "title": "[Thromboelastographic assessement of hypercoagulability in traumatologic patients receiving calcium heparin (author's transl)].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic assessement of hypercoagulability in traumatologic patients receiving calcium heparin (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "7384893", "title": "[State of the blood coagulating system in different forms of neurocirculatory dystonia under the influence of a physical load according to thromboelastogram data and the fibrinogen content].", "content": "[State of the blood coagulating system in different forms of neurocirculatory dystonia under the influence of a physical load according to thromboelastogram data and the fibrinogen content]."}
{"id": "7378313", "title": "Citrate induced hypocalcaemia during cell separation.", "content": "Citrate induced hypocalcaemia during cell separation. The value of calcium addition during cell-separation by the Haemonetics Model 30 has been investigated in two patient groups. Where citrated plasma was used as the replacement fluid the addition of calcium abolished clinical symptoms and reduced the degree of citrate induced hypocalcaemia. When Plasma Protein Fraction was used as the replacement fluid, calcium addition was not necessary as clinical symptoms and significant hypocalcaemia did not occur."}
{"id": "7374326", "title": "[Hemostatic properties of gastric juice under basal conditions and after stimulation with pentagastrin or secretin-pancreozymin (author's transl)].", "content": "[Hemostatic properties of gastric juice under basal conditions and after stimulation with pentagastrin or secretin-pancreozymin (author's transl)]. Unsoluble gastric mucus and gastric juice from 11 normal volunteers were separated by centrifugation and investigated for hemostatic properties. Unsoluble gastric mucus added to citrated blood shortened reaction time and increased duration of maximum amplitude of thrombelastographic recordings, indicating an acceleration of hemostatic processes. On the other hand gastric juice inhibited coagulation and enhanced fibrinolytic activities, as shown by thrombelastographic recordings, prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, and euglobulin lysis time. Unsoluble gastric mucus accelerated hemostasis even more after stimulation by secretin-pancreozymin, as evidenced by thrombelastographic recordings. Gastric juice of patients with duodenal ulcers showed a significant change of these parameters to the opposite after pentagastrin. We conclude, that stimulation respectively inhibition of HCl and proteases, following pentagastrin respectively secretin-pancreazymin may influence hemostatic properties of gastric juice and gastric mucus as well."}
{"id": "7373993", "title": "[Change in the blood coagulating properties during ergometry in ischemic heart disease].", "content": "[Change in the blood coagulating properties during ergometry in ischemic heart disease]. During ergometric examination of 92 patients with ischemic heart disease and 35 healthy individuals blood coagulation was studied by recording thromboelastograms and electrocoagulograms and determining blood platelet aggregation, fibrinolytic activity and levels of fibrinogen and free heparin in blood. In 65 patients these values in ergometry were determined after treatment with obsidan. It was shown that during physical load there is an intensification of hypercoagulation processes embracing all phases of blood coagulation with simultaneous activation of anticoagulation mechanisms; in contrast to healthy individuals patients with ischemic heart disease are marked by prevalent hypercoagulation. Shifts in the system of blood coagulation depend on the volume of physical load. Heparin and fibrinolytic activity increases up to a certain load level, but when this is surpassed hypercoagulation processes prevail. This may be used as an additional criterion in determining the level of the training regimen in physical rehabilitation of patients."}
{"id": "7368162", "title": "The effect on thromboelastogram of normal blood and procoagulant activity of gel filtered uraemic platelets.", "content": "The effect on thromboelastogram of normal blood and procoagulant activity of gel filtered uraemic platelets. The effect on thromboelastogram of normal blood, and activity of platelet factor 3 of gel filtered uraemic platelets were investigated. It was found that gel filtered uraemic platelets cause shortening of \"r\" time of thromboelastogram and show increased activity of platelet factor 3 (stypven time). Both phenomena were interpreted as being due to increase of platelet procoagulant activity."}
{"id": "7367401", "title": "[Method and device for assessing the adhesive properties of a blood clot].", "content": "[Method and device for assessing the adhesive properties of a blood clot]."}
{"id": "7357249", "title": "The saline dilution test--a preoperative predictor of DVT.", "content": "The saline dilution test--a preoperative predictor of DVT. In vitro dilution of blood with normal saline produces an increase in coagulability which can be accurately measured by the thrombelastograph. The degree to which the coagulability of an individual patient's blood is increased by such dilution appears to be directly related to that patient's risk of developing a postoperative deep venous thrombosis. In a small group of patients undergoing major abdominal surgery, a preoperative test based on the coagulability increase after in vitro saline dilution successfully predicted all those who subsequently developed a postoperative deep venous thrombosis on 125I-fibrinogen scanning."}
{"id": "7355459", "title": "The sterility of platelet and granulocyte concentrates collected by discontinuous flow centrifugation.", "content": "The sterility of platelet and granulocyte concentrates collected by discontinuous flow centrifugation. Platelet concentrates prepared by a discontinuous flow centrifugal technique (Haemonetics) were examined for evidence of bacterial contamination and subsequent growth from 3 to 11 days after collection. Of the 126 platelet concentrates examined, 4 revealed bacterial growth. However, the growth patterns indicated contamination during the microbiologic manipulations rather than contamination of the units during preparation. These studies indicate that platelet concentrates prepared using the Haemonetics Blood Processor can be safely transfused for up to three days after collection if stored at 4 to 6 C."}
{"id": "7337684", "title": "[Signs of hypercoagulability in hyperlipemic hypertensives].", "content": "[Signs of hypercoagulability in hyperlipemic hypertensives]. The correlation between elevated serum lipids, shortened coagulation time, and the accelerated thrombosis measured in vivo was found in experimental animals. Elevated levels of some coagulation factors were found in samples of human hyperlipoproteinemic plasma. Experimental hypertension induced significant rise of serum cholesterol and some coagulation factors also. If thrombosis is important in the genesis of atheroclerosis, these findings could indicate that elevation of plasma lipids may play a role, via the coagulation pathway, in the production of human vascular disease. These findings encouraged us to test the group of patients with rised blood pressure and to correlate their lipid and coagulation status. Statistically significant difference between hyperlipemia and normolipemic hypertonics was seen in level of factors V and VII reduced fibrinolytic activity, decreased antithrombin III, and in higher rate of hypercoagulabilic thromboelastograms."}
{"id": "7282101", "title": "[Blood coagulation in hyperthermia].", "content": "[Blood coagulation in hyperthermia]. Young healthy volunteers were treated with physical hyperthermia (baths) in order to investigate changes in blood coagulation. Such therapy is used in the treatment of rheumatic diseases. Single hot baths (mean body temperature 38,2-39,9 degrees C) resulted in a rise of fibrinogen, factors IX and XII, maximal amplitude of the thrombelastogram and hemoglobin and in a decrease of plasminogen. In a series of hypothermic baths no additional changes of coagulation or fibrinolysis could be found. The results suggest that hyperthermia causes a tendency to thrombosis."}
{"id": "7256100", "title": "[Thrombelastography in anovulatory therapy with estroprogestogens].", "content": "[Thrombelastography in anovulatory therapy with estroprogestogens]."}
{"id": "7233362", "title": "[Purpose of the test of Raby's transfer in the control of a treatment with heparin (author's transl)].", "content": "[Purpose of the test of Raby's transfer in the control of a treatment with heparin (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "7192139", "title": "Characterization of a new potent heparin. 3rd Communication: Determinations of anticoagulant activity of a new potent heparin preparation by thrombelastography in vitro using citrated dog and human blood.", "content": "Characterization of a new potent heparin. 3rd Communication: Determinations of anticoagulant activity of a new potent heparin preparation by thrombelastography in vitro using citrated dog and human blood. The anticoagulant effect of a new potent heparin preparation was compared with a commercially available heparin by thrombelastography in vitro using citrated dog and human blood. The relative potency of the new heparin was found to be 1.45 to 1.77 with dog citrated blood and 1.77 to 2.41 with human citrated blood on the basis of different thrombelastographic parameters."}
{"id": "6995774", "title": "The detection and measurement of factor XIII activity: a review.", "content": "The detection and measurement of factor XIII activity: a review."}
{"id": "6992362", "title": "The preparation of leukocyte-poor red cells from liquid stored blood: an evaluation of the Haemonetics 102 cell washing system.", "content": "The preparation of leukocyte-poor red cells from liquid stored blood: an evaluation of the Haemonetics 102 cell washing system. An evaluation of the Haemonetics 102, an automated cell washing system, is presented. Although the system removes 68.4 +/- 14 per cent of the white blood cells from liquid stored blood, the percentage wash out is an unreliable mode of evaluation. The residual number of white blood cells per unit is 6.5 +/- 2.8 x 10(8), which is independent of the unit's size, age, and initial leukocyte count. The residual number of white blood cells is also not influenced by any of the modifications used in the study. Red blood cell loss averaged 16.3 per cent. A direct correlation exists between the initial red blood cell mass and the amount of cell lost. It is recommended that packed cell units which have a volume of less than 300 ml with hematocrits of 75 per cent or less be used to minimize excessive red blood cell loss. Recommendation as to the selection of units by an ideal age or the preparation of units prior to washing are not supported by these data."}
{"id": "6989011", "title": "Effects of splenectomy on blood coagulation and fibrinolysis in patients with liver cirrhosis: possible role of the spleen in haemostasis.", "content": "Effects of splenectomy on blood coagulation and fibrinolysis in patients with liver cirrhosis: possible role of the spleen in haemostasis. Blood coagulation and fibrinolysis before and after splenectomy was studied in 74 cases of liver cirrhosis. A hypocoagulable state was found before splenectomy, but the platelet count, and the levels of fibrinogen, plasminogen, alpha 2-macroglobulin and antithrombin III increased significantly after splenectomy (p less than 0.05 to p less than 0.001). A marked improvement was observed on the values of r (reaction time), k (clot formation time) and ma (maximal amplitude) of thrombelastograms (p less than 0.05 to p less than 0.001). The prothrombin time was reduced after the surgery, but not significantly (p less than 0.1, greater than 0.05). The levels of alpha 1-antitrypsin remained almost unchanged, while serum fibrinogen-fibrin degradation products (FDP) showed a slight decrease postoperatively. The immunohistologic study of the spleen excised from 7 cases with liver cirrhosis, with the use of the direct immunofluorescence technique, demonstrated the deposits of fibrin in the splenic cords in all cases. It was not recognized in the spleens of 4 cases without cirrhosis used as the control. A further study of the spleen weight and plasma fibrinogen level showed that a significant inverse correlation exists between these two parameters (p less than 0.01). These findings suggest that localized intravascular coagulation (LIC) occurs in the enlarged spleen associated with liver cirrhosis."}
{"id": "6943876", "title": "[Asymmetrical cervical headgear and its use].", "content": "[Asymmetrical cervical headgear and its use]."}
{"id": "6780779", "title": "[A case of neonatal hemophilia A with massive subneural hemorrhage].", "content": "[A case of neonatal hemophilia A with massive subneural hemorrhage]."}
{"id": "6779435", "title": "[Effect of chloroquine on polyanions].", "content": "[Effect of chloroquine on polyanions]. Chloroquine forms complexes with polyanions as does the metachromatic dye pseudoisocyanine. This phenomenon can be used to show chloroquine binding to polyanions. It is shown spectrophotometrically that glycosaminoglycans form complexes with chloroquine more readily than with pseudoisocyanine. Moreover chloroquine abolishes fluorescence of glycosaminoglycan inclusion bodies in leucocytes of mucopolysaccharidosis patients. A woman of 34 suffering from mucopolysaccharidosis type I-S had such inclusion bodies in 19 out of 200 leucocytes examined before and in only two after a month of chloroquine treatment. In heparinized blood chloroquine induces clotting faster than does saline in control samples. This finding suggests inactivation of polyanions by chloroquine binding."}
{"id": "6778488", "title": "[Thromboelastographic patterns in patients suffering from chronic obstructive lung disease after hyperventilation].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic patterns in patients suffering from chronic obstructive lung disease after hyperventilation]. In an our previous study we studied the influence of O2 therapy administration on the thromboelastographic pattern of patients suffering from chronic obstructive lung disease. We showed that basal hypocoagulability of our patients became normal after O2 administration. In this study we refer the thromboelastographic pattern observed in patients suffering from the same disease before and after hyperventilation. We don't find any changes about total coagulability either in patients or in healthy subjects after hyperventilation. Therefore we suggest that the absence of any changes is due to PCO2 and pH variations that occur at the same time of PO2 modification during hyperventilation; PCO2 and pH variations may influence the haemoglobin oxygen affinity and annul the effect of the increase PO2 on the tissue oxygenation. We suppose that the increase of patients suffering from chronic obstructive lung disease, is due to decreased fibrinolysis or to increased production of prostacycline induced by hyperventilation."}
{"id": "6765663", "title": "[Optimizing the fibrinogen-thrombin adhesive system].", "content": "[Optimizing the fibrinogen-thrombin adhesive system]. It was the aim of the present three series of investigations to determine conditions to improve the firmness of the clot produced by the fibrinogen-thrombin adhesive system. For methodological reasons the compressive strength and adhesive power of the clot, as well as the probability of a relation between deformation energy and tensile strength were examined. Furthermore, the influence of fibrinolysis on the effects of the adhesive system was investigated. The following factors proved to be relevant for the firmness of the clot: 1. Concentration of fibrinogen, 2. concentration of thrombin, 3. relation between volume of fibrinogen and of thrombin solution, 4. time of diffusion of constituents of mixture, 5. addition of blood-clotting factor XIII and solution of calcium ions. The following optimum concentrations of components of the adhesive system per ml of the mixture were established in the course of the investigations: Fibrinogen solution (approx. 10% clottable material) 0.86 ml Thrombin 100 E. Factor XIII 90 E. = 30 mg Ca++ 250 mMol A volume ratio of 6 parts of fibrinogen as cryoprecipitate to 1 part of a solution containing thrombin, factor XIII and calcium ions proved optimal for the preparation of the mixture."}
{"id": "6254544", "title": "[Effects of polymyxin B and E (colistin) on blood coagulation, thrombocyte function, and fibrin structure (author's transl)].", "content": "[Effects of polymyxin B and E (colistin) on blood coagulation, thrombocyte function, and fibrin structure (author's transl)]. Polymyxins are known to form complexes with endotoxins and phospholipids. Therefore patients with septicaemia were treated in some studies with polymyxin. We investigated the effect of polymyxin B and E (colistin) on some blood coagulation parameters, spreading of platelets and fibrin polymerisation. With increased concentrations of polymyxin (1, 5, 10, 20, 100 mg%) we found a significant prolongation of prothrombin, partial thromboplastin and TEG reaction times. Spreading of platelets was also reduced. There was, however, no effect on fibrin polymerisation. The coagulation inhibitory effects of polymyxins could be reduced by adding phospholipids as procoagulant. These results indicate: 1. There are anticoagulant effects of polymyxins even in therapeutic doses and therefore it should not be applied in cases of haemorrhagic diathesis or renal insufficiency. 2. In septicaemia the disseminated intravascular coagulation can be prevented because due to consumption of polymyxin, endotoxinaemia persists."}
{"id": "6252623", "title": "[Introduction to the study of hemostasis in cirrhotic patients (author's transl)].", "content": "[Introduction to the study of hemostasis in cirrhotic patients (author's transl)]. Any diffuse lesion of the liver induces permanent hypercoagulation with subsequent permanent lysis and possible consumption or DIVC/Hemostasis depends on two distinct mechanisms: the platelets, whose functional activity is more important than numbers, and the coagulolytic equilibrium of the plasma. Apart from the activating and inhibiting enzymes of coagulation and lysis, the lungs and liver play an important role. The lungs filter and then determine lysis of the corpuscular agglomerates. The liver produces epuration of the activated factors and prothrombinase, as well as the plasminogen activator. Except in extremely severe cases, however, these functions are rarely involved. Investigations must be complete and include a test of platelet aggregation, a TEG on total blood to analyze whole coagulation, and tests for consumption and lysis. Coagulation and bleeding time tests are of great value during severe hemorrhagic attacks. Pathological examination should evaluate the condition of the vascular state and, more particularly, the presence of fibrin thrombi with the appropriate methods."}
{"id": "6246607", "title": "[Preventive treatment of thrombo-embolism in general surgery. A report of 5 242 observations (author's transl)].", "content": "[Preventive treatment of thrombo-embolism in general surgery. A report of 5 242 observations (author's transl)]. 5 242 patients in a ward of general surgery have been submitted to prevention by subcutaneous injection of calcium heparinate. In all coagulolytic balance has been measured by thromboelastogram on whole blood. The aim was to reduce any hypercoagulability and maintain orthocoagulability. Three fourths of the patients had preoperative hypercoagulability, which may be responsible of precocious migrations. Except emergency, this hypercoagulability was first treated. The heparin dosis was scheduled according to age, weight and degree of hypercoagulability, and the treatment maintained at least 15 days. These are the results: thromboembolism 2,48 % (lethal 0,76 %). All registered accidents were the consequence of gross error. Heparinotherapy has been stopped in only 3 patients; there was no special hemorrhage during operation."}
{"id": "6162759", "title": "[In vitro studies on the determination of the coagulating activity of normal, inflammatory and bloody cerebrospinal fluids].", "content": "[In vitro studies on the determination of the coagulating activity of normal, inflammatory and bloody cerebrospinal fluids]. Selective analyses of the coagulation factors II, V, VIII, and X in cerebrospinal fluid resulted in activity values ranging from 0.01-0.05 as a portion of the relative ratio 1 pertaining to the plasma activity. The increase of activity did not correlate with the protein increase in cerebrospinal fluid at F-VIII, and only to a slight extent at F-II, F-V,, and F-X. As compared with plasma a stimulating effect on coagulation can be recorded thromboelastographically in plasma mixtures."}
{"id": "6107836", "title": "[Influence of hypocaloric diet on blood coagulation of overweight children (author's transl)].", "content": "[Influence of hypocaloric diet on blood coagulation of overweight children (author's transl)]. 32 overweight otherwise healthy children aged 8-15 years received a hypocaloric mixed diet for some weeks. Their blood coagulation was studied with regard to possible changes. Before dieting the levels of fibrinogen were markedly increased, also maximal amplitude (ma) of the thrombelastograms. The other values were within the normal range. During the diet statistically significant changes were found in the values of the following coagulatin parameters: ma of the thrombelastograms as well as the activities of the coagulation factors I, II, VII, VIII, IX, and X."}
{"id": "6107827", "title": "[Influence of hypocaloric diet on the platelets of overweight children (author's transl)].", "content": "[Influence of hypocaloric diet on the platelets of overweight children (author's transl)]. 20 overweight, otherwise healthy children aged 8--15 years received a hypocaloric mixed diet. Platelet counts and qualities were examined. Before dieting in relation to the weight platelet counts were elevated, their spreading capacity diminished, but the values were still within the normal range. Some tests of platelet qualities were abnormal. During the first weeks of dieting platelet counts decreased continuously while some of their qualities worsened."}
{"id": "573024", "title": "[Blood coagulation system changes in idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura after splenectomy].", "content": "[Blood coagulation system changes in idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura after splenectomy]."}
{"id": "553580", "title": "[Thrombelastographic pattern in chronic bronchopneumonia patients placed on oxygen therapy].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic pattern in chronic bronchopneumonia patients placed on oxygen therapy]. The thromboelastographic pattern in chronic obstructive lung disease as compared to normal group during O2 administration was evaluated. The results stressed that the basal hypocoagulability of pathological subjects had become normal after O2 administration. No significant change in the group of normal subjects was observed."}
{"id": "538673", "title": "Viscoelastic effects of dextran 70 on human blood.", "content": "Viscoelastic effects of dextran 70 on human blood."}
{"id": "525571", "title": "[Factor VIII-related antigen and thrombelastogram in diabetic retinopathy (author's transl)].", "content": "[Factor VIII-related antigen and thrombelastogram in diabetic retinopathy (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "524435", "title": "A comparison of platelets prepared by the Haemonetics Model 30 and multiunit bag plateletpheresis.", "content": "A comparison of platelets prepared by the Haemonetics Model 30 and multiunit bag plateletpheresis. Platelet concentrates were prepared using the Haemonetics Model 30 (M-30) and a multiunit bag pheresis method. Comparisons of collection efficiency using paired donor collections and posttransfusion recovery using the same donor-recipient pairs were made for the two methods. The M-30 proved consistently superior as a method of collection in terms of efficiency and yield per hour (p less than .001). When the platelets obtained were transfused to HL-A matched, clinically stable, thrombocytopenic patients with acute leukemia similar increments within the expected range were obtained at 1 hour and 18 hours posttransfusion. While the M-30 is a more efficient collection method, the bag method is still relatively efficient and may be more suitable for smaller centers and specialized uses."}
{"id": "524317", "title": "Anticoagulant activity of peptides from the human placenta.", "content": "Anticoagulant activity of peptides from the human placenta."}
{"id": "519354", "title": "Haemorrheological response to plasma exchange in Raynaud's syndrome.", "content": "Haemorrheological response to plasma exchange in Raynaud's syndrome. Eight patients with Raynaud's syndrome were treated by weekly plasma exchange for four weeks using a Haemonetics Model 30 Blood Processor. The mean whole-blood viscosity at a shear rate of 0.77/s was significantly lower after treatment, and the mean index of red-cell deformability was significantly improved. In four patients studied serially the mean percentage fall in whole-blood viscosity after a single plasma exchange was 49% at 0.77/s but only 14% at 91/s. All patients noticed symptomatic improvement including healing of ischaemic digital ulcers. In six patients the number of digital arterial segments containing detectable blood flow was measured by directional Doppler; in all six the number increased. It is concluded that plasma exchange is an effective means of haemorrheological treatment and may be beneficial in patients with digital ischaemia."}
{"id": "509912", "title": "Prevention of deep venous thrombosis: intermittent pneumatic compression.", "content": "Prevention of deep venous thrombosis: intermittent pneumatic compression."}
{"id": "509788", "title": "Plasmapheresis in glomerulonephritis.", "content": "Plasmapheresis in glomerulonephritis. Plasmapheresis together with immunosuppressive drug therapy has been used in the treatment of 17 patients with glomerulonephritis [Goodpasture's syndrome (4), systemic lupus erythematosus (4), mesangiocapillary glomerulonephritis (2), glomerulonephritis associated with cirrhosis (2), nonspecific mesangial proliferative glomerulonephritis (3), Henoch-Schoenlein purpura glomerulonephritis (1) and glomerulonephritis associated with infective endocarditis (1)]. Use of the Haemonetics Model 30 blood cell separator, exchanging two liters of plasma with 5% albumin in Hartmann's solution has provided a safe, effective but relatively expensive procedure, capable of producing a marked reduction of fibrinogen, complement components, anti-glomerular basement membrane antibody and immune complex concentrations. Removal of one or more of these factors is felt to be at least partly responsible for the improvement in renal function and clinical well-being demonstrated in patients with Goodpasture's syndrome, systemic lupus erythematosus and other forms of glomerulonephritis associated with the presence of circulating immune complexes."}
{"id": "508118", "title": "[Thromboelastographic changes caused by intravenous infusion of verapamil - clinical study].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic changes caused by intravenous infusion of verapamil - clinical study]."}
{"id": "505531", "title": "Use of dextran 150 as a macromolecular agent to improve granulocyte yields on the intermittent flow blood cell separator (Haemonetics Model 30).", "content": "Use of dextran 150 as a macromolecular agent to improve granulocyte yields on the intermittent flow blood cell separator (Haemonetics Model 30). Leukaphereses were performed on the intermittent flow cell separator (Haemonentics Model 30) using citrated dextran 150 as a macromolecular agent to improve separation of granulocytes. A mean of 1.77 X 10(10) granulocytes and 7.73 X 10(11) platelets were obtained without steroid stimulation and 2.65 X 10(10) granulocytes and 8.91 X 10(11) platelets were obtained with steroid stimulation of donors. There were no significant adverse reactions to dextran."}
{"id": "505259", "title": "Monitoring of heparin therapy with thromboelastography.", "content": "Monitoring of heparin therapy with thromboelastography. The technique of thromboelastography was used to monitor the administration of heparin to patients with diagnosed deep vein thrombosis. The thromboelastograph uses a mechanical optical system to provide a continuous dynamic measure of the coagulation process. It has been found to be a highly sensitive device for the detection of response to heparin thus allowing a more precise administration of heparin frequently leading to a reduction in the dosage to maintain the coagulation process of the patient within therapeutic range. This allows a more individualized approach to the patient on anticoagulation therapy."}
{"id": "502262", "title": "[Dynamics of changes in the thromboelastogram in patients with uncomplicated forms of calculous cholecystitis in postoperative period].", "content": "[Dynamics of changes in the thromboelastogram in patients with uncomplicated forms of calculous cholecystitis in postoperative period]."}
{"id": "500298", "title": "Blood coagulation and hereditary nephritis.", "content": "Blood coagulation and hereditary nephritis. Nineteen patients with hereditary nephritis - members of six families - were studied for haemostasis on 11 occasions by the use of four capillary tests, 14 different blood coagulation tests and two different platelet function tests. Systemic capillaropathy was demonstrable in 8 out of 15 cases of the non-uraemic, and in all the 5 cases of the uraemic group. No completely normal blood coagulation was found in any of the cases and the coagulation disorders were never of exclusively haemorrhagic pattern. On the evidence of the complex studies, hypercoagulability as well as hyper-hypocoagulability were found in the uraemic and non-uraemic groups alike. Reduction in plasma fibrinolytic activity, elevation of the fibrinogen level and a shift of the thrombelastogram in the direction of thrombosis were demonstrable in the majority of the cases."}
{"id": "494931", "title": "[Age and blood coagulation features in ischemic strokes].", "content": "[Age and blood coagulation features in ischemic strokes]. Extensive coagulogramms and thromboelastogramms were analysed in 775 patients who had ischemic brain strokes in the age up to 45 years (I group), 46-60 (II group) and over 60 (III group). In patients of the II and III group thrombogenic hypercoagulant tendencies compared to that of the young age were more distinct and were mainly conditioned by depressions of the anticoagulative link in the anticoagulant blood system. In patients younger than 45, despite more rapid formation of procoagulants, there was an earlier and more expressed activation of fibrinolysis and an increase of the concentration of free heparin in the blood. These changes of coagulation in an ischemic stroke have a compensatory significance and can be explained by a prevalent adaptive tendency of changes in metabolism in young age, providing an adaptation of the organism in the period of stress."}
{"id": "494571", "title": "The utilisation of a new strength citrate anticoagulant during centrifugal plateletpheresis. III. Assessment of in vitro platelet metabolism.", "content": "The utilisation of a new strength citrate anticoagulant during centrifugal plateletpheresis. III. Assessment of in vitro platelet metabolism. Employing the Haemonetics Blood Processor (IFC), a relatively pure platelet concentrate can be prepared by collecting only the first portion of the PRP leaving the centrifuge bowl (Fraction I). A subsequent fraction containing RBC and WBC contaminants (Fraction II) can be purified by means of a second centrifugation, using a conventional blood bank centrifuge (Fraction II), if transfusion of these contaminants would be detrimental to the recipient. Utilising the new 1.4% Na3-citrate anticoagulant, platelet metabolic parameters (ATP, ADP, AMP, lactate and pyruvate) as well as O2-uptake, were determined in Fraction I and II prepared from 10 normal healthy subjects. In contrast to previous studies reporting marked dysfunction in platelets contained in Fraction II when standard ACD-A was used during IFC, we observed no significant difference (Student's t test) in the present study between Fractions I and II, in regard to platelet metabolism, when using the new anticoagulant. It is further concluded that the second centrifugal manipulation does not exert a detrimental effect on platelet metabolism."}
{"id": "494153", "title": "An inhibitor of clot formation in cord plasma.", "content": "An inhibitor of clot formation in cord plasma."}
{"id": "493425", "title": "[Thromboelastographic and immunologic fibrinolysis determinations in inflammatory-changed and artificial blood stained cerebrospinal fluids using fibrinogen substrate].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic and immunologic fibrinolysis determinations in inflammatory-changed and artificial blood stained cerebrospinal fluids using fibrinogen substrate]. In in-vitro long-term tests, the free fibrinolytic activity was determined from inflammatory-changed and blood stained cerebrospinal fluids in which partly fibrinogen concentrations insufficient for the enzyme-catalysed fibrinolytic reaction were present, using after addition of substrate (fibrinogen, plasma) thrombelastography and fibrin degradation products (FDP) recording. The results confirm a free fibrinolytic activity in many inflammatory-changed and blood stained cerebrospinal fluids. The difference in the results obtained with reaction preparations with substrate and those with too low fibrinogen concentrations are discussed."}
{"id": "477560", "title": "[Does low-dosage heparin treatment require serial haematological controls? (author's transl)].", "content": "[Does low-dosage heparin treatment require serial haematological controls? (author's transl)]. Blanket serial controls are not necessary in low-dosage heparin treatment. It would, in any case, be difficult under normal clinical conditions and would run counter to the whole conception of low-dose heparin treatment. However, in problem cases with an increased thrombo-embolic risk, sensitive methods for monitoring the heparin effect are recommended. A study on 150 patients has indicated that the most sensitive method is the use of chromogenic substrates. Thrombin time, using low-concentration thrombin solution of 1.5 NIH units/ml, thrombelastogram and activated partial thromboplastin time are less sensitive. Antithrombin III levels should be determined in all cases of increased heparin tolerance. With reduced antithrombin III levels and higher body weight an increase of the standard dose from 5000 U.S.P. units heparin t. i. d. subcutaneously to 7500 U.S.P. units t. i. d. should be considered."}
{"id": "467878", "title": "[Changes in fibrinolytic activity in patients with chronic bronchopneumopathies].", "content": "[Changes in fibrinolytic activity in patients with chronic bronchopneumopathies]."}
{"id": "462919", "title": "Preparation of antibody-coated red cells by the haemonetics cell separator or cell washer.", "content": "Preparation of antibody-coated red cells by the haemonetics cell separator or cell washer."}
{"id": "460222", "title": "[Blood coagulation studies during reducing diet].", "content": "[Blood coagulation studies during reducing diet]."}
{"id": "454499", "title": "Plasmapheresis and lymphoplasmapheresis in the management of rheumatoid arthritis.", "content": "Plasmapheresis and lymphoplasmapheresis in the management of rheumatoid arthritis. We have demonstrated the efficacy of therapeutic pheresis in a number of rheumatic diseases, especially rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Ten of 12 patients with RA went into remissions averaging 4 months. These patients were pheresed 20 times over 11 weeks in a tapering fashion on a Haemonetics Model 30 Blood Processor. Clinical remissions were sustained even though serologies, immunoglobulins, immune functions, sedimentation rates, and circulating immune complexes returned to their pre-pheresis baseline by pheresis number 20. All these patients were taking gold or D-penicillamine concurrently, but neither of the 2 patients who failed to respond was on these agents. Plasmapheresis was just as effective as lymphoplasmapheresis. It is theorized that removal of a plasma factor that modulates lymphocyte or neutrophil function produces remissions in RA and that long-acting drugs (e.g., gold or penicillamine) are able to prevent its continued production and produce a sustained remission."}
{"id": "450894", "title": "[Characteristics of the thromboelastogram indices of the arterial and venous blood acute myocardial infarct].", "content": "[Characteristics of the thromboelastogram indices of the arterial and venous blood acute myocardial infarct]."}
{"id": "449668", "title": "[Blood coagulation system in workers exposed to noise and vibration].", "content": "[Blood coagulation system in workers exposed to noise and vibration]. The authors examined the blood coagulation system in the following 3 groups of workers occupationally exposed to noise and vibration: A--those in whom the examination was conducted 7--16 hrs after finishing the work, B--those in whom the examination was conducted at the 3rd or 4th hour of work, and C--those suffering from angioneurosis of the vibration syndrome of II or III period who have not been exposed to vibration for some recent years. These investigations indicated the lack of blood equilibrium tending to hypercoagulability, shortened duration of plasma recalcination, increased elasticity coefficient of mE thromboelastogram coagulation, increased fibrinogen concentration; these changes were most evident in the group with advanced vibration disease and in those in whom the examination was conducted at their working time. Fibrinolysis duration was significantly prolonged during work, and shortened in those with advanced angioneurosis. In the opinion of the authors, those disturbances in the blood equilibrium system may be accounted for by the conformation changes of proteins."}
{"id": "442992", "title": "[Thromboelastography in contraceptive treatment with estroprogestans (lynestrol 2.5 mg plus mestranol 0.075 mg)].", "content": "[Thromboelastography in contraceptive treatment with estroprogestans (lynestrol 2.5 mg plus mestranol 0.075 mg)]. 26 patients between 18-30 under OC (oral contraception) treatment with a combination of mestranol and lynestrenol, were compared to a control group of 26 women to examine hematic coagulation by means of thromboelastography. Observations of the results showed significant modifications in all parameters studied, clearly demonstrating a tendency to thrombophilia. These findings, however, neither prove a state of hypercoagulability, nor can predict apparition of thrombosis. It is possible, that, in case of thrombotic accidents, intrinsic alterations of the vascular walls intervene, quite independently of OC treatment."}
{"id": "432933", "title": "Combined platelet-leukapheresis: a technique for preparing separate platelet and granulocyte-platelet units from single donors.", "content": "Combined platelet-leukapheresis: a technique for preparing separate platelet and granulocyte-platelet units from single donors. One donor can provide separate platelet and granulocyte-platelet units that have the potential to fulfill the needs of two recipients. Combined platelet and leukapheresis were performed in the presence of hyddroxyethyl starch and citrate employing the Haemonetics Model 30 Blood Separator. Platelets and granulocytes were separated subsequently by centrifugation and two individual units were prepared for transfusion. The platelet units contained a mean of 4.4 x 10(11) platelets/unit and were nearly devoid of leukocytes. The combined granulocyte-platelet units contained a mean of 7.38 x 10(9) neutrophils/unit and 3.06 x 10(11) platelets/unit. Thus two separate units containing sufficient numbers of cells for transfusion can be obtained from pheresis of one donor."}
{"id": "432930", "title": "The effects of combined platelet and leukapheresis on the blood coagulation system.", "content": "The effects of combined platelet and leukapheresis on the blood coagulation system. Analysis of blood coagulation was done on samples of blood collected from ten donors undergoing combined platelet and leukapheresis using the Haemonetics Model 30 Blood Processor. Blood samples were obtained from the donors prior to, during, and following pheresis. Blood was also obtained from the blood-return line after the first collection of leukocytes and platelets, but before it was returned to the donor. Although the citrate anticoagulant was returned to the donor and there were some decreases in the concentrations of fibrinogen, platelets, and factors V and VIII, there were no changes of sufficient degree to suggest that development of a potential bleeding disorder. In addition there was no evidence to suggest that any activation of blood coagulation occurred during the pheresis or that thrombogenic substances were returned to the donors. Combined platelet and leukapheresis using the Haemonetics Model 30 Blood Processor, therefore, do not appear to subject the donor to risks for either bleeding or thrombotic complications."}
{"id": "427604", "title": "[Effect of ethanol on dynamics of thrombelastographic parameters (author's transl)].", "content": "[Effect of ethanol on dynamics of thrombelastographic parameters (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "424970", "title": "[Thromboelastographic assessment of plasma hypercoagulability (author's transl)].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic assessment of plasma hypercoagulability (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "423372", "title": "[The effects of leucapheresis and plateletpheresis using celltrifuge and Haemonetics Model 30 on normal donors (author's transl)].", "content": "[The effects of leucapheresis and plateletpheresis using celltrifuge and Haemonetics Model 30 on normal donors (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "397710", "title": "Blood coagulation abnormalities in the Sch\u00f6nlein-Henoch syndrome in adults.", "content": "Blood coagulation abnormalities in the Sch\u00f6nlein-Henoch syndrome in adults. 23 adult patients with Sch\u00f6nlein-Henoch's syndrome were observed between 1965 and 1976. Nephropathy was noted in 18, gastrointestinal bleedings in 13, thrombosis of legs in 4, cases. Haemostasis was studied in the successive phases of the process on 185 occasions altogether. The studies included four different capillary tests, thromboelastography, the Gerend\u00e1s coagulogram, determination of partial thromboplastin time and two platelet-function tests. Additional renal biopsy was performed in 10 cases, mesocolon and skin biopsy in one case each. The results of at least one of the capillary tests were found positive in each of the patients in some stage of the process. The coagulation status was marked by hyperocagulability either in itself or combined with laboratory signs of hypocoagulability. Immunohistological study of the biopsy specimens revealed glomerular fibrin deposits in 7 cases. On the evidence of the follow-up studies the laboratory tests may be used for the assessment of the activity of the process. The alternatives of local intravascular coagulation (LIC) or of compensated diffuse intravascular coagulation (DIC) are offered for the interpretation of hypercoagulability."}
{"id": "373167", "title": "[New aspects of therapy for alveolitis with Grisaldon].", "content": "[New aspects of therapy for alveolitis with Grisaldon]. In the GDR, Grisaldon has been used in alveolitis therapy since 1974. The results from the bacteriological testing of this preparation and the diluting and rinsing effects of saliva and blood on it arouse doubts about its antibacterial efficiency. Thrombelastographic studies demonstrated the clotting-accelerating and the marked fibrin-stabilizing effect of pure acetylsalicylic acid. In contrast to other publications, it was stated that the p-hydroxybenzoic acid propyl ester is absolutely indifferent. Histological studies on animals have shown that Grisaldon is detectable in the alveolus as a foreign body even 28 days after application, and that it decelerates wound healing."}
{"id": "293959", "title": "[The use of alpha-chymotrypsin in traumatology].", "content": "[The use of alpha-chymotrypsin in traumatology]. Due to its fibrinolytic activity, alpha-chymotrypsin should be applied, even in doses of 5 and 10 mg (as indicated in the List of Drugs) only for postoperative oedema and haematoma prophylaxis, with due regard to the simultaneous effect on haemostasis. The maximum of fibrinolytic activity was observed 6 to 9 hours after intramuscular injection. These findings are consistent with clinical observation. The authors dissuade from uncontrolled use because, in spite of many separate experimental studies and clinical trials, there are still numerous questions that must be considered unsettled."}
{"id": "290194", "title": "The significance of cerebral and systemic disseminated intravascular coagulation in early prognosis of brain injury.", "content": "The significance of cerebral and systemic disseminated intravascular coagulation in early prognosis of brain injury."}
{"id": "218295", "title": "[Preventive treatment of thromboembolic disease in thoracic surgery (author's transl)].", "content": "[Preventive treatment of thromboembolic disease in thoracic surgery (author's transl)]. The aim of the present work is twofold: 1) to find a simple method of diagnosing a genuine risk of post operative thromboembolic disease: the level of platellets and of fibrine, the cephaline-kaolin test, the thromboelastogram and the para-coagulation tests were not considered satisfactory by authors. Only the isotopic detection of venous thrombosis is able to confirm the value of a given preventive treatment; 2) to achieve an effective prevemtive treatment: the pre and post-operative heparin therapy (an adaptation of Kakkar's method) eliminates the clinical accidents, reduces the number of isotopic venous thrombosis, but might increase the incidence of hemorrage."}
{"id": "160158", "title": "[Thrombelastographic studies made to objectify the effects of Grisaldon upon the process of coagulation (author's transl)].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic studies made to objectify the effects of Grisaldon upon the process of coagulation (author's transl)]. Thrombelastographic studies of the mode of action of Grisaldon showed that this preparation, unlike the pure substance of acetylsalicylic acid, has no appreciable coagulation-accelerating and fibrin-stabilizing effects. In addition, it was possible to show that an antifibrinolytic effect of the p-oxybenzoic acid propyl ester (Grisaldon component), which has been described in the literature, is not produced."}
{"id": "155020", "title": "Fibrinolytic activity in gastric venous blood. A comparison between normal and diseased stomachs.", "content": "Fibrinolytic activity in gastric venous blood. A comparison between normal and diseased stomachs. The fibrinolytic activity of blood draining from the stomachs of patients with gastroduodenal disease has been compared with the fibrinolytic activity of blood in the systemic venous circulation and with the blood draining from normal stomachs. Gastric venous blood from normal and diseased stomachs contains greater amounts of plasminogen activator than simultaneously sampled systemic venous blood. However, gastric venous fibrinolytic activity does not differ between the normal and diseased stomachs and thus indicates that increased gastric venous fibrinolysis is not just a characteristic of the diseased stomach. The studies suggest that stress may cause activation of the fibrinolytic system in gastric venous blood with the release of small amounts of free plasmin. It is postulated that local fibrinolysis may play a part in potentiating gastric hemorrhage."}
{"id": "120322", "title": "Observations on thrombolastographic patterns and coagulation changes in malnutrition (Marasmus and Kwashiorkor).", "content": "Observations on thrombolastographic patterns and coagulation changes in malnutrition (Marasmus and Kwashiorkor)."}
{"id": "119399", "title": "Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura in early pregnancy. Remission after plasma exchange.", "content": "Thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura in early pregnancy. Remission after plasma exchange. A 24-year-old Chinese female developed fever, fluctuating neurological and renal manifestations, microangopathic hemolytic anemia, and thrombocytopenia during the 11th week of her first pregnancy. Therapy for thrombotic thrombocytopenic purpura (TTP), initiated during the 15th week of her pregnancy, including corticosteroids, platelet aggregation inhibitors, hysterotomy, and splenectomy was ineffective. However, dramatic improvement and remission occurred after plasma exchange of 3,560 ml was performed with the Haemonetics Model 30 Blood Cell Separator."}
{"id": "94122", "title": "[Thromboelastographic method of assessing spontaneous and induced thrombocyte aggregation in whole blood].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic method of assessing spontaneous and induced thrombocyte aggregation in whole blood]."}
{"id": "92537", "title": "Plasma exchange in motor neuron disease. A controlled study.", "content": "Plasma exchange in motor neuron disease. A controlled study. In vitro studies seem to indicate that a serum factor may be involved in the pathogenesis of motor neuron disease. If so, plasmaphoresis might influence the course of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) favorably. In the present study, therefore, ALS patients were subjected to weekly 21 plasma exchanges, using a Haemonetics blood separator. Seven other ALS patients, matched as closely as possible with the treatment group regarding age, sex, duration of symptoms as well as degree of involvement, served as control group. The progression of the disease was followed by an arbitrary grading system, assessment of muscular power by Zadig's dynamometer, and by tests for motor speed, coordination and for pulmonary function. Duration of treatment was from 6 to 15 months. Monthly evaluations indicated that the rate of deterioration was approximately the same in treatment and control groups. Plasmaphoresis carried out in this way does thus not alter the downhill course of ALS."}
{"id": "92443", "title": "[The coagulation and fibrinolysis activities of the blood during various phases of labor].", "content": "[The coagulation and fibrinolysis activities of the blood during various phases of labor]. In a group of 20 women 22 parameters of the blood coagulation and fibrinolysis systems were separately determined during spontaneous delivery. An increased activity of the coagulation factors was observed except of the factors V, IX and XIII. Factor VIII activity in plasma increased slightly during stage II of labour, probably related to stress. Fibrinogen as well as the factors II, VII and X exhibited congruently slight post partum decrease, which can be interpreted as the result of an increased turnover of these factors. Plasminogen levels as well as antiplasmin activity increased; the total fibrinolysis activity was not significantly changed. The increase of fibrin-fibrinogen degradation products, however, indicated the occurrence of discrete fibrinolytic or fibrinogenolytic reactions. The thrombelastograms demonstrated a shift of the balance of pro- and anticoagulatory factors in favour of an increased blood coagulation activity during labour."}
{"id": "85502", "title": "An experimental study on the effect of plasma expanders on blood coagulability.", "content": "An experimental study on the effect of plasma expanders on blood coagulability. The effect of various plasma expanders on blood coagulation was studied using the thromboelastography (TEG). Solutions of 5, 10, 20, and 50% concentration of each expander (6% low molecular weight hydroxyethyl-starch (6% Hespander), 3% dextran-40, 6% high molecular weight hydroxyethyl-starch (6 HES), and 6% dextran-70) or solvent (lactated Ringer solution and normal saline) in blood were prepared and their coagulability was examined by TEG. In the low molecular weight plasma expanders (6% Hespander and 3% dextran-40), in general, the coagulability decreased when the concentration was increased. In the high molecular weight plasma expanders (6 HES and 6% dextran-70), the coagulability increased slightly at low and high concentrations and the coagulability was reduced. As a conclusion, at clinically used concentrations of less than 20% in blood, changes in the TEG of the plasma expanders are minimum and have no clinical significance."}
{"id": "757571", "title": "Reactivity of the blood clotting system in healthy subjects during emotional stress.", "content": "Reactivity of the blood clotting system in healthy subjects during emotional stress."}
{"id": "756796", "title": "[Mucoelastographic research by the modified thromboelastography method. Our experience with alpha-mercaptopropionylglycine].", "content": "[Mucoelastographic research by the modified thromboelastography method. Our experience with alpha-mercaptopropionylglycine]."}
{"id": "755480", "title": "[Factor XII deficiency - Hageman trait. Report of 2 cases].", "content": "[Factor XII deficiency - Hageman trait. Report of 2 cases]. For the first time in our literature we have described the two cases of hereditary deficiency of factor XII (Hageman trait), a very rare disorder. It was discovered when a long clotting time was found in our patients during the course of a preoperative evaluation. Abnormal thrombelastogram, with a picture typical for hemophilia, gave as a reason to continue with laboratory investigation. The laboratory findings showed us a very low value of factor XII in one case, and total absence of factor XII in the other."}
{"id": "742271", "title": "[Staphylococcal coagulase liberation from toxic-enzyme complex components].", "content": "[Staphylococcal coagulase liberation from toxic-enzyme complex components]."}
{"id": "739608", "title": "[Results of blood cell separation (especially neutrophiles) from healthy donors--using Haemonetics Model 30].", "content": "[Results of blood cell separation (especially neutrophiles) from healthy donors--using Haemonetics Model 30]."}
{"id": "727079", "title": "[Thrombelastographic studies in diabetics (author's transl)].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic studies in diabetics (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "727075", "title": "Picotamide: effects on coagulation, fibrinolysis and platelet aggregation during prolonged administration in the aged.", "content": "Picotamide: effects on coagulation, fibrinolysis and platelet aggregation during prolonged administration in the aged. Picotamide was administered in a daily dose of 1500 mg per os for 30 days to 30 aged, arteriosclerotic subjects and as single doses of 500 mg and 1000 mg to another group of 16 subjects. A reduction of platelet aggregation (methods of Born and Breddin) was observed within 24 hours of commencement of treatment and became more evident in the subsequent days. The reduction was both consistent and significant. A marked increase in fibrinolytic activity (fibrin plate method) was observed during the first 24 hours, particularly for euglobulins with activator. The reaction and clot formation times (r and k) were prolonged and the maximal amplitude (ma) in thrombelastogram was reduced by a definite, though small amount. After the administration of a single dose the maximal effect was observed after eight hours and was still evident after 48 and, to a lesser degree, after 72 hours. The drug was in all cases well tolerated, without any significant side-effects nor untoward reactions."}
{"id": "723146", "title": "[Reactivity of the hemostatic system depending on the model of the behavior and personality characteristics of hypertensive patients under emotional stress].", "content": "[Reactivity of the hemostatic system depending on the model of the behavior and personality characteristics of hypertensive patients under emotional stress]. The results of investigating the effect of emotional stress on the blood coagulation and anticoagulation systems are discussed. It was found that similar conditions of emotional stress cause three types of reactions in different people: functional hypercoagulation, functional hypocoagulation and the absence of any noticeable reaction according to the findings of thrombelastography. The degree of activation of the blood fibrinolytic system depends on the extent of involvement of the patients in interpersonality relationships. Patients with hypertensive disease are characterized by neuroticism, heightened level of anxiety and dependence, and increased emotional aggressiveness. Signs of introversion also prevailed in these patients, which was attributed to the forced formation of new behavior models due to the disease."}
{"id": "717923", "title": "[Chronic continuous bleeding in a girl with lack of F. XIII (author's transl)].", "content": "[Chronic continuous bleeding in a girl with lack of F. XIII (author's transl)]. A case with chronic continuous bleeding on an eleven year old girl with lack of F. XIII with positive family antecedents and without declarate consanguinity is presented. Analytic data are widely clear as well as parent's research which shows the heterocygosity but with doubts exposed."}
{"id": "716336", "title": "[Effect of Aronia (black chokeberry) juice on blood indices].", "content": "[Effect of Aronia (black chokeberry) juice on blood indices]."}
{"id": "712133", "title": "[Blood coagulation after prosthetic heart valve replacement (author's transl)].", "content": "[Blood coagulation after prosthetic heart valve replacement (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "691955", "title": "[Rheological properties of the blood in acute venous thrombosis].", "content": "[Rheological properties of the blood in acute venous thrombosis]."}
{"id": "686472", "title": "[Blood coagulation system according to thromboelastographic data in fluorothane anesthesia and peridural anesthesia].", "content": "[Blood coagulation system according to thromboelastographic data in fluorothane anesthesia and peridural anesthesia]."}
{"id": "685207", "title": "[Dynamics of blood coagulation indices under the influence of therapy in cerebral vascular disorders in children].", "content": "[Dynamics of blood coagulation indices under the influence of therapy in cerebral vascular disorders in children]."}
{"id": "676538", "title": "[Effect of factors related to hemodialysis on certain blood-coagulation parameters].", "content": "[Effect of factors related to hemodialysis on certain blood-coagulation parameters]. It is reported on the changes of the thromboelastogramme, the fibrinogen level, the number of thrombocytes and the time of coagulation, which developed due to the haemodialysis with intermittent and regional heparinisation, as well as on the isolated effect of heparin, protamine and the heparin-protamine-complex. Among others the cause was discussed, why there are in some cases higher values of the time of coagulation in the patient than in the extracorporal circulation during haemodialysis. For practical reasons was emphasized that the protamine may also have a pronounced anticoagulation effect."}
{"id": "674151", "title": "[Diagnostic value of thrombodynamic potential in blood coagulation disorders].", "content": "[Diagnostic value of thrombodynamic potential in blood coagulation disorders]."}
{"id": "673297", "title": "[Thromboelastographic indices in primary glaucoma].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic indices in primary glaucoma]."}
{"id": "660699", "title": "Disseminated intravascular multiple systems activation (DIMSA) following thermal injury.", "content": "Disseminated intravascular multiple systems activation (DIMSA) following thermal injury. Seventy-seven major thermal injury victims were studied with a number of hematologic and immunologic tests initially and sequentially during the first postburn month. The patients were grouped by initial prognostic index as well as by ultimate survival. Pairs were grouped by initial prognostic index as well as by ultimate survival. Pairs of test data from subjects studied at successive time intervals were compared with prognostic index and ultimate survival. Statistically significant changes in coagulation, fibrinolytic, complement, and kinin tests all occurred within these groups. These findings strongly suggest that intravascular contamination occurs following thermal injury in proportion to the extent of the burn, because of the occurrence and persistence of statistically significant multiple system changes. Regrouping all of the blood data according to ultimate death or survival reinforced the concept of intravascular contamination and provided the basis by which one can compute laboratory prognostic indices. The combination of plasminogen, C'3 complement, C'H50, one-minute kinin, and TEG index discriminated between death and survival with 91% accuracy by the end of the first postburn week. These data offer the potential for select blood measurements in refining current prognostic indicators. This may provide an objective data base for the analysis of new treatment programs in thermal injury victims."}
{"id": "646355", "title": "Bacterial oxidation of polyethylene glycol.", "content": "Bacterial oxidation of polyethylene glycol. The metabolism of polyethylene glycol (PEG) was investigated with a synergistic, mixed culture of Flavobacterium and Pseudomonas species, which are individually unable to utilize PEGs. The PEG dehydrogenase linked with 2,6-dichlorophenolindophenol was found in the particulate fraction of sonic extracts and catalyzed the formation of a 2,4-dinitrophenylhydrazine-positive compound, possibly an an aldehyde. The enzyme has a wide substrate specificity towards PEGs: from diethylene glycol to PEG 20,000 Km values for tetraethylene glycol (TEG), PEG 400, and PEG 6,000 were 11, 1.7, and 15 mM, respectively. The metabolic products formed from TEG by intact cells were isolated and identified by combined gas chromatography-mass spectrometry as triethylene glycol and TEG-monocarboxylic acid plus small amounts of TEG-dicarboxylic acid, diethylene glycol, and ethylene glycol. From these enzymatic and analytical data, the following metabolic pathway was proposed for PEG: HO(CH2CH2O)nCH2CH2OH leads to HO(CH2CH2O)nCH2CHO leads to HO(CH2CH2O)nCH2COOH leads to HO(CH2CH2O)n-1CH2CH2OH."}
{"id": "644950", "title": "[Thrombohemorrhagic syndrome in children with a pancreatic lesion].", "content": "[Thrombohemorrhagic syndrome in children with a pancreatic lesion]."}
{"id": "644911", "title": "[Characteristics of the phase changes in blood coagulation in submariners].", "content": "[Characteristics of the phase changes in blood coagulation in submariners]."}
{"id": "643843", "title": "[Coagulative activity of protein fractions of the stroma of human erythrocytes].", "content": "[Coagulative activity of protein fractions of the stroma of human erythrocytes]."}
{"id": "639488", "title": "[Biological surveillance of streptokinase treatment].", "content": "[Biological surveillance of streptokinase treatment]."}
{"id": "638058", "title": "Efficacy of platelets collected by semi-continuous flow centrifugation (Haemonetics Model 30).", "content": "Efficacy of platelets collected by semi-continuous flow centrifugation (Haemonetics Model 30). The viability of both autologous and donor platelets collected by means of a semi-continuous flow centrifuge (Haemonetics Model 30) was measured. Radiochromium labelled pooled platelets harvested from six passes and reinfused into their normal donors showed recoveries and survivals of 58% +/- 8 and 9.6 d +/- 0.8 compared with normal values of 65% and 9.5 d +/- 0.6, respectively. When the viability in aplastic thrombocytopenic recipients of platelets collected from normal donors by the Haemonetics Model 30 was compared with that of platelets collected from the same donors by multiple bag plateletpheresis the results were very similar: recoveries of 82% +/- 18 and 80% +/- 25 and survivals of 3.9 d +/- 2.0 and 3.8 d +/- 1.3, respectively. The in vitro function of the collected platelets in response to aggregating agents was normal when measured within 60 min of collection at pH 7.4. The relationship between bleeding time and post-transfusion platelet count in aplastic, thrombocytopenic patients showed that in vivo function was maintained."}
{"id": "631414", "title": "Influence of sulphinpyranzone (Anturan) on thrombo-elastography.", "content": "Influence of sulphinpyranzone (Anturan) on thrombo-elastography. Sulphinpyrazone (Anturan, 200 mg four times daily) was administered orally to 10 patients for two weeks. Thrombo-elastographic determinations revealed no disturbance of coagulation and it may therefore be concluded that Anturan can also be safely administered pre-operatively."}
{"id": "581544", "title": "Clinical studies of intrathecal autologous lymphocyte infusions in patients with malignant glioma: a toxicity study.", "content": "Clinical studies of intrathecal autologous lymphocyte infusions in patients with malignant glioma: a toxicity study. The feasibility and toxicity of intrathecal lymphoid cell infusions in patients with glioma were examined in this study. Blood rich in lymphoid cells was obtained using the Haemonetics Model 30 cell separator; the lymphoid cells extracted were further purified on Ficoll-Hypaque gradients. Four patients received a total of eighteen autologous lymphoid cell infusions, with between 1 X 10(6) and 5 X 10(9) lymphoid cells being infused on each occasion. No toxicity was observed, but the CSF glucose declined in 2 patients. In 1 patient examined at autopsy the lymphoid cells appeared to have gained access to the tumor bed as well as to the rest of the subarachnoid space."}
{"id": "580996", "title": "Thrombelastography during and after elective abdominal surgery.", "content": "Thrombelastography during and after elective abdominal surgery. Thrombelastography has been performed on recalcified whole blood from 50 patients before, during and after elective abdominal surgery. The characteristic changes of the thrombelastographic indices r, k and mA are described. During operation r and k shortened, but no change in mA was observed. This response was in part associated with an increase in factor VIII activity. Following operation, while r time was somewhat shortened, much more marked changes in k and mA were evident. Increasing fibrinogen concentration was the dominant factor in determining the post-operative changes in the thrombelastograph."}
{"id": "566507", "title": "Post-transfusion purpura treated with plasma exchange by haemonetics cell separator. A case report.", "content": "Post-transfusion purpura treated with plasma exchange by haemonetics cell separator. A case report. A case of post-transfusion purpura in a 61-year-old, multiparous female with a platelet alloantibody (anti-Zwa) in her serum is reported. The patient was successfully treated with plasma exchange by means of a Haemonetics 30 cell separator and corticosteroids. Compared with other therapeutic measures, plasma exchange seems to shorten the duration of thrombocytopenia. Major surgery was possible in our patient within ten days of development of the syndrome."}
{"id": "565730", "title": "[Twin pregnancy in a patient with Glanzmann disease (congenital thrombasthenia) (author's transl)].", "content": "[Twin pregnancy in a patient with Glanzmann disease (congenital thrombasthenia) (author's transl)]. Report on a 30-year old primigravida with a family history of bleeding and a personal history of nasopharyngeal bleeding since age four. Severe menorrhagia since her menarche. First seen at 20 weeks gestation with naso-pharyngeal bleeding and a twin pregnancy. The patient was found to have Glanzmann's disease (congenital thrombasthenia) with an excessive lack of factor XIII. Ambulatory treatment with packed cell transfusions until 35 weeks gestation. The thrombelastogram did not improve with transfusions of platelet concentrates. In-patient treatment from 35 to 37 weeks gestation, no vaginal bleeding throughout the pregnancy. Elective Caesarean hysterectomy at 37 weeks gestation with lo units fresh blood, 3 units platelet concentrate and 10 ampules factor XIII concentrate in readiness. Delivery of twin girls 3180 and 3050 g without signs of Glanzmann's disease. Treatment of the maternal bleeding by replacement. Factor XIII 80% of normal 8 weeks postpartum. This appears to be the first case of twin pregnancy in the presence of Glanzmann's disease and the fourth case in the world literature."}
{"id": "308920", "title": "[Determination of blood coagulation in acute obstetrical and gynecologic hemorrhages by means of the Hellige direct writing thrombelastograph].", "content": "[Determination of blood coagulation in acute obstetrical and gynecologic hemorrhages by means of the Hellige direct writing thrombelastograph]. Thrombelastography, as a method of rapid registration, is an important addition to the present screening tests of coagulation status. With this method we are able to quickly obtain exact values for clotting and fibrinolysis with more precision than those which can be obtained from the clot observation test. The TEG monitor must however be available in the immediate vicinity of the labour ward and must be ready for use around the clock. Specific therapy for the elimination of failures in hemostasis may then be started without delay, due to prompt determination of coagulation status and early detection of fibrinolysis."}
{"id": "308244", "title": "[Stability of the anticoagulating effect of calcium and sodium heparin, injected subcutaneously].", "content": "[Stability of the anticoagulating effect of calcium and sodium heparin, injected subcutaneously]."}
{"id": "308020", "title": "[Rheologic, coagulative parameters and study of fibrinolysis in patients with coronary heart disease before and after aorto-coronary by-pass (author's transl)].", "content": "[Rheologic, coagulative parameters and study of fibrinolysis in patients with coronary heart disease before and after aorto-coronary by-pass (author's transl)]. A study has been made of 31 patients with coronary heart disease where diagnosis had been clearly ascertained both from a clinical and strumental point of view. All patients had undergone aorto-coronary by-pass surgery. The controls of the parameters under observation (whole-blood and plasmatic viscosity, hematocrit, fibrinogen, euglobulin lysis, T protothrombin, T of partial thromboplastin, thromboelastogram antithrombin III, plasminogen, alfa2-macroglobulin and fractions C'3c, C'3c, C'4 of the complement) were carried out as follows: basic sample taken, I control (8th-10th day), II control (15th-20th day), III control (45th-50th day), IV control (85th-90th day) after surgical operation. A global examination of our results showed significant changes in the rheologic coagulative and fibrinolytic parameters after an aorto-coronary surgical operation. The slight tendency toward hypercoagulability met with in the basic blood sample (slight increase of whole-blood viscosity, hyperfibrinogenemy, inhibition of fibrinolytic activity) does not change significantly after surgical operation. This seems to indicate that the coronary by-pass does not in any way alter the evolution of arteriosclerosis."}
{"id": "276560", "title": "Computerization of three-channel thrombelastograph.", "content": "Computerization of three-channel thrombelastograph. A small-size and low-cost microcomputer using an Intel 8080 micro-processer is employed to provide real-time data collection and reduction of a three-channel electronic-readout thrombelastograph (TEG). Computed values of significant clotting parameters are obtained instantly allowing for rapid analysis and monitoring of many patients. Computer hardware was designed to optimize signal sampling rates, processing time and storage."}
{"id": "276558", "title": "Electronic readout for three-channel thrombelastograph.", "content": "Electronic readout for three-channel thrombelastograph."}
{"id": "276127", "title": "[Effect of surgical intervention on the state of the blood coagulation system in malignant neoplasms of the mouse and jaws].", "content": "[Effect of surgical intervention on the state of the blood coagulation system in malignant neoplasms of the mouse and jaws]."}
{"id": "208137", "title": "Harvesting of granulocytes for transfusion therapy by haemonetics 30. Yield, morphology and in vitro functions of collected granulocytes.", "content": "Harvesting of granulocytes for transfusion therapy by haemonetics 30. Yield, morphology and in vitro functions of collected granulocytes. By means of a Haemonetics 30 blood cell separator white blood cells (WBC) were collected for transfusion purposes from 21 normal unstimulated donors. Citrated Hydroxyethyl Starch (HES) was used as anticoagulant. A mean yield of 1.13 x 10(10) WBC was obtained in 2 1/2-3 h. Half of the collected WBC were PMN cells containing a few per cent band forms, the other half lymphocytes and monocytes (12%). No shift in the distribution of WBC was found during the leucapheresis. Light and electron microscopy did not reveal any damage or changes in the structure of the processed granulocytes. The Trypan blue exclusion test showed 99% vital cells. In vitro assessment of the chemotactic and bactericidal activity of the collected granulocytes showed normal function. Also the content of myeloperoxidase was within normal range."}
{"id": "153245", "title": "[Interrelationship between contact coagulation, surface charge and roughness].", "content": "[Interrelationship between contact coagulation, surface charge and roughness]. The negative surface charge and the mechanically even surface were found in vitro to hinder the blood hypercoagulation, fibrin absorption, and thrombocytes hyperadhesion. The surface negative electrical charge of 6--10(-9)Cl/cm2 and the surface of the 9--14th class of mechanical evenness seem to be optimal for prophylaxis of thrombosis at the blood-surface border. The surface negative electrical charge reduces the possibility of thrombosis on mechanically rough surface."}
{"id": "116351", "title": "[Characteristics of fibrin polymer after reaction with blood vessel wall extracts].", "content": "[Characteristics of fibrin polymer after reaction with blood vessel wall extracts]."}
{"id": "107082", "title": "[Platelet aggregation and thrombelastography in secondary thrombocytosis (author's transl)].", "content": "[Platelet aggregation and thrombelastography in secondary thrombocytosis (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "107077", "title": "HLA-matched platelets from unrelated donors in the supportive therapy of patients undergoing intensive haematologic treatment.", "content": "HLA-matched platelets from unrelated donors in the supportive therapy of patients undergoing intensive haematologic treatment."}
{"id": "105174", "title": "[Experience with plasma exchange: application of an apparatus for plasmapheresis (Haemonetics Model 30) in hyperviscosity syndrome].", "content": "[Experience with plasma exchange: application of an apparatus for plasmapheresis (Haemonetics Model 30) in hyperviscosity syndrome]."}
{"id": "929400", "title": "[Coagulating activity of the erythrocytes in chronic pneumonia].", "content": "[Coagulating activity of the erythrocytes in chronic pneumonia]."}
{"id": "926713", "title": "[Morphological and functional studies in a case of primary (idiopathic) thrombocythaemia in childhood (author's transl)].", "content": "[Morphological and functional studies in a case of primary (idiopathic) thrombocythaemia in childhood (author's transl)]. Primary (idiopathic) thrombocythaemia is a rare disease in childhood. Haemorrhagic diathesis and splenomegaly are principal findings besides thrombocytosis. The cases of a nine year old girl with thrombocyte levels between 2.8 and 4.5 X 10(6) microliter is described. The examination in light and electron microscopy revealed various morphological abnormalities in thrombocytes and megakaryocytes. Platelet function was disturbed in various degrees. The impact of functional abnormalities on the haemorrhagic diathesis is discussed. The findings in this child were compared to those of the better characterized picture of primary and secondary thrombozytosis in adulthood. Possible pathogenic relations to myeloproliferative diseases are also discussed."}
{"id": "919922", "title": "[Staphylococcal plasmacoagulase. III. Use of thrombelastography to study the properties of extracellular staphylocoagulase].", "content": "[Staphylococcal plasmacoagulase. III. Use of thrombelastography to study the properties of extracellular staphylocoagulase]. A method of thromboelastography was applied to the study of the influence of supernatents of the S. aureus and S. epidermidis culture fluid on the process of blood coagulation. S. aureus No. 209 P, No. 8325-1 strains and mutants of the No. 209 P strain, resistant to proflavin induced a distinct shortening of the reaction time. In using S. epidermidis (strains D5/240 and D-5/48) and also in control experiments (plasma and medium) no shortening of the reaction period was observed. The data obtained permitted to recommend the use of thromboelastographic method for the purpose of detection of coagulase-positive staphylococcus strains and for the assessment of relative staphylocoagulase activity."}
{"id": "913118", "title": "Platelet adhesiveness, thromboelastogram, prothrombin activity and partial thromboplastin time during treatment with flurbiprofen.", "content": "Platelet adhesiveness, thromboelastogram, prothrombin activity and partial thromboplastin time during treatment with flurbiprofen."}
{"id": "907841", "title": "Plateletpheresis in the management of thrombocytosis.", "content": "Plateletpheresis in the management of thrombocytosis. Acute thrombotic and hemorrhagic manifestations of thrombocytosis associated with myeloproliferative disorders may be life threatening. Conventional therapy with radioisotopes and/or cytotoxic drugs may require weeks for effective control of platelet counts. In five patients, plateletpheresis by discontinuous-flow (Haemonetics) or continuous-flow (Aminco Celltrifuge) centrifugation was used as a means of reducing platelet counts acutely. With each procedure, approximately 2-9 X 10(12) platelets were removed, resulting in decrements in platelet counts and relief of symptoms. Plateletpheresis is a useful and safe acute means of controlling platelet counts in myeloproliferative disorders."}
{"id": "896441", "title": "[Anticoagulant properties of antipyrine].", "content": "[Anticoagulant properties of antipyrine]."}
{"id": "889130", "title": "[State of blood coagulation under general fluothane anesthesia and neuroleptoanalgesia].", "content": "[State of blood coagulation under general fluothane anesthesia and neuroleptoanalgesia]."}
{"id": "886741", "title": "[Changes of the thrombagglutination test in coronary disease after treatment with heparin].", "content": "[Changes of the thrombagglutination test in coronary disease after treatment with heparin]."}
{"id": "883862", "title": "[Disorders of blood coagulation, platelet adhesiviness and platelet count in the intermediate coronary syndrome].", "content": "[Disorders of blood coagulation, platelet adhesiviness and platelet count in the intermediate coronary syndrome]."}
{"id": "883246", "title": "Plateletpheresis using the haemonetics model 30 cell separator.", "content": "Plateletpheresis using the haemonetics model 30 cell separator. Plateletpheresis using the Haemonetics Model 30 cell separator results in a mean collection of 5.5 X 10(11) platelets. This product contains substantial numbers of erythrocytes and mononuclear cells which can be effectively removed by centrifugation but with a 23% loss of platelets as well. The mean decrement in donor's platelet count during the procedure, which is 78,000/mm3, is not commensurate with the number of platelets collected suggesting donor platelet mobilization. Platelets collected by this technic, when transfused into unselected recipients, give platelet increments comparable to platelets produced in the standard batch manner."}
{"id": "882719", "title": "Use of a modified thromboelastograph to evaluate effects of acetylcysteine on sputum.", "content": "Use of a modified thromboelastograph to evaluate effects of acetylcysteine on sputum. This work deals with a modification of a thromboelastograph which enables to measure both in vitro and in vivo effectiveness of mucolytic substances. A simple method is described for building up a comparative diagram of the effectiveness of several drugs; a diagram which is of interest from both a pharmacological and a clinical point of view."}
{"id": "882699", "title": "[Effects on blood viscosity, thromboelastogram and platelet aggregation of the administration of plasm expanders previous bloodletting in chronic bronchtic patients with secondary polyglobularemia].", "content": "[Effects on blood viscosity, thromboelastogram and platelet aggregation of the administration of plasm expanders previous bloodletting in chronic bronchtic patients with secondary polyglobularemia]."}
{"id": "882311", "title": "[Blood coagulation system in the lingering subfebrile state in children].", "content": "[Blood coagulation system in the lingering subfebrile state in children]."}
{"id": "877633", "title": "Thromboelastographic distinction of malignant from benign breast masses: a preliminary report.", "content": "Thromboelastographic distinction of malignant from benign breast masses: a preliminary report. Thromboelastography is a newly applied tool for the detection of carcinoma. By comparing the thromboelastograph (TEG) of fresh whole blood (native) to that of blood to which celite has been added (celite activated), enhanced clotting is manifested which allows identification of individuals harboring carcinoma. Twenty women, obtained in a random sampling, entering the North Carolina Baptist Hospital for biopsy of breast masses were studied with routine clotting tests and TEGs preoperatively. TEG prediction of the biopsy result was correct in 16 of 20 patients (P less than 0.05). Thromboelastography may be a useful adjunct in screening for carcinoma in the evaluating persons with masses of unknown histology."}
{"id": "877632", "title": "Thromboelastographic distinction of malignant and benign breast masses.", "content": "Thromboelastographic distinction of malignant and benign breast masses."}
{"id": "873434", "title": "[Blood coagulation activity and fibrinolysis in umbilical vein blood of healthy and asphyxiated newborn infants].", "content": "[Blood coagulation activity and fibrinolysis in umbilical vein blood of healthy and asphyxiated newborn infants]. In two groups of 35 healthy and 15 asphyctic newborns the factors of blood coagulation and fibrinolysis were determined and compared with the normal values of non-pregnant women. The study demonstrates an increased coagulability and increased fibrinolytic activity at decreased levels of most of the single factors in the umbilical vein blood of the newborn. There is a statistically significant decrease of the concentration of plasminogen and increase of the concentration of fibrin degradation products and fibrin monomers in the groups of asphyctic newborns as compared with healthy newborns. These results may be considered as factors in the etiology of the respiratory distress syndrome of the newborn resulting in the formation of hyaline membranes. An increased tendency to hemorrhages in asphyctic newborn due to a hypocoagulation of the umbilical vein blood cannot be suggested by these results. The study confirms and supplements previous research findings from our laboratory and from others reported in the literature."}
{"id": "869704", "title": "[Hematological findings and blood coagulation tests in anorexia nervosa].", "content": "[Hematological findings and blood coagulation tests in anorexia nervosa]. Red cell and haemoglobin values in 44 women with a typical picutre of anorexia nervosa showed that 20.5% presented a picture of true anaemia. Blood iron was low, sometimes very low, with a mean value of 66 mg 0/0. Clotting parameters: PTT, TT, PT, circulating platelets and TEG were normal. This finding serves to explain the low incidence of haemorrhage and the ready haemostasis noted in this disease, in spite of the considerable food deficit."}
{"id": "866920", "title": "The clot: the hypercoagulable state.", "content": "The clot: the hypercoagulable state."}
{"id": "857203", "title": "[S-adenosylmethionine as a regulator of protein synthesis. Influence on plasmatic fibrinogen].", "content": "[S-adenosylmethionine as a regulator of protein synthesis. Influence on plasmatic fibrinogen]. S-adenosyl-L-methionine (SAMe) is a physiological compound which plays an important role in numerous biological processes, such as transmethylations, transulphurations and aminopropylations. Starting from a study about the usefulness of the SAMe to normalize protein synthesis in old age, the drug was found to have an interesting action with respect to fibrinogen. Later research regarding a large number of patients, led us to discover after treatment for 40 days with 60 mg/die of SAMe, highly significant variations in fibrinogen values with constant normalization of this parameter, in both hypo- and hyper-fibrinogenemia. So far we don't know anything about the action of the drug on various metabolic stages of the fibrinogen; interestingly however our data exclude a rise in fibrinolysis."}
{"id": "854890", "title": "Evaluation of three methods used to identify accelerated coagulability.", "content": "Evaluation of three methods used to identify accelerated coagulability."}
{"id": "850933", "title": "Citrate anticoagulants for plateletpheresis.", "content": "Citrate anticoagulants for plateletpheresis. In 112 plateletphereses done by the Haemonetics blood processor, the comparative effectiveness of ACD formula A, ACD formula B, and 2 per cent citrate in saline was evaluated. With respect to yields of platelets and white blood cells (e.g., lymphocytes), ACD-B was significantly better than the other two. Both ACD-B and 2 per cent citrate gave a much lower incidence of citrate reactions in the donors than were encountered with ACD-A."}
{"id": "847518", "title": "[Study of influence of psycho-emotional stress on changes in coagulating properties of the blood in patients with I-II stage hypertension based on thromboelastographic findings].", "content": "[Study of influence of psycho-emotional stress on changes in coagulating properties of the blood in patients with I-II stage hypertension based on thromboelastographic findings]."}
{"id": "842811", "title": "[Effect of a preoperative separation of platelets on the postoperative blood loss subsequent to extracorporeal circulation in open heart surgery (author's transl)].", "content": "[Effect of a preoperative separation of platelets on the postoperative blood loss subsequent to extracorporeal circulation in open heart surgery (author's transl)]. After operations with extracorporeal circulation there is a risk of clotting disorders, due to traumatisation of blood. The extent of cell damage are shown, in particular, by qualitative and quantitative impairment of platelet function. The clinical application of modern blood processors offer the possibility of selecting platelets from patients blood in the immediate preoperative period. Open heart operations were preceded by separation of platelets in 17 patients using a Haemonetics blood processor. After a postoperative retransfusion of the platelets an evident improvement in platelet function and a significant decrease in the predisposition to bleeding was demonstrated in the further postoperative period. During and after extracorporeal circulation the extent of microembolisation was registered by screen filtration pressure. In the clinical experiments, regularly, there is a significant increase of screen filtration pressure in the immediate postoperative period. These reactions were not seen in patients in whom preoperative separation of platelets was carried out. The most important clinical advantage of preoperative plateletpheresis consists in a significant decrease of postoperative blood loss. In particular the development of postperfusion lung will be prevented."}
{"id": "842497", "title": "A computer program to record technical data in leukapheresis and plateletpheresis procedures.", "content": "A computer program to record technical data in leukapheresis and plateletpheresis procedures. A computer program for the recording of data and calculation of results from leukapheresis and plateletpheresis procedures is described. It provides a printout of cell yields and other results for each procedure, as well as an updated list of donors and phereses. The data are kept on tape, accessible for periodic statistical analysis. While primarily set up for use with Haemonetics (intermittent-flow centrifugation) equipment, the program is adaptable for other systems."}
{"id": "841991", "title": "[Blood coagulation and prethrombosis state in hypertensive disease during stage II and III].", "content": "[Blood coagulation and prethrombosis state in hypertensive disease during stage II and III]."}
{"id": "841667", "title": "The purification of red cells for transfusion by freeze-preservation and washing. V. Red cell recovery and residual leukocytes after freeze-preservation with high concentrations of glycerol and washing in various systems.", "content": "The purification of red cells for transfusion by freeze-preservation and washing. V. Red cell recovery and residual leukocytes after freeze-preservation with high concentrations of glycerol and washing in various systems. Red blood cells freeze-preserved with 40% W/V glycerol in an ionic or low ionic medium at -80 C were washed in one of four commercially available systems: the Haemonetics Blood Processor 15 using a continuous-flow centrifugation procedure, the Fenwal Elutramatic using a continuous-flow centrifugation procedure, the IBM Blood Processor using an automated serial centrifugation procedure, and the Huggins Cytoglomerator using a dilution/agglomeration procedure. Determinations of red blood cell recovery and leukocyte and platelet removal were made for each of these groups. The dilution/agglomeration procedure produced lower red blood cell recovery values and poorer leukocyte and platelet removal than did any of the three wash systems using sodium chloride solutions. The values obtained with the systems using sodium chloride solutions were slightly but significantly different."}
{"id": "611167", "title": "Blood coagulation and fibrinolysis of the newborn viewed as perinatal factors. I. Blood coagulation and fibrinolysis of the newborn viewed as obstetrical factors.", "content": "Blood coagulation and fibrinolysis of the newborn viewed as perinatal factors. I. Blood coagulation and fibrinolysis of the newborn viewed as obstetrical factors."}
{"id": "606557", "title": "Thrombocyte functions, thrombelastograms and fibrinogen of healthy children in different age groups.", "content": "Thrombocyte functions, thrombelastograms and fibrinogen of healthy children in different age groups. Platelet counts, adhesiveness, aggregation and spreading capacity, as well as the thrombopoiesis index, thrombelastogram and fibrinogen were examined in 74 healthy children aged from 2 to 14 years. Sex-linked differences were only found in the thrombopoiesis index. Age-linked differences showed in practically all the parameters, especially in the platelet counts, fibrinogen and thrombelastograms."}
{"id": "605981", "title": "[State of the blood coagulation and anticoagulation system in women taking oral contraceptives].", "content": "[State of the blood coagulation and anticoagulation system in women taking oral contraceptives]. It is known that a prolonged use of combinations of nortestosterone and estrogens may cause some side effects among which modifications in the blood coagulation and anticoagulation systems. A study was done on 100 women divided in 2 groups. The 1st group consisted of 70 women who were taking estrogeno-gestagen combinations: 37 for dysfunction of the ovaries, 16 for endometriosis, 1 for dysmenorrhea, 1 for climacteric syndrome and 15 for contraceptive purposes. 22 women had taken the oral contraceptives for 3 months, 16 for 4-6 months, 13 for 7-9 months, 4 for 1 year and 15 for over 1 year. The 2nd group consisted of 30 women among which 8 had ovarian dysfunctions, 8 endometriosis, 4 climacteric syndrome, 2 dysmenorrhea; 8 were healthy. Blood analyses were performed during the treatment in women of the 1st group and before the beginning of the treatment for the women from the 2nd group. Thromboelastograms and coagulograms revealed an increased blood coagulating activity in the women from the 1st group, who had been taking contraceptive agents. (Summary in ENG)."}
{"id": "603216", "title": "Coagulation disorders in severely and critically injured patients.", "content": "Coagulation disorders in severely and critically injured patients. Forty-five patients with multiple injuries treated at an intensive care unit were studied prospectively. The patients were divided into two groups: the severely injured (no mortality) and critically injured (56% mortality). Treatment was started within two hours from the accident in all cases. The following coagulation parameters were measured for eight days: euglobulin lysis time (ELT), thromboelastography (TEG), vecalcification time (RECA), partial thromboplastin time (PTT), factor V, factor VIII, Normotest, Thrombotest, thrombin time, fibrinogen and platelets. Severe coagulation disorders were observed in one-third of the patients 12-48 hours after trauma. The abnormalities were more pronounced in patients who had sustained very severe injuries and arrived in a state of shock. The ELT was shortened 0-6 hours after the accident and accelerated coagulation was indicated simultaneously by decreased PTT, RECA, and r-values as well as by elevated Thrombotest and factor VIII values. The factor V and fibrinogen levels were initially lowered. Low platelet values at 2-4 days, prolonged thrombin and r-times, secondary decrease of fibrinogen FV, FVIII, and low Thrombotest values suggested disseminated intravascular coagulation associated with complications, such as fat embolism and \"shock lung\" syndromes. General bleeding tendency with high mortality was observed in 16% of the patients."}
{"id": "602993", "title": "[Hemostasis in pregnant women with late toxicoses].", "content": "[Hemostasis in pregnant women with late toxicoses]."}
{"id": "595465", "title": "[Effect of general low-frequency vibration on the functional state of the blood coagulation system].", "content": "[Effect of general low-frequency vibration on the functional state of the blood coagulation system]."}
{"id": "594029", "title": "[Disturbances of the clotting mechanism in severe cerebro-cranial injuries (author's transl)].", "content": "[Disturbances of the clotting mechanism in severe cerebro-cranial injuries (author's transl)]. Factors II, V, X, VIII, thrombin time, platelet count and the thrombelastogram were estimated in 58 persons who had suffered cerebrocranial injuries of varying degree of severity. The aim of the investigation was to elucidate whether and to what extent the injury affected these parameters and whether the destruction of brain tissue could be regarded as the sole cause of the impairment of the clotting mechanism. First estimations in cases of cerebrocranial trauma uncomplicated by other injuries and in cases of cerebrocranial trauma complicated by moderately severe other injuries showed changes in factors II, V, X, VII as well as a pathological thrombelastogram, viz.: hypercoagulability. More pronounced changes were observed in cases where the cerebrocranial injuries were associated with severe complicating lesions: factors II, V, VII, X and the platelet count were reduced by 50-70 per cent of their normal values. Subsequent estimations carried out over a period of 15 days showed that the clotting mechanism had returned to nearly normal within 6-10 days. The use of heparin for normalizing disturbances of the clotting mechanism in cerebrocranial injuries is discussed."}
{"id": "579268", "title": "[Dental surgery in drug-induced increase of bleeding tendency].", "content": "[Dental surgery in drug-induced increase of bleeding tendency]."}
{"id": "578482", "title": "[The influence of the combination of coumarin and troxerutin on infantile blood parameter in lactation period. Short communication (author's transl)].", "content": "[The influence of the combination of coumarin and troxerutin on infantile blood parameter in lactation period. Short communication (author's transl)]. The examination of the hematological parameters erythrocytes, hemoglobin, thrombocytes, thrombelastogram, prothrombin time, blood-clotting and bleeding time in 20 mothers and their infants proved that the combination of coumarin and troxerutin (Venalot) can be administered in elevated doses unhesitatingly. All values tested were within normal ranges before and after treatment."}
{"id": "578480", "title": "The influence of acetysalicylic acid on changes in platelet function due to physical exertion.", "content": "The influence of acetysalicylic acid on changes in platelet function due to physical exertion. The influence of acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) on alterations of the platelets resulting from physical exertion was studied in 10 healthy volunteers. Before and 2 h after the administration of placebo or 1 g ASA, venous blood samples were taken for platelet counts, thrombelastography (TEG) and tests of ADP- and epinephrine-induced platelet aggregation. The blood in which the 2-h values were determined was sampled at the highest work-load during sub-maximum exercise on a bicycle ergometer (5 min each at 50, 100 and 150 watts). ASA had no effect on the alterations of the platelets due to physical effort: the increase in the first phase of epinephrine-induced aggregation, the elevation of the platelet count and the hypercoagulability demonstrable by TEG still persisted after the administration of ASA. Some effects were noted, however, that are also observed after the administration of ASA at rest: the second phase of epinephrine-induced aggregation was suppressed and disaggregation after induction with ADP was accelerated."}
{"id": "571134", "title": "Thromboelastographic behaviour in rats submitted to experimental liver intoxication.", "content": "Thromboelastographic behaviour in rats submitted to experimental liver intoxication."}
{"id": "558156", "title": "[Manufacture and transfusion of leukocyte and thrombocyte concentrates with special reference to organizational problems].", "content": "[Manufacture and transfusion of leukocyte and thrombocyte concentrates with special reference to organizational problems]. One year-long experience with the Haemonetics blood cell separator (model 30) in a blood bank is presented. The collection, indications for transfusion and transfusion itself of 62 leucocytes and 96 platelets concentrates, as well as organisatory problems are discussed in detail."}
{"id": "557525", "title": "Action of Trimeresurus erythrusus and Trimeresurus popeorum venom on blood coagulation.", "content": "Action of Trimeresurus erythrusus and Trimeresurus popeorum venom on blood coagulation."}
{"id": "413223", "title": "Partial plasma exchange, and adjunct in therapy to complex clinical problems.", "content": "Partial plasma exchange, and adjunct in therapy to complex clinical problems. The use of therapeutic partial plasma exchange (PPE) is reviewed as an adjunct in the treatment of certain complex clinical problems. The procedure is performed with a Model 30 Haemonetics Blood Cell Separator in which the patient's plasma is partially exchanged with fresh frozen plasma, fresh frozen plasma with cryoprecipitate removed or with plasma protein fraction. The present study describes the use of PPE on 12 patients within the last 15 months as a means of altering the plasma proteins to achieve certain therapeutic goals. The study consists of six procoagulant deficient patients (five congentital and one acquired) in which five of the six patients responded by reflecting a satisfactory rise in the plasma procoagulant level following the procedure, resulting in cessation of bleeding. The sixth patient was thought to have had a procoagulant inhibitor, thus the procoagulant level was changed only minimally. The remaining six patients (five with hyperviscosity syndrome and one with platelet antibody) responded only to the degree of the intensiveness of the PPE procedure. More aggressvie, repeated PPE and/or plasmapheresis are needed if the clinical objective is to decrease the plasma viscosity or to lower a humoral antibody within the patient's plasma."}
{"id": "402555", "title": "[Informative value of control methods for postoperative supervision of medication with aspirin and heparin (author's transl)].", "content": "[Informative value of control methods for postoperative supervision of medication with aspirin and heparin (author's transl)]. Under the effect of acetylsalicyl lysin, a postoperative hypercoagulability was ascertained with regard to shortened antithrombin and partial prothrombin times. The inhibition of aggregation was easily demonstrable with a high concentration of collagen in the test batch and showed a striking relationship to the occurrence of thrombosis. Under heparin prophylaxis, normal coagulability was maintained. Since disorders of hemostasis due to therapy occur sporadically, early postoperative raising of the dose of heparin should only be done under regular laboratory controll, to which activated PTT and antithrombin time is well suited."}
{"id": "327128", "title": "Occurrence of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) in obstructive jaundice and its relation to biliary tract infection.", "content": "Occurrence of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) in obstructive jaundice and its relation to biliary tract infection. Coagulation studies were done on 78 consecutive cases of obstructive jaundice with or without biliary tract infection. Among 26 cases with biliary tract infection 20 cases showed no bleeding tendency but remarkable hypercoagulability with decreased fibrinolytic activity. Other six cases developed diffuse bleeding tendency in addition to the signs of hypotension and multiorgan dysfunction such as oliguria, respiratory distress and mental confusion. Most showed marked coagulation defects characterized by thrombocytopenia, decreased fibrinogen, antithrombin III and plasminogen levels and narrowing of maximal amplitude in thrombelastogram as well as the increase of fibrin degradation products and positive soluble fibrin monomer complexes. All except one died and three cases were autopsied. In two cases postmortem examination revealed multiple fibrin thrombi in lungs and other organs. A cause of the development of bleeding tendency in obstructive jaundice presently observed may likely to be due to the occurrence of disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), i.e. hypercoagulability caused by the biliary tract infection is responsible."}
{"id": "300933", "title": "[Evaluation of the blood coagulating system in acute gastroduodenal hemorrhages by thromboelastographic data].", "content": "[Evaluation of the blood coagulating system in acute gastroduodenal hemorrhages by thromboelastographic data]. Coagulation properties were studied thromboelastographically in 76 patients with acute gastroduodenal hemorrhages due to ulcerous disease of the stomach and duodenum, hemorrhagic gastritis and Mallory-Weiss syndrome. A certain regularity was revealed, i. e. the more profuse the hemorrhage the more frequent hypocoagulation associated with high fibrinolysis rate. With this in view transfusion therapy should be aimed not only at the replacement of circulary blood bolume but also at the suppression of high fibrinolytic activity of blood."}
{"id": "198084", "title": "Immunotherapy with autologous white cell infusions (\"lymphocytes\") in the treatment of recurrrent glioblastoma multiforme: a preliminary report.", "content": "Immunotherapy with autologous white cell infusions (\"lymphocytes\") in the treatment of recurrrent glioblastoma multiforme: a preliminary report. Autologous leukocytes (10(7) to 10(9)), obtained with the Haemonetic's Leukaphoresis apparatus, were inoculated directly into recurrent glioblastoma tumors via indwelling catheters or by direct intratumoral injection through existing craniotomy openings. The rational use for autologous leukocyte (lymphocyte) infusions was based on in vitro autologous lymphocyte cytotoxicity to glioblastoma cells in the absence of serum inhibitory factors. Seven of 17 patients treated had life expectancy under 1 month; all patients had received definitive surgery, and all but two received radiation, nitrosourea chemotherapy and/or dexamethasone, and showed evidence of clinically recurrent disease. Following autologous leukocyte infusion (lymphocyte/granulocyte ratio 1:1), eight patients sustained clinical improvement and were alive up to 17 months later. No neurotoxicity ascribable to the procedure has been observed. One patient, who was comatose at the time of single leukocyte infusion, returned to full activity and lived for 17 months without an increase in tumor mass by brain scan. These results suggest that infusions of autologous leukocytes (lymphocyte-monocytes) directly into glioblastoma may be a viable additional treatment for glioblastoma and certainly warrants further evaluation."}
{"id": "194314", "title": "[Coagulation and acute disseminated lupus erythematosus. Apropos of 25 cases].", "content": "[Coagulation and acute disseminated lupus erythematosus. Apropos of 25 cases]. It is important to study coagulation during lupus disease, not only to detect circulating anticoagulants, which may be the cause of hemorrhage, but also in order to seek chronic hypercoagulability, which is more dangerous as it may favour the development of thrombosis on inflammatory arteritis or aggravate the development of glomerular lesions. We have thus explored in this way 25 patients with systemic lupus of which 17 had histologically confirmed renal disease. 25% had hypocoagulability, but 50% had hypercoagulability which justitied treatment with heparin."}
{"id": "192405", "title": "Conjugated equine oestrogens and blood clotting: a follow-up report.", "content": "Conjugated equine oestrogens and blood clotting: a follow-up report. A follow-up study of blood clotting and platelet aggregation was performed on 21 women who had received long-term hormone replacement treatment with conjugated equine oestrogens. The prothrombin time and factor VII and X values were significantly accelerated after three months, but there was no further increase with continual administration for 18 months. After 12 to 18 months' treatment, however, thrombin-induced platelet aggregation (Chandler's tube) was also significantly accelerated, which suggested a widening spectrum of effect. No overall acceleration of \"intrinsic\" clotting (partial thromboplastin time and thromboelastography) was found during the study, but the relatively small numbers may have been responsible. Further efforts are therefore required to find formulations and doses of oestrogens which, while relieving menopausal symptoms, cause less acceleration of blood clotting and platelet aggregation."}
{"id": "145536", "title": "[Effect of surface roughness of polymers on thrombus formation].", "content": "[Effect of surface roughness of polymers on thrombus formation]. Thromboresistant properties of fluoroplast-4, lavsan, polymethylmetacrylate, carbon glass, employed in various devices contacting the blood and presenting different degrees of the surface roughness, were studied. The thromboresistant properties of polymers were judged on the ground of modified methods for determining the blood coagulating time, thromboelastograms, with reference to the prothrombin complex factors concentration, the amount of fibrinogen, heparin blood tolerance, the thrombocytes adhesion index, their splitting and flattening. A higher class of the polymer surface roughness was found to raise the thromboresistant properties of the surface. In case of polymers with high mechanical and strength properties the surface roughness is of greater importance in the genesis of thrombosis than in polymers possessing elastic properties."}
{"id": "142259", "title": "[In-vitro experiments on the clarification of the fibrinolytic activity in normal cerebrospinal fluid].", "content": "[In-vitro experiments on the clarification of the fibrinolytic activity in normal cerebrospinal fluid]. A direct and indirect detection of plasmin in native CSF was not possible by the thrombelastographic and hot fibrin agar plate method and by electroimmunodiffusion analysis using Laurell's method of fibrin degradation product determination, respectively. The same method was used to determine concentrations of plasminogen and fibrinogen. The CSF, which were retrospectively judged to be normal, neither showed plasmin activity nor exhibited plasminogen and fibrinogen concentrations. Therefore, the liqour possesses only a plasminogen activator protein and does not represent a fibrinolytically active CSF."}
{"id": "138455", "title": "Semicontinuous flow centrifugation for the pheresis of immunocompetent cells and stem cells.", "content": "Semicontinuous flow centrifugation for the pheresis of immunocompetent cells and stem cells. Mononuclear cells from human peripheral blood were purified by semicontinuous flow centrifugation (SCFC) using the Haemonetics model 30 blood cell separator; 64% +/- 7% of the mononuclear cells in 600 ml of peripheral blood were collected in a 30-ml volume. Analysis of sequential 5-ml aliquots of the mononuclear cell concentrate revealed that both immunocompetent cells and granulocytic progenitor cells (CFU-C) were proportional to the cell count throughout the buffy coat. In vitro pheresis of large volumes of human bone marrow resulted in recovery of 63% of the cells, 12% of the hemoglobin, and 84% of the CFU-C in 20% of the original volume. Further centrifugation eliminated 80% of the platelets without loss of cells or CFU-C. SCFC of peripheral blood or bone marrow selectively concentrated mononuclear cells and reduced the contamination by granulocytes and erythrocytes. Large numbers of mononuclear cells can thus be collected for studies in vitro or for cryopreservation and the autologous reconstitution of immunosuppressed or myelosuppressed patients undergoing intensive antitumor therapy."}
{"id": "75144", "title": "[New aspects of heparin therapy].", "content": "[New aspects of heparin therapy]."}
{"id": "72848", "title": "[Method of the study of the thrombocyte capacity to adsorb plasma fibrinogen].", "content": "[Method of the study of the thrombocyte capacity to adsorb plasma fibrinogen]."}
{"id": "70746", "title": "[The effect of oral contraceptives on levels of thyroid hormone, blood coagulation and ceruloplasmin (author's transl)].", "content": "[The effect of oral contraceptives on levels of thyroid hormone, blood coagulation and ceruloplasmin (author's transl)]. The effect of various hormonal contraceptives on the thyroid hormone level, plasmatic and thrombocytic coagulation, cholesterol and ceruloplasmin levels and the activity of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase was investigaged by the changes produced by long term cyclic estrogen-gestagen therapy on the metabolism of the organism. The free thyroxine index and the total cholesterol were within the normal range. The thyroxine binding index at 44% was above the normal level and the mean value was significantly raised. The ceruloplasmin concentration in the serum was also significantly increased. Pointers to a general hypercoagulability could not be ascertained with a statistical significance."}
{"id": "66780", "title": "Use of dextran 75 as a macromolecular agent in centrifugal leukapheresis.", "content": "Use of dextran 75 as a macromolecular agent in centrifugal leukapheresis. Twenty-five leukaphereses were done by the Haemonetics system using citrated Dextran 75 in normal saline as anticoagulant, and were compared with a much larger series using hydroxyethyl starch (HES) with and without steroid premedication. The granulocyte and platelet yields were only minimally different between the two agents. Both were inferior in granulocyte collection to the group that was premedicated with a steroid. Dextran is thus a satisfactory substitute for HES in leukapheresis with this system."}
{"id": "24383", "title": "[Blood coagulation during prolonged postoperative parenteral feeding containing lipids].", "content": "[Blood coagulation during prolonged postoperative parenteral feeding containing lipids]. Blood coagulation was studied in two groups of fifteen patients of the same type during parenteral nutrition lasting for more then ten days and given during the postoperative period. The first batch of patients, taken as a control group, received parenteral nutrition with carbohydrates and proteins, whilst the second group received lipids in addition. Study of blood coagulation, carried out every three days, involved : thromboelastogen on whole blood and plasma, platelet count, platelet adhesiveness and the estimation of factors II, V, VII and X, fibrinogen, plasminogen and fibrinogen break-down products. In the patients not receiving lipids, the normal alterations seen during the postoperative period occurred : normalisation in plasminogen levels and in F.B.P., and an increase in the number of platelets and in fibrinogen level. The presence of lipids in the nutritional fluids resulted in changes in the same direction, but the increase in platelet count was slighter and fibrinogen level, after a slight increase, returned to initial values on the 20th day of parenteral nutrition. Fibrinogen was the only factor which showed any significant difference between the two groups."}
{"id": "18968", "title": "[Action of Triv\u00e9 1000 on hemostasis and hematocrit].", "content": "[Action of Triv\u00e9 1000 on hemostasis and hematocrit]. The action of lipids on haemostasis has already been shown. The authors study possible changes of haemostasis induced by the use of a substance: Trive 1000 containing 3.8 g of Soya oil and 0.3 g of Soya lecithin per 100 ml. Twenty patient received 1 litre per day over a period of ten days and were compared with 16 controls receiving glucose and amino acides without lipids. Studies of haemostasis included: overall coagulation by the thrombo-elastogram, P.R.P. (platelet rich plasma), estimation of the co-factors of the prothrombin complex, thrombin and reptilase times, platelet count, platelet stickiness using the method of HELLEM, platelet aggregation using the method of Born, plasminogen and plasmin activity by the pH STAT method, and P.D.F. levels. These examinations were carried out on the 1st, 3rd, 5th, 7th and 9th postoperative days. The results in the patients receiving Trive 1000 were as follows: no change in blood coagulation, progressive fall in platelet activity in the sense of hypoaggregability which was significant from the 5th day onwards only. There was no change in fibrinolysis. By contrast, there was anaemia, as determined on the basis of a fall in haematocrit, maximal on the 5th day and attributed by the authors to the haemolytic properties of triglycerides. In conclusion, Trive 1000 had no signifcant influence on haemostasis, apart from platelet hypoaggregability of moderate degree after prolonged treatment and perhaps haemolytic anaemia."}
{"id": "16812", "title": "Ditazole and platelets. I. Effect of ditazole on human platelet function in vitro.", "content": "Ditazole and platelets. I. Effect of ditazole on human platelet function in vitro. Ditazole (4,5-diphenyl-2-bis-(2-hydroxyethyl)-aminoxazol) has been shown to be a strong in vitro inhibitor of human platelet aggregation brought about by release reaction inducers; in contrast, it did not significantly affect primary ADP-induced aggregation. Ditazole strongly inhibited the release of platelet-bound 14C-serotonin under the influence of Thrombofax, whereas it did not interfere with the transport and storage of serotonin in nonstimulated platelets. The effect of ditazole was not potentiated by acetylsalicylic acid. Ditazole also inhibited ADP-reptilase clot retraction and modified thrombin-induced clot formation. The inhibition of platelet aggregation exerted by ditazole in plasma could be removed following gel filtration of platelets on Sepharose 2-B gel. This would indicate that ditazole does not act on platelets by a 'hit and run' mechanism."}
{"id": "16106894", "title": "[Acute hemorrhagic edema of the skin in an infant. Clinical and nosological study . Report of three cases].", "content": "[Acute hemorrhagic edema of the skin in an infant. Clinical and nosological study . Report of three cases]."}
{"id": "1275477", "title": "[Blood coagulation system in oncological patients treated with rubomycin, adriamycin and carminomycin].", "content": "[Blood coagulation system in oncological patients treated with rubomycin, adriamycin and carminomycin]. Systems of blood coagulation in patients treated with antibiotics of the anthracycline group were studied. Rubomycin was used in the treatment of patients with acute leukemia Adriamycin and carminomycin were used in the treatment of patients with solid tumors. The antibiotics affected the process of blood coagulation mainly through their cytostatic effect on thrombocytopoesis. Thrombocytopenia induced deficit of thrombocytal factors participating in the process of blood coagulation which resulted in hypocoagulation and hemorrhagic complications. The plasmic factors did not significantly change during the antibiotic therapy. A tendency to decrease in the levels of prothrombine, fibrinase and fibrinogen was noted which was possible due to an inhibitory effect of the antibiotics on the function of the reticuloendothelial tissue cells or indirectly to suppression of the tumor process. More pronounced changes in the system of blood coagulation of patients treated with rubomycin were probably associated with inferiority of the thrombocytal apparatus of the patients with acute leukemia treated with the antibiotic."}
{"id": "1275219", "title": "[Early influence of acute preoperative haemodilution with human albumin and ringer's lactate on coagulation (author's transl)].", "content": "[Early influence of acute preoperative haemodilution with human albumin and ringer's lactate on coagulation (author's transl)]. Acute haemodilution was performed in 10 patients scheduled mainly for vascular surgery. Before induction to anaesthesia 910 +/- 29.1 ml whole blood was taken and simultaneously replaced as follows: 50% of that amount with 3,6% albumin solution, another 50% X 3 with lactated Ringer solution. The haematocrit was thus lowered from 39.8 +/- 1.71 to 28.4 +/- 1.7 vol%. Extensive clotting studies were performed to investigate the early influence of haemodilution on the clotting mechanisms in the time span between the end of blood collection and the point of surgical anaesthesia. The group of patients with normal clotting studies prior to haemodilution has shown a slight and short-lasting hypercoagulability. This has been proven by a shortening of r and k in TEG, by a shortening of non-activated Partial Thromboplastin Time (means activation of the XII and XI factor) and also, by the presence of an activated factor Xa and by an increase of maximum platelet aggregation and of platelet factor 3 availability. This mechanism of clotting activation is similar to the one observed after marked blood loss. It was assumed that this minor, early and short-lasting hypercoagulability has no further influence on the well known usual intra- and post-operative changes in clotting mechanisms (intra-op lowered, post-op enhanced coagulability). In contrast to the patients with normal clotting, a clotting defect due to preexisting liver-cell damage becomes worse during the haemodilution, which method in the presence of hepatic insufficiency therefore is contraindicted. A few additional data on input-output, serum and urine electrolytes and on 2,3 DPG have been gathered during our study. They indicate a positive fluid balance and the necessity for a close watch of electrolytes. The possible trend of 2.3 DPG elevation which has also been found might reflect a compensatory mechanism increasing oxygen transport capacity of haemoglobin if the above described method of haemodilution is used."}
{"id": "1266511", "title": "[The functional state of the sympathetic-adrenal system and blood coagulation in transitory cerebral circulatory disorders].", "content": "[The functional state of the sympathetic-adrenal system and blood coagulation in transitory cerebral circulatory disorders]. The authors studied adrenalin and noradrenalin excretion with the diurnal urine and the state of hemocoagulation in 63 patients with transient disturbances of the brain circulation. A reliable increase of adrenalin excretion, a decrease of noradrenalin and an expressed activation of hemocoagulation were established. The extent of the functional state changes of the sympathetico-adrenal system varied according to etiology of brain circulation disturbances. A close relationship between indices of the sympathetico-adrenal system and the hemocoagulation process was found."}
{"id": "1265611", "title": "Noninvasive prevention of thrombosis of deep veins of the thigh using intermittent pneumatic compression.", "content": "Noninvasive prevention of thrombosis of deep veins of the thigh using intermittent pneumatic compression. Intermitten venous compression promotes cyclic emptying and refilling of the veins and sinuses of the legs. It prevents stasis and formation of thrombi while the patient is on the operating table and during recovery. Once the patient is ambulatory, the system is discontinued. While the system is in use, thromboelastography, venous impedance plethysmography and venography, when indicated, are used to monitor the system. The intermittent pneumatic compression system is safe, simple and practical to use for almost all patients. There was no evidence of deep vein thrombosis or pulmonary embolism in 123 patients, as determined by an absence of clinical signs, a negative impedance plethysmogram and a negative venogram."}
{"id": "1088300", "title": "[Changes in the circulating blood volume and blood coagulability in acute gastrointestinal hemorrhages after substitution of blood loss].", "content": "[Changes in the circulating blood volume and blood coagulability in acute gastrointestinal hemorrhages after substitution of blood loss]."}
{"id": "1085694", "title": "[Coagulation disorders in the hemorrhage of portal hypertension (especially in post-sinusoidal block)].", "content": "[Coagulation disorders in the hemorrhage of portal hypertension (especially in post-sinusoidal block)]."}
{"id": "1065973", "title": "[In vitro studies on the effect of alpha-chymotrypsin on hemostasis].", "content": "[In vitro studies on the effect of alpha-chymotrypsin on hemostasis]. Postoperative bleeding was observed in 2 patients for whom alpha-chymotrypsin had been prescribed to prevent haematoma or oedema formation. In vitro experiments with citrated blood added with alpha-chymotrypsin evidenced (thrombelastogram, hirudin tolerance test, euglobulin-lysis time) an action on haemostasis. As compared to blanks, the application of an alpha-chymotrypsin dose which was 100-fold higher than those currently used in therapy resulted in a significant shortening of the r-time (thrombelastogram), delayed blood clotting (hirudin tolerance test) and a shortening of the euglobulin-lysis time. In vivo experiments are needed for further elucidation."}
{"id": "1034387", "title": "[Function of thrombocytes during the gestational period and puerperium and their relation to the occurence of thromboses. 2. Function of blood platelets during late pregnancy, labor and puerperium in gestosis].", "content": "[Function of thrombocytes during the gestational period and puerperium and their relation to the occurence of thromboses. 2. Function of blood platelets during late pregnancy, labor and puerperium in gestosis]. Platelet functions during late pregnancy with praeeclampsia, birth and childbed were observed. There are found variations in opposition to normal pregnancy. Increase of platelet aggregation was clearest. In this observations is not conclud from increase risk developing a thromboembolic disease during toxemic pregnancy, birth and childbed. The variations of platelet functions are parts of complex appearence."}
{"id": "1032427", "title": "[Study of the behavior of hepatic function and blood coagulation in the course of oral administration of an estroprogestogen in low dosage].", "content": "[Study of the behavior of hepatic function and blood coagulation in the course of oral administration of an estroprogestogen in low dosage]. To study its effects on liver functions and on blood clotting, a new oral contraceptive (OC) containing 0.5 mg of quingestanol acetate, and 0.05 mg. of ethinyl estradiol was administered to 12 patients, aged 21-40, for 3 consecutive cycles. The patients were accurately examined before treatment, at the 2nd and 3rd month, and again 1 month after suspension of treatment. There were no significant modifications of clinical symptoms, or modifications of laboratory tests. In 5 cases only there was an increase in bilirubinemia; in a few other patients there were thromboelastogram variations. Both changes were not serious enough to cause either liver dysfunction or thromboembolism. It is, however, extremely important to examine regularly any patient on OC."}
{"id": "1031058", "title": "[Thrombelastographic findings in normal subjects and patients with coronary disease after exercise].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic findings in normal subjects and patients with coronary disease after exercise]."}
{"id": "1030884", "title": "[Effect of actomyosin on blood coagulation and fibrinolysis].", "content": "[Effect of actomyosin on blood coagulation and fibrinolysis]. An increase in the lysis of human and rat clot of euglobulin fraction of blood plasma was caused by an actomyosin preparation isolated from rabbit and rat muscle. Neither fibrinolytic nor activating properties of actomyosin were observed on applying of different concentration (13-0.6 mg/ml) of the protein on the fibrin films. No activation of 0.4% solution of pure plasminogen by actomyosin was observed in vitro. A decrease in fibrin clot density under the effect of actomyosin was indicated by thromboelastogramms of blood plasma and euglobulins. The phenomenon was probably determined by the physicochemical properties of the protein itself."}
{"id": "1028984", "title": "[Use of microquantities of capillary blood for registration of the thromboelastogram].", "content": "[Use of microquantities of capillary blood for registration of the thromboelastogram]."}
{"id": "1028982", "title": "[Use in the clinic of the TEM-1 thromboelastometer].", "content": "[Use in the clinic of the TEM-1 thromboelastometer]."}
{"id": "1027924", "title": "[Changes in thromboelastogram in women on hormonal contraception].", "content": "[Changes in thromboelastogram in women on hormonal contraception]. The authors have analysed changes in the thromboelastogram in 411 women on oral contraceptives and in 31 women on no hormonal contraception. Comparing the results they found no statistically significant differences because the control group was too small. In the group of women on hormonal contraception, statistically significant differences were recorded in those women whose thromboelastogram was analysed several times, the differences having been more pronounced in the women that had used hormonal contraceptives for a longer time. As the appearance of thrombo-embolic complications is a very complex process, the authors' opinion is that thromboelastogram cannot be considered as a routine method for predicting these complications."}
{"id": "1024254", "title": "Angiotensin II. Vascular reactivity and humoral effects.", "content": "Angiotensin II. Vascular reactivity and humoral effects. The vasopressor response to angiotensin II was found useful in the differential diagnosis of arterial hypertension and for a better understanding of its pathogenesis. Sodium supply was proved to influence significantly the pressor response to angiotensin II and not that to noradrenaline thus implying the presence of arterial receptors which bind angiotensin specifically. Angiotensin caused an increase of the urinary excretion of electrolytes in hypertensive patients and a decreased electrolyte excretion in normotensives. In most hypertensive patients angiotensin was found to decrease the plasma angiotensinogen and to activate the bradykinin-bradykininogen and fibrinolytic systems. In the presence of urinary infection angiotensin increased the platelet adhesiveness and the thrombelastographic changes proved that in this condition angiotensin increases the tendency to thrombosis."}
{"id": "1014721", "title": "[Thrombolytic treatment of deep leg vein thrombosis in ageing (author's transl)].", "content": "[Thrombolytic treatment of deep leg vein thrombosis in ageing (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "1011478", "title": "[Coagulologic characteristics of different stages of chronic circulatory insufficiency in atherosclerotic cardiosclerosis].", "content": "[Coagulologic characteristics of different stages of chronic circulatory insufficiency in atherosclerotic cardiosclerosis]. A total of 168 patients with atherosclerotic cardiosclerosis and different stages of chronic circulatory insufficiency were subjected to an examination of the state of their blood coagulation (thromboelasto- and coagulogramme) and fibrinolytic systems (indices of the general fibrinolytic activity of the blood, some components of fibrinolysis). In cases of circulatory insufficiency at its early stages (especially IIA) distinct signs of blood hypercoagulation were found to develop at the expense of an elevation of the level of fibrinogen A and B fibrinstabilizing factor, a reduction of the content of antithrombins and heparin, as well as signs of fibrinolysis inhibition at the expense of an increase of the level of plasminogen and antiplasmins activation inhibitors, fast acting including. During Stages IIB and III of circulatory insufficiency the signs of hypercoagulation of the blood and fibrinolysis inhibition are noted to decrease, although they do not disappear completely."}
{"id": "1011472", "title": "[Treatment of acute venous thrombosis using continuous infusion of a rheopolyglucin-heparin mixture].", "content": "[Treatment of acute venous thrombosis using continuous infusion of a rheopolyglucin-heparin mixture]."}
{"id": "1008223", "title": "[Changes in the blood coagulating system during surgery and during the postoperative period in gynecologic patients].", "content": "[Changes in the blood coagulating system during surgery and during the postoperative period in gynecologic patients]."}
{"id": "1005094", "title": "[Congenital deficiency in the fibrin stabilizing factor (factor XIII)].", "content": "[Congenital deficiency in the fibrin stabilizing factor (factor XIII)]."}
{"id": "1000261", "title": "Coagulation and fibrinolysis in intact hydatidiform molar pregnancy.", "content": "Coagulation and fibrinolysis in intact hydatidiform molar pregnancy. Tests of coagulation, fibrinolysis, and platelet function were performed in 17 patients with intact molar pregnancies. Women with intact molar pregnancies had higher fibrinogen factor VIII, and fibrinogen degradation products, concentrations and lower prothrombin, factor X, plasminogen, and plasminogen activator concentrations than controls with normal pregnancies. They also had reduced platelet counts and thromboelastographic values, which indicated hypocoagulability. These results suggest that intravascular coagulation occurs in intact hydatidiform molar pregnancies."}
{"id": "998877", "title": "[Thromboelestographic evaluation of the state of blood coagulation in late pregnancy toxicosis].", "content": "[Thromboelestographic evaluation of the state of blood coagulation in late pregnancy toxicosis]."}
{"id": "997672", "title": "[Thromboelastography and inhibitors of aggregation].", "content": "[Thromboelastography and inhibitors of aggregation]. The effect of maintained treatment with salicylo-acetic acid (1.5 g/day) on the thrombelastogram was examined in the venous blood from 18 accidental patients. In the prevention of thrombembolia, resulting values of the thrombelastograph are not sufficient to show functional changes of platelets. Some of the patients revealed prolonged times for reaction and formation of coagula, thus discreet influencing the thrombelastogram might be supposed."}
{"id": "996921", "title": "Removal of HBSAg from blood in vitro. I. Effects of washing alone, glycerol addition and removal, and glycerolization, freezing, and washing.", "content": "Removal of HBSAg from blood in vitro. I. Effects of washing alone, glycerol addition and removal, and glycerolization, freezing, and washing. Red blood cells from HBSAg-positive blood were washed in the Fenwal Elutramatic, Haemonetics Processor 15, or the IBM Blood Processor with sodium chloride solutions, or in the Huggins Cytoglomerator with sugar solutions. The Fenwal Elutramatic and IBM Blood Processor were the most efficient washing systems, the Haemonetics Processor 15 was less efficient, and the Huggins Cytoglomerator was the least efficient in removing the HBSAg. Washing to remove the HBSAg from red blood cells containing 40 per cent W/V glycerol in an ionic medium was more efficient than washing HBSAg from liquid-stored red blood cells or red blood cells containing 20 per cent W/V glycerol. The original and modified dilution/agglomeration wash cycles used in the Huggins Cytoglomerator were not able to remove the HBSAg from units of blood that were radioimmune assay (RIA) positive and counterelectrophoresis (CEP) negative. Freezing had no effect on the removal of the HBSAg in vitro, whereas the concentration of 40 per cent W/V glycerol in the red blood cells that were washed did. HBSAg was not found in the amorphous debris remaining in the polycarbonate disposable bowl used in the Haemonetics Processor 15 or in the microaggregates remaining in washed red blood cells."}
{"id": "990180", "title": "Utilization of a new strength citrate anticoagulant during centrifugal plateletpheresis. I. Assessment of donor effects.", "content": "Utilization of a new strength citrate anticoagulant during centrifugal plateletpheresis. I. Assessment of donor effects. A reduction of donor effects during centrifugal plateletpheresis with the Haemonetics Blood Processor was achieved by reducing the concentration of the citrate anticoagulant. Serum citrate and ionized calcium levels, immediately and 1 h post-pheresis, were affected to a lesser extent by using 5.0 g total ionized citrate (TIC) THAN WITH EITHER 8.0 G OR 11.0 G. Total calcium, bicarbonate, prothrombin time, partial thromboplastin time, ECG, and platelet counts were affected to a similar degree by all three TIC formulations. The total number of platelets collected per litre of blood processed was not significantly different among the three TIC formulations. In vitro studies employing the screen filtration pressure (SFP) technique showed no evidence of platelet aggregates in whole blood collected into either 0.01 M or 0.005 M citrate and agitated or left stationary at room temperature for 5 h. The use of different citrate concentrations in plateletpheresis is discussed."}
{"id": "989642", "title": "Chemorheological studies of the effect of heparin on the course of coagulation.", "content": "Chemorheological studies of the effect of heparin on the course of coagulation. The influence of sodium heparin on viscoelastic change during coagulation was determined in vitro for whole blood samples from ten normal subjects at heparin concentrations ranging from 0 to 1.45 units/(ml whole blood). A four-parameter chemorheological model was used to describe the time course of coagulation as measured by the Weissenberg Rheogoniometer. One parameter compares closely with the whole blood activated partial thromboplastin time, while the other three may be related to the chemical kinetics of clotting. The chemorheological model and experimental techniques were then tested in a dog preparation. It was found that rheological measurements are more self-consistent than either thrombelastography or the activated partial thromboplastin time for the assay of in vivo heparin in two dogs."}
{"id": "983926", "title": "Noninvasive prevention of deep vein thrombosis.", "content": "Noninvasive prevention of deep vein thrombosis."}
{"id": "982295", "title": "[Blood coagulation and markedness of the prethrombotic state in patients with coronary arteriosclerosis under conditions of functional test with local venous congestion].", "content": "[Blood coagulation and markedness of the prethrombotic state in patients with coronary arteriosclerosis under conditions of functional test with local venous congestion]."}
{"id": "981166", "title": "[Effect of low-dose-heparin and its control (author's transl)].", "content": "[Effect of low-dose-heparin and its control (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "972844", "title": "[Plasma viscosity and thrombelastogram and some blood clotting factors in patients with atherosclerosis].", "content": "[Plasma viscosity and thrombelastogram and some blood clotting factors in patients with atherosclerosis]."}
{"id": "968111", "title": "[Comparative study of blood viscosity, thromboelastogram and platelet aggregation in normal subjects and chronic bronchitis patients with secondary polyglobulin].", "content": "[Comparative study of blood viscosity, thromboelastogram and platelet aggregation in normal subjects and chronic bronchitis patients with secondary polyglobulin]."}
{"id": "961206", "title": "[Function of thrombocytes during gestation and puerperium as well as their relations to thrombosis. 1. Function of blood platelets in normal pregnancy, during labor and puerperium].", "content": "[Function of thrombocytes during gestation and puerperium as well as their relations to thrombosis. 1. Function of blood platelets in normal pregnancy, during labor and puerperium]. Platelet functions during late pregnancy and puerperium were observed. It was found pregnancy variations of the number of platelets, platelet spreading, -aggregation, adhesiveness and thrombelastographic investigations. In this observations is not conclude from increase risk developing a thromboembolic disease during pregnancy and puerperium."}
{"id": "961045", "title": "[State of the blood coagulation system in eczema according to data of thrombelastographic and coagulographic studies].", "content": "[State of the blood coagulation system in eczema according to data of thrombelastographic and coagulographic studies]."}
{"id": "960475", "title": "[Characteristics of disorders of body functions in post-thrombophlebitic disease].", "content": "[Characteristics of disorders of body functions in post-thrombophlebitic disease]. 397 patients with chronic diseases of the extremities veins were examined, 256 of them suffered postthrombophlebitic disease. Along with the general clinical examination special investigations were conducted: ECG under orthostatic stress conditions, test tube and instrumental auto-coagulograms, thromboelastograms, biomicroscopy of the anterior ocular segment, studies of the intraocular pressure, ocular fundus, rheovasography, skin thermometry, oscillometry (with nitroglycerin stress), the extremity volume under orthostatic stress conditions, myography, non-contrast roentgenography of the lower extremities, and also the phenomenon of intradermal diffusion and pheblography. It was found that with the progress of postthrombophlebitis trophic disorders are observed in all tissues of the involved extremity. Postthrombophlebitic disease is associated not only with local involvement of vessels, but also with functional disturbances of other organs."}
{"id": "958100", "title": "[Hemorrhage caused by thrombocytopathies: new aspect of treatment (author's transl)].", "content": "[Hemorrhage caused by thrombocytopathies: new aspect of treatment (author's transl)]. Hemorrhage due to thrombocytopathies can in most cases be stopped by application of the homologous coagulation-active phospholipide complex Fibraccel, as shown in a study in which 78 patients suffering from various thrombocytopathies were checked. This effect is especially important in patients with immunothrombocytopathies which do not permit any thrombocyte substitution. Recalcification time and thromboelastogram should be normalised during Fibraccel treatment. In existing extravascular coagulation Fibraccel treatment is contraindicated, especially in cases of inadequate protection by heparin."}
{"id": "951726", "title": "Statewide support of thrombocytopenic patients with ABO matched single donor platelets.", "content": "Statewide support of thrombocytopenic patients with ABO matched single donor platelets. Use of ABO matched, HLA nonmatched platelet units obtained from single donors by pheresis, using the Haemonetics 30 Cell Separator, has a lowered hepatitis risk, and possibly delays the onset of the refractory state. Pheresis also offers a method of obtaining HLA matched platelets for the already refractory patient. A mean of 4.2 X 10(11) platelets are collected in about 1 1/2 hours. ABO matched, HLA nonmatched platelets produced corrected increments of more than 2500/mm3 per 7 X 10(10) platelets infused in 67 per cent of transfusions to nonselected recipients. The procedure is simple, safe, and requires little time. It is a worthwhile large-scale program for a regional blood center to undertake in order to provide optimal therapy for thrombocytopenic patients."}
{"id": "948258", "title": "[Influence of trypsinogen and trypsin on blood coagulation in vitro].", "content": "[Influence of trypsinogen and trypsin on blood coagulation in vitro]."}
{"id": "943685", "title": "[Special uses of the thromboelastographic technic in the study and diagnosis of coagulopathies].", "content": "[Special uses of the thromboelastographic technic in the study and diagnosis of coagulopathies]."}
{"id": "935639", "title": "In vitro testing of surface thrombogenicity using the thrombelastograph.", "content": "In vitro testing of surface thrombogenicity using the thrombelastograph. Synthetic surfaces can be assessed for their ability to promote or inhibit whole blood coagulation with improved accuracy using a new protocol developed for the Thrombelastograph instrument. Results obtained from the analysis of the hydrodynamic state of blood clotting in Thrombelastograph chambers have enabled a quantitative interpretation of the output of this instrument to be made. The thrombogenic properties of a segmented polyurethane and a polydimethyl siloxane are compared with a preparation of reconstituted elastin. It is seen that a four-fold delay in clotting time is exhibited by reconstituted elastin when it is compared with other biomedical synthetic materials tested."}
{"id": "819778", "title": "[Influence of dipropylacetic acid on hemostasis].", "content": "[Influence of dipropylacetic acid on hemostasis]."}
{"id": "788222", "title": "The identification of accelerated coagulability.", "content": "The identification of accelerated coagulability."}
{"id": "786932", "title": "[Screening and rapid tests in diagnosis of hemostasis disorders].", "content": "[Screening and rapid tests in diagnosis of hemostasis disorders]."}
{"id": "776354", "title": "Letter: Sodium valproate and platelet function.", "content": "Letter: Sodium valproate and platelet function."}
{"id": "767089", "title": "[Prophylactic inhibition of bacterial fibrinolysis in the management of wounds--thrombelastographic studies].", "content": "[Prophylactic inhibition of bacterial fibrinolysis in the management of wounds--thrombelastographic studies]."}
{"id": "138962", "title": "Studies on activator formation in human plasma with streptokinase. III. Investigation of activator kinetics in undiluted plasma in terms of urokinase equivalents.", "content": "Studies on activator formation in human plasma with streptokinase. III. Investigation of activator kinetics in undiluted plasma in terms of urokinase equivalents. A new method is presented for estimating the activator (plasminogen-streptokinase complex) concentration in native plasma of patients undergoing streptokinase infusion. The principle of the method is based on clot lysis time as recorded by the thromboelastograph. The test clot constituents were bovine fibrinogen, bovine plasminogen, EDTA, human plasma (with unknown activator concentrations), and thrombin. In order to obtain a standardization line, urokinase dissolved in NaCl solution was substituted for patients' plasma. Thus, each lysis time could easily be converted into urokinase equivalent (CTA-u/ml). Streptokinase and plasminogen molecules in undiluted patients' plasma were found to exist both in an activator-bound (equimolar plasminogen-streptokinase complex) and in a freely circulating form. This result is in agreement with earlier findings where the activator complex was demonstrated to be a widely dissociated complex in highly diluted plasma of patients, thus displaying an ample proportion of free streptokinase and plasminogen and molecules. Streptokinase treatment using dosage schemes of 100,000 u SK/h, and 200,000 u/h were monitored by quantitative activator, streptokinase, and plasminogen measurements. An average activator concentration of 50-100 CTA-u/ml and a SK-concentration of 7-16 u/ml were recorded during streptokinase infusion. Plasminogen values averaged 0.25%, independent of the amount of streptokinase infused. Each drop in streptokinase was accompanied by a drop in activator during the infusion, and each rise in streptokinase by a rise in activator. There was a strong correlation between streptokinase and activator concentrations in that, on the average, 1 u streptokinase equalled 8.4 CTA-u/ml activator (correlation coefficient r = 0.9) It is concluded that the activator concentration in the plasma of patients undergoing fibrinolytic treatment can easily be adjusted by regulating the hourly streptokinase influx."}
{"id": "138961", "title": "On the reliability of plasminogen measurement employing the proactivator-activator converting method.", "content": "On the reliability of plasminogen measurement employing the proactivator-activator converting method. A simple plasminogen determination method is presented. It is based upon the conversion of plasminogen into activator by large and constant amounts of streptokinase. The activator contained in a standard coagulum consisting of bovine fibrin, streptokinase, and a 1:40 dilution of human plasma converts the plasminogen adsorbed on bovine fibrin into plasmin. Lysis of the test coagulum is hereby induced. The speed of such lysis is limited by the concentration of the activator incorporated in the test coagulum. The variable component of the activator being human plasminogen, the speed of lysis is directly dependent upon the concentration of human plasminogen in the standard coagulum. Using the thromboelastograph according to Hartert in recording the test clot lysis times, this method of plasminogen determination was shown to be a simple and quick procedure. The standard deviation ranged from +/- 13,2 tp 68%, depending upon the plasminogen value to be measured (lower rates of error were attached to high, and higher rates of error to low, plasminogen concentrations). The biological variation of plasminogen values in a group of 26 men aged from 40 to 65 years was calculated to be +/- 21%. Both plasminogen and plasmin, its activated form, were exchangeable in the test, i.e. plasminogen determinations performed by activator assay did not differentiate between plasminogen and plasmin. There was no influence by varying anti-SK titers in the plasma up to a circulating antibody content of 2 million. Furthermore, plasma antiplasmins did not affect the plasminogen measuring system. Plasminogen tested by activator assay displayed values closely related to those achieved by immunochemical methods. Plasminogen measurements were performed in patients undergoing streptokinase and urokinase infusion treatment. 5,000 u streptokinase per hour, as well as 270,000 CTA-u urokinase per hour, infused over a period of 2 days produced a fall in plasminogen down to 30-60% of normal. In contrast, 100,000 u streptokinase per hour lowered the plasminogen concentration down to values of below 1%. The foregoing data indicate that plasminogen measurement, according to the principles outlined here (activator assay), may be regarded as a valuable and reliable method for the routine control of streptokinase and urokinase therapy."}
{"id": "135167", "title": "[Coagulation abnormalities in the patients with malignant tumours of the larynx and pharynx (author's transl)].", "content": "[Coagulation abnormalities in the patients with malignant tumours of the larynx and pharynx (author's transl)]. In 8 of 41 examined patients with larynx tumour and in 6 of 7 those with pharynx tumours we found hypercoagulability using specific coagulation test. In two of our patients laboratory tests pointed out on the disseminated intravascular coagulation, that became clinically manifest just during radiotherapy. The routine coagulation tests cannot detect the coagulation abnormality in the majority of cases and therefore in the patients with malignant tumours specific tests for discovering the ICF (intravascular coagulation and fibrinolysis) syndrom are to be made."}
{"id": "128903", "title": "[Compensatory-adaptive reactions of the blood coagulating and fibrinolytic systems in the main cardiovascular diseases].", "content": "[Compensatory-adaptive reactions of the blood coagulating and fibrinolytic systems in the main cardiovascular diseases]."}
{"id": "66369", "title": "[Use of Soviet-made thrombelastograph \"ISK-1\" in the capacity of an aggregatograph].", "content": "[Use of Soviet-made thrombelastograph \"ISK-1\" in the capacity of an aggregatograph]."}
{"id": "64604", "title": "New neonatal problems of blood coagulation and fibrinolysis. I. The change of plasmin inhibitor levels in the newborn infant.", "content": "New neonatal problems of blood coagulation and fibrinolysis. I. The change of plasmin inhibitor levels in the newborn infant. \"Hemorrhage in the newborn\" has long been recognized as merely a result of vitamin K deficiency. However, it is also recognized that fibrinolysis, especially the correlation between the plasminogen-activator and plasmin-inhibitors, play an important role in this disease during the neonatal period. With this in mind, we compared thromboelastograms (TEG) from samples with and without urokinase (plasminogen-activator). In 13 out of 15 newborn infant blood-samples (prior to and after addition of urokinase) the thromboelastogram showed the pattern of a consumption coagulopathy. The change in the concentration of plasmin-inhibitor during the neonatal period was also measured using alpha2-macroglobulin, alpha1-antitrypsin and antithrombin III with M-partigen-plates. The value of alpha2-macroglobulin showed normal adult levels but the value of alpha1-antitrypsin and antithrombin III did not even reach half of the adult level. During the newborn period, the plasmin-inhibitor shows a remarkable lowering tendency and it may be surmised that with such a lowering tendency plasmin-inhibitor may constitute an exceptionally large handicap when the activator is working. This is especially true in the case of lung hemorrhage since the activator arises from a severe pathological state in the lungs and in addition because this is complicated by the lowering of plasmin-inhibitor. These results indicate that the low level of plasmin-inhibitors work synergistically with the high value of activator. The low level of antithrombin III could be the reason for coagulation disorders such as disseminated intravascular coagulation, (DIC)."}
{"id": "63640", "title": "[Determination of the fibrinolytic activity of blood by the method of thrombelastography].", "content": "[Determination of the fibrinolytic activity of blood by the method of thrombelastography]."}
{"id": "61669", "title": "[Modification of the thrombocyte function using hormonal contraception. 2. Platelet adhesiveness, thromboelastography, conclusions].", "content": "[Modification of the thrombocyte function using hormonal contraception. 2. Platelet adhesiveness, thromboelastography, conclusions]. Platelet adhesiviness and thrombelastographic investigations in plasma by 102 women treated with Ovosiston, an anticonceptive agent were observed. A significant increase of adhesiveness and thrombelastographic variations was found. In conclusion showed abnormalities of platelet functions and thrombelastographic values point to influences by oral contraceptive agent Ovosiston. In combination with other favouring factors the risk of thromboembolism must be enhanced."}
{"id": "59435", "title": "Leukapheresis of patients with chronic granulocytic leukemia (CGL), using the Haemonetics blood processor.", "content": "Leukapheresis of patients with chronic granulocytic leukemia (CGL), using the Haemonetics blood processor. By the use of citrated hydroxyethyl starch (HES) as anticoagulant, the Haemonetics blood processor can be used to obtain large numbers of granulocytes from patients with CGL. This report is of 67 leukaphereses on 11 different patients. A median of 1.14 x 10(11) granulocytes was obtained per 6-cycle pheresis (3.4 x 10(10) per liter of blood processed), or eight to ten times the number obtained from comparable leukaphereses of normal donors. High yields of platelets were also obtained, although not in proportion to granulocytes, since some of the patients used as donors have normal or even low platelet counts. The patients tolerated the procedure well, and no adverse reactions to HES were observed. The patients experienced a mean 35 per cent drop in the postleukapheresis WBC count, but in no case was this drop sustained for more than a few days, and no lasting effect on the disease process was observed."}
{"id": "11577", "title": "Freezing and deglycerolizing sickle-trait red blood cells.", "content": "Freezing and deglycerolizing sickle-trait red blood cells. Sickle-trait red blood cells respond to freezing and thawing like normal cells, but during deglycerolization by centrifugal methods, they pack and hemolyze. This appears to be the result of changes in surface characteristics with suspension in hyperosmotic saline and even modest increases in osmolality result in packing with centrifugation. Modifications to permit deglycerolization of sickle-trait cells have been designed for use with both the Haemonetics and the IBM cell washing systems. Sickle-trait cells do not agglomerate satisfactorily but we were unable to devise a modification of this deglycerolizing system that would accommodate sickle-trait cells."}
{"id": "11575", "title": "Comparison of methods to wash liquid-stored red blood cells and red blood cells frozen with high or low concentrations of glycerol.", "content": "Comparison of methods to wash liquid-stored red blood cells and red blood cells frozen with high or low concentrations of glycerol. The efficiency of washing liquid-stored red blood cells and red blood cells frozen with high or low glycerol concentrations was evaluated by measuring the recovery of red blood cells in vitro, supernatant hemoglobin, extracellular potassium and red blood cell potassium levels, supernatant osmolality, residual 125I albumin, glycerol, hypoxanthine, and di-2-ethylhexyl phthalate (DEHP) levels. Four commercial washing systems were studied, three which used sodium chloride solutions with serial or continuous-flow centrifugation and one which used sugar solutions and dilution/agglomeration. Washing was most efficient using sodium chloride solutions in the IBM Blood Processor, an automated serial centrifugation procedure and in the Fenwal Elutramatic, a continuous-flow centrifugation procedure. Less efficient washing was achieved in the Haemonetics Processor 15, a continuous-flow centrifugation procedure and the least efficient washing occurred using the original and modified dilution/agglomeration procedures. To achieve the most efficient washing, three principles must be utilized: concentration of the red blood cells to hematocrit values of 90 per cent, prior to washing or freezing. Liquid-stored red blood cells concentrated to hematocrit values of 90V per cent should be diluted with hypertonic sodium chloride solutions prior to recovery and washing. Red blood cells containing 20 per cent or 40 per cent W/V glycerol should be diluted with hypertonic sodium chloride solutions before recovery and washing. Finally, on-line dilution should be achieved in the washing systems that use continuous-flow centrifugation."}
{"id": "11006", "title": "The processing of human bone marrow for cryopreservation and reinfusion.", "content": "The processing of human bone marrow for cryopreservation and reinfusion. Bone marrow was aspirated from 22 patients with solid tumors. A median of 1.2 x 10(10) net bone marrow cells were obtained during a 1 hour 45 minute operative procedure. Three methods were used to concentrate the bone marrow for cryopreservation. The greatest concentration of mononuclear cells was obtained by the Haemonetics pheresis procedure. Bone marrow was cryopreserved in 10 % DMSO in volumes ranging from 150 to 700 ml. The thawed marrow was further processed to remove both DMSO and free hemoglobin prior to reinfusion. Cell clumping was observed in the first 6 of the 10 marrows thawed. Acidification of the thawed marrow to pH 6.65 was found to retard cell clumping. The immediate recovery of cells frozen was 66 % with a viability of 50 %. The mean number of viable mononuclear bone marrow cells per kilogram available for reinfusion was therefore 5.5 x 10(7)."}
{"id": "1224599", "title": "[Changes in blood coagulation in diabetic nephropathy].", "content": "[Changes in blood coagulation in diabetic nephropathy]. Investigations on certain hemocoagulation indices are carried out of 52 diabetics, 32 of them with diabetic nephropathy. The following indices were determined: thrombocyte numer, thrombocyte adhesion and aggregation, recalcification and heparinrecalcification time, partial thromboplastin time (PTT) and prothrombin time, coagulation retraction and thrombelastography. Data for increased blood coagulation are established in diabetics and especially in the presence of nephropathy. Most manifested are the changes in thrombocyte adhesion, in PTT, recalcification and heparin-recalcification time. Changes in thrombelastogram and the rest of the indices are less manifested. In patients with more advanced forms of nephropathy--the increased hemocoagulation is more pronounced. The changes described are considered non diabetes specific and are associated with the accompanying atherosclerosis. Those changes might indicate inclusion of anticoagulants and antiaggregating medicines in the therapeutic program of patients with diabetic nephropathy with the respective indications."}
{"id": "1224353", "title": "[Relation between disorders of lipid metabolism and the process of blood coagulation in myocardial infarct according to thrombelastographic data].", "content": "[Relation between disorders of lipid metabolism and the process of blood coagulation in myocardial infarct according to thrombelastographic data]."}
{"id": "1223354", "title": "[Physiopathological shifts in the blood coagulation system in embolism of major arteries of the limbs].", "content": "[Physiopathological shifts in the blood coagulation system in embolism of major arteries of the limbs]. An examination of 51 patients with embolism of the major arteries of the extremities demonstrated that embolism accompanied by an ascending or descending thrombosis was characterized by a more significant increase of blood coagulation, fibrinase and antiplasmin level, and an enhancement of erythrocytes aggregation, than embolism without protracted thrombosis. A correlation was observed between the nature of the pathologic process (presence of protracted thrombosis, increased erythrocytes aggregation) and the degree of ischaemia in the diseased extremity. At the same time, no correlation was found between the pathologic process and the duration of the disease history."}
{"id": "1222712", "title": "[Our experience with the Soviet \"Thromb-2\" thromboelastograph].", "content": "[Our experience with the Soviet \"Thromb-2\" thromboelastograph]. The soviet thrombelastograph \"Thromb-2\" is four-channel, recording the processes of coagulation of whole and citrate blood at 37 degrees C. It is used for macro- and micro tests as micro tests are performed with peripheral blood as well. The recording of the process is achieved immediately by means of a moving diagram paper for a two-sided or one-sided record, using writing apparatus with ink. The velocity of the diagram paper is such that it assures a great precission of the recording. The charaeter of the thrombelastogram itself is determined by an electrical signal, proportional to the elasticity of the formed blood coagulum. Maintenance of the thrombelastograph with paper and ink is easy, available and cheap."}
{"id": "1221601", "title": "[Thrombophilia index in marked coronary arteriosclerosis under conditions of functional test and complex treatment].", "content": "[Thrombophilia index in marked coronary arteriosclerosis under conditions of functional test and complex treatment]."}
{"id": "1217694", "title": "Studies on the effects of neuroleptanalgesics on certain parameters of coagulation and fibrinolysis.", "content": "Studies on the effects of neuroleptanalgesics on certain parameters of coagulation and fibrinolysis. The effects of droperidol and fentanyl on certain parameters of coagulation and fibrinolysis were studied. It was found that these drugs have no effect on the time of clot formation, fibrinogen level, platelet count and values of the thrombelastographic curve. The euglobulin lysis time was also not significantly changed following neuroleptanalgesia."}
{"id": "1217407", "title": "[The condition of the sympatho-adrenal system and blood coaglability in cerebral vascular crises].", "content": "[The condition of the sympatho-adrenal system and blood coaglability in cerebral vascular crises]. The author presents the results of a parallel study of the sympathetico-adrenal system state and blood coagulation in 140 patients with hypertensive disease, cerebral atherosclerosis and initial arterial hypotensive disease with cerebro-vascular crises. An increase of catecholamine excretion with the urine and of blood coagulation in the majority of the patients during the crisis was found. The activity of the sympathetico-adrenal system was higher due to the hormonal chain (the quantity of excreted adrenalin exceeded the noradrenalin quantity). The obtained data testified to a possible participation of the sympathetico-adrenal system in the appearance of hypercoagulational tendencies of the blood and to a development of cerebrovascular crisis."}
{"id": "1211572", "title": "[Certain indicators of blood coagulation in pregnant women with anemia].", "content": "[Certain indicators of blood coagulation in pregnant women with anemia]."}
{"id": "1210939", "title": "[Coagulation properties of the blood and effectiveness of heparin therapy in patients with the cerebral form of hypertension and atherosclerosis].", "content": "[Coagulation properties of the blood and effectiveness of heparin therapy in patients with the cerebral form of hypertension and atherosclerosis]. By means of clinical and instrumental diagnosis the authors displayed a high effectiveness in the preventive treatment of patients with atherosclerosis and hypertensive disease by heparin in the period of remission. At the same time following treatment some patients especially with hypertensive disease revealed a marked activation of the hypercoagulative blood properties which exceeded the intial level. The authors discuss the possible mechanisms of this reaction."}
{"id": "1208124", "title": "Effect of angiotensin II upon platelet adhesiveness and the thrombelastogram in patients with essential arterial hypertension.", "content": "Effect of angiotensin II upon platelet adhesiveness and the thrombelastogram in patients with essential arterial hypertension. Platelet adhesiveness increases significantly after angiotensin II administration, in pressor and subpressor doses, only in the hypertensive patients with urinary infection. The k index on the thrombelastogram decreases significantly following angiotensin II infusion in pressor doses both in the hypertensive patients with urinary infection and in those without urinary infection. At the same time, angiotensin II infusion in pressor and subpressor doses determines a significant increase of epsilon index in both hypertensive patients with urinary infection and in those without urinary infection. These results pose the problem of thrombocyte sensitization by the urinary infection to the vasopressor substance. The increased tendency to thrombosis by angiotensin, in hypertensive patients with urinary infection, could constitute a mechanism of malignant transformation of arterial hypertension."}
{"id": "1206970", "title": "[The effect of acetylsalicylic-lysine on platelet function (author's transl)].", "content": "[The effect of acetylsalicylic-lysine on platelet function (author's transl)]. Fifteen minutes after the intravenous administration of two different doses of acetylsalicylic lysine, a pronounced inhibition of collagen-induced platelet aggregation was observed in healthy volunteers. A proportionate dose response to the differing doses could not be demonstrated. Platelet function investigated by the glass bead filter method according to Hellem decreased however significantly and dose-dependently after the injections. The clot formation in the thromboelastogram was not disturbed after the administration of the drug in spite of decreased platelet function."}
{"id": "1206944", "title": "[Recurring retinal haemorrhages with tortuosity of the retinal arteriols (author's transl)].", "content": "[Recurring retinal haemorrhages with tortuosity of the retinal arteriols (author's transl)]. Four young and healthy adults with tortuosity of the retinal arterioles of the posterior pole and recurring superficial retinal haemorrhages are described. Two of them had a suspected mild thrombocytopathy without clinical manifestations in other organs. Inheritance of the syndrome was not demonstrated and the pathogenic mechanism still remains obscure. All the described patients had been at risk of a retinopathy of praematurity. Knowing that familial retinal haemorrhages without retinal tortuosity do occur and retinal tortusity may persist as a minimal change of retinopathy of praematurity, it is suggested that this syndrome might be a combination of two entities."}
{"id": "1205824", "title": "Proceedings: Thromboelastographic studies on sternal and venous blood.", "content": "Proceedings: Thromboelastographic studies on sternal and venous blood."}
{"id": "1202173", "title": "Hypercoagulability in childhood cancer.", "content": "Hypercoagulability in childhood cancer. Thirty-two children with solid tumors (lymphangioma, fibrosarcoma, hepatocarcinoma, osteogenic sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, lymphosarcoma, mesenchymoma, hepatoma, Ewing's sarcoma, reticulum cell sarcoma, neuroblastoma, Hodgkin's disease, and brain tumors) were studied for alterations in coagulation by means of platelet counts, platelet aggregation, thrombelastogram, procoagulant and antigenic factor VIII, fibrin split products, and antithrombin III level. Results indicated hypercoagulability as shown by abnormally short thrombelastograms and elevated factor VIII levels and platelet counts in approximately one-half of the group. With the exception of increased fibrin split products in a third of the patients, little laboratory or clinical evidence for disseminated intravascular coagulation was seen. Hypercoagulability, as noted in adult carcinoma patients, can also occur in childhood sarcoma patients."}
{"id": "1200737", "title": "[Effect of blue and red light on the synthesis of ribosomal RNA in Chlorella].", "content": "[Effect of blue and red light on the synthesis of ribosomal RNA in Chlorella]. In autotrophic cultures of Chlorella pyrenoidosa (strain 211-8b) incorporation of tritiated guanosine and uridine into ribosomal RNA is stimulated by light. Blue light of wavelengths around 457 nm is considerably more effective than red light around 679 nm (5-10(-10) Einstein cm-2 sec-1 for both). This effect can be demonstrated for young daughter cells (at the end of the dark period) and for older cells (at the end of the light period). It is shown to depend on a regulation of rRNA-synthesis. The blue light dependent enhancement of incorporation is more pronounced in the cytoplasmic rRNA (25 and 18 s) than in the chloroplast rRNA (23 and 16 s). Blue light of low intensity (1-10(-10) Einstein cm-2 sec-1) has nearly the same effectivity as the fivefold intensity, whereas red light of equal quantum fluxes enhances incorporation only slightly compared with the dark control. The blue light dependent enhancement of rRNA-synthesis continues in the following darkness in contrary to that caused by red light. This enhancement is also found in DCMU-poisened cultures. In contrast to this, is red light in presence of DCMU, incorporation into rRNA is nearly the same as in dark. It is concluded that the regulation of rRNA-synthesis in red light is closely connected to complete photosynthesis, while in blue light an additional regulation takes place independent of photosynthesis."}
{"id": "1198682", "title": "Viable lymphocytes in frozen washed blood.", "content": "Viable lymphocytes in frozen washed blood. Samples of glycerolized, frozen, packed cells, were washed by each of three systems and then were cultrued for viable lymphocytes using the short-term culture method. Of the 39 samples, 17 (43.6%) showed definite evidence of growth of lymphocytes. Of the 17, 11(64.7%) were washed by Elutramatic, two (11.8%) by Haemonetics, and four (23.5%) by IBM. The 4 C prefreeze (two to five days) as well as the -80 C (21 To 40 days) storage times were the same for both positive and negative specimens. In all samples, clumps of distorted granulocytes with pyknotic nuclei were seen in addition to a number of well-preserved mononucleated white cells. In the 17 specimens which showed growth, incorporation of 3H-thymidine was seen only in the PHA-induced blast cells; typical mitotic figures were seen in some cultures. These observations demonstrate that lymphocytes remain viable in frozen blood stored at -80 C up to 40 days. The significant difference in removal of viable lymphocytes noted in specimens washed by different instruments requires further evaluation."}
{"id": "1198546", "title": "Studies of fibrinolytic and coagulation factors during open heart surgery. II. Postoperative bleeding tendency and changes in the coagulation system.", "content": "Studies of fibrinolytic and coagulation factors during open heart surgery. II. Postoperative bleeding tendency and changes in the coagulation system."}
{"id": "1198434", "title": "Proceedings: Fibrin-blood platelet interaction in a contracting clot.", "content": "Proceedings: Fibrin-blood platelet interaction in a contracting clot."}
{"id": "1191556", "title": "Changes in blood catecholamine levels and blood coagulation and fibrinolytic activity in response to graded exercise in man.", "content": "Changes in blood catecholamine levels and blood coagulation and fibrinolytic activity in response to graded exercise in man. Measurements of catecholamines, fibrinogen, factor VIII, thrombelastography, euglobulin lysis time and platelet adhesiveness have been carried out on venous blood obtained from normal males exposed to exercise on a bicycle ergometer at various work loads. Significant increases in adrenaline, factor VIII and fibrinogen were found only after exercise to exhaustion at 1500 kpm min-1 whereas the euglobulin lysis time was inversely proportional to the excercise load. There was no change in platelet adhesiveness. These findings support the results of studies using adrenaline infusions or adrenergic blockade which suggest that stress-induced increases in factor VIII are mediated via adrenergic stimulation but that activation of fibrinolysis is not dependent on adrenaline."}
{"id": "1188710", "title": "The influence of beta-adrenergic blockade upon baseline blood coagulation and fibrinolytic activity and upon the responses to venous occlusion.", "content": "The influence of beta-adrenergic blockade upon baseline blood coagulation and fibrinolytic activity and upon the responses to venous occlusion. Twenty volunteers were assessed for baseline coagulation (Thrombelastography, Factor VIII and platelet count) and fibrinolytic (Euglobulin Lysis Time and Fibrin(ogen) Degradation Products) activity two hours after ingestion of 60 mgm propranolol or an identical placebo administered on a double blind basis. The responses of these parameters to a fifteen minute period of venous occlusion was also assessed. Beta adrenergic blockade reduced baseline FDP titres but did not affect other parameters, nor the local response to venous occlusion. During occlusion no significant change in coagulation activity could be detected in the non-occluded arm, but a small but statistically significant shortening of ELT was observed. Since this effect was prevented by propranolol it is probably mediated through adrenergic mechanisms. Adrenergic stimuli appear to influence episodes of coagulation and fibrinolysis during everyday activity, but do not contribute to baseline levels of coagulation or fibrinolytic function."}
{"id": "1188450", "title": "[Thrombelastography in diagnosis of thrombophlebitis in pregnant women].", "content": "[Thrombelastography in diagnosis of thrombophlebitis in pregnant women]."}
{"id": "1186463", "title": "[Immunologic typing of a circulation anticoagulant factor].", "content": "[Immunologic typing of a circulation anticoagulant factor]."}
{"id": "1179944", "title": "Hemostatic abnormalities in chronic aggressive hepatitis and liver cirrhosis.", "content": "Hemostatic abnormalities in chronic aggressive hepatitis and liver cirrhosis. Hemostatic defects of chronic aggressive hepatitis (CAH), 25 cases, and of liver cirrhosis, 20 cases, were investigated. The following assays were performed: liver function tests, thromboelastogram, prothrombin time (PT), partial thromboplastin time (PTT), factors I, II, V, X, XIII, euglobulin lysis time, fibrinogen degradation products (FDP), platelet count, morphology and agglutinability. High incidence of hemostatic defects was present in both groups. Thromboelastogram, PTT, prothrombin and qualitative platelet abnormalities were most common. On the whole, severity of hemostatic alterations in cirrhosis was more pronounced than that found in CAH, FDPs were increased in more than 50% of the CAH cases and only in a few cirrhotic patients. Bleeding occurred more frequently in cirrhosis (55%) than in CAH (4%) and, within the cirrhotic patients' group, it was associated with a more severe thrombocytopenia."}
{"id": "1172471", "title": "Effects of a new antiovulatory steroid on gonadotropins, prolactin and blood coagulation.", "content": "Effects of a new antiovulatory steroid on gonadotropins, prolactin and blood coagulation. Effects of a new antiovulatory steroid (Ro 6-5403) on gonadotropins, prolactin, and blood coagulation were studied in 8 normally menstruating women who had previously undergone tubal ligation. Blood was obtained at 1-5 day intervals during 3 cycles: 1 cycle before treatment, 1 cycle during treatment of 2 mg Ro 6-5403 orally twice daily from cycle Day 5 through 24 and 1 cycle following treatment. Low plasma levels of progesterone and ihibition of release of luteinizing hormone and follicle stimulating hormone indicated suppression of ovulation during treatment. Prolactin levels were significantly elevated (p less than .001) during treatment. Fibrinogen concentration was significantly elevated (p less than .01) and the mean number of platelets was increased. Thromboelastography showed significantly reduced values for k-time (p less than .05) and significantly increased values for maximal amplitude (p less than .05). Thrombin time was decreased and partial thromboplastin time was significantly decreased (p less than .01) during treatment. All parameters returned to pretreatment values except thrombin time where the decrease continued to a significant difference (p less than .01). The side effects subsided after the initial day of treatment. Liver and kidney parameters remained within the physiological range. \"Hypercoagulability\" and elevated prolactin levels were interpreted as related to the estrogenlike activity of Ro 6-5403."}
{"id": "1171400", "title": "Local alterations of hemostatic-fibrinolytic mechanisms in reforming subdural hematomas.", "content": "Local alterations of hemostatic-fibrinolytic mechanisms in reforming subdural hematomas. Multiple chemical and coagulation determinations were undertaken on the subdural hematoma fluid from the reformed effusions of two patients. It was found that plasma or blood repeatedly reentered the subdural cavity. Coagulation studies compared the in vitro effects of subdural fluid with those of cerebrospinal fluid, serum, and a buffer control. Despite some chemical differences, the subdural fluids from both patients behaved similarly by (1) accelerating the intrinsic clotting system, (2) producing defective clot formation, and (3) accelerating the fibrinolytic system. It is presumed that these continuous hemostatic-fibrinolytic alterations, acting in the subdural sac, may have important implications in the growth and reformation of subdural hematomas, and a hypothesis of the mechanisms involved is presented."}
{"id": "1170359", "title": "[Hyperfunction of blood platelets and suppressive agents].", "content": "[Hyperfunction of blood platelets and suppressive agents]."}
{"id": "1165884", "title": "Oral contraceptives, ABO blood groups, and in vitro fibrin formation.", "content": "Oral contraceptives, ABO blood groups, and in vitro fibrin formation. The relation between oral contraceptive (OC) use, ABO blood groups, and in vitro fibrin formation, as measured by thromboelastography, was investigated in 4315 women. The thromboelastogram (TEG) measures the speed of fibrin formation (R, K) and clot firmness (Ma). More rapid fibrin formation and increased clot firmness were associated with current OC use, but not to the extent seen in pathologic states. This relation was not related to dose, estrogen-progestin type, or duration of exposure. Past and \"never\" OC users had similar TEG values, suggesting reversibility, and noncontraceptive estrogens had a minimal effect on the TEG. ABO blood groups were found to have only a slight association with TEG values. Subjects with blood group O showed a somewhat prolonged speed of fibrin formation as compared to all other subjects. A decreased clot firmness was found in AB subjects, but this did not persist among OC users."}
{"id": "1163557", "title": "Red cell freezing by the American National Red Cross.", "content": "Red cell freezing by the American National Red Cross. Red cells, frozen in the presence of glycerol, can be stored for years at -80C with excellent post-thaw recovery and in vivo survival. In addition to the benefits of long-term storage, the extensive washing associated with deglycerolizing removes essentially all platelets, plasma, microaggregates of cells and cell debris and there is some evidence of a reduction in the incidence of post-transfusion hepatitis. The majority of the white cells are lost during the processing. Three deglycerolizing methods, based on the Haemonetics Cell Washer, the IBM Cell Processor and the Fenwal Elutramatic, have been evaluated and data on comparative performance and costs are provided. The experience of the Red Cross Blood Program in processing over 90,000 units of frozen red cells is summarized."}
{"id": "1154988", "title": "[Availability of the 3rd platelet factor in healthy children].", "content": "[Availability of the 3rd platelet factor in healthy children]. In 34 healthy children at school-age the availability of the 3rd platelet factor was determined using plasma of mean concentrations of 100 000 and 342 000 platelets/mm3. The concentration of 100 000 platelets/mm3 gives very approximate results to those obtained with the higher concentration. Both curves of availability of this factor showed many features in common. The highest activity of the factor was observed from 0 to 10--15 min. of the incubation and after this peak it decreased gradually. The authors present and discuss the types of curves indicating physiological values."}
{"id": "1152408", "title": "[Effect of flight factors on changes in blood coagulation and anticoagulation indices in crew members].", "content": "[Effect of flight factors on changes in blood coagulation and anticoagulation indices in crew members]. A total of 105 flight qualified crewmembers, aged 20 to 40, were taken under observation. Coagulographic and thromboelastographic parameters of the venous blood were studied. The most significant changes (an increase in the coagulation time as related to the time of plasma recalcification, a decrease of the plasma tolerance to heparin, R, K, R plus K, a decrease in the coagulation index Si with respect to the thromboelastogram, a significant increase in the fibrinolytic activity and the heparin number) were noted postflight in commanders, pilots and navigators. Less significant variations of the coagulographic parameters were observed in other crewmembers. The above changes (an increase in endogenous heparin, an acceleration of the fibrinolytic activity) can be regarded as the protective-adaptive reaction of the anticoagulatory system aimed at reducing hypercoagulation during the emotional stress-effect of the flight."}
{"id": "1151154", "title": "Altered in vitro functions of platelets prepared by the Haemonetics blood processor.", "content": "Altered in vitro functions of platelets prepared by the Haemonetics blood processor. The function and ultrastructure of platelets collected by the Haemonetics blood processor were investigated. Aggregability, release ability, and morphology of these platelets were compared with platelets of the same donors before plateletpheresis was instiuted. Data of a group of 15 normal donors were pooled and analyzed. Our results showed that Haemonetics-isolated platelets had the following altered in vitro functions. Adenosine diphosphate-induced aggregation was markedly reduce, and epinephrine-induced aggregation was often absent. Collagen-induced aggregation was characterized by prolongation of the aggregation time and, sometimes, also by reduction of aggregation. Increase of adenosine diphosphate or collagen concentration resulted in improvement of aggregation of Haemonetics-collected platelets; increase of epinephrine concentration had no effect. Exogenous CaCL2, pre-Haemonetics platelet-rich or platelet-poor plasma failed to correct the abnormal aggregation of post-Haemonetics platelets. Release of labeled serotonin induced by spinephrine and collagen was reduced. However, the ultrastructure of post-Haemonetics platelets was normal."}
{"id": "1146795", "title": "Cardiovascular lesions in pancreatitis.", "content": "Cardiovascular lesions in pancreatitis. Data have been presented correlating changes of blood coagulability, capillary permeability, blood electrolyte content with electrocardiographic abnormalities and symptoms of coronary insufficiency. In acute pancreatitis and in acute exacerbation of chronic pancreatitis, accentuation of these vascular factors may induce symptoms of coronary disease. Data are also presented indicating abnormal blood coagulability and blood electrolyte content in patients with chronic pancreatitis. Minimal augmentation of these abnormalities may account for the \"yoke\" syndrome."}
{"id": "1143230", "title": "[Thrombelastography in thrombopenic syndromes in children].", "content": "[Thrombelastography in thrombopenic syndromes in children]."}
{"id": "1142637", "title": "[Survival and state of patients during the 1st year after myocardial infarct (according to data of epidemiological study - myocardial infarct register)].", "content": "[Survival and state of patients during the 1st year after myocardial infarct (according to data of epidemiological study - myocardial infarct register)]. The results of observations conducted in accordance with the programme of myocardial infarction register are presented for 143 patients aged under 65 years, surviving beyond 28 days after the onset of the lesion. In 13.2% of those surviving an acute myocardial infarction a recurrence was found to develop within the first postinfarction year, among them in 11.5% of the cases with a fatal result. Over half (51-54%) of those surviving the infarction retain angina of effort, 16.3-23% have cardiac insufficiency. An examination conducted 3 months following the infarction revealed lipid (57.1%) and carbohydrate (54.3%) metabolism disorders in many patients, as well as disturbances in the blood coagulation and anticoagulation systems. Patients surviving myocardial infarction require differentiated and lasting secondary preventive measures."}
{"id": "1138236", "title": "[Disorders of the dynamic structure of a clot in polycythemia vera].", "content": "[Disorders of the dynamic structure of a clot in polycythemia vera]."}
{"id": "1132786", "title": "[Principles for correcting hyperheparinemic hemorrhages].", "content": "[Principles for correcting hyperheparinemic hemorrhages]."}
{"id": "1129830", "title": "Simplification of the methods for adding and removing glycerol during freeze-preservation of human red blood cells with the high or low glycerol methods: biochemical modification prior to freezing.", "content": "Simplification of the methods for adding and removing glycerol during freeze-preservation of human red blood cells with the high or low glycerol methods: biochemical modification prior to freezing. Simple methods have been developed for adding and removing glycerol during freeze-preservation with 20 per cent W/V glycerol at minus 150 C, or with 40 per cent W/V glycerol at minus 80 C. A one-step method with a 35 per cent W/V glycerol solution is used to prepare 20 per cent W/V glycerolized red blood cells, and a two-step method with a 57 per cent W/V glycerol solution is used to prepare 40 per cent W/V glycerolized red blood cells. The systems for washing glycerolized red blood cells have been simplified. This method consists of dilution of the thawed glycerolized red blood cells prior to recovery, followed by on-line dilution of these red blood cells with wash solutions during continuous flow centrifugation. This can be done in any of three commercially available washing systems, and they all use the same sodium chloride solutions. For the 40 per cent W/V glycerolized red blood cells, this process takes about 30 minutes and uses 2.2 to 3.2 liters of the sodium chloride solutions, whereas the 20 per cent W/V glycerolized red blood cells can be processed in about 20 minutes using 1.5 to 2.5 liters. After storage in CPD for three days at 4 C, red blood cells can be freeze-preserved with 40 per cent W/V glycerol at minus 80 C or with 20 per cent W/V glycerol at minus 150 C. When the thawed red blood cells are washed in the Fenwal Elutramatic, the IBM Blood Processor, or the Haemonetics Blood Processor and stored at 4 C in sodium chloride-glucose-phosphate for at least 24 hours before transfusion, they have excellent posttransfusion survival values and normal or slightly decreased oxygen transport function. Alternatively, these red blood cells can be rejuvenated before freeze-preservation so that their 2,3-DPG levels are increased and their affinity for oxygen is reduced. Red blood cells that are stored in CPD at 4 C for as long as 28 days can be rejuvenated with a solution containing pyruvate, inosine, glucose, phosphate, and adenine (PIGPA, Solution A) before freeze-preservation with 40 per cent W/V glycerol at minus 80 C. Any one of the above systems can be used to wash these red blood cells and they can be stored at 4 C in a sodium."}
{"id": "1125399", "title": "[Surface electrical properties of the formed elements of the blood and blood coagulation properties].", "content": "[Surface electrical properties of the formed elements of the blood and blood coagulation properties]. Isoosomotic solutions of lithium, potassium and rubidium chlorides promoted hemocoagulation, and sodium chloride failed to influence the processes of blood coagulation. There proved to be no direct relationship between the changes in the processes of blood coagulation and the surface electrical charge of erythrocytes and platelets. Hemocoagulation changes were apparently associated with the whole complex of surface phenomena occuring on the border of division of phases (blood cells membrane-blood plasma), and also with specific influence of the ions under study on the functional properties of erythrocytes and platelets."}
{"id": "1124296", "title": "[Changes of hemostasis in liver diseases. I. Value of biological tests in the diagnosis of those diseases].", "content": "[Changes of hemostasis in liver diseases. I. Value of biological tests in the diagnosis of those diseases]."}
{"id": "1122803", "title": "[Thrombotic occlusion of an arteriovenous Cimino shunt in acute pancreatitis (author's transl)].", "content": "[Thrombotic occlusion of an arteriovenous Cimino shunt in acute pancreatitis (author's transl)]. An arteriovenous (Cimino) shunt in both right and left forearms clotted during an episode of acute pancreatitis in two patients on chronic haemodialysis. Systemic hypercoagulability (circulating fibrin monomers, shortening of r and k time in the thrombelastogram and shortening of the PTT-time) occurred in association with inhibition of fibrinolysis (prolongation of euglobulin lysis time). Localized thrombosis at the shunt is thought to be due to superimpostition of systemic hyper-coagulability on a local increase in platelet adhesiveness."}
{"id": "1122339", "title": "[Hemostasis disorder in acute leukemia].", "content": "[Hemostasis disorder in acute leukemia]."}
{"id": "1120283", "title": "[Changes in blood clotting in the course of regular labour determined by thrombelastography (author's transl)].", "content": "[Changes in blood clotting in the course of regular labour determined by thrombelastography (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "1116466", "title": "[Influence of cytostatic combination therapy with vincristine sulphate and iphosphamide on blood coagulation].", "content": "[Influence of cytostatic combination therapy with vincristine sulphate and iphosphamide on blood coagulation]. Disorders of blood coagulation were investigated before and during a cytostatic combination therapy with vincristine sulphate and iphosphamide (Asta Z 4942) in 12 patients with malignant tumours or haemoblastoses. Thromboplastin time, partial thromboplastin time, thrombin time, heat-dependent fibrin, clot retraction, and clotting factors II, V, VIII, IX, X, and the platelet count were determined. A change in the plasmatic coagulation system attributable to the combination therapy could not be demonstrated in any patient. The influence of the cytostatic combination on the platelet-dependent haemostasis was small; a decrease in platelet count could be observed in only one patient, in whom an additional causative damage to thrombopoiesis due to the underlying disease could be assumed. Regardless of the cytostatic therapy there were indications of a hypercoagulability in 10 patients. This explains the increased susceptibility of such patients for thromboses or consumption coagulopathy."}
{"id": "1115115", "title": "Cord blood coagulation studies in infants of high-risk pregnant women.", "content": "Cord blood coagulation studies in infants of high-risk pregnant women. A prospective study of cord blood for coagulability, evidence for disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC), and hematocrit was done in 106 infants who were offspring of mothers with high-risk pregnancies (pre-eclampsia, diabets mellitus, third-trimester bleeders, severe erythroblastosis fetalis, maternal hypertension, fetal distress, and spontaneous premature labor). Significant changes of hypercoagulability (low AT-III and abnormal TEG) were seen in the third-trimester bleeder and premature labor groups which also had the highest incidence of IRDS and necrotizing. Infants undergoing \"stress\" (pre-eclampsia, fetal distress) had elevated levels of factors V and VIII but were not hypercoagulable or AT-III deficient. Except for mild thrombocytopenia, infants of the diabetic mothers, a group with increased thrombotic complications, did not show any cord blood abnormalities. Offspring of third-trimester bleeders were anemic. The EBF infants were also anemic, severely hypercoagulable, and showed coagulation changes compatible with severe liver disease and/or DIC. Mild changes compatible with intravascular coagulation were seen in six infants and were not related to the the development of IRDS."}
{"id": "1114441", "title": "[Blood coagulation in patients with acute alcoholic intoxication according to thrombelastography].", "content": "[Blood coagulation in patients with acute alcoholic intoxication according to thrombelastography]."}
{"id": "1113909", "title": "[Hemostatic changes in the course of different chronic hepatopathies].", "content": "[Hemostatic changes in the course of different chronic hepatopathies]. The following tests were performed in 15 cases of chronic aggressive hepatitis (CAH), 12 of cirrhosis, and 8 of other forms of chronic disease: liver function, thromboelastogram, prothrombin time (PT), partial thromboplastin time (PTT), determination of factors I, II, V, X and XIII, euglobulin and FDP lysis, and platelet count, shape and agglutinability. At least one haemostasis alteration was observed in nearly every case, the most common being in the thromboelastogram, PTT, prothrombin, and platelet shape and agglutinability. Defects were most marked in cirrhosis and comparison with CAH was significant in the case of PT and factor V. Fibrinolysis was increased in 60% of the CAH group and rarely elsewhere. Haemorrhage was noted in 7 cases of cirrhosis and 1 of CAH. On each occasion, it was more dependent on the serious nature of the disease, rather than defective haemostasis."}
{"id": "1111655", "title": "[Blood coagulation in man during a 3-week daily rg L(+)-ASCORBIC ACID ADMINISTRATION].", "content": "[Blood coagulation in man during a 3-week daily rg L(+)-ASCORBIC ACID ADMINISTRATION]. A daily dose of 4 g L (+) ascorbic acid administered for 3 weeks showed no significant influence on coagulation of venous blood, as determined by thromboelastography. The investigation was carried out on 11 healthy men aged from 25 to 45 with no history of abnormal blood clotting. The mean values of 7 different coagulation parameters are given, the differences in these parameters in individual subjects (before and after administration of ascorbic acid) being checked for significance by means of the Wilcoxon test for pair differences. The values found are comparable with those in the literature."}
{"id": "1104822", "title": "Thromboelastographic studies with low-dose heparin.", "content": "Thromboelastographic studies with low-dose heparin."}
{"id": "1091430", "title": "[Coagulation tests in von Willebrand's disease(author's transl)].", "content": "[Coagulation tests in von Willebrand's disease(author's transl)]. The diagnosis of von Willebrand's disease can be made by a selected series of easily performed clotting tests. A STudy of 36 patients with the disease (all but one with a mild form) revealed a significantly increased reaction time in the thrombelastogram from 210 plus or minus 33 percent to 270 plus or minus 69 percent (P less than 0.001), and of the partial thromboplastin time from 43 plus or minus 3s to 54 plus or minus 9s (P less than 0.001 than 0.001). Factor VIII activity was corresponding significantly reduced from normal (127 plus or minus 51 percent) to 51 plus or minus 12 percent (P less than 0.001). Other plasma factors and platelet counts were within normal limits. A platelet defect was indicated by an abnormal change in the speed of clot formation (k-time) from 162 plus or minus 39 percent to 341 plus or minus 121 percent (P less than 0.001), maximal thrombelasticity from 121 plus or minus 16 percent to 75 plus or minus 22 percent (P less than 0.001), and marked reduction in platelet-factor 3 liberation from 122 plus or minus 59 percent to 23 plus or minus 16 percent (P less than 0.001). An increase in bleeding time, from 162 plus or minus 41s to 204 plus or minus 128s (P less than 0.05), was not always present. Recently introduced immunological methods for determining factor VIII and factor VIII-associated protein, as well as special platelet-function tests, give further information on the pathogenesis of the bleeding disease, but their complexity restricts them to special laboratories."}
{"id": "1080970", "title": "Fibrinolysis activation after operation of spermatic cord.", "content": "Fibrinolysis activation after operation of spermatic cord. The authors report a case of fibrinolytic haemorrhagic diathesis after operation of vas deferens carried out under epidural analgesia. Attention is called to the diagnostic difficulties in the rare complication of these operations. Treatment of fibrinolytic haemorrhagic diathesis is discussed stressing the advantages of trasylol, which is a drug of choice in emergency states associated with bleeding from the surface of the wound when difficulties arise in carrying out full blood clotting tests."}
{"id": "1080460", "title": "[Measurement of electric impedance as a screening method for diagnosing haemorrhagic diatheses (author's transl)].", "content": "[Measurement of electric impedance as a screening method for diagnosing haemorrhagic diatheses (author's transl)]. Changes in electrical impedance during blood clotting have been previously described. Personal measurements on blood of 18 healthy donors and 29 patients with various disorders of clotting gave reproducible results with this method. There was a marked difference between normal subjects and those with bleeding diatheses regardless of type. There was good correlation between impedance changes and the thrombelastogram, the former being more sensitive in diagnosing haemorrhagic disorders. Further studies are required to evaluate its place as a screening method in these conditions."}
{"id": "811926", "title": "[The technique of quantitative determination of streptokinase in the patient's plasma (author's transl)].", "content": "[The technique of quantitative determination of streptokinase in the patient's plasma (author's transl)]. A method of a quantitative determination of plasma streptokinase concentrations in patients undergoing streptokinase infusion is described. The principle of this method is based on the clot lysis time recorded by the thromboelastograph. The test clot constituents were bovine fibrin, bovine plasminogen, human euglobulin, EDTA, human plasma (of unknown streptokinase quantity) and thrombin. As rather high concentrations (fixed excess) of plasminogen (euglobulin) and fibrinogen were present in the test coagulum, no interference with changing plasminogen and fibrinogen levels of the patient's plasma was observed. Furthermore, due to high EDTA concentrations, no interaction with platelet functions and coagulation factors took place. The standard deviation in measuring 2 u streptokinase in 1 ml human plasma was determined as s = +/- 0.19 u/ml, of 5 u streptokinase at s = +/- 0.47 u/ml and of 20 u streptokinase at s = +/- 2.5 u in 1 ml of human plasma. Plasma samples of patients undergoing fibrinolytic treatment were investigated with regard to their streptokinase content. Streptokinase concentration values varied between 0.7 u and 15 u/ml plasma. The average half life of streptokinase in the organism was 18 min. The decay of streptokinase in plasma at different temperatures and over various periods of time was also determined. A considerable loss of streptokinase in the plasma during storage at room temperature could be observed. Therefore, the determination procedures should be carried out without delay."}
{"id": "806790", "title": "[The therapeutic value of \"Essential\" phospholipids].", "content": "[The therapeutic value of \"Essential\" phospholipids]. 43 male and 30 female patients with various types of hyperlipemia were treated with Lipostabil, Lipostabil forte and 2 placebo preparations, each treatment lasting one month. The effect on the serum lipid level, lipoprotein electrophoresis, coagulation, coronary and peripheral vascular diseases, blood pressure and glucose tolerance was examined. Lipostabil caused a significant decrease of the serum triglyceride level in Type IV. To us, the use of \"Essential\" phospholipids alone does not appear to be sufficient for the drug therapy of hyperlipemia, but it might play a supporting role in the treatment."}
{"id": "804794", "title": "Classical factor X deficiency. Report of a further case.", "content": "Classical factor X deficiency. Report of a further case. A case of classical factor X deficiency is reported. The propositus is a 28-year-old male who presented easy bruising, epistaxis, hematomas, hematuria and occasional hemartrosis since early childhood. The severely prolonged prothrombin time was corrected by normal serum but not by adsorbed normal plasma. The abnormality was not corrected by the plasma of a patient with factor X deficiency, but by the plasma of patients with factor II or VII deficiencies. Partial thromboplastin time, prothrombin consumption and the thromboplastin generation test were abnormal. The thromboelastogram showed a prolonged 'K' and 'r' together with a normal 'ma'. Factor X was very low (smaller than 1%). Platelet tests were normal. No factor X band or precipitates were seen on electroimmunoassay and on the cross-over electrophoresis. The non-consanguineous parents and several other members of the family were found to be heterozygotes."}
{"id": "804632", "title": "[Defibrination syndrome in gastric tumors (author's transl)].", "content": "[Defibrination syndrome in gastric tumors (author's transl)]. The two cases reported here were clinically misleading because of the negative history. A 49-year-old woman was treated for thrombosis migrans of the vena cava and a consumption coagulopathy; a 15-year-old boy for gastro-intestinal hemorrhages and hematemesis with fibrinolysis syndrome. Since the coagulation disturbances did not subside in spite of the treatment, an exploratory laparotomy was performed which revealed a solid carcinoma of the stomach in both cases. The hemorrhagic tendency can be traced back to the coagulation accelerator factors which escape from the tumor and metastases into the blood."}
{"id": "168774", "title": "Conjugated estrogens and hypercoagulability.", "content": "Conjugated estrogens and hypercoagulability. A group of 11 menopausal women receiving 1.25 mg. of conjugated estrogens daily had coagulation tests to determine the development of hypercoagulability after taking 5 and 21 tablets. There was no essential change in thrombin generation or fibrinolytic activity as measured by euglobin lysis time. There was a shift toward hypercoagulability in all three parameters of the thrombelastograms. The decrease of the antithrombin III activity was not as pronounced following the administration of conjugated estrogens as had been the change associated with oral contraceptives. Fibrin monomers were observed in some women during the first week of Premarin therapy."}
{"id": "165737", "title": "Intraoperative physiologic monitoring and management during hepatic lobectomy using the liver isolation-perfusion technic.", "content": "Intraoperative physiologic monitoring and management during hepatic lobectomy using the liver isolation-perfusion technic. The high operative mortality of major hepatic resection for tumor can be improved by a technic of resection using complete vascular isolation and hypothermic perfusion of the liver. Complete clamping of the portal vein, vena cava, and hepatic artery was necessary and well tolerated. Major physiologic, biochemical, and coagulation changes, however, can occur with this technic that requires close monitoring by the anesthesiologist. With astute observation and prompt corrective measures when indicated, these changes can be minimized to enable a safe and smooth resection to be carried out."}
{"id": "136626", "title": "Acidic glycosaminoglycans in three layers of human aorta: their different constitution and anticoagulant function.", "content": "Acidic glycosaminoglycans in three layers of human aorta: their different constitution and anticoagulant function. 1) Constitutional difference of the acidic glycosaminoglycans (AGAG) in the three layers, the intima, media and adventitia, of normal human aorta was investigated by electrophoretic characterization and enzymatic analyses with other chemical determinations. The anticoagulant activity of the AGAG in the three layers of human aorta was compared by thrombelastography. 2) The analytical data indicated that the AGAG in the three layers out consisted of chondroitin 4-sulfate, chondroitin 6-sulfate, dermatan sulfate, heparan sulfates and hyaluronic acid. It was found that the proportion of dermatan sulfate and heparan sulfates was increased in order from the intima to the adventitia. 3) The predominant anticoagulant actihan in the inner layers referred to the concentration of glucuronic acid on thrombelastogram. The phenomenon was evidenced to be related with the constitutional difference of the AGAG in the three layers."}
{"id": "57295", "title": "[Thrombelastograph in healthy persons of both sexes of 40-49 and 50-59 years of age].", "content": "[Thrombelastograph in healthy persons of both sexes of 40-49 and 50-59 years of age]."}
{"id": "57293", "title": "[Determination of the amount of fibrinogen in blood clots from the thrombelastograph cuvette].", "content": "[Determination of the amount of fibrinogen in blood clots from the thrombelastograph cuvette]."}
{"id": "56146", "title": "[The influence of hydroxyethyl starch on postoperative alterations of blood coagulation (author's transl)].", "content": "[The influence of hydroxyethyl starch on postoperative alterations of blood coagulation (author's transl)]. The influence of hydroxyethyl starch (HES) on postoperative hypercoagulaemia was examined in a double blind study. One group of 10 patients received 500 ml HES during surgery and on the following three days. A comparable group received the same amount of isotonic saline solution. In some respects, hypercoagulaemia was significantly diminished in the HES-group. The diminution could, however, be mainly explained by the diluting effect of the plasma expander."}
{"id": "54484", "title": "[Thromboelastographic method of determination of plasminogen proactivator, antiactivator, and antiplasmin activity].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic method of determination of plasminogen proactivator, antiactivator, and antiplasmin activity]."}
{"id": "53922", "title": "Use of hydroxyethyl starch to improve granulocyte collection in the Latham blood processor.", "content": "Use of hydroxyethyl starch to improve granulocyte collection in the Latham blood processor. This report describes a practical, relatively inexpensive system of leukapheresis and plateletpheresis, utilizing the Haemonetics blood processor. The results of 236 phereses of normal donors are reported, with particular attention to an evaluation of five different anticoagulant mixtures: ACD, 2 per cent citrate in saline, and three different combinations of citrate and hydroxyethyl starch (HES). These mixtures were compared with respect to their effectiveness in the harvesting of granylocytes and platelets, respectively. The best harvest of granulocytes (3.5 X 10(9) cells per liter of blood processed) was with 6 per cent HES anticoagulated with trisodium citrate. All solutions gave about the same platelet yields (a mean of 1.6 X 10(11) per liter of blood processed). Because of its higher citrate content, ACD caused three times as many donor reactions as the other solutions. The use of HES thus permits this widely available plateletpheresis system to be used for leukapheresis with only minimal procedural modification."}
{"id": "50984", "title": "[Conditions leading to the rise of hypocoagulability in thromboses].", "content": "[Conditions leading to the rise of hypocoagulability in thromboses]."}
{"id": "4849473", "title": "[Primary hyperlipemia: intra-platelet and serum NEFA. Their relation to hypercoagulability].", "content": "[Primary hyperlipemia: intra-platelet and serum NEFA. Their relation to hypercoagulability]."}
{"id": "4842771", "title": "[Study on the relationship between changes of blood lipids and the fibrinolytic picture in ambulatory patients with arteriosclerosis].", "content": "[Study on the relationship between changes of blood lipids and the fibrinolytic picture in ambulatory patients with arteriosclerosis]."}
{"id": "4839299", "title": "[Changes of blood coagulation system in acute pancreatitis].", "content": "[Changes of blood coagulation system in acute pancreatitis]."}
{"id": "4839134", "title": "[Blood coagulability in chronic leg ulcers against a background of varicose veins].", "content": "[Blood coagulability in chronic leg ulcers against a background of varicose veins]."}
{"id": "4838736", "title": "[Functional state of the coagulating and fibrinolytic systems of blood in patients with marked arteriosclerosis of the coronary arteries].", "content": "[Functional state of the coagulating and fibrinolytic systems of blood in patients with marked arteriosclerosis of the coronary arteries]."}
{"id": "4837120", "title": "[Action of d,1-N-isopropyl-adrenochrom-monosemicarbazon on thrombocytefunction (author's transl)].", "content": "[Action of d,1-N-isopropyl-adrenochrom-monosemicarbazon on thrombocytefunction (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "4836791", "title": "[Role of age-related changes in the pathogenesis of myocardial infarct].", "content": "[Role of age-related changes in the pathogenesis of myocardial infarct]."}
{"id": "4836538", "title": "Thromboelastographic studies in cerebral infarction.", "content": "Thromboelastographic studies in cerebral infarction."}
{"id": "4836072", "title": "[Prevention of severe haemophilia B with a factor IX concentrate (author's transl)].", "content": "[Prevention of severe haemophilia B with a factor IX concentrate (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "4832855", "title": "[Experimental-clinical evaluation of antithrombotic properties of polyglucin and rheopolyglucin in the treatment of acute venous thrombosis].", "content": "[Experimental-clinical evaluation of antithrombotic properties of polyglucin and rheopolyglucin in the treatment of acute venous thrombosis]."}
{"id": "4831874", "title": "[Diagnostic significance of graphic coagulography in obliterating arterial diseases of the extremities].", "content": "[Diagnostic significance of graphic coagulography in obliterating arterial diseases of the extremities]."}
{"id": "4831873", "title": "[Treatment of cerebral arteriosclerosis with heparin electrophoresis].", "content": "[Treatment of cerebral arteriosclerosis with heparin electrophoresis]."}
{"id": "4831872", "title": "[Functional state of the coagulation and fibrinolytic systems of blood in patients with coronary arteriosclerosis].", "content": "[Functional state of the coagulation and fibrinolytic systems of blood in patients with coronary arteriosclerosis]."}
{"id": "4831850", "title": "[Thromboelastography in acute pneumonia].", "content": "[Thromboelastography in acute pneumonia]."}
{"id": "4831844", "title": "[State of hemocoagulation in patients with chronic nonspecific pneumonia according to data of biochemical and thromboelastographic studies].", "content": "[State of hemocoagulation in patients with chronic nonspecific pneumonia according to data of biochemical and thromboelastographic studies]."}
{"id": "4829841", "title": "Heparin treatment in abruptio placentae.", "content": "Heparin treatment in abruptio placentae. Two cases of abruptio placentae with disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) were treated with heparin, and coagulation was monitored by thromboelastography as well as the usual hematology tests. The cases demonstrated the vagaries of DIC and both showed decreased overt hemorrhage after heparin treatment was started. Heparin may be indicated for the management of abruptio placentae where delivery is not imminent, where significant disseminated intravascular coagulation exists, and when adequate serial coagulation studies are available."}
{"id": "4825114", "title": "Heparin prophylaxis against fatal postoperative pulmonary embolism.", "content": "Heparin prophylaxis against fatal postoperative pulmonary embolism. Low-dose heparin prophylaxis against fatal pulmonary embolism has been studied in a random and prospective trial in 300 patients over the age of 50 who underwent major surgery. A dose of 5,000 IU mucous heparin sodium given two hours preoperatively and for five days post operatively prevented fatal pulmonary embolism in all 156 patients so treated, whereas out of 144 patients in the unheparinized group 6 (4.2%) died of pulmonary embolism. This difference is statistically significant. There was no increase in operative or post-operative bleeding or in the formation of wound haematomas in the heparinized group."}
{"id": "4825007", "title": "[Coronary thrombosis as the main pathogenetic factor in myocardial infarct in arteriosclerosis of the coronary arteries of the heart].", "content": "[Coronary thrombosis as the main pathogenetic factor in myocardial infarct in arteriosclerosis of the coronary arteries of the heart]."}
{"id": "4810903", "title": "Studies on hypo- and hypercoagulability. I. Evidence for the occurrence of \"incomplete\" consumption coagulopathy.", "content": "Studies on hypo- and hypercoagulability. I. Evidence for the occurrence of \"incomplete\" consumption coagulopathy."}
{"id": "4810902", "title": "Congenital combined factor V and factor VIII deficiency in a male born from a brother-sister incest.", "content": "Congenital combined factor V and factor VIII deficiency in a male born from a brother-sister incest."}
{"id": "4810901", "title": "[Thrombocyte function analysis in hyperlipoproteinemias].", "content": "[Thrombocyte function analysis in hyperlipoproteinemias]."}
{"id": "4618058", "title": "Studies of blood clotting system during intravenous general anaesthesia with althesin.", "content": "Studies of blood clotting system during intravenous general anaesthesia with althesin."}
{"id": "4611136", "title": "The effect of acetylsalicylic acid on platelet function in cyanotic congenital heart disease.", "content": "The effect of acetylsalicylic acid on platelet function in cyanotic congenital heart disease."}
{"id": "4606102", "title": "A comparison of intraoperative measurements of coagulation.", "content": "A comparison of intraoperative measurements of coagulation."}
{"id": "4603406", "title": "[Clinical study of a group of patients in menopause during prolonged sequential 3-phase estro-progestinic treatment].", "content": "[Clinical study of a group of patients in menopause during prolonged sequential 3-phase estro-progestinic treatment]."}
{"id": "4601840", "title": "[Therapeutic effect of pyridylcarbinolic ester of clofibric acid on the changes of the lipid and fibrinolytic picture in arteriosclerotic patients].", "content": "[Therapeutic effect of pyridylcarbinolic ester of clofibric acid on the changes of the lipid and fibrinolytic picture in arteriosclerotic patients]."}
{"id": "4593107", "title": "Proceedings: Hypercoagulability. Thrombelastographic monitoring during extensive hepatic surgery.", "content": "Proceedings: Hypercoagulability. Thrombelastographic monitoring during extensive hepatic surgery."}
{"id": "4527804", "title": "Factor XIII-activity and fibrin subunit structure in acute leukemia.", "content": "Factor XIII-activity and fibrin subunit structure in acute leukemia."}
{"id": "4478925", "title": "Thrombelastographic studies after splenectomy.", "content": "Thrombelastographic studies after splenectomy."}
{"id": "4473624", "title": "[Clinical significance of thrombelastography (author's transl)].", "content": "[Clinical significance of thrombelastography (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "4471939", "title": "[Thrombelastography in surgery of blood diseases and portal hypertension].", "content": "[Thrombelastography in surgery of blood diseases and portal hypertension]."}
{"id": "4468654", "title": "[Comparative evaluation of thrombelastographic and electroretractographic data in myocardial infarct].", "content": "[Comparative evaluation of thrombelastographic and electroretractographic data in myocardial infarct]."}
{"id": "4468231", "title": "Influence of simultaneous administration of low-dose heparin and acetylsalicylic acid on blood coagulation and platelet functions.", "content": "Influence of simultaneous administration of low-dose heparin and acetylsalicylic acid on blood coagulation and platelet functions."}
{"id": "4467463", "title": "[Diagnostic problems in the mild form of hemophilia A].", "content": "[Diagnostic problems in the mild form of hemophilia A]."}
{"id": "4466273", "title": "[Experience with the treatment of thrombotic lesions in the brain using thrombolytin].", "content": "[Experience with the treatment of thrombotic lesions in the brain using thrombolytin]."}
{"id": "4466108", "title": "[Prevention of postoperative thromboembolic complications].", "content": "[Prevention of postoperative thromboembolic complications]."}
{"id": "4466088", "title": "[Evaluation of the blood coagulation system in patients with diabetes mellitus].", "content": "[Evaluation of the blood coagulation system in patients with diabetes mellitus]."}
{"id": "4462001", "title": "[Thrombelastographic modifications following electric injuries].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic modifications following electric injuries]."}
{"id": "4461416", "title": "Correction of the haemostatic defect in haemophiliacs without apparent correction of the coagulation defect.", "content": "Correction of the haemostatic defect in haemophiliacs without apparent correction of the coagulation defect. The evaluation of microhaematuria may be considered as a measure of the haemostatic defect of haemophiliacs in nonhaemorrhagic periods. In order to study the relationship between coagulation disorder and haemostatic defect we have administered small amounts (1 U and 3 U/kg) of AHG and of factor IX (1U/kg) to 12 haemophiliacs (20 A and 2 B) and we have examined the effects on coagulation and microhaematuria. Microhaematuria was determined by the measurement of urinary radioactivity/24 h, after infusion of autologous RBC labelled with 51-Cr, for 11 consecutive days (4 days before and 7 after the administration). Coagulation was investigated by thromboelastography, PTT, Quick's time, PCI, factor VIII and IX activity assays, fibrinogen assay, and euglobulin lysis time. During the period of investigation, the patients remained in bed. In controls, factor VIII administration did not affect microhaematuria. On the other hand, in all haemophiliacs, factor VIII and IX administration significantly reduced microhaematuria, although the administered dose was not able to modify the coagulation defect. In all subjects the reduction of microhaematuria lasted at least 5 days. The correction of the haemostatic defect, without improvement of the clotting disorder, and its persistence for several days suggest that factor VIII is involved in the composition of the vascular wall and in its functional integrity. Moreover, on the basis of these results it is possible to carry out a rational prophylaxis of the haemorrhagic episodes using small doses of factor VIII, be determining the duration of the correction of the haemostatic defect for each subject."}
{"id": "4461103", "title": "Rheo-simulation: a new method for the assay of clotting process and factor XIII. A preliminary report.", "content": "Rheo-simulation: a new method for the assay of clotting process and factor XIII. A preliminary report."}
{"id": "4460739", "title": "[Changes of the blood-pH and coagulation potential (author's transl)].", "content": "[Changes of the blood-pH and coagulation potential (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "4458319", "title": "[Determination of urokinase in the urine using thrombelastography and the fibrin-plate test].", "content": "[Determination of urokinase in the urine using thrombelastography and the fibrin-plate test]."}
{"id": "4453312", "title": "[Phlegmasia cerulea dolens - thrombosis acuta venae cavae inferioris et venarum iliofemoralis bilateralis].", "content": "[Phlegmasia cerulea dolens - thrombosis acuta venae cavae inferioris et venarum iliofemoralis bilateralis]."}
{"id": "4450561", "title": "[Modification of blood coagulation through Arwin].", "content": "[Modification of blood coagulation through Arwin]."}
{"id": "4450184", "title": "Erthrocytes and blood coagulation.", "content": "Erthrocytes and blood coagulation."}
{"id": "4448152", "title": "[Disseminated intravascular coagulation and lethal macrothrombosis in a patient with carcinoma of the biliary tract (author's transl)].", "content": "[Disseminated intravascular coagulation and lethal macrothrombosis in a patient with carcinoma of the biliary tract (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "4440001", "title": "[Shock syndrome. 2].", "content": "[Shock syndrome. 2]."}
{"id": "4439077", "title": "[Macrofocal myocardial infarct with minimal symptoms (symptomless)].", "content": "[Macrofocal myocardial infarct with minimal symptoms (symptomless)]."}
{"id": "4437958", "title": "Thombelastographic and platelet changes induced by chlorpromazine.", "content": "Thombelastographic and platelet changes induced by chlorpromazine."}
{"id": "4433914", "title": "Relationship between thromboplastin factor of erythrocytes and the surface of the cell membrane.", "content": "Relationship between thromboplastin factor of erythrocytes and the surface of the cell membrane."}
{"id": "4433029", "title": "Thrombelastographic investigations during intravenous general anaesthesia adapted for difficult field conditions.", "content": "Thrombelastographic investigations during intravenous general anaesthesia adapted for difficult field conditions."}
{"id": "4432481", "title": "[Thrombelastogram in patients with coronary arteriosclerosis and auricular fibrillation].", "content": "[Thrombelastogram in patients with coronary arteriosclerosis and auricular fibrillation]."}
{"id": "4431131", "title": "[Antithrombotic therapy of ischemic heart disease].", "content": "[Antithrombotic therapy of ischemic heart disease]."}
{"id": "4428712", "title": "[State of the blood coagulation system in elderly and aged patients with hypertensive disease].", "content": "[State of the blood coagulation system in elderly and aged patients with hypertensive disease]."}
{"id": "4428710", "title": "[State of the blood coagulation system in patients with rheumatoid arthritis].", "content": "[State of the blood coagulation system in patients with rheumatoid arthritis]."}
{"id": "4428416", "title": "[Prethrombotic condition of patients with hypertensive disease and arteriosclerosis].", "content": "[Prethrombotic condition of patients with hypertensive disease and arteriosclerosis]."}
{"id": "4425325", "title": "[Prevention of thromboembolism using subcutaneous heparin].", "content": "[Prevention of thromboembolism using subcutaneous heparin]."}
{"id": "4424222", "title": "The so-called \"onion-like shape thromboelastogram\" in dialyzed uraemic patients.", "content": "The so-called \"onion-like shape thromboelastogram\" in dialyzed uraemic patients."}
{"id": "4422448", "title": "[Clinical studies on thrombosis prevention using calciparin in surgery].", "content": "[Clinical studies on thrombosis prevention using calciparin in surgery]."}
{"id": "4422340", "title": "Adrenergic, coagulation, and fibrinolytic responses to heat.", "content": "Adrenergic, coagulation, and fibrinolytic responses to heat. Two groups of volunteers were exposed to heat in a sauna bath-one group for 10 minutes and the other for 15. There was no change in plasma adrenaline concentration until the subjects emerged from the sauna bath, when there was a slight increase in concentration. Factor VIII and thrombo-elastograph patterns did not change but marked activation of fibrinolysis was stimulated by exposure to heat. These findings support the concept that fibrinolysis is not mediated by direct adrenergic activity."}
{"id": "4415909", "title": "Stress--a significant factor in venous thrombosis?", "content": "Stress--a significant factor in venous thrombosis?"}
{"id": "4411275", "title": "[Thromboelastographic evaluation of the state of hemostasis in calculous pyelonephritis].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic evaluation of the state of hemostasis in calculous pyelonephritis]."}
{"id": "4409361", "title": "[Effect of euphyllin electrophoresis on the state of the blood coagulation system and cerebral hemodynamics in transitory disorders of cerebral circulation].", "content": "[Effect of euphyllin electrophoresis on the state of the blood coagulation system and cerebral hemodynamics in transitory disorders of cerebral circulation]."}
{"id": "4409212", "title": "[Diagnostic studies in congenital afibrinogenemia].", "content": "[Diagnostic studies in congenital afibrinogenemia]."}
{"id": "4409155", "title": "[Determination of the degree of prethrombotic state by the thrombophilia index].", "content": "[Determination of the degree of prethrombotic state by the thrombophilia index]."}
{"id": "4408956", "title": "[Coagulation studies and treatment with heparin in a case of hemolytic-uremic-syndrome (author's transl)].", "content": "[Coagulation studies and treatment with heparin in a case of hemolytic-uremic-syndrome (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "4408957", "title": "[Coagulation studies in Cephalhematomas].", "content": "[Coagulation studies in Cephalhematomas]."}
{"id": "4408116", "title": "[Studies on drug safety in gynecology. 2. On drug administration in advanced pregnancy].", "content": "[Studies on drug safety in gynecology. 2. On drug administration in advanced pregnancy]."}
{"id": "4408115", "title": "[Studies on drug safety in gynecology. On the passage of drugs into maternal milk].", "content": "[Studies on drug safety in gynecology. On the passage of drugs into maternal milk]."}
{"id": "4373871", "title": "Relaxation of retracted clots: a thrombelastographic study.", "content": "Relaxation of retracted clots: a thrombelastographic study."}
{"id": "4373869", "title": "Contact activation of heparinized plasma.", "content": "Contact activation of heparinized plasma."}
{"id": "4369583", "title": "[Hyperlipoproteinemia and fibrin stabilization using blood factor 13].", "content": "[Hyperlipoproteinemia and fibrin stabilization using blood factor 13]."}
{"id": "4360448", "title": "[Plasmatic coagulation factors in hyperlipoproteinemias].", "content": "[Plasmatic coagulation factors in hyperlipoproteinemias]."}
{"id": "4277144", "title": "[Changes in coagulation factors following reconstructive surgery].", "content": "[Changes in coagulation factors following reconstructive surgery]."}
{"id": "4275415", "title": "Thrombelastographic patterns of ancrod and thrombin fibrin formation and dissolution.", "content": "Thrombelastographic patterns of ancrod and thrombin fibrin formation and dissolution."}
{"id": "4275088", "title": "Progestational agents and blood coagulation. V. Changes induced by sequential oral contraceptive therapy.", "content": "Progestational agents and blood coagulation. V. Changes induced by sequential oral contraceptive therapy. Blood coagulation changes induced by sequential oral contraceptive (OC) therapy were studied. 112 healthy women volunteers were monitored over a 2-year period while on a regimen of sequential OC therapy (50 mcg ethinyl estradiol daily from Day 5 through 14 and 50 mcg ethinyl estradiol plus 1 mg morethindrone acetate on Day 15 through 25). The treated group showed marked increases toward hypercoagulability in the Hicks and Pitney thromboplastin generation time screening test at 3 and 9 months, Factor 5 at 9 months, Factor 8 at 3 and 9 months, and fibrinogen at 3 months. Decreases from base lines were seen in antiplasmins at 24 months and in alkaline phosphatase at all intervals (3, 9, and 24 months). It was suggested that the decrease in serum antiplasmin indicates a compensatory tesponse in the fibrinolytic system to the hyperactivity of the coagulation system."}
{"id": "4272950", "title": "[Inhibition of blood coagulation in vitro by protease of Pseudomonas aeruginosa].", "content": "[Inhibition of blood coagulation in vitro by protease of Pseudomonas aeruginosa]."}
{"id": "4217955", "title": "Fibrinogen Valencia. A new case of congenital dysfibrinogenemia.", "content": "Fibrinogen Valencia. A new case of congenital dysfibrinogenemia."}
{"id": "4217894", "title": "[Use of miscleron on diabetes mellitus patients with peripheral circulatory disorders].", "content": "[Use of miscleron on diabetes mellitus patients with peripheral circulatory disorders]."}
{"id": "4217477", "title": "Indirect measruement of streptokinase concentration in the plasma of patients undergoing fibrinolytic treatment.", "content": "Indirect measruement of streptokinase concentration in the plasma of patients undergoing fibrinolytic treatment."}
{"id": "4212668", "title": "[Hemophilia BM (abnormal factor IX in coagulation disorder) (author's transl)].", "content": "[Hemophilia BM (abnormal factor IX in coagulation disorder) (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "4212608", "title": "[Detection of a thrombotic tendency by means of coagulation tests (author's transl)].", "content": "[Detection of a thrombotic tendency by means of coagulation tests (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "4152694", "title": "[Liver function tests (author's transl)].", "content": "[Liver function tests (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "4140971", "title": "[Dynamics of the indicators of coagulogram and thrombelastogram during 24-hour period in patients with stenocardia].", "content": "[Dynamics of the indicators of coagulogram and thrombelastogram during 24-hour period in patients with stenocardia]."}
{"id": "4140823", "title": "[Blood coagulation studies in essential hyperlipoproteinemia with special reference to thrombocyte kinetics].", "content": "[Blood coagulation studies in essential hyperlipoproteinemia with special reference to thrombocyte kinetics]."}
{"id": "4140819", "title": "[Thrombocyte function during the use of immunosuppressive agents].", "content": "[Thrombocyte function during the use of immunosuppressive agents]."}
{"id": "4139366", "title": "[Possibility of diagnosis of acute thrombosis by the symptoms of hypocoagulemia. Studies in vitro].", "content": "[Possibility of diagnosis of acute thrombosis by the symptoms of hypocoagulemia. Studies in vitro]."}
{"id": "4139365", "title": "[Changes of certain indicators of blood coagulation in patients with coronary arteriosclerosis and hypertensive disease].", "content": "[Changes of certain indicators of blood coagulation in patients with coronary arteriosclerosis and hypertensive disease]."}
{"id": "4139360", "title": "[Dysfibrinogemia (literature survey)].", "content": "[Dysfibrinogemia (literature survey)]."}
{"id": "4139062", "title": "[Blood coagulation and fibrinolysis in premature and mature infants with respiratory distress syndrome and intracranial hemorrhage].", "content": "[Blood coagulation and fibrinolysis in premature and mature infants with respiratory distress syndrome and intracranial hemorrhage]."}
{"id": "4136473", "title": "[Unusual leukemic syndrome in a newborn with 21 trisomy: megakaryocyte and platelet proliferation; disseminated intravascular coagulation syndrome].", "content": "[Unusual leukemic syndrome in a newborn with 21 trisomy: megakaryocyte and platelet proliferation; disseminated intravascular coagulation syndrome]."}
{"id": "4135641", "title": "Letter: Increased warfarin requirement during mercaptopurine therapy: a new drug interaction.", "content": "Letter: Increased warfarin requirement during mercaptopurine therapy: a new drug interaction."}
{"id": "4807850", "title": "[Arvin, a new anticoagulant].", "content": "[Arvin, a new anticoagulant]."}
{"id": "4805495", "title": "Laboratory control of SK therapy.", "content": "Laboratory control of SK therapy."}
{"id": "4804076", "title": "[The effect of pyridinolcarbamate (anginin) on blood coagulation, fibrinolysis and thrombocytes].", "content": "[The effect of pyridinolcarbamate (anginin) on blood coagulation, fibrinolysis and thrombocytes]."}
{"id": "4803222", "title": "Antimicrobial therapy as a part of the decontamination procedures for patients with acute leukemia.", "content": "Antimicrobial therapy as a part of the decontamination procedures for patients with acute leukemia."}
{"id": "4801300", "title": "[Heparin therapy in thromboses of the deep veins of the leg and pelvis (author's transl)].", "content": "[Heparin therapy in thromboses of the deep veins of the leg and pelvis (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "4800430", "title": "[Blood coagulation in patients with toxic goiter].", "content": "[Blood coagulation in patients with toxic goiter]."}
{"id": "4794105", "title": "[Alterations of hemostasis in urticaria].", "content": "[Alterations of hemostasis in urticaria]."}
{"id": "4788201", "title": "[Behavior of clotting factors in the blood and plasma preserved in A.C.D. and C.P.D].", "content": "[Behavior of clotting factors in the blood and plasma preserved in A.C.D. and C.P.D]."}
{"id": "4787670", "title": "Effect of aspirin on the thrombelastogram of human blood.", "content": "Effect of aspirin on the thrombelastogram of human blood."}
{"id": "4787667", "title": "Congenital hypoprothrombinemia in a Portuguese family.", "content": "Congenital hypoprothrombinemia in a Portuguese family."}
{"id": "4786597", "title": "[Changes of coagulation after acute apoplectic strokes (author's transl)].", "content": "[Changes of coagulation after acute apoplectic strokes (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "4783258", "title": "[Effect of ultrasonics on the blood coagulation system in infectious arthritis].", "content": "[Effect of ultrasonics on the blood coagulation system in infectious arthritis]."}
{"id": "4783234", "title": "[Changes in the coagulating properties of the blood in different forms of arterial hypertension].", "content": "[Changes in the coagulating properties of the blood in different forms of arterial hypertension]."}
{"id": "4777491", "title": "[Pseudofibrinolysis in the thrombelastogram, factor XIII and fibrinogen split products in the 2nd half of normal pregnancy, during labor, and puerperium (author's transl)].", "content": "[Pseudofibrinolysis in the thrombelastogram, factor XIII and fibrinogen split products in the 2nd half of normal pregnancy, during labor, and puerperium (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "4775160", "title": "[Characteristics of the effect of adrenaline on the blood coagulation system in elderly and aged persons].", "content": "[Characteristics of the effect of adrenaline on the blood coagulation system in elderly and aged persons]."}
{"id": "4774963", "title": "[Effect of measured walking on the blood coagulation process in hypertension and chronic coronary insufficiency].", "content": "[Effect of measured walking on the blood coagulation process in hypertension and chronic coronary insufficiency]."}
{"id": "4773766", "title": "[Coagulation analytical studies on the effect of radiotherapy in extreme pyknomorphical female patients suffering from carcinoma].", "content": "[Coagulation analytical studies on the effect of radiotherapy in extreme pyknomorphical female patients suffering from carcinoma]."}
{"id": "4772876", "title": "[Changes of indicators of thromboelestogram in patients with rheumatic fever].", "content": "[Changes of indicators of thromboelestogram in patients with rheumatic fever]."}
{"id": "4771689", "title": "[Hemocoagulation in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis].", "content": "[Hemocoagulation in patients with pulmonary tuberculosis]."}
{"id": "4771267", "title": "[Change of thromboelastographic indicators in patients with chronic tonsillitis, in connection with tonsillectomy].", "content": "[Change of thromboelastographic indicators in patients with chronic tonsillitis, in connection with tonsillectomy]."}
{"id": "4771228", "title": "[Behavior of plasmatic coagulation factors in various stages of coronary sclerosis, confirmed by coronarography].", "content": "[Behavior of plasmatic coagulation factors in various stages of coronary sclerosis, confirmed by coronarography]."}
{"id": "4770089", "title": "[Changes brought about in blood coagulation in the newborn by administration of vitamin K2. 3. Clinical application of vitamin K2 after exchange transfusion (author's transl)].", "content": "[Changes brought about in blood coagulation in the newborn by administration of vitamin K2. 3. Clinical application of vitamin K2 after exchange transfusion (author's transl)]."}
{"id": "4769869", "title": "[Nutritional changes and their relation to the state of the blood coagulation system during physiological aging].", "content": "[Nutritional changes and their relation to the state of the blood coagulation system during physiological aging]."}
{"id": "4769868", "title": "[Effect of anabolic steroids on the blood coagulation system in coronary arteriosclerosis].", "content": "[Effect of anabolic steroids on the blood coagulation system in coronary arteriosclerosis]."}
{"id": "4769867", "title": "[Thromboelastogram in ischemic heart disease].", "content": "[Thromboelastogram in ischemic heart disease]."}
{"id": "4768482", "title": "[Disorders of blood coagulation in patients with hypothalamic syndrome in the puberty period and forme fruste of Itsenko-Cushing syndrome].", "content": "[Disorders of blood coagulation in patients with hypothalamic syndrome in the puberty period and forme fruste of Itsenko-Cushing syndrome]."}
{"id": "4767208", "title": "[Thrombocyte function in Starr-Edwards valve prosthesis].", "content": "[Thrombocyte function in Starr-Edwards valve prosthesis]."}
{"id": "4766042", "title": "[Blood clotting system in thrombelastographic findings in acute phase of viral hepatitis and during convalescence].", "content": "[Blood clotting system in thrombelastographic findings in acute phase of viral hepatitis and during convalescence]."}
{"id": "4761900", "title": "[Effect of the volume of blood loss on the dynamics of certain blood coagulation system indices in disordered extrauterine pregnancy].", "content": "[Effect of the volume of blood loss on the dynamics of certain blood coagulation system indices in disordered extrauterine pregnancy]."}
{"id": "4760218", "title": "[Coagulating activity of blood in certain surgical diseases in the elderly patients].", "content": "[Coagulating activity of blood in certain surgical diseases in the elderly patients]."}
{"id": "4760206", "title": "[Treatment of primary varicose veins of the lower extremities].", "content": "[Treatment of primary varicose veins of the lower extremities]."}
{"id": "4756044", "title": "[Diagnostic significance of thrombelastography in acute disorders of the cerebral circulation].", "content": "[Diagnostic significance of thrombelastography in acute disorders of the cerebral circulation]."}
{"id": "4756043", "title": "[State of the blood coagulation system in patients with autonomic-vascular syndrome before and after treatment].", "content": "[State of the blood coagulation system in patients with autonomic-vascular syndrome before and after treatment]."}
{"id": "4755511", "title": "[Thrombocyte function studies in and following graded body exertion].", "content": "[Thrombocyte function studies in and following graded body exertion]."}
{"id": "4753978", "title": "[Clinical significance of blood coagulation shifts in chronic liver diseases in children].", "content": "[Clinical significance of blood coagulation shifts in chronic liver diseases in children]."}
{"id": "4749857", "title": "Study of serum lipid fractions as related to blood coagulation, fibrinolysis and platelet aggregation in cholesterol fed rabbits and in arteriosclerotic patients given clofibrate.", "content": "Study of serum lipid fractions as related to blood coagulation, fibrinolysis and platelet aggregation in cholesterol fed rabbits and in arteriosclerotic patients given clofibrate."}
{"id": "4744340", "title": "Congenital factor VII deficiency. A case report.", "content": "Congenital factor VII deficiency. A case report."}
{"id": "4731168", "title": "[Analysis of hemorrhagic diathesis].", "content": "[Analysis of hemorrhagic diathesis]."}
{"id": "4730893", "title": "[Mini-dose heparin therapy. Protocol for a preoperative prophylaxis of thrombophlebitis].", "content": "[Mini-dose heparin therapy. Protocol for a preoperative prophylaxis of thrombophlebitis]."}
{"id": "4726411", "title": "[Blood clotting and fibrinolytic systems in pulmonary hypertension].", "content": "[Blood clotting and fibrinolytic systems in pulmonary hypertension]."}
{"id": "4724373", "title": "[Anticoagulants in prostatic surgery].", "content": "[Anticoagulants in prostatic surgery]."}
{"id": "4723563", "title": "[Thrombelastographic evaluation of blood coagulation in acute myocardial infarct treated with 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzoylaminocaproate sodium].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic evaluation of blood coagulation in acute myocardial infarct treated with 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzoylaminocaproate sodium]."}
{"id": "4722817", "title": "[Significance of the thromboelastographic method of study in the diagnosis and treatment of lung cancer].", "content": "[Significance of the thromboelastographic method of study in the diagnosis and treatment of lung cancer]."}
{"id": "4721149", "title": "Thromboelastographic studies in oral contraception.", "content": "Thromboelastographic studies in oral contraception."}
{"id": "4720553", "title": "[Effect of hypotiazide and aldactone on the blood coagulation and anticoagulation systems].", "content": "[Effect of hypotiazide and aldactone on the blood coagulation and anticoagulation systems]."}
{"id": "4718764", "title": "Circulating anticoagulants in the newborn: relation to hypercoagulability and the idiopathic respiratory distress syndrome.", "content": "Circulating anticoagulants in the newborn: relation to hypercoagulability and the idiopathic respiratory distress syndrome."}
{"id": "4718614", "title": "[Characteristics of nonenzymatic fibrinolytic activity and the formation of adrenaline-heparin and noradrenaline-heparin complexes in the blood in logoneurosis].", "content": "[Characteristics of nonenzymatic fibrinolytic activity and the formation of adrenaline-heparin and noradrenaline-heparin complexes in the blood in logoneurosis]."}
{"id": "4714597", "title": "[Heredofamilial thrombocytopenia].", "content": "[Heredofamilial thrombocytopenia]."}
{"id": "4710728", "title": "[Effect of Dextran-65 Polfa on the blood clotting system].", "content": "[Effect of Dextran-65 Polfa on the blood clotting system]."}
{"id": "4709389", "title": "[Some thrombelastographic data on capillary blood in diabetic children].", "content": "[Some thrombelastographic data on capillary blood in diabetic children]."}
{"id": "4709317", "title": "[Laboratory supervision of anticoagulant therapy].", "content": "[Laboratory supervision of anticoagulant therapy]."}
{"id": "4709136", "title": "[Comparative thrombelastographic study on citrated sternal marrow blood and venous blood].", "content": "[Comparative thrombelastographic study on citrated sternal marrow blood and venous blood]."}
{"id": "4708550", "title": "[Studies on uremic thrombopathy. Analysis of 59 patients with special reference to platelet lipids].", "content": "[Studies on uremic thrombopathy. Analysis of 59 patients with special reference to platelet lipids]."}
{"id": "4704724", "title": "[Thrombelastographic evaluation of hemocoagulation in acute myocardial infarct treated with sodium 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzoylaminocaproate].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic evaluation of hemocoagulation in acute myocardial infarct treated with sodium 3,4,5 trimethoxybenzoylaminocaproate]."}
{"id": "4701331", "title": "[Acetylsalicylic acid as antithrombotic agent in acute myocardial infarct without shock syndrome].", "content": "[Acetylsalicylic acid as antithrombotic agent in acute myocardial infarct without shock syndrome]."}
{"id": "4699770", "title": "[Effect of Polfa dextran-40 on blood clotting system in thrombelastographic and laboratory studies].", "content": "[Effect of Polfa dextran-40 on blood clotting system in thrombelastographic and laboratory studies]."}
{"id": "4699488", "title": "[Diagnosis of the consumption coagulopathy].", "content": "[Diagnosis of the consumption coagulopathy]."}
{"id": "4696271", "title": "[Effect of formed blood elements on blood coagulation in acute leukemia].", "content": "[Effect of formed blood elements on blood coagulation in acute leukemia]."}
{"id": "4695846", "title": "[Thrombelastographic studies of the effects of a new non-steroid estrogen on hemocoagulation].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic studies of the effects of a new non-steroid estrogen on hemocoagulation]."}
{"id": "4695383", "title": "Effect of oral contraceptives on the thromboelastogram.", "content": "Effect of oral contraceptives on the thromboelastogram."}
{"id": "4688958", "title": "[Respiratory insufficiency due to chronic, obstructive bronchopneumopathy and fibrinolysis].", "content": "[Respiratory insufficiency due to chronic, obstructive bronchopneumopathy and fibrinolysis]."}
{"id": "4688780", "title": "[Treatment of thrombophlebitis of lower extremities with streptokinase].", "content": "[Treatment of thrombophlebitis of lower extremities with streptokinase]."}
{"id": "4687577", "title": "[Attempt at explanation of the mechanism of labor. I. Coagulation system and fibrinolysis during physiological labor].", "content": "[Attempt at explanation of the mechanism of labor. I. Coagulation system and fibrinolysis during physiological labor]."}
{"id": "4684650", "title": "[Factor XII deficiency in two brothers].", "content": "[Factor XII deficiency in two brothers]."}
{"id": "4633780", "title": "[Long-term therapy and care with anticoagulants].", "content": "[Long-term therapy and care with anticoagulants]."}
{"id": "4632546", "title": "[Long-term therapy and monitoring in anticoagulant therapy].", "content": "[Long-term therapy and monitoring in anticoagulant therapy]."}
{"id": "4580395", "title": "[Keypoints in clinical tests for hemorrhagic and thrombotic tendencies].", "content": "[Keypoints in clinical tests for hemorrhagic and thrombotic tendencies]."}
{"id": "4577209", "title": "[Efficiency and limits of blood coagulation tests].", "content": "[Efficiency and limits of blood coagulation tests]."}
{"id": "4576350", "title": "[Blood hypercoagulability (attempted classification of pre-thrombotic states)].", "content": "[Blood hypercoagulability (attempted classification of pre-thrombotic states)]."}
{"id": "4575852", "title": "Platelet function tests in disease.", "content": "Platelet function tests in disease. Abnormal platelet function may result from congenital or acquired disturbances in the platelets themselves or their plasma milieu in patients with hemorrhage or thrombosis. Although standardization is difficult and results overlap between patient groups, certain tests are abnormal in patients with diabetes and atherosclorosis, and in women on oral contraceptives, all of whom have an increased tendency toward thrombosis. In women on oral contraceptive pills containing synthetic estrogen and progesterone, fibrin formation starts earlier and develops more rapidly when assessed by the thrombelastograph, and as in late pregnancy, Factors VII and X are increased. Most studies did not report an increase in platelet adhesiveness or in platelet retention measured in whole citrated blood. An increase in platelet sensitivity to ADP, as measured by electropheretic mobility was observed in 1 study."}
{"id": "4575777", "title": "Comparative investigations on the effect of nicotinic acid alone and in association with a synthetic, heparin-like sulfated polyanion on fibrinolysis, platelet aggregation and lipidic fractions.", "content": "Comparative investigations on the effect of nicotinic acid alone and in association with a synthetic, heparin-like sulfated polyanion on fibrinolysis, platelet aggregation and lipidic fractions."}
{"id": "4575752", "title": "[Prognostic significance of some coagulation changes in myocardial infarct].", "content": "[Prognostic significance of some coagulation changes in myocardial infarct]."}
{"id": "4567798", "title": "[Von-Willebrand-J\u00fcrgens syndrome].", "content": "[Von-Willebrand-J\u00fcrgens syndrome]."}
{"id": "4543972", "title": "[Diagnosis of the von-Willebrand-J\u00fcrgens syndrome].", "content": "[Diagnosis of the von-Willebrand-J\u00fcrgens syndrome]."}
{"id": "4512142", "title": "[Blood coagulation system in different forms of acute leukemia].", "content": "[Blood coagulation system in different forms of acute leukemia]."}
{"id": "4376277", "title": "Effects of collagen on fibrinolysis.", "content": "Effects of collagen on fibrinolysis."}
{"id": "4273926", "title": "[Effect of treatment at the Truskavets health resort on the state of blood coagulation system in urolithiasis].", "content": "[Effect of treatment at the Truskavets health resort on the state of blood coagulation system in urolithiasis]."}
{"id": "4272653", "title": "[Coagulation and fibrinolysis studies in viable newborn infants suffering from critical hyperbilirubinemia].", "content": "[Coagulation and fibrinolysis studies in viable newborn infants suffering from critical hyperbilirubinemia]."}
{"id": "4269162", "title": "[Blood fibrinolytic system in patients with ischemic heart disease].", "content": "[Blood fibrinolytic system in patients with ischemic heart disease]."}
{"id": "4268851", "title": "[Evaluation of the changes in the blood coagulation system in the dynamics of treating ischemic insult with anticoagulants].", "content": "[Evaluation of the changes in the blood coagulation system in the dynamics of treating ischemic insult with anticoagulants]."}
{"id": "4216115", "title": "[Congenital dysfibrinogenemia. Report on a new family (fibrinogen \"Wiesbaden\")].", "content": "[Congenital dysfibrinogenemia. Report on a new family (fibrinogen \"Wiesbaden\")]."}
{"id": "4210088", "title": "[Proceedings: Determination of Factor XIII (fibrin-stabilizing factor) in plasma and blood platelets].", "content": "[Proceedings: Determination of Factor XIII (fibrin-stabilizing factor) in plasma and blood platelets]."}
{"id": "4207087", "title": "Platelets and clot retraction. Effect of divalent cations and several drugs.", "content": "Platelets and clot retraction. Effect of divalent cations and several drugs."}
{"id": "4196477", "title": "Abnormal factor X(factor X Friuli) coagulation disorder.", "content": "Abnormal factor X(factor X Friuli) coagulation disorder."}
{"id": "4132567", "title": "[Coagulographic data in patients with meningococcal infection].", "content": "[Coagulographic data in patients with meningococcal infection]."}
{"id": "4130628", "title": "[Effects of hydrogen-ion concentration on blood coagulation].", "content": "[Effects of hydrogen-ion concentration on blood coagulation]."}
{"id": "4129392", "title": "[Laboratory and clinical value of a method of thromboelastography in surgical diseases of the heart, vessels and lung].", "content": "[Laboratory and clinical value of a method of thromboelastography in surgical diseases of the heart, vessels and lung]."}
{"id": "4128714", "title": "[Assessment of coagulographic and thrombelastographic indices in oncological patients].", "content": "[Assessment of coagulographic and thrombelastographic indices in oncological patients]."}
{"id": "4128355", "title": "[Functional condition of the coagulative and anticoagulative systems of blood in apparently healthy workers of the cement industry].", "content": "[Functional condition of the coagulative and anticoagulative systems of blood in apparently healthy workers of the cement industry]."}
{"id": "5085148", "title": "[Pulmonary artery thromboembolism and the state of the blood coagulation system in severe cranio-cerebral trauma].", "content": "[Pulmonary artery thromboembolism and the state of the blood coagulation system in severe cranio-cerebral trauma]."}
{"id": "5084745", "title": "[Thromboelastogram in pneumosclerosis].", "content": "[Thromboelastogram in pneumosclerosis]."}
{"id": "5080399", "title": "[Problems in the treatment of myocardial infarct using anticoagulants or aggregation inhibitors].", "content": "[Problems in the treatment of myocardial infarct using anticoagulants or aggregation inhibitors]."}
{"id": "5077085", "title": "Coagulopathy after major combat injury: occurrence, management, and pathophysiology.", "content": "Coagulopathy after major combat injury: occurrence, management, and pathophysiology."}
{"id": "5074966", "title": "[Thrombelastography applied to the study of hypercoaguability].", "content": "[Thrombelastography applied to the study of hypercoaguability]."}
{"id": "5072962", "title": "[Blood coagulation, fibrinolysis, and transaminases during the action of ovulation inhibitors in and following gradational physical stress].", "content": "[Blood coagulation, fibrinolysis, and transaminases during the action of ovulation inhibitors in and following gradational physical stress]."}
{"id": "5071959", "title": "[Fibrinolysis in chronic renal insufficiency treated wth periodic hemodialysis].", "content": "[Fibrinolysis in chronic renal insufficiency treated wth periodic hemodialysis]."}
{"id": "5071321", "title": "[Treatment problems in acute circulation disorders of the inner ear using low molecular dextrans].", "content": "[Treatment problems in acute circulation disorders of the inner ear using low molecular dextrans]."}
{"id": "5070001", "title": "[The behaviour of physiologic inhibitors of blood coagulation and of the thrombelastogram in pregnancy].", "content": "[The behaviour of physiologic inhibitors of blood coagulation and of the thrombelastogram in pregnancy]."}
{"id": "5065502", "title": "[Diagnosis of haemorrhages caused by thrombocytic defects in childhood].", "content": "[Diagnosis of haemorrhages caused by thrombocytic defects in childhood]."}
{"id": "5065397", "title": "[Severe epistaxis caused by allergy to quinine].", "content": "[Severe epistaxis caused by allergy to quinine]."}
{"id": "5064404", "title": "[Blood coagulation disorder in liver cirrhosis. Clinical and clinicochemical observations].", "content": "[Blood coagulation disorder in liver cirrhosis. Clinical and clinicochemical observations]."}
{"id": "5064234", "title": "The action of Vipera aspis venom on blood clotting factors and platelets.", "content": "The action of Vipera aspis venom on blood clotting factors and platelets."}
{"id": "5063775", "title": "[Initial results with Arvin, a clotting inducing fraction of a snake venom].", "content": "[Initial results with Arvin, a clotting inducing fraction of a snake venom]."}
{"id": "5063364", "title": "[Therapy of idiopathic thromocytopenic purpura. II. Early post-splenectomy increased in circulating platelets and correlations between the postoperative blood platelet level and the stability of remission].", "content": "[Therapy of idiopathic thromocytopenic purpura. II. Early post-splenectomy increased in circulating platelets and correlations between the postoperative blood platelet level and the stability of remission]."}
{"id": "5062606", "title": "[Blood coagulability and fibrinolytic activity in retinal hemorrhage. A preliminary report. In diabetic retinopathy and retinal vein occlusion].", "content": "[Blood coagulability and fibrinolytic activity in retinal hemorrhage. A preliminary report. In diabetic retinopathy and retinal vein occlusion]."}
{"id": "5061187", "title": "[Resuscitation of patients with high risk of hemorrhage and thromboembolism. Biological supervision. Indications of controlled heparin therapy].", "content": "[Resuscitation of patients with high risk of hemorrhage and thromboembolism. Biological supervision. Indications of controlled heparin therapy]."}
{"id": "5060308", "title": "[Effect of the extracorporal circulation on blood platelet function in men].", "content": "[Effect of the extracorporal circulation on blood platelet function in men]."}
{"id": "5058707", "title": "A report of a case of congenital afibrinogenemia.", "content": "A report of a case of congenital afibrinogenemia."}
{"id": "5055503", "title": "[Blood coagulation and anticoagulation system characteristics and thromboelastogram in patients with tuberculosis of the lungs].", "content": "[Blood coagulation and anticoagulation system characteristics and thromboelastogram in patients with tuberculosis of the lungs]."}
{"id": "5052675", "title": "[Thrombolysis of a partial occlusion of the medial cerebral artery].", "content": "[Thrombolysis of a partial occlusion of the medial cerebral artery]."}
{"id": "5052663", "title": "[Consumption coagulopathies].", "content": "[Consumption coagulopathies]."}
{"id": "5051391", "title": "[Coagulation changes in Argentine hemorrhagic fever].", "content": "[Coagulation changes in Argentine hemorrhagic fever]."}
{"id": "5051080", "title": "[Number and function of thrombocytes in cadaver blood].", "content": "[Number and function of thrombocytes in cadaver blood]."}
{"id": "5049614", "title": "Potentiation by synthetic fibrinolytic agents of vascular activator- and urokinase-induced lysis of human plasma clots as demonstrated by thrombelastography.", "content": "Potentiation by synthetic fibrinolytic agents of vascular activator- and urokinase-induced lysis of human plasma clots as demonstrated by thrombelastography."}
{"id": "5048692", "title": "[Thrombolysis for the removal of thrombotic obliteration of the Cimino shunt in hemodialysis patients].", "content": "[Thrombolysis for the removal of thrombotic obliteration of the Cimino shunt in hemodialysis patients]."}
{"id": "5048540", "title": "[Changes of blood coagulation factors in vivo due to triiodized x-ray contrast media. (Preliminary report)].", "content": "[Changes of blood coagulation factors in vivo due to triiodized x-ray contrast media. (Preliminary report)]."}
{"id": "5046687", "title": "[State of blood coagulation and anticoagulation system in influenza patients].", "content": "[State of blood coagulation and anticoagulation system in influenza patients]."}
{"id": "5043884", "title": "[Clinical aspects of hemophilia in childhood].", "content": "[Clinical aspects of hemophilia in childhood]."}
{"id": "5040626", "title": "[Importance of isotonicity and calcium concentration on thrombelastographic constants].", "content": "[Importance of isotonicity and calcium concentration on thrombelastographic constants]."}
{"id": "5033674", "title": "[Blood coagulation physiologic analysis on the effect of synthetic thrombin inhibitors].", "content": "[Blood coagulation physiologic analysis on the effect of synthetic thrombin inhibitors]."}
{"id": "5030873", "title": "Effects of certain contraceptive hormones on blood coagulation.", "content": "Effects of certain contraceptive hormones on blood coagulation."}
{"id": "5030154", "title": "[Clinic of acute fatty liver in pregnancy].", "content": "[Clinic of acute fatty liver in pregnancy]."}
{"id": "5026136", "title": "[Behavior of some components of the clotting and fibrinolytic systems during general anesthesia using ether and halothane].", "content": "[Behavior of some components of the clotting and fibrinolytic systems during general anesthesia using ether and halothane]."}
{"id": "5024380", "title": "[Use of anticoagulants in myocardial infarct].", "content": "[Use of anticoagulants in myocardial infarct]."}
{"id": "5024007", "title": "[Changes in coagulation produced by hypertonic saline solutions].", "content": "[Changes in coagulation produced by hypertonic saline solutions]."}
{"id": "5022304", "title": "[Thrombelastography indices on the activity status and remission of polycythemia rubra vera].", "content": "[Thrombelastography indices on the activity status and remission of polycythemia rubra vera]."}
{"id": "5018430", "title": "[Changes of blood coagulation in patients with chronic kidney diseases and hemodialysis].", "content": "[Changes of blood coagulation in patients with chronic kidney diseases and hemodialysis]."}
{"id": "5016792", "title": "[Thromboelastography: its usefulness in the study of the fibrinolytic system. II. Various aspects of the reproductibility of the technic].", "content": "[Thromboelastography: its usefulness in the study of the fibrinolytic system. II. Various aspects of the reproductibility of the technic]."}
{"id": "5016722", "title": "[Congenital factor XIII deficiency: studies in an infant and his family].", "content": "[Congenital factor XIII deficiency: studies in an infant and his family]."}
{"id": "5015643", "title": "Effects of 2450 MHz microwave radiation on human blood coagulation processes.", "content": "Effects of 2450 MHz microwave radiation on human blood coagulation processes."}
{"id": "5012417", "title": "[Immunosuppressive therapy of idiopathic thrombocytopenia].", "content": "[Immunosuppressive therapy of idiopathic thrombocytopenia]."}
{"id": "5010878", "title": "[Hemostatic changes in congenital heart diseases].", "content": "[Hemostatic changes in congenital heart diseases]."}
{"id": "4680410", "title": "[Functional state of the neuroendocrine, sympathetico-adrenal and coagulation systems and of the uterine contractile activity in normal labor and in pathologic uterine hemorrhages].", "content": "[Functional state of the neuroendocrine, sympathetico-adrenal and coagulation systems and of the uterine contractile activity in normal labor and in pathologic uterine hemorrhages]."}
{"id": "4680013", "title": "[Biological control of substitution therapy in hemophilia A].", "content": "[Biological control of substitution therapy in hemophilia A]."}
{"id": "4678730", "title": "[Current methods in the diagnosis of platelet function disorders].", "content": "[Current methods in the diagnosis of platelet function disorders]."}
{"id": "4678729", "title": "[Influence of single and repeated hemodialises on the blood coagulation status].", "content": "[Influence of single and repeated hemodialises on the blood coagulation status]."}
{"id": "4677657", "title": "[An attempt to determine certain physical features of thrombus and its dynamic structure].", "content": "[An attempt to determine certain physical features of thrombus and its dynamic structure]."}
{"id": "4673725", "title": "[Study of thrombocytic function in childhood].", "content": "[Study of thrombocytic function in childhood]."}
{"id": "4669821", "title": "Multifactorial analysis of prognostic significance of several clotting parameters in acute myocardial infarction.", "content": "Multifactorial analysis of prognostic significance of several clotting parameters in acute myocardial infarction."}
{"id": "4669398", "title": "Study of haemostasis in nephropathies associated with pulmonary haemorrhage.", "content": "Study of haemostasis in nephropathies associated with pulmonary haemorrhage."}
{"id": "4668381", "title": "[Characteristics of the coagulating activity of the blood in inhabitants of the Far North (Yakutsk)].", "content": "[Characteristics of the coagulating activity of the blood in inhabitants of the Far North (Yakutsk)]."}
{"id": "4668372", "title": "[Thrombolytic action of the enzymatic preparation terrilytin].", "content": "[Thrombolytic action of the enzymatic preparation terrilytin]."}
{"id": "4668314", "title": "[Comparative characteristics of blood coagulability in circulatory insufficiency of different origins].", "content": "[Comparative characteristics of blood coagulability in circulatory insufficiency of different origins]."}
{"id": "4667526", "title": "[Thrombelastographic studies in mature and premature newborn infants during the 1st 3 weeks of life].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic studies in mature and premature newborn infants during the 1st 3 weeks of life]."}
{"id": "4666740", "title": "[Thromboelastography in otorhinolaryngology].", "content": "[Thromboelastography in otorhinolaryngology]."}
{"id": "4664989", "title": "[The state of blood coagulation in patients with cancer of the uterus according to thrombelastographic findings].", "content": "[The state of blood coagulation in patients with cancer of the uterus according to thrombelastographic findings]."}
{"id": "4664869", "title": "[Hemostasis and hypoxic hypoxia].", "content": "[Hemostasis and hypoxic hypoxia]."}
{"id": "4661843", "title": "[Formation of noradrenaline-heparin and adrenaline-heparin complexes in the blood of young people under emotional and intellectual stress].", "content": "[Formation of noradrenaline-heparin and adrenaline-heparin complexes in the blood of young people under emotional and intellectual stress]."}
{"id": "4658395", "title": "[Thrombelastographic blood coagulation indices in patients with epidemic hepatitis].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic blood coagulation indices in patients with epidemic hepatitis]."}
{"id": "4655879", "title": "[Anginin (pyridinol carbamate) therapy of coronary atherosclerosis and obliterating atherosclerosis of the arteries of the lower extremities].", "content": "[Anginin (pyridinol carbamate) therapy of coronary atherosclerosis and obliterating atherosclerosis of the arteries of the lower extremities]."}
{"id": "4655614", "title": "[Usefulness of a modified thrombin generation test in the diagnosis of chronometric hypercoagulability].", "content": "[Usefulness of a modified thrombin generation test in the diagnosis of chronometric hypercoagulability]."}
{"id": "4652965", "title": "[The functional state of the blood coagulant system in acute cerebral circulatory disorders].", "content": "[The functional state of the blood coagulant system in acute cerebral circulatory disorders]."}
{"id": "4652138", "title": "[Thyroid gland absorption of radioactive iodine and anti-thyroid antibodies in patients with diabetes mellitus].", "content": "[Thyroid gland absorption of radioactive iodine and anti-thyroid antibodies in patients with diabetes mellitus]."}
{"id": "4651466", "title": "[Humoral complex studies in phase diagnosis of arteriosclerosis and for the evaluation of anti-atherogenic therapeutic effects].", "content": "[Humoral complex studies in phase diagnosis of arteriosclerosis and for the evaluation of anti-atherogenic therapeutic effects]."}
{"id": "4650539", "title": "[Blood histamine and coagulation system in traumatic shock].", "content": "[Blood histamine and coagulation system in traumatic shock]."}
{"id": "4649667", "title": "[Functional properties of thrombocytes in pediatric age groups].", "content": "[Functional properties of thrombocytes in pediatric age groups]."}
{"id": "4649529", "title": "[Hyperfibrinolysis and reduced fibrinolytic activity in the thrombelastogram of children].", "content": "[Hyperfibrinolysis and reduced fibrinolytic activity in the thrombelastogram of children]."}
{"id": "4649310", "title": "[Case of hemorrhagic diathesis due to disorders during 1st stage of blood clotting].", "content": "[Case of hemorrhagic diathesis due to disorders during 1st stage of blood clotting]."}
{"id": "4647882", "title": "[In vitro coagulation in chronic urticaria].", "content": "[In vitro coagulation in chronic urticaria]."}
{"id": "4645484", "title": "Congenital deficiency of factor VII. First two cases reported in Venezuela.", "content": "Congenital deficiency of factor VII. First two cases reported in Venezuela."}
{"id": "4644685", "title": "[Thrombelastography and oral contraceptives].", "content": "[Thrombelastography and oral contraceptives]."}
{"id": "4641513", "title": "[Changes in blood coagulation in pulmonary surgery].", "content": "[Changes in blood coagulation in pulmonary surgery]."}
{"id": "4639655", "title": "Oral contraceptives and platelet function.", "content": "Oral contraceptives and platelet function."}
{"id": "4637913", "title": "Hemorrhagic varicella in parahemophilia.", "content": "Hemorrhagic varicella in parahemophilia."}
{"id": "4637359", "title": "Surgical techniques in infancy: hypothermia, bypass and postoperative care.", "content": "Surgical techniques in infancy: hypothermia, bypass and postoperative care."}
{"id": "4635741", "title": "Effect of estrogens on postpartum hypercoagulability and antithrombin 3 activity.", "content": "Effect of estrogens on postpartum hypercoagulability and antithrombin 3 activity. 11 women whose lactation was suppressed by stilbestrol and 10 who were breast-feeding were tested for hypercoagulability (supplemented by fibrinogen determinations) within 6 hours (mean) postpartum and at weekly intervals for 3 weeks thereafter. Fibrinogen levels for both groups rose at postpartum, 441 mg%--combined medians, and then progressively declined to normal values by Week 3 (307 mg%). Thrombelastograms for both showed definite hypercoagulability immediately postpartum, mean 13.08 minutes for initiation of clotting. After Week 1, changes were not substantial, but stilbestrol values were consistently lower and more variable than those for the breast-feeding group. Thrombin generation was accelerated at postpartum with no significance between groups--normal values were attained by Week 2. Immediate postpartum antithrombin III activity was greatly lowered (17.2 seconds median value to 35.1 seconds controls). At Week 1 the values of both groups were significantly different from immediate postpartum (p less than .005). In the breast-feeding group the antithrombin III times rose on the average 3 times faster than in the stilbestrol group 1 week after delivery (p less than .025). Stilbestrol was found to interfere with the return of normal levels of antithrombin III and might explain the increased number of cases of thromboembolism in women using it or ethinyl estradiol for suppression of lactation."}
{"id": "4635548", "title": "[Study of blood fibrinolytic activity with the aid of thrombelastography].", "content": "[Study of blood fibrinolytic activity with the aid of thrombelastography]."}
{"id": "4634365", "title": "Problems in blood coagulation.", "content": "Problems in blood coagulation."}
{"id": "4630884", "title": "[Peroperative bleeding in polycythemic patients].", "content": "[Peroperative bleeding in polycythemic patients]."}
{"id": "4629937", "title": "[Changes in physicochemical properties of blood biopolymers in a hyperbaric atmosphere].", "content": "[Changes in physicochemical properties of blood biopolymers in a hyperbaric atmosphere]."}
{"id": "4629555", "title": "Site of synthesis of plasma and platelet factor XIII.", "content": "Site of synthesis of plasma and platelet factor XIII."}
{"id": "4629226", "title": "[Comparison of coagulation tests in man and 4 animal species (rabbit, dog, cow and pig)].", "content": "[Comparison of coagulation tests in man and 4 animal species (rabbit, dog, cow and pig)]."}
{"id": "4627565", "title": "Coagulation studies in a case of severe congenital hypofibrinogenemia.", "content": "Coagulation studies in a case of severe congenital hypofibrinogenemia."}
{"id": "4625101", "title": "[Hematoma of the transverse mesocolon and spontaneous rupture of the spleen during prolonged anticoagulant treatment].", "content": "[Hematoma of the transverse mesocolon and spontaneous rupture of the spleen during prolonged anticoagulant treatment]."}
{"id": "4623838", "title": "[Determination of maximal binding capacity of thyroxine-binding globulin (TEG) using Triosorb value of dextran-coated charcoal processed serum].", "content": "[Determination of maximal binding capacity of thyroxine-binding globulin (TEG) using Triosorb value of dextran-coated charcoal processed serum]."}
{"id": "4568055", "title": "[Fibrinogenopathies].", "content": "[Fibrinogenopathies]."}
{"id": "4555360", "title": "Smoking, platelets and thrombosis.", "content": "Smoking, platelets and thrombosis."}
{"id": "4552826", "title": "Thrombelastography of human blood after aspirin.", "content": "Thrombelastography of human blood after aspirin."}
{"id": "4551597", "title": "[A laboratory of multidisciplinary medical biology. Approach to the integrated management with a computer].", "content": "[A laboratory of multidisciplinary medical biology. Approach to the integrated management with a computer]."}
{"id": "4540090", "title": "[Clinical forms and therapy of thrombopenic syndromes].", "content": "[Clinical forms and therapy of thrombopenic syndromes]."}
{"id": "4538757", "title": "[Diagnosis and therapy of blood coagulation disorders in obstetrics and gynecology].", "content": "[Diagnosis and therapy of blood coagulation disorders in obstetrics and gynecology]."}
{"id": "4537883", "title": "[Surgery of the jaw in patients with hemophilia].", "content": "[Surgery of the jaw in patients with hemophilia]."}
{"id": "4402359", "title": "The importance of platelet function tests in toxicological screening using laboratory animals.", "content": "The importance of platelet function tests in toxicological screening using laboratory animals."}
{"id": "4340341", "title": "Action on fibrinolysis and platelet aggregation of a synthetic, heparin-like sulfated polyanion (SP 54) given orally and parenterally, as related to lipidic fractions. Trials on long-term prophylactic treatment under double-blind conditions.", "content": "Action on fibrinolysis and platelet aggregation of a synthetic, heparin-like sulfated polyanion (SP 54) given orally and parenterally, as related to lipidic fractions. Trials on long-term prophylactic treatment under double-blind conditions."}
{"id": "4268053", "title": "The effects of bile salts on some coagulation components and related enzymes.", "content": "The effects of bile salts on some coagulation components and related enzymes."}
{"id": "4265106", "title": "[4 cases of allergic reactions to heparin].", "content": "[4 cases of allergic reactions to heparin]."}
{"id": "4262660", "title": "[Proactivator-activator system in human plasma fibrinolysis: studies on the synthetic fibrinolytic system composed of functionally pure fibrinogen, plasminogen and proactivator, separated from human plasma].", "content": "[Proactivator-activator system in human plasma fibrinolysis: studies on the synthetic fibrinolytic system composed of functionally pure fibrinogen, plasminogen and proactivator, separated from human plasma]."}
{"id": "4261023", "title": "A new broad spectrum inhibitor of esteroproteases, 4-(2-carboxyethyl) phenyl-trans-4-aminomethyl cyclohexane carboxylate hydrochloride (DV 1006).", "content": "A new broad spectrum inhibitor of esteroproteases, 4-(2-carboxyethyl) phenyl-trans-4-aminomethyl cyclohexane carboxylate hydrochloride (DV 1006)."}
{"id": "4124724", "title": "[Comparative characteristics of blood and plasma thromboelastograms].", "content": "[Comparative characteristics of blood and plasma thromboelastograms]."}
{"id": "4123094", "title": "[Studies on thrombocyte function in children with connatal heart failures].", "content": "[Studies on thrombocyte function in children with connatal heart failures]."}
{"id": "4122874", "title": "[The fibrinolytic activity of bacteria (brief report)].", "content": "[The fibrinolytic activity of bacteria (brief report)]."}
{"id": "4118674", "title": "[Prevention of bleeding following enucleation of prostatic adenoma in the light of thrombelastography and treatment by means of amino caproic acid (EACA)].", "content": "[Prevention of bleeding following enucleation of prostatic adenoma in the light of thrombelastography and treatment by means of amino caproic acid (EACA)]."}
{"id": "4117904", "title": "Progestational agents and blood coagulation. IV. Changes induced by progestogen alone.", "content": "Progestational agents and blood coagulation. IV. Changes induced by progestogen alone. To evaluate the effects of chlormadinone acetate upon the coagulation of blood and fibrinolysin systems, 35 healthy, young women voluntarily using some form of birth control were studied. 10 women who served as controls used intrauterine devices; 25 women took either a progestin-estrogen (1 mg norethindrone acetate and 1 mg mestranol) combination or a synthetic progestational agent (0.5 mg chlormadinone acetate) on a coded, double-blind basis. Platelet counts, thrombelastograms, and plasma assays were performed prior to and after 3 and 6 months of treatment. After 3 months, those taking progestin-estrogen showed a highly significant increase toward hypercoagulability in Quick time, Factors II, VII, and X, and increased levels in the thromboplastin generation time (TGT), Factors V and IX, and plasminogen. At 6 months all levels remained elevated except for TGT. Those on chlormadinone acetate had only a slightly significant change toward hypercoagulability in Quick time and Factor VIII, an increase in Factor IX, and a decrease in Factor X. In the control group only TGT was elevated. The progestin alone induced only minimal changes in comparison to the marked rises accompanied with progestin-estrogen therapy."}
{"id": "4116122", "title": "[Comparison of the blood clotting system in man, rabbit, dog, and swine].", "content": "[Comparison of the blood clotting system in man, rabbit, dog, and swine]."}
{"id": "4114581", "title": "[Results of a new method for the determination of intravascular clotting and fibrinolysis].", "content": "[Results of a new method for the determination of intravascular clotting and fibrinolysis]."}
{"id": "4112059", "title": "[Effect of ovosiston on the thrombelastogram].", "content": "[Effect of ovosiston on the thrombelastogram]. 26 women using Ovosiston as a contraceptive and 22 women using it as a therapeutic agent were administered thromboelastograms during the 1st and 2nd halves of the menstrual cycle. Results were compared with those taken from 20 healthy women. A significant increase in the maximal elasticity of the clot in the 2nd half of the cycle was revealed in those using Ovosiston as a contraceptive as compared with the control group. Those using Ovosiston as a therapeutic agent for hypothrombosis showed a normalization of the thromboelastographic patterns of blood clotting."}
{"id": "5578033", "title": "[Diagnosis of the pre-thrombotic state in cardiovascular diseases].", "content": "[Diagnosis of the pre-thrombotic state in cardiovascular diseases]."}
{"id": "5577071", "title": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic problems in congenital afibrinogenemia].", "content": "[Diagnostic and therapeutic problems in congenital afibrinogenemia]."}
{"id": "5575089", "title": "[Comparative study of thromboelastographic and biochemical indices of maternal and fetal blood during physiological labor].", "content": "[Comparative study of thromboelastographic and biochemical indices of maternal and fetal blood during physiological labor]."}
{"id": "5574220", "title": "[Effect of dextran 40,000 on the dynamics of blood clotting in thromboelastographic studies].", "content": "[Effect of dextran 40,000 on the dynamics of blood clotting in thromboelastographic studies]."}
{"id": "5570283", "title": "[Autoimmune diseases of the blood].", "content": "[Autoimmune diseases of the blood]."}
{"id": "5564395", "title": "Functional evaluation of an inherited abnormal fibrinogen: fibrinogen \"Baltimore\".", "content": "Functional evaluation of an inherited abnormal fibrinogen: fibrinogen \"Baltimore\". The rate of clotting and the rate of development and degree of turbidity after addition of thrombin to plasma or purified fibrinogen from a patient with fibrinogen Baltimore was delayed when compared with normal, especially in the presence of low concentrations of thrombin. Optimal coagulation and development of translucent, rather than opaque, clots occurred at a lower pH with the abnormal fibrinogen than with normal. Development of turbidity during clotting of the abnormal plasma or fibrinogen was less than normal at each pH tested, but was maximal in both at approximately pH 6.4. The physical quality of clots formed from fibrinogen Baltimore was abnormal, as demonstrated by a decreased amplitude on thromboelastography. The morphologic appearance of fibrin strands formed from fibrinogen Baltimore by thrombin at pH 7.4 was abnormal when examined by phase contrast or electron microscopy, but those formed by thrombin at pH 6.4 or by thrombin and calcium chloride were similar to, though less compact, than normal fibrin. The periodicity of fibrin formed from fibrinogen Baltimore was similar to normal and was 231-233 A.A study of the release of the fibrinopeptides from the patient's fibrinogen and its chromatographic subfractions verified the existence of both a normally behaving and a defective form of fibrinogen in the patient's plasma. The defective form differed from normal in three functionally different ways: (a) the rate of release of fibrinopeptides A and AP was slower than normal; (b) no visible clot formation accompanied either partial or complete release of the fibrinopeptides from the defective form in 0.3 M NaCl at pH 7.4; and (c) the defective component possessed a high proportion of phosphorylated, relative to nonphosphorylated, fibrinopeptide A, while the coagulable component contained very little of the phosphorylated peptide (AP). The high phosphate content of the defective component did not appear to be the cause of the abnormality, but may be the result of an associated metabolic or genetic phenomenon."}
{"id": "5563153", "title": "[Importance of thrombelastography in cardiac sugery].", "content": "[Importance of thrombelastography in cardiac sugery]."}
{"id": "5563018", "title": "[A new case of dysfibrinogenemia].", "content": "[A new case of dysfibrinogenemia]."}
{"id": "5561958", "title": "Congenital afibrinogenemia. A case report with some considerations on the hereditary transmission of this disorder.", "content": "Congenital afibrinogenemia. A case report with some considerations on the hereditary transmission of this disorder."}
{"id": "5561196", "title": "[Thrombelastographic evaluation of blood coagulation in patients with bronchial asthma at the time of onset and during the extraparoxysmal period].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic evaluation of blood coagulation in patients with bronchial asthma at the time of onset and during the extraparoxysmal period]."}
{"id": "5560119", "title": "[Some parameters of blood clotting in neoplastic diseases].", "content": "[Some parameters of blood clotting in neoplastic diseases]."}
{"id": "5555227", "title": "The kinetics of the polymerization of fibrin in some normal and pathological bloods as studied with the thrombelastograph.", "content": "The kinetics of the polymerization of fibrin in some normal and pathological bloods as studied with the thrombelastograph."}
{"id": "5554308", "title": "[Phlebitis due to perivenous lymphangitis].", "content": "[Phlebitis due to perivenous lymphangitis]."}
{"id": "5551400", "title": "Platelet aggregation and strenuous exercise.", "content": "Platelet aggregation and strenuous exercise. 1. Platelet aggregation in the Chandler's tube has been found to be increased in a group of normal male and female volunteers who undertook strenuous physical exercise. This coincided with acceleration of the ;intrinsic' blood clotting system and a rise in fibrinogen. The rise in fibrinogen occurred despite increased fibrinolysis.2. The study confirms the sensitivity of the platelet aggregation system to changes in the ;intrinsic' clotting mechanism. Acceleration of this system in this study resulted from a physiological cause and produced accelerated aggregation in the coagulation-affected phase."}
{"id": "5548382", "title": "[Purpuras].", "content": "[Purpuras]."}
{"id": "5548147", "title": "[Latent hemophilia; its detection in military personnel (apropos of 36 cases)].", "content": "[Latent hemophilia; its detection in military personnel (apropos of 36 cases)]."}
{"id": "5543546", "title": "Prevention of postoperative thromboemboli by combined treatment with low-molecular-weight dextran and a proteinase inhibitor. A study with use of thromboelastogram.", "content": "Prevention of postoperative thromboemboli by combined treatment with low-molecular-weight dextran and a proteinase inhibitor. A study with use of thromboelastogram."}
{"id": "5317354", "title": "Urokinase inhibitor in human placenta. A thromboelastographic evaluation.", "content": "Urokinase inhibitor in human placenta. A thromboelastographic evaluation."}
{"id": "5292077", "title": "Chronic intravascular coagulation. Clinical spectrum and diagnostic criteria, with special emphasis on metabolism, distribution and localization of I 131 -fibrinogen.", "content": "Chronic intravascular coagulation. Clinical spectrum and diagnostic criteria, with special emphasis on metabolism, distribution and localization of I 131 -fibrinogen."}
{"id": "5285402", "title": "[Antifibrinolytic effect of apernyl].", "content": "[Antifibrinolytic effect of apernyl]."}
{"id": "5284414", "title": "[Thrombodynamographic aspects of chronic myeloid leukosis].", "content": "[Thrombodynamographic aspects of chronic myeloid leukosis]."}
{"id": "5211691", "title": "[Fibrinolytic activity of urine in proteinuria].", "content": "[Fibrinolytic activity of urine in proteinuria]."}
{"id": "5170484", "title": "[Effect of splenectomy on thrombocytopenia].", "content": "[Effect of splenectomy on thrombocytopenia]."}
{"id": "5170334", "title": "[Fibrinolytic hemorrhagic diathesis in the field of surgery].", "content": "[Fibrinolytic hemorrhagic diathesis in the field of surgery]."}
{"id": "5169396", "title": "[Pregnancy and delivery after prosthetic heart valve replacement].", "content": "[Pregnancy and delivery after prosthetic heart valve replacement]."}
{"id": "5168177", "title": "[Determination of fibrinolysis phenomenon by T.E.G].", "content": "[Determination of fibrinolysis phenomenon by T.E.G]."}
{"id": "5168176", "title": "[Plasma thromboelastography and partial thromboplastin time].", "content": "[Plasma thromboelastography and partial thromboplastin time]."}
{"id": "5168175", "title": "[Significance of thromboelastography in acute hemorrhage].", "content": "[Significance of thromboelastography in acute hemorrhage]."}
{"id": "5168174", "title": "[Application and evaluation of thromboelastography in determination of fibrinolytic and coagulation function tests].", "content": "[Application and evaluation of thromboelastography in determination of fibrinolytic and coagulation function tests]."}
{"id": "5168173", "title": "[Utilization of thrombelastography for diagnosis of hepato-biliary tract diseases].", "content": "[Utilization of thrombelastography for diagnosis of hepato-biliary tract diseases]."}
{"id": "5168161", "title": "[Improved thrombelastometer].", "content": "[Improved thrombelastometer]."}
{"id": "5167952", "title": "[Standard plasma and plasma TEG].", "content": "[Standard plasma and plasma TEG]."}
{"id": "5165796", "title": "Identification of a congenital defect of factor VII in a colony of beagle dogs: the clinical use of the plasma.", "content": "Identification of a congenital defect of factor VII in a colony of beagle dogs: the clinical use of the plasma. A severe, pure deficiency of factor VII has been defined in haematological and biochemical terms in the Alderley Park colony of beagle dogs. By modification of the conventional factor VII assay to improve its specificity an apparent low activity of between 1 and 2.5% of the normal beagle has been found. When this plasma is used as a substrate for factor VII assays it compares well with human factor VII-deficient plasma in the measurement of both raised and depressed factor VII activity. It also appears to be a valuable reagent in the quality control of tissue thromboplastin extracts."}
{"id": "5165168", "title": "Kasabach-Merritt syndrome: coagulo--analytical observations.", "content": "Kasabach-Merritt syndrome: coagulo--analytical observations."}
{"id": "5161839", "title": "[Case of factor XII deficiency with prolonged bleeding time].", "content": "[Case of factor XII deficiency with prolonged bleeding time]."}
{"id": "5161502", "title": "[Thrombelastographic and biochemical indices of the blood of mother and fetus during labor complicated by intrauterine fetal asphyxia].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic and biochemical indices of the blood of mother and fetus during labor complicated by intrauterine fetal asphyxia]."}
{"id": "5160867", "title": "[Some indices of the blood coagulation system and thrombus-formation in patients with diabetes mellitus].", "content": "[Some indices of the blood coagulation system and thrombus-formation in patients with diabetes mellitus]."}
{"id": "5158045", "title": "[Thrombelastographic studies on women taking contraceptives].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic studies on women taking contraceptives]."}
{"id": "5157734", "title": "[Blood coagulation changes due to contrast media].", "content": "[Blood coagulation changes due to contrast media]."}
{"id": "5153951", "title": "[Coagulation disorders in osteoarticular injuries].", "content": "[Coagulation disorders in osteoarticular injuries]."}
{"id": "5153638", "title": "The thromboelastographic index in the periods of recurrence and remission of polycythaemia vera.", "content": "The thromboelastographic index in the periods of recurrence and remission of polycythaemia vera."}
{"id": "5149915", "title": "[Blood coagulation studies in chronic pulmonary heart disease].", "content": "[Blood coagulation studies in chronic pulmonary heart disease]."}
{"id": "5149227", "title": "[Thromboelastographic study of whole blood and oxalate plasma in patients with coronary arteriosclerosis in the ischemic stage].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic study of whole blood and oxalate plasma in patients with coronary arteriosclerosis in the ischemic stage]."}
{"id": "5148891", "title": "[Changes in thrombocytes under adriamycin therapy].", "content": "[Changes in thrombocytes under adriamycin therapy]."}
{"id": "5147886", "title": "[The effect of miscleron on the metabolism of lipids and proteins and-or hemostasis of coronary atherosclerosis patients].", "content": "[The effect of miscleron on the metabolism of lipids and proteins and-or hemostasis of coronary atherosclerosis patients]."}
{"id": "5147374", "title": "[Changes in the blood coagulation system in the itsenko-Cushing disease].", "content": "[Changes in the blood coagulation system in the itsenko-Cushing disease]."}
{"id": "5146455", "title": "[Comparative evaluation of the indirectly acting anticoagulants phepromaron and nitrofarin].", "content": "[Comparative evaluation of the indirectly acting anticoagulants phepromaron and nitrofarin]."}
{"id": "5144656", "title": "[Post-mortem fibrinolysis in man].", "content": "[Post-mortem fibrinolysis in man]."}
{"id": "5142241", "title": "[Various aspects of the pathogenesis of thrombophlebitis].", "content": "[Various aspects of the pathogenesis of thrombophlebitis]."}
{"id": "5141881", "title": "[Blood coagulation disorders in acute inflammatory diseases of the abdominal cavity organs].", "content": "[Blood coagulation disorders in acute inflammatory diseases of the abdominal cavity organs]."}
{"id": "5140761", "title": "[Thromboelastographic studies of the coagulative process in patients with serious cranio-cerebral injuries].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic studies of the coagulative process in patients with serious cranio-cerebral injuries]."}
{"id": "5140488", "title": "[Thromboelastography in coronary heart disease: evaluations provided of the blood coagulation situation; indications for therapy].", "content": "[Thromboelastography in coronary heart disease: evaluations provided of the blood coagulation situation; indications for therapy]."}
{"id": "5140487", "title": "[Blood coagulation and fibrinolysis in aged patients and their changes following administration of adrenaline].", "content": "[Blood coagulation and fibrinolysis in aged patients and their changes following administration of adrenaline]."}
{"id": "5140392", "title": "[Thrombelastographic studies in patients with incipient cerebral atherosclerosis undergoing complex treatment].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic studies in patients with incipient cerebral atherosclerosis undergoing complex treatment]."}
{"id": "5140154", "title": "[Use of statistical data in the study of the thromboelastogram in relation to pressure levels in the aged].", "content": "[Use of statistical data in the study of the thromboelastogram in relation to pressure levels in the aged]."}
{"id": "5134560", "title": "Oestrogen-progestogen oral contraception and blood clotting: a long-term follow-up.", "content": "Oestrogen-progestogen oral contraception and blood clotting: a long-term follow-up. In a long-term study of women taking the combined oestrogen/progestogen oral contraceptives Ortho-Novin and Norinyl-1 the follow-up has been continued for three years and four years respectively.Acceleration of both \"intrinsic\" and \"extrinsic\" clotting tests and of specific factor VII and X assays, reported previously at the nine-month stage, persisted throughout the period of study. Acceleration of Chandler's tube platelet aggregation and hypercoagulable thrombelastographic patterns were recorded. There was, however, no evidence of a cumulative effect after the first nine months."}
{"id": "5133684", "title": "[Streptokinase and the clinical course in the early period of myocardial infarct].", "content": "[Streptokinase and the clinical course in the early period of myocardial infarct]."}
{"id": "5130674", "title": "[Formation and specific activity of the adrenalin-heparin complex in human blood].", "content": "[Formation and specific activity of the adrenalin-heparin complex in human blood]."}
{"id": "5129130", "title": "[Use of tranexamic acid, AMCA for the improvement of hemorrhagic manifestations in hemophilia].", "content": "[Use of tranexamic acid, AMCA for the improvement of hemorrhagic manifestations in hemophilia]."}
{"id": "5126856", "title": "[Characteristics of thrombelastography in hemorrhagic diatheses of childhood].", "content": "[Characteristics of thrombelastography in hemorrhagic diatheses of childhood]."}
{"id": "5125123", "title": "Thromboelastographic examination (TEG) in uranium miners.", "content": "Thromboelastographic examination (TEG) in uranium miners."}
{"id": "5122425", "title": "[Coagulating properties of the blood in acute appendicitis in children].", "content": "[Coagulating properties of the blood in acute appendicitis in children]."}
{"id": "5121126", "title": "A hemostatic defect and delayed healing of the wound caused by dextran preparation.", "content": "A hemostatic defect and delayed healing of the wound caused by dextran preparation."}
{"id": "5120936", "title": "[Heliotherapy in hypertensive disease].", "content": "[Heliotherapy in hypertensive disease]."}
{"id": "5117325", "title": "[Influence of intact erythrocytes on various coagulation criteria].", "content": "[Influence of intact erythrocytes on various coagulation criteria]."}
{"id": "5113932", "title": "[Thromboelastographic changes after a fat meal].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic changes after a fat meal]."}
{"id": "5113164", "title": "[Degree of severity of hemophilia. Relationship between blood coagulation tests and clinical findings].", "content": "[Degree of severity of hemophilia. Relationship between blood coagulation tests and clinical findings]."}
{"id": "5109595", "title": "[The influence of an aesculin compound preparation on blood coagulation and capillary resistance].", "content": "[The influence of an aesculin compound preparation on blood coagulation and capillary resistance]."}
{"id": "5107018", "title": "[Study of abnormal blood coagulation by means of thrombelastography].", "content": "[Study of abnormal blood coagulation by means of thrombelastography]."}
{"id": "5103087", "title": "[Clinical study of blood coagulation in open heart surgery].", "content": "[Clinical study of blood coagulation in open heart surgery]."}
{"id": "5093462", "title": "[Influence of nitrofurantoin on blood coagulation and fibrinolysis in pregnancy, puerperium and newborn infant].", "content": "[Influence of nitrofurantoin on blood coagulation and fibrinolysis in pregnancy, puerperium and newborn infant]."}
{"id": "5091780", "title": "[Behavior of factor XIII in (FSF) in patients with impaired healing of wounds].", "content": "[Behavior of factor XIII in (FSF) in patients with impaired healing of wounds]."}
{"id": "5091601", "title": "Thrombelastography of human blood plasma.", "content": "Thrombelastography of human blood plasma."}
{"id": "5004542", "title": "[Blood coagulation disorder due to asparaginase].", "content": "[Blood coagulation disorder due to asparaginase]."}
{"id": "5004446", "title": "[Thrombelastographic studies of blood coagulation and fibrinolysis disorders in obstetrics and gynecology].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic studies of blood coagulation and fibrinolysis disorders in obstetrics and gynecology]."}
{"id": "5004181", "title": "[Congenital afibrinogenemia. Presentation of a case, clinical and methodological considerations].", "content": "[Congenital afibrinogenemia. Presentation of a case, clinical and methodological considerations]."}
{"id": "5003942", "title": "[Coagulogram in the aged].", "content": "[Coagulogram in the aged]."}
{"id": "5001413", "title": "Parahemophilia. A case report.", "content": "Parahemophilia. A case report."}
{"id": "4998529", "title": "[Effects of macroglobulins on hemostasis in Waldenstrom's disease].", "content": "[Effects of macroglobulins on hemostasis in Waldenstrom's disease]."}
{"id": "4950463", "title": "Abnormalities of haemostasis in renal failure.", "content": "Abnormalities of haemostasis in renal failure."}
{"id": "4945040", "title": "[Coagulation changes during acute rejection in liver transplantation].", "content": "[Coagulation changes during acute rejection in liver transplantation]."}
{"id": "4940408", "title": "The development of hemostasis in the human fetus and newborn infant.", "content": "The development of hemostasis in the human fetus and newborn infant."}
{"id": "4403933", "title": "[Mechanism inducing blood hypercoagulability in severe hypoxia].", "content": "[Mechanism inducing blood hypercoagulability in severe hypoxia]."}
{"id": "4400909", "title": "[Beta-adrenergic inhibition of adrenaline effects on some coagulative and fibrinolytic parameters].", "content": "[Beta-adrenergic inhibition of adrenaline effects on some coagulative and fibrinolytic parameters]."}
{"id": "4261342", "title": "[Observation of plasmin on platelet by means of thrombelastograph].", "content": "[Observation of plasmin on platelet by means of thrombelastograph]."}
{"id": "4255792", "title": "[Fibrinolysis in rheumatoid disease: theoretical and clinico-experimental bases. Therapeutic prospects].", "content": "[Fibrinolysis in rheumatoid disease: theoretical and clinico-experimental bases. Therapeutic prospects]."}
{"id": "4252260", "title": "Plasmin digestion of stabilized and non-stabilized fibrin illustrated by pH-stat titration and thrombelastography.", "content": "Plasmin digestion of stabilized and non-stabilized fibrin illustrated by pH-stat titration and thrombelastography."}
{"id": "4114125", "title": "[Experience in working with the 4-channel thromboelastograph \"tromb-1\"].", "content": "[Experience in working with the 4-channel thromboelastograph \"tromb-1\"]."}
{"id": "4111764", "title": "[Rxperiences with a rapid test for the determination of streptokinase resistance].", "content": "[Rxperiences with a rapid test for the determination of streptokinase resistance]."}
{"id": "4110775", "title": "[Hemostasis and ultrastructure in a case of Glanzmann-Naegeli thrombasthenia].", "content": "[Hemostasis and ultrastructure in a case of Glanzmann-Naegeli thrombasthenia]."}
{"id": "4110736", "title": "[Cuvette of polymeric material for thromboelastographs].", "content": "[Cuvette of polymeric material for thromboelastographs]."}
{"id": "4108748", "title": "[Comparative results of thromboelastographic studies on capillary and venous blood].", "content": "[Comparative results of thromboelastographic studies on capillary and venous blood]."}
{"id": "4107578", "title": "[Effect of acridine dyes on heparin activity and blood coagulation].", "content": "[Effect of acridine dyes on heparin activity and blood coagulation]."}
{"id": "4106011", "title": "[Fibrinolysis by nicotinic acid derivatives].", "content": "[Fibrinolysis by nicotinic acid derivatives]."}
{"id": "4104083", "title": "[Studies of the effectivity of thrombocyte concentrates by nuclear medical and coagulatory physiological methods].", "content": "[Studies of the effectivity of thrombocyte concentrates by nuclear medical and coagulatory physiological methods]."}
{"id": "4101481", "title": "Blood clotting and platelet aggregation during oral progestogen contraception: a follow-up study.", "content": "Blood clotting and platelet aggregation during oral progestogen contraception: a follow-up study. A two-year follow-up study of progestogen-only contraception with chlormadinone acetate indicates no increase of the level of factors VII and X, as found after three cycles with all oestrogen-progestogen oral contraceptives. Clotting factors which were raised with combined preparations became normal after the sixth monthly cycle of progestogen and remained normal during the two-year period of study.From 12 months onwards significant changes in the thromboelastograph pattern were recorded, but not to the same extent as with combined preparations. At two years platelet aggregation was significantly accelerated with chlormadinone acetate but was not as rapid as with combined preparations."}
{"id": "4099550", "title": "The low incidence of coronary thrombosis: a poor target for long-term anticoagulants.", "content": "The low incidence of coronary thrombosis: a poor target for long-term anticoagulants."}
{"id": "5538289", "title": "[Saliva and blood coagulation].", "content": "[Saliva and blood coagulation]."}
{"id": "5537738", "title": "[The response of venous vascular tone, orthostatic regulatory capacity and clotting potential under the influence of an ovulation inhibitor].", "content": "[The response of venous vascular tone, orthostatic regulatory capacity and clotting potential under the influence of an ovulation inhibitor]."}
{"id": "5535826", "title": "[Case of factor XIII deficiency].", "content": "[Case of factor XIII deficiency]."}
{"id": "5534090", "title": "Consumption--coagulopathy in Kasabach-Merritt syndrome.", "content": "Consumption--coagulopathy in Kasabach-Merritt syndrome."}
{"id": "5532428", "title": "[Long-term anticoagulant therapy in traumatology (surveillance by thrombelastography)].", "content": "[Long-term anticoagulant therapy in traumatology (surveillance by thrombelastography)]."}
{"id": "5531515", "title": "[Treatment of thrombocytopenic purpura with combined use of pantethin in massive dosage and adrenocortical hormone with special reference to the relation to TEG].", "content": "[Treatment of thrombocytopenic purpura with combined use of pantethin in massive dosage and adrenocortical hormone with special reference to the relation to TEG]."}
{"id": "5527448", "title": "[Various hemocoagulation problems in workers occupationally exposed to long-term, small doses of ionizing radiation].", "content": "[Various hemocoagulation problems in workers occupationally exposed to long-term, small doses of ionizing radiation]."}
{"id": "5525591", "title": "[Trans-4-(aminomethyl)-cyclohexanecarbonic acid in the therapy of chronic fibrinolytic syndromes].", "content": "[Trans-4-(aminomethyl)-cyclohexanecarbonic acid in the therapy of chronic fibrinolytic syndromes]."}
{"id": "5524840", "title": "[Change in antiplasmin activity in patients with neoplasms of the urinary bladder].", "content": "[Change in antiplasmin activity in patients with neoplasms of the urinary bladder]."}
{"id": "5523262", "title": "[In vitro and in vivo thromboelastographic studies of blood coagulation changes using cobalt (II) ions].", "content": "[In vitro and in vivo thromboelastographic studies of blood coagulation changes using cobalt (II) ions]."}
{"id": "5522910", "title": "Coagulation abnormalities in subarachnoid hemorrhage.", "content": "Coagulation abnormalities in subarachnoid hemorrhage."}
{"id": "5521008", "title": "[Should vitamin K be given preoperatively in obstructive jaundice?].", "content": "[Should vitamin K be given preoperatively in obstructive jaundice?]."}
{"id": "5520492", "title": "[Blood coagulation during acute colchicine poisoning].", "content": "[Blood coagulation during acute colchicine poisoning]."}
{"id": "5519345", "title": "[The diagnostic capability of thrombelastogram, heparin and hirudin tolerance tests during anticoagulant therapy].", "content": "[The diagnostic capability of thrombelastogram, heparin and hirudin tolerance tests during anticoagulant therapy]."}
{"id": "5517653", "title": "[Thrombodensitographic observations in some heart and liver disease patients. Continuous and strongly expanded automatic tracings in a thermostatic system at 37 degrees C].", "content": "[Thrombodensitographic observations in some heart and liver disease patients. Continuous and strongly expanded automatic tracings in a thermostatic system at 37 degrees C]."}
{"id": "5517107", "title": "[Thromboelastographic study of patients with diabetes mellitus].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic study of patients with diabetes mellitus]."}
{"id": "5516767", "title": "[Blood coagulation after radiotherapy of malignant gynecological tumors].", "content": "[Blood coagulation after radiotherapy of malignant gynecological tumors]."}
{"id": "5513444", "title": "[Fibrinogen elevation and fibrinolysis in childhood].", "content": "[Fibrinogen elevation and fibrinolysis in childhood]."}
{"id": "5511555", "title": "[Thrombelastography in aged patients of various constitutions with special reference to the prevention of senile vasculopathies].", "content": "[Thrombelastography in aged patients of various constitutions with special reference to the prevention of senile vasculopathies]."}
{"id": "5509674", "title": "[Characteristics of blood system in workers exposed to noise].", "content": "[Characteristics of blood system in workers exposed to noise]."}
{"id": "5504112", "title": "[Effect of unsaturated fatty acids on the state of the blood coagulation and anticoagulation system in patients with coronary arteriosclerosis].", "content": "[Effect of unsaturated fatty acids on the state of the blood coagulation and anticoagulation system in patients with coronary arteriosclerosis]."}
{"id": "5504111", "title": "[Age characteristics of the changes in the blood coagulation and anticoagulation system in patients with acute coronary insufficiency].", "content": "[Age characteristics of the changes in the blood coagulation and anticoagulation system in patients with acute coronary insufficiency]."}
{"id": "5504043", "title": "Further studies on the abnormal factor X (factor X Friuli) coagulation disorder. A report of another family.", "content": "Further studies on the abnormal factor X (factor X Friuli) coagulation disorder. A report of another family."}
{"id": "5503760", "title": "[Thrombelastographic and biochemical indices of the maternal and fetal blood in prolonged pregnancy].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic and biochemical indices of the maternal and fetal blood in prolonged pregnancy]."}
{"id": "5502121", "title": "[Macromolecules and hemostasis factors. Fluid gelatin innocuousness in equilibrated ionic media].", "content": "[Macromolecules and hemostasis factors. Fluid gelatin innocuousness in equilibrated ionic media]."}
{"id": "5501508", "title": "[Effect of biotin on several indices of protein and lipid metabolism, state of the coagulation and anticoagulation system and thromboelastograms in patients with arteriosclerosis and hypertensive disease].", "content": "[Effect of biotin on several indices of protein and lipid metabolism, state of the coagulation and anticoagulation system and thromboelastograms in patients with arteriosclerosis and hypertensive disease]."}
{"id": "5499569", "title": "[Thrombelastography: its use for the study of the fibrinolytic system].", "content": "[Thrombelastography: its use for the study of the fibrinolytic system]."}
{"id": "5496036", "title": "[Status of the coagulation properties of blood in patients with chronic tonsillitis based on data of thrombelastographic tests].", "content": "[Status of the coagulation properties of blood in patients with chronic tonsillitis based on data of thrombelastographic tests]."}
{"id": "5493869", "title": "[The thrombodensitogram (TDG) in atherosclerosis. I. The TDG in the preclinical phase of atherosclerosis].", "content": "[The thrombodensitogram (TDG) in atherosclerosis. I. The TDG in the preclinical phase of atherosclerosis]."}
{"id": "5491671", "title": "[Functional state of the thrombocytes and blood coagulation in patients with myocardial infarct complicated by shock].", "content": "[Functional state of the thrombocytes and blood coagulation in patients with myocardial infarct complicated by shock]."}
{"id": "5490512", "title": "[Indications for plasma expanders during surgery].", "content": "[Indications for plasma expanders during surgery]."}
{"id": "5488288", "title": "[Pseudohemophilia due to antihemophilic globulin inhibitor (factor VIII)].", "content": "[Pseudohemophilia due to antihemophilic globulin inhibitor (factor VIII)]."}
{"id": "5488079", "title": "Thromboplastin antagonist from the erythrocytes.", "content": "Thromboplastin antagonist from the erythrocytes."}
{"id": "5487375", "title": "[Thromboembolic complications in patients with brain tumors and cranio-cerebral injuries].", "content": "[Thromboembolic complications in patients with brain tumors and cranio-cerebral injuries]."}
{"id": "5486566", "title": "[Disseminated coagulopathies in exogenic poisoning].", "content": "[Disseminated coagulopathies in exogenic poisoning]."}
{"id": "5483958", "title": "Severe congenital factor X deficiency in 5-month-old child.", "content": "Severe congenital factor X deficiency in 5-month-old child."}
{"id": "5483957", "title": "Corrective effect of sialic acid on the clotting of factor VIII deficient blood.", "content": "Corrective effect of sialic acid on the clotting of factor VIII deficient blood."}
{"id": "5481889", "title": "[The effect of ionizing irradiation on blood coagulation factor activity].", "content": "[The effect of ionizing irradiation on blood coagulation factor activity]."}
{"id": "5481476", "title": "[Problems of diagnosis and treatment of defibrination syndromes in newborn infants].", "content": "[Problems of diagnosis and treatment of defibrination syndromes in newborn infants]."}
{"id": "5481303", "title": "[The coagulogram and thromboelastogram in peptic ulcer patients].", "content": "[The coagulogram and thromboelastogram in peptic ulcer patients]."}
{"id": "5479911", "title": "[Effect of craniocerebral hypothermia on several biochemical indices of the blood in surgery of the isolated heart].", "content": "[Effect of craniocerebral hypothermia on several biochemical indices of the blood in surgery of the isolated heart]."}
{"id": "5477397", "title": "[On blood coagulation in recent myocardial infarct].", "content": "[On blood coagulation in recent myocardial infarct]."}
{"id": "5476519", "title": "[Evaluation of the blood coagulation system in thrombo-obliterative arteritis based on thromboelastographic studies].", "content": "[Evaluation of the blood coagulation system in thrombo-obliterative arteritis based on thromboelastographic studies]."}
{"id": "5474823", "title": "[Studies on the blood coagulation system in arteriosclerotic patients].", "content": "[Studies on the blood coagulation system in arteriosclerotic patients]."}
{"id": "5473222", "title": "[Influence of beta-benzabutyramide on the blood lipids and on the thrombodensitogram].", "content": "[Influence of beta-benzabutyramide on the blood lipids and on the thrombodensitogram]."}
{"id": "5473220", "title": "[Further data on the use of a preparation with antisclerotic action in geriatrics].", "content": "[Further data on the use of a preparation with antisclerotic action in geriatrics]."}
{"id": "5472873", "title": "A new antagonist of heparin: partially N-oxidized poly-allyldiethylamine.", "content": "A new antagonist of heparin: partially N-oxidized poly-allyldiethylamine."}
{"id": "5468381", "title": "[Etiology of hemophilia. New aspects of factor VIII deficiency].", "content": "[Etiology of hemophilia. New aspects of factor VIII deficiency]."}
{"id": "5466548", "title": "[Thrombelastographic method for estimating fibrinolytic activity].", "content": "[Thrombelastographic method for estimating fibrinolytic activity]."}
{"id": "5462401", "title": "[Activity of the fibrin stabilizing factor in several diseases in children].", "content": "[Activity of the fibrin stabilizing factor in several diseases in children]."}
{"id": "5461812", "title": "[Puerperal psychoses].", "content": "[Puerperal psychoses]."}
{"id": "5457186", "title": "[Determining fibrinolytic activity of whole blood by the method of thrombelastography (in hypertension and thrombophlebitis)].", "content": "[Determining fibrinolytic activity of whole blood by the method of thrombelastography (in hypertension and thrombophlebitis)]."}
{"id": "5454511", "title": "[Hemorrhagic diathesis (pseudo hemophilia) due to an specific inhibitor of factor VIII].", "content": "[Hemorrhagic diathesis (pseudo hemophilia) due to an specific inhibitor of factor VIII]."}
{"id": "5453989", "title": "[Humoral study of the therapeutic action of an arterial wall extract in arteriosclerotic obstructive arteriopathies].", "content": "[Humoral study of the therapeutic action of an arterial wall extract in arteriosclerotic obstructive arteriopathies]."}
{"id": "5453598", "title": "[Influence of chronic radiation on the results of thrombelastographic examinations (TEG)].", "content": "[Influence of chronic radiation on the results of thrombelastographic examinations (TEG)]."}
{"id": "5452572", "title": "[Thromboelastographic examination of blood coagulation and fibrinolysis during ether anesthesia].", "content": "[Thromboelastographic examination of blood coagulation and fibrinolysis during ether anesthesia]."}
{"id": "5446851", "title": "[Effect of Lagochilus preparations on blood coagulation in patients with hemophilia].", "content": "[Effect of Lagochilus preparations on blood coagulation in patients with hemophilia]."}
{"id": "5445548", "title": "[Thromboplastic activity of the leukemic eosinophils].", "content": "[Thromboplastic activity of the leukemic eosinophils]."}
{"id": "5437501", "title": "Hemolysis and blood coagulation: evidence of inhibitory effects.", "content": "Hemolysis and blood coagulation: evidence of inhibitory effects."}
{"id": "5436355", "title": "Choline and hemophilia.", "content": "Choline and hemophilia."}
{"id": "5427929", "title": "[Blood coagulation disorders due to fractures].", "content": "[Blood coagulation disorders due to fractures]."}
{"id": "5426603", "title": "[New date of biochemical experiments on prothrombin activation].", "content": "[New date of biochemical experiments on prothrombin activation]."}
{"id": "5426214", "title": "Congenital hemorrhagic diathesis with deficiency of factor XIII. A case report and a family study.", "content": "Congenital hemorrhagic diathesis with deficiency of factor XIII. A case report and a family study."}
{"id": "5426213", "title": "[2 patients with congenital factor XIII deficiency. Contribution to the problem of factor XIII determination].", "content": "[2 patients with congenital factor XIII deficiency. Contribution to the problem of factor XIII determination]."}
{"id": "5424430", "title": "[The place of heparin in the treatment of homograft rejection].", "content": "[The place of heparin in the treatment of homograft rejection]."}
{"id": "5423160", "title": "Altered platelet function in newborns.", "content": "Altered platelet function in newborns."}
{"id": "5420849", "title": "[Blood coagulability in coronary sclerosis--results of thrombelastography].", "content": "[Blood coagulability in coronary sclerosis--results of thrombelastography]."}
{"id": "5419827", "title": "[Consumption coagulopathy].", "content": "[Consumption coagulopathy]."}
{"id": "5413925", "title": "[Thrombopathy in May-Hegglin anomaly].", "content": "[Thrombopathy in May-Hegglin anomaly]."}
{"id": "5312220", "title": "[Pathological changes of the coagulation system in septic shock and their therapy].", "content": "[Pathological changes of the coagulation system in septic shock and their therapy]."}
{"id": "5310216", "title": "[Consumption coagulopathy].", "content": "[Consumption coagulopathy]."}
{"id": "5288356", "title": "Thromboplastic activity of leukaemic eosinophils.", "content": "Thromboplastic activity of leukaemic eosinophils."}
{"id": "5269686", "title": "[Antibacterial substances for the implantation into bone cavities and their effect on blood coagulation, by means of thrombelastography].", "content": "[Antibacterial substances for the implantation into bone cavities and their effect on blood coagulation, by means of thrombelastography]."}
{"id": "4996530", "title": "[A case of hereditary hemorrhagic disease which may be defined as \"thrombasthenia with functional thrombopathy\"].", "content": "[A case of hereditary hemorrhagic disease which may be defined as \"thrombasthenia with functional thrombopathy\"]."}
{"id": "4991915", "title": "Haemorrhagic disease due to hereditary deficiency of factor XIII. Description of a family.", "content": "Haemorrhagic disease due to hereditary deficiency of factor XIII. Description of a family."}
{"id": "4991914", "title": "Congenital hypoprothrombinemia. Case report.", "content": "Congenital hypoprothrombinemia. Case report."}
{"id": "4923160", "title": "[On the effects of a synthetic derivative of adrenaline on blood coagulation: 1-(3-oxyphenyl)-1-oxy-2-ethylaminoethane hydrochloride].", "content": "[On the effects of a synthetic derivative of adrenaline on blood coagulation: 1-(3-oxyphenyl)-1-oxy-2-ethylaminoethane hydrochloride]."}
{"id": "4922361", "title": "[Glanzmann's disease. Revision of a case with functional and ultrastructural studies].", "content": "[Glanzmann's disease. Revision of a case with functional and ultrastructural studies]."}
{"id": "4319635", "title": "Coagulation abnormalities associated with liver transplantation.", "content": "Coagulation abnormalities associated with liver transplantation."}
{"id": "4256239", "title": "[Orientative blood coagulation status].", "content": "[Orientative blood coagulation status]."}
{"id": "4252164", "title": "[Anticoagulant action of cephaloridines. In vitro study in thrombelastography].", "content": "[Anticoagulant action of cephaloridines. In vitro study in thrombelastography]."}
{"id": "4251295", "title": "[Blood coagulation and fibrinolytic system in patients with marked coronary arteriosclerosis].", "content": "[Blood coagulation and fibrinolytic system in patients with marked coronary arteriosclerosis]."}
{"id": "4249037", "title": "A serum-induced defect in fibrin formation.", "content": "A serum-induced defect in fibrin formation."}
{"id": "4247396", "title": "[Blood coagulation system in thrombelastographic findings in bronchial asthma].", "content": "[Blood coagulation system in thrombelastographic findings in bronchial asthma]."}
{"id": "4195282", "title": "[Long-term treatment of hemophilia A with plasma fractions].", "content": "[Long-term treatment of hemophilia A with plasma fractions]."}
{"id": "4195274", "title": "[Clinical studies in therapy using coagulation-active plasma concentrates].", "content": "[Clinical studies in therapy using coagulation-active plasma concentrates]."}
{"id": "4194099", "title": "[Control of dicoumarol therapy by means of in vitro heparin tolerance test and thrombelastography].", "content": "[Control of dicoumarol therapy by means of in vitro heparin tolerance test and thrombelastography]."}
{"id": "4100006", "title": "[Use of the thromboelastographic method in the evaluation of the functional properties of thrombocytes].", "content": "[Use of the thromboelastographic method in the evaluation of the functional properties of thrombocytes]."}
{"id": "4098771", "title": "[Methods for the determination of pathological hyperfibrinolysis of the blood].", "content": "[Methods for the determination of pathological hyperfibrinolysis of the blood]."}
{"id": "4098770", "title": "[Methods for the conduction and control of thrombolytic therapy].", "content": "[Methods for the conduction and control of thrombolytic therapy]."}
